Annual Report 2015 This is Handelsbanken Handelsbanken is a full-service bank for both private and corporate customers. The Bank has a nationwide branch network in Sweden, the UK, Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. The Bank regards these countries as its home markets. Handelsbanken was founded in 1871 and has operations in 25 countries. 144 849 branches in 25 countries. years of availability. 44 years running with better profitability 27 years with the most than the average of satisfied customers peer banks in home according to SKI markets. (Swedish Quality Index).* SATISFIED CUSTOMERS HIGHEST CREDIT RATING OF CREATING SHAREHOLDER VALUE Just as in previous years, the major Swedish THE NORDIC BANKS Handelsbanken is one of few banks in Europe Quality Index (SKI) survey of customer satisfacIn June, the Moody’s credit rating agency which has created a positive shareholder value tion found that “overall, Handelsbanken has the upgraded Handelsbanken’s long-term rating to during the years of the ﬁnancial and debt most satisﬁed banking customers in Sweden”. Aa2. Handelsbanken is the only commercial crisis. Handelsbanken is the only commercial Corresponding surveys conducted by the EPSI bank in the Nordic region with such a high rating, bank on the Stockholm stock exchange which Rating Group showed that on its other ﬁve home and in Europe as a whole only a very small numhas not needed to ask its shareholders for new markets, too, Handelsbanken had more satisﬁed ber of commercial banks have a similarly high capital during this period. During the past ﬁvecustomers than the sector average, on both the rating. One of the main reasons for the upgrade year period, Handelsbanken has generated a private and corporate side. cited by Moody’s was the Bank’s decentralised positive shareholder value of SEK 121 billion. business model, coupled with low risk-taking. Market capitalisation has grown by SEK 81 According to Moody’s, this has “resulted in a billion, while Handelsbanken has paid out very stable bank that has been managed in an SEK 40 billion in dividends. To improve liquidity exemplary manner over a long period” (Moody’s in its share, the Bank implemented a 3:1 stock Credit Opinion, June 2015). split during the year. * According to SKI (Swedish Quality Index), since surveys started in 1989, Handelsbanken has had the most satisﬁed private customers among the four major Swedish banks – Handelsbanken, Nordea, SEB and Swedbank. Highlights of the year Return on equity for total operations Moody’s upgraded Handelsbanken’s rose to 13.5 per cent (13.4). long-term credit rating to Aa2, and thus the Bank has the highest rating The corporate goal of higher return in Europe of all peer banks. on equity than the average of peer banks was achieved for the 44th Income rose by 5 per cent to year running – full provision to the SEK 40,336 million (38,314). Oktogonen profit-sharing foundation. Net interest income went up by Operating profit grew by 7 per cent 2 per cent to SEK 27,740 million to SEK 20,475 million (19,212), the (27,244) and in the UK, net interest highest figure ever. income increased by 31 per cent. The period’s profit after tax for total Net fee and commission income operations rose to SEK 16,343 million rose by 9 per cent to SEK 9,320 (15,184). million (8,556). Earnings per share for total The Bank was the largest player for operations grew by 8 per cent to new savings on the mutual funds SEK 8.57 (7.96). market in Sweden with a market share of 31 per cent. The common equity tier 1 ratio according to CRD IV increased to 21.2 The C/I ratio was 45.3 per cent (45.2). per cent (20.4) and the total capital ratio rose to 27.2 per cent (25.6). The loan loss ratio was 0.09 per cent (0.10). The Board proposes an increase in the ordinary dividend to SEK 4.50 per share and an extra dividend of SEK 1.50 per share. Average growth in equity 2007–2015* Total return for the period 30 June 2007–31 December 2015 SEK % 125 200 % 150 100 R: 15 CAG 100 75 50 50 0 25 -50 0 -100 Handelsbanken DNB Nordea Swedbank SEB HSBC Danske BNP Intesa KBC Santander Standard Chartered Erste BBVA Crédit Agricole Barclays Société Générale Credit Suisse Euro STOXX Banks Lloyds Deutsche Bank Unicredit UBS Commerzbank Bank of Ireland Monte dei Paschi Q4 15 Q3 15 Q2 15 Q1 15 Q4 14 Q3 14 Q2 14 Q1 14 Q4 13 Q3 13 Q2 13 Q1 13 Q4 12 Q3 12 Q2 12 Q1 12 Q4 11 Q3 11 Q2 11 Q1 11 Q4 10 Q3 10 Q2 10 Q1 10 Q4 09 Q3 09 Q2 09 Q1 09 Q4 08 Q3 08 Q2 08 Q1 08 Q4 07 Q3 07 Adjusted equity per share Accumulated dividends since 2008 * Including dividends. Source: SNL, as at 31 December 2015 (dividends reinvested) H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 1 Brief information Handelsbanken’s Annual General Meeting 2016 Location: Grand Hôtel, Winter Garden, Royal entrance, Stallgatan 4, Stockholm. Time: Wednesday, 16 March 2016 at 9.30 a.m. Notice of attendance Shareholders wishing to attend the AGM must be entered in the register of shareholders kept by Euroclear Sweden AB (formerly VPC AB), by Thursday, 10 March 2016 at the latest. Notice of attendance is to be made to Handelsbanken, Corporate Governance, SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden, telephone +46 8 701 19 84, or via handelsbanken.se/ireng by Thursday, 10 March 2016 at the latest. To be entitled to take part in the meeting, shareholders whose shares are nominee-registered must also request a temporary entry in the register of shareholders kept by Euroclear. Shareholders must notify the nominee of this well before Thursday, 10 March 2016, when this entry must have been effected. Dividend The Board proposes that the record day for the dividend be Friday, 18 March 2016, which means that Handelsbanken’s shares will be traded ex-dividend on Thursday, 17 March 2016. If the meeting resolves in accordance with the proposal, Euroclear expects to distribute the dividend on Wednesday, 23 March 2016. Financial calendar 2016 9 February Annual accounts 2015 16 March Annual General Meeting 20 April Interim report January– March 2016 15 July Interim report January– June 2016 19 October Interim report January– September 2016 Financial information The following reports can be downloaded or ordered from handelsbanken.se/ireng: • annual reports • interim reports • risk reports • corporate governance reports • fact books • sustainability reports. Distribution The Annual Report can be ordered from Investor Relations, phone +46 8 701 10 00, or online at handelsbanken.se/ireng, where other reports as stated above are also available. Annual Report including Sustainability Report Handelsbanken’s Annual Report for 2015 contains the Bank’s complete Sustainability Report for 2015. The Sustainability Report is prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 guidelines for reporting and covers activities and results for the 2015 calendar year. Handelsbanken’s Sustainability Report meets the information requirements of the “Core” level and this has been conﬁrmed by the Bank’s external auditors. Handelsbanken reports the Group’s sustainability activities every year. The report constitutes Handelsbanken’s Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact. Additional information regarding Handelsbanken’s sustainability activities is presented in a GRI supplement, published at handelsbanken.se/csreng. H A N D E L S B A N K EN | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 2 Contents The Group Chief Stability and growth Executive’s comments – in a turbulent environment 4 ADMINISTRATION REPORT GROUP ADMINISTRATION REPORT Contents 7 PARENT COMPANY 153 Concept and goal 9 FINANCIAL REPORTS PARENT COMPANY Goal achievement 10 Contents 154 Our concept 12 Income statement Parent company 155 Organisation and working methods 14 Statement of comprehensive Local branches as part of income Parent company 155 digital development 16 Balance sheet Parent company 156 Review of operations Financial overview 2015 19 Statement of changes in equity Parent company 157 Review of operations 20 Cash ﬂow statement Parent Five-year overview Group 22 company 158 Key ﬁgures per year 24 Five-year overview Parent Quarterly performance 25 company 159 Business segments 26 Notes Parent company 161 Handelsbanken Sweden 28 RECOMMENDED APPROPRIATION Handelsbanken UK 30 OF PROFITS Handelsbanken Denmark 32 Recommended appropriation of proﬁts 191 Handelsbanken Finland 34 Handelsbanken Norway 36 AUDITOR’S REPORT Handelsbanken the Netherlands 38 Auditor’s report 192 Handelsbanken Capital Markets 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Handelsbanken’s shares and shareholders 44 Contents 196 Sustainability, employees and Sustainability at Handelsbanken 197 the environment 46 Key ﬁgures for our sustainability activities 198 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Our concept and organisation 200 Report 2015 49 Customers 206 Contents 49 Employees 208 Corporate Governance structure 50 Shareholders 211 The Board 62 Society 212 Senior Management and Audit and Whistleblowing Function 64 Initiatives, awards, surveys and sustainability index 224 FINANCIAL REPORTS GROUP Content and restrictions 227 Contents 66 GRI index 228 Income statement Group 67 Auditor’s report 231 Statement of comprehensive income Group 68 CONTACT DETAILS Balance sheet Group 69 Contents 233 Statement of changes in Contact details 234 equity Group 70 Branches and branch managers 236 Cash ﬂow statement Group 71 Boards of subsidiaries 243 Notes Group 72 OTHER Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Deﬁnitions and explanations 244 Corporate identity no.: 502007-7862 Registered ofﬁce: Stockholm handelsbanken.se This Annual Report is also available in Swedish. 3 THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S COMMENTS Stability and growth – in a turbulent environment • Operating profit for 2015 grew to SEK 20.5 billion, the highest figure in the Bank’s 144-year history. • Earnings per share increased to SEK 8.57. • Handelsbanken’s return on equity for total operations was 13.5 per cent. • The C/I ratio – our expenses divided by our income – was 45.3 per cent. • Following the dividend proposal, the common equity tier 1 ratio according to CRD IV increased to 21.2 per cent and the total capital ratio rose to 27.2 per cent. • Moody’s upgraded Handelsbanken’s long-term credit rating to Aa2, and thus the Bank has the highest rating in Europe of all peer banks. • The Bank was the largest player for new savings on the mutual funds market in Sweden with a market share of 31 per cent. • We had more satisfied private and corporate customers than the average for the banking sector in all our six home markets. For 144 years, Handelsbanken has grown and developed: customer by course we have to adapt to changes in the world around us and make use customer, transaction by transaction, and branch by branch. of the opportunities that these changes create. 2015 was another of those years when we grew, developed the Bank 2015 was a year of major geopolitical turbulence in our environment, and we did good business. We did all this with control of our costs, while major falls in commodity prices, volatile ﬁnancial markets and a weak busiwe acquired a larger number of customers, who are even more satisﬁed. ness cycle on most markets in Europe. We are used to navigating the In doing so, we created value for our shareholders. Bank through times of crisis, in different business cycles and on turbulent Operating proﬁt for the past year was SEK 20.5 billion, which is the ﬁnancial markets. We have always worked according to the principle that highest in the history of Handelsbanken. For the 44th year running we met our business model should be independent of business cycles – in other our corporate goal: higher return on equity than a weighted average of the words it should work well and stably in good times and bad. This means return of our competitors. that in everything we do, our work is characterised by low tolerance of For many years, Handelsbanken’s equity, including dividends paid, has risks, caution and a long-term approach. also grown by an average of 15 per cent per year. Unlike the other major In several independent assessments, Handelsbanken is also ranked as banks in our home markets, this has been possible without government one of the strongest banks in the world by far. One example of this is the support, subsidised loans from central banks or capital support from our rating agency Moody’s, which for many years has ranked Handelsbanken shareholders. as one of the strongest in our home markets. In 2015, Moody’s raised our In other words, Handelsbanken creates stable, long-term value. The rating another notch – to Aa2. No other commercial bank in our home reason is simple: our idea of how to run the Bank is based on exactly that: markets has a higher rating. a long-term perspective and stability. This permeates the whole Bank, in In 2015, we experienced a new phenomenon in the ﬁnancial markets everything we do, in our relationships with customers, in our business – negative interest rates. This has a major impact on our net interest transactions and in our view of our employees. income from deposits, and naturally it is reﬂected in our results. But this is not a structural problem for us. Our very stable ﬁnances mean that we have resilience and stamina. Furthermore, our view is that the negative rates are temporary. “ In several independent assessments, Handelsbanken is also ranked In markets with very high liquidity and generally low credit demand from businesses, the risk of price bubbles increases. Tough competition between the banks, combined with low interest rates, can create unsustainable price increases within different asset classes. As always, as one of the strongest banks in the Handelsbanken is cautious with its lending. Good times for credits may last for a long time, but not for ever. This is why in Sweden, and also in world by far. ” several of our other home markets, we have been restrictive about increasing lending to the corporate market over the past few years. OUR BUSINESS MODEL – LOCAL AND DIGITAL This business model works which is why the Bank’s strategy stands ﬁrm. Handelsbanken’s decentralised working method is at the core of our As the new President and Group Chief Executive of the Bank, I see that business model. Our view is that decisions should be taken locally by we have great opportunities to grow and develop our business, while of the person who knows our customers. We know that this creates better H A N D E L S B A N K E N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 4 THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S COMMENTS decisions and – in particular – more satisﬁed customers. The customer which may create beneﬁt for our customers will be decentralised. This is appreciates meeting a decision-maker, who is well acquainted with him or why we continued to move central functions and responsibilities to our her and the local market. This is why we are present in so many locations, national organisations in 2015, and we work incessantly on increasing the now with 836 branches in our six home markets. time branches can spend with their customers. The branch is the Bank and the Bank is the branch. Our customers appreciate the fact that we are local, that we know them and that we make SUSTAINABILITY the decisions there, locally together with the customer. But customers also Our business concept and our decentralised method of working not only expect to be able to do their banking transactions when and where they create a stable bank in the long term. They also create a more responsible please. So the branch is not just a physical building – we are developing the bank, a more sustainable bank. Aspects of sustainability have also long branches’ digital meeting places all the time, so that customers can visit been well-integrated into Handelsbanken’s culture and operations. their branch on their mobile, tablet or computer. All contacts with our cusIn addition to our internal governance documents and guidelines, the Bank tomers are between the customer and the branch, regardless of how the is also a member of the voluntary UN initiatives Global Compact and Princicustomer wishes to meet the Bank. It is the branch that is always responsiples for Responsible Investment (PRI). Handelsbanken continues to support ble for the customer meeting – whenever and wherever this takes place. these initiatives, which are totally in keeping with the values, principles and Together with the Bank’s specialists who are gathered regionally or working methods that have been applied at Handelsbanken for a long time. centrally, our branches with their strong local connections create solutions We run the Bank with low tolerance of risks and low expenses, and we which our customers appreciate. This is conﬁrmed time and time again in aim for as low volatility in proﬁts as possible. This, coupled with stable customer satisfaction surveys and awards. ﬁnances, has meant that in modern times, we have never needed to seek Our decentralised model with a large degree of local autonomy not only support from the government, central banks, taxpayers or shareholders. creates more satisﬁed customers. It also means that our risk assessment We are convinced that our responsible method of running our Bank is better and our loan losses are lower. Decentralisation also gives us gives us a competitive edge. This applies in many areas – for example, employees with a great degree of commitment and a high level of experregarding the opportunities and terms to obtain funding on the internatise, who are used to making their own, wise decisions. tional bond market, or when it comes to attracting talented staff and Working with the Bank’s operational efﬁciency is well-integrated into the stable, long-term shareholders. Bank’s business model, and beneﬁting from the efﬁciency gains which digWe are also convinced that sustainability, long-term growth and shareital developments lead to is also an important part of our continued work. holder value can only be achieved if the Bank works in a long-term manner It is therefore not difﬁcult to remain decentralised. Quite the contrary: for its customers – and for the community as a whole. Therefore, we will we always try to be more decentralised and local – and digital. Everything keep our work with sustainability high on the agenda. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REP ORT 2 015 5 THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S COMMENTS OUR HOME MARKETS continued to relocate and reorganise our branches, so as to better fulﬁl At present, Handelsbanken has six home markets: Sweden, the UK, our customers’ needs. In addition, a new mobile banking service for our Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. In these markets we customers was launched in the second half of the year. strive to be a full-service bank with a nationwide branch network. As in previous years, we are top-ranked in terms of satisﬁed private customers and we also have the most satisﬁed corporate customers in Sweden Finland. In 2015, Handelsbanken again won the Swedish Business Bank of the Year and Sweden’s Small Enterprise Bank awards from Finansbarometern, for the ﬁfth and fourth year running. These awards are based on a very comprehensive survey, in which customers’ ratings for various parts of the Bank are taken into account. This customer satisfaction aspect is conﬁrmed by SKI (Swedish Quality Index), which, on the basis of its surveys of private and corporate customers, “ Our customers’ requirements as regards where, when and how they acclaims us as the bank that has the most satisﬁed customers overall. wish to meet the Bank are constantly In addition, the TNS Sifo research company ﬁnds that, this year too, we have by far the most satisﬁed customers within Private Banking. evolving, and therefore we are Satisﬁed customers mean more business – and this enabled us to meet the challenges of negative interest rates and low demand for corporate continually developing and adapting loans, with good growth in our commissions business. Once again this year, in the savings area, we saw very high net inﬂows to our mutual funds, and we have great potential for further growth. to this. ” UK In the UK, Handelsbanken continued to grow. In addition to opening Norway 19 new branches and recruiting branch managers for a further nine future In 2015, the macroeconomic environment in Norway was a turbulent one, branches, we have also established a new regional bank. This encomwith falling oil prices and lower activity levels in the business world. Neverpasses Yorkshire and the north-eastern part of the country, with its head theless, Handelsbanken has shown good growth, particularly on the ofﬁce in Leeds, and it is our ﬁfth regional bank in the UK. corporate side. On the private side, too, we won the conﬁdence of many In the area of customer satisfaction, our lead over our competitors is new customers, and succeeded in meeting the challenges of stiffer growing, particularly as regards corporate customers. competition and low margins. Handelsbanken’s range of products and services has been broadened further, to meet the customers’ requirements. In addition, the integration The Netherlands of Heartwood’s wealth and asset management services into the Bank is In 2015, Handelsbanken opened three new branches and one new meeting now in progress; this will further supplement the Bank’s offering. place in the Netherlands. During the year we also further strengthened our product range and infrastructure, in order to meet the steady inﬂow of new customers. In 2015, Handelsbanken remained the bank with the most satisﬁed “ Our view is that decisions should be taken locally by the person who customers in the Netherlands, by a comfortable margin. WE WILL CONTINUE OUR JOURNEY At present we are running our Bank at 836 locations in six home markets, knows our customers. ” and are also represented by branches in the world’s most important ﬁnancial centres. Our business model is scalable and repeatable. We have a strong position and excellent opportunities in all six home markets. We will continue our journey in all the markets. Denmark Our customers’ requirements as regards where, when and how they Despite an environment of negative interest rates, weak demand for credits, wish to meet the Bank are constantly evolving, and therefore we are conand tough competition, Handelsbanken continued to advance its positions, tinually developing and adapting to this. We are increasing our availability, with good performance in all business areas. we are creating more and better meeting places, and we are aiming to In 2015, Handelsbanken again had the most satisﬁed customers, on increase the time spent with customers. Therefore we have both a digital both the private and the corporate markets. and a local presence. During the year we increased availability for our customers, both digitally We will work hard to continue having the most satisﬁed customers, to and via the branches. For example, a number of new self-service functions do more business, to be even more efﬁcient – to simply be a little better and payment solutions were launched, via a new app for customers’ and a little more Handelsbanken every day. smartphones. In addition, a number of branches moved to new premises I’d like to say a warm thank-you to all our employees for your hard with better availability. work over the past year. I take much pride in, and have great respect for your expertise, your work and your commitment. It’s you who make the Finland difference. Handelsbanken’s position on the private market has strengthened, and I would also like to extend my thanks to all our customers for the great during the year there was growing demand for our savings and investment conﬁdence you show us. products. More and more customers have also been interested in our wealth management services, and our wealth management grew substantially during the year. We have continued to build up strong, long-term relationships with our Frank Vang-Jensen customers at the local branches close to the customer, and we have also Stockholm, February 2016 H A N D E L S B A N K EN | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 6 Administration report CONTENTS Concept and goal 9 Goal achievement 10 Our concept 12 Organisation and working methods 14 Local branches as part of digital development 16 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW 2015 19 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS 20 FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW GROUP 22 KEY FIGURES PER YEAR 24 QUARTERLY PERFORMANCE 25 BUSINESS SEGMENTS 26 Handelsbanken Sweden 28 Handelsbanken UK 30 Handelsbanken Denmark 32 Handelsbanken Finland 34 Handelsbanken Norway 36 Handelsbanken the Netherlands 38 Handelsbanken Capital Markets 40 HANDELSBANKEN’S SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS 44 SUSTAINABILITY, EMPLOYEES AND THE ENVIRONMENT 46 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 49 Contents Corporate Governance Report 49 Corporate Governance structure 50 The Board 62 Senior Management and Audit and Whistleblowing Function 64 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2 015 7 CONCEPT AND GOAL | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Concept Handelsbanken is a full-service bank with a decentralised way of working, a strong local presence due to nationwide branch networks and a long-term approach to customer relations. The Bank grows internationally by establishing its business model on selected markets. Goal Handelsbanken’s goal is to have higher profitability than the average of peer banks in its home markets. One of the purposes of Handelsbanken’s corporate goal is to offer shareholders long-term high growth in value expressed in increasing earnings per share over a business cycle. This goal is mainly to be achieved by having more satisfied customers and lower costs than those of competitors. High profitability is crucial, not only because it attracts shareholders to invest in the Bank, but also because it creates the conditions for growth, a high rating and low funding costs, and for the Bank’s lending capacity. The Bank’s profitability also affects its ability to manage risks and to achieve efficient capital management. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2 015 9 GOAL ACHIEVEMENT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Goal achievement Handelsbanken’s goal is to have higher profitability than the average of peer banks in its home markets. This goal is mainly to be achieved by the Bank having more satisfied customers and lower costs than its competitors. OVERALL GOAL Return on equity 1973–2015 Corporate goal % Handelsbanken’s goal is to have higher profitability than 30 the average of peer banks in its home markets. 25 20 Goal achievement Handelsbanken’s return on equity for total operations was 15 13.5 per cent (13.4). The corresponding figure for a 10 weighted average of other major Nordic banks was 11.3 5 per cent (11.3). The corresponding figure for a weighted 0 -73 -75 -77 -79 -81 -83 -85 -87 -89 -91 -93 -95 -97 -99 -01 -03 -05 -07 -09 -11 -13 -15 average of all peer banks in the home markets is estimated -5 at approximately 11 per cent (9.8). This means that for the 44th consecutive year, Handelsbanken has met its -10 Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* corporate goal. * For the period until 2002 inclusive, only Swedish banks are included. MOST SATISFIED CUSTOMERS Customer satisfaction – Private customers 2015 Customer satisfaction – Corporate customers 2015 One of the ways in which Handelsbanken will achieve its Index Index profitability goal is by having more satisfied customers 90 90 than its competitors. The quality and service must therefore at least meet customer expectations, and preferably exceed them. 80 80 Outcome Handelsbanken has more satisfied private and corporate 70 70 customers than the average for the banking sector in all of the Bank’s six home markets. In this way, the Bank retains 60 60 its strong and stable position regarding customer satisfaction. Satisfied customers are proof of the viability of Handelsbanken’s method of working. 50 50 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands Handelsbanken Sector average Source: SKI/EPSI MOST COST-EFFECTIVE BANK Costs/Income, excluding loans losses The profitability goal will also be achieved by having % higher cost-effectiveness than peer banks. 70 Outcome 60 Handelsbanken’s costs in relation to income for continu50 ing operations were 45.3 per cent (45.2). The corresponding figure for an average of other major Nordic 40 banks was 46.2 per cent (49.5). 30 20 10 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Handelsbanken Average Nordic banks excl. Handelsbanken RATING A LONG-TERM PERSPECTIVE Handelsbanken aims to have a high rating with the external rating agencies. The Bank takes a long-term approach to relations with both customers and employees. It sees each recruitment as important and long term. Outcome During the second quarter of 2015, Moody’s upgraded Handelsbanken’s longOutcome term rating from Aa3 to Aa2, and thus the Bank has the highest rating in the External staff turnover in Sweden was very low and was 2.1 per cent (2.2) in Sweden. Nordic countries of all peer banks. Otherwise, Handelsbanken’s short-term and long-term ratings with the other rating agencies were unchanged. Ratings of Nordic banks External staff turnover 2011–2015* % Moody’s Standard & Poor’s Fitch 10 31 December Financial LongShortLongShortLongShort2015 strength (BCA)* term term term term term term 8 Handelsbanken a2 Aa2 P-1 AAA-1+ AAF1+ 6 Nordea a3 Aa3 P-1 AAA-1+ AAF1+ 4 SEB a3 Aa3 P-1 A+ A-1 A+ F1 Swedbank a3 Aa3 P-1 AAA-1+ A+ F1 2 DNB a3 Aa3 P-1 A+ A-1 Danske Bank baa1 A2 P-1 A A-1 A F1 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 * Baseline Credit Assessment (BCA) is an indicator of the issuer’s standalone intrinsic strength. * The proportion of employees who have left externally (excluding retirements Source: SNL and deaths) in relation to the average number of employees. Sweden H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 10 GOAL ACHIEVEMENT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT GROWTH Income and cost performance, new branches in the UK Handelsbanken’s business is based on meeting the customer SEK m per branch locally. It is therefore natural to open new branches in places 50 where the Bank has not previously had operations. Some 50% of the branches Some 50% of the branches 40 are less than 4 years old are more than 4 years old Outcome 30 In 2015, Handelsbanken opened 22 branches in its home markets: 19 of them in the UK and three in the Netherlands. 20 10 0 yr 1 yr 2 yr 3 yr 4 yr 5 yr 6 yr 7 yr 8 yr 9 yr 10 yr 11 Average income Average expenses Refers to the average of the 175 branches opened in the UK since 2000. STABLE, HIGH VALUE GROWTH Average growth in equity per share, SEK, 2007–2015* Growth in equity, including dividends and share 125 repurchases, is a measure of the financial value created. 100 : 15% Outcome CAGR Average growth in equity, including dividends and share repurchases, has been 15 per cent each year for the past 75 eight years. The low variation between the quarters confirms the Bank’s low risk tolerance and is a measure 50 of the stability of the value creation. 25 0 Q3 07 Q4 07 Q1 08 Q2 08 Q3 08 Q4 08 Q1 09 Q2 09 Q3 09 Q4 09 Q1 10 Q2 10 Q3 10 Q4 10 Q1 11 Q2 11 Q3 11 Q4 11 Q1 12 Q2 12 Q3 12 Q4 12 Q1 13 Q2 13 Q3 13 Q4 13 Q1 14 Q2 14 Q3 14 Q4 14 Q1 15 Q2 15 Q3 15 Q4 15 Adjusted equity per share Accumulated dividends since 2008 * Including dividends. CAPITAL Common equity tier 1 ratio, CRD IV 2013–2015 Under normal circumstances, the Bank’s common equity tier 1 ratio % must be 1 to 3 percentage points above the total common equity 25 tier 1 capital requirement communicated to the Bank by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. The tier 1 ratio and the total capital 20 ratio must also be at least one percentage point above the total 15 capital assessment communicated to the Bank by the Supervisory Authority for the respective capital tiers. Additionally, the Bank must 10 fulfil any other capital requirements set by the regulators. 5 Outcome The common equity tier 1 ratio according to CRD IV rose to 21.2 0 per cent (20.4). The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s 2013 2014 2015 assessment was that Handelsbanken’s common equity tier 1 capital requirement at the end of Q3 2015 corresponds to a common equity tier 1 ratio of 18.6 per cent, and the Bank is thus within the target range. LIQUIDITY AND FUNDING ITRAXX Financials 5-year and Handelsbanken’s CDS spread 5-year Handelsbanken must be able to manage for at least twelve Basis points months under stressed conditions without borrowing any new 400 funds in the financial markets. Its funding cost must be lower than for peer banks. 300 Outcome The issue volume for long-term funding during the year 200 amounted to SEK 181 billion. At the end of the year, the total liquidity reserve exceeded SEK 800 billion. The Bank’s funding costs were the lowest among peer banks in the Nordic coun100 tries and continued to be among the very lowest in the global banking market. 0 Dec-06 Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08 Mar-09 Jun-09 Sep-09 Dec-09 Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 Mar-11 Jun-11 Sep-11 Dec-11 Mar-12 Jun-12 Sep-12 Dec-12 Mar-13 Jun-13 Sep-13 Dec-13 Mar-14 Jun-14 Sep-14 Dec-14 Mar-15 Jun-15 Sep-15 Dec-15 ITRAXX Financials 5-year SHB CDS 5-year Source: Ecowin, Bloomberg CREDIT QUALITY Loan losses as a percentage of lending 1998–2015 Handelsbanken has a low risk tolerance. This means that % the quality of credits must never be neglected in favour of 1.2 achieving higher volume or a higher margin. 1.0 0.8 Outcome Loan losses decreased to SEK -1,597 million (-1,781). Loan 0.6 losses as a proportion of lending were 0.09 per cent (0.10). 0.4 Since 2008, the Bank’s loan loss ratio has averaged 0.10 0.2 per cent. This can be compared with the average figure 0.0 for the other major Nordic banks over the same period: 0.31 per cent. -0.2 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* * For the period until 2000 inclusive, only Swedish banks are included. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 20 15 11 OUR CONCEPT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Our concept Handelsbanken is a full-service bank where personal meetings with our customers are key. We have a decentralised way of working and a strong local presence through nationwide branch networks. The Bank attaches great importance to availability and long-term customer relations, has low tolerance of risks and achieves international growth by applying its business model to selected markets. Handelsbanken has been conducting banking other meeting places. The customer’s trust is better support functions and completely revised operations since 1871 and has the oldest built up over the long term, but is won and nureditorial content. listed share on the Stockholm stock exchange. tured at every meeting. By winning its customHandelsbanken’s goal is to have higher proﬁtaers’ trust, Handelsbanken becomes their natural Care bility than the average of peer banks in its home choice as a provider of ﬁnancial services. ThereIn everything it does, the Bank aims to create the markets. This goal is mainly to be achieved by fore, meetings with customers are key to Handelsbest possible conditions for successful meethaving more satisﬁed customers and lower banken’s operations. ings with customers. It is through these meetcosts than those of competitors. ings that the Bank creates, maintains and develOur idea of how we should run our bank is ops strong, long-term customer relationships. based on trust and respect for individuals. This One example which creates the right condiis why we are decentralised. This approach leads to better, quicker decisions close to the customer, and creates commitment and the opportunity for our employees to make an impact “ The customer’s trust is built up over the long tions for customers to regard us as “the best bank in town” is that we continue to develop the Bank’s various meeting places – because that is what our customers want. and do an even better job. This in turn helps the term, but is won and When we meet our customers, it is not just a Bank to gain more satisﬁed customers. matter of solving their everyday banking needs The whole of a bank’s business is based on nurtured at every in a simple way. We always focus on the custrust. Our customers have chosen us because tomer’s needs and our aim is that they should they trust us and have conﬁdence in the way we do banking. meeting. ” feel that our service is caring. Decentralised decisions Handelsbanken’s constant aim is that all imporAvailability tant business decisions should be taken as “ Our idea of how we should run our bank is We put a great deal of effort into being available for our customers and this is a major component in Handelsbanken’s method of banking. In Sweden, Handelsbanken Direkt Personal close to the customer as possible. This contributes to better meetings with customers, better decisions and more satisﬁed customers. based on trust and Service is always open, and is staffed by professional bankers to help customers by phone respect for individuals. ” – 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. We constantly strive to develop and improve our meeting places and to increase the level of availability for our customers. This applies at our “ In everything it does, the Bank aims to create the In short, our customers attach great importance branches, online, and at new digital meeting best possible conditions to the fact that we are available, simple to deal places, such as services in the form of apps for with, and show understanding and care when smartphones and tablets. for successful meetings interacting with them. With more than 140 years’ experience, we have learned what is important for our customers. Slightly simpliﬁed, the basis of our method Simplicity When a customer contacts us, the meeting should be unbureaucratic. Our aim is that the with customers. ” of building and running Handelsbanken has customer should be able to do the same type of several important elements, as follows: business with the Bank, regardless of the meetHandelsbanken is organised geographically. ing place. Therefore, we are constantly working Every branch of Handelsbanken is led by a CUSTOMER MEETINGS to develop and improve the Bank’s technical manager who is responsible for all operations in All important business decisions should be taken solutions. his or her branch’s local area of operations. The as close to the customer as possible. This conSeveral new technical solutions were launched branches’ independence gives them a very tributes to better decisions and more satisﬁed during the year in our home markets involving strong local presence, with long-term customer customers: our customers meet the person simpliﬁcations for our customers. relationships. In addition, short decision paths who will make the decision, not a messenger. In Sweden, an improved online service was make it possible to adapt more quickly to various This gives a sound basis for successful cuslaunched for all corporate customers with conchanges in local markets and make the most of tomer meetings – both at branches and our tent adapted to the customer’s various needs, new business opportunities. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 12 OUR CONCEPT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Skilled staff uct or service that they need. We do not divide do all the business that we and our customers Handelsbanken’s decentralised method of workcustomers into different segments or specialise wish to do – on favourable terms. ing means that we give our staff a high degree of in product or service areas. Stable ﬁnances not only provide freedom of responsibility and authority to conduct customers’ The individual customer’s unique requireaction, but also lower funding costs, and thus business. This high degree of trust is based on a ments are the governing factor. Therefore, contribute to higher proﬁtability – without the belief in people’s willingness and ability to conHandelsbanken has a full range of products customer paying more. stantly become more skilled in their work and in and services to meet all the ﬁnancial needs of Handelsbanken builds its stable ﬁnances on their efforts to seek and overcome new challenges. our customers. entirely commercial terms, and is one of the few The Bank takes a long-term approach to relabanks in its home markets that has not sought tions with both customers and employees. It Our best advice ﬁnancial support from the government, central sees each recruitment as important and long Regardless of the meeting place, we always banks or shareholders during periods of turbuterm. Employees with long experience and with give the customer our best advice without looklence in the ﬁnancial markets. broad knowledge from the whole Bank make a ing at what is the most proﬁtable product for vital contribution to the Bank having satisﬁed Handelsbanken in the short term. Our employcustomers. To retain employees, the right conees who meet customers are not paid variable ditions must exist for development in their work and consideration must also be taken of the stage of life that they are in. Our aim for long-term relations with our remuneration, either in the form of bonuses or commission, and therefore have no ﬁnancial incentive to convince the customer that a certain service or product suits them best. “ Handelsbanken adapts its offering to each cusemployees is reinforced by the proﬁt-sharing By giving our best advice, we build trusting, tomer’s unique needs scheme Oktogonen which, instead of short-term long-term relationships with every customer. bonus systems, creates a long-term and similar incentive for all employees of the Bank, regardless of their position or work tasks. Furthermore, the employees are the largest owner of the PROFITABILITY BEFORE VOLUMES Handelsbanken adapts its offering to each customer’s unique needs and circumstances. The and circumstances. ” Bank via Oktogonen since it mainly invests the Bank therefore has no requirements as regards LOW RISK TOLERANCE employees’ units in shares in Handelsbanken. volumes, budgets or centrally determined sales Handelsbanken has a low risk tolerance. The Some 98 per cent of the Group’s employees are targets. Instead, the Bank measures its success Bank’s strict approach to risk means that it now covered by Oktogonen. in terms of customer satisfaction, cost-effectivedeliberately avoids high-risk transactions, even External staff turnover in the Group during the ness and proﬁtability. if the remuneration is high at the time. This low year was 3.0 per cent. Handelsbanken achieves higher proﬁtability risk tolerance is maintained through a strong by running the Bank more efﬁciently, and thus risk culture that is sustainable in the long term at a lower cost, than peer banks on its home and applies to all areas of the Group. markets. Consequently, “high proﬁtability” does The Bank’s business model focuses on tak“ By giving our best advice, we build not mean that Handelsbanken’s customers pay more. ORGANIC GROWTH ing credit risks in the branch operations. The objective is therefore to minimise other risks, such as market risks. Position-taking in the Bank’s business operations is only accepted in trusting, long-term For Handelsbanken to retain high proﬁtability customer-driven transactions, and only within in the long term, growth is also necessary. strictly deﬁned limits. relationships with Handelsbanken primarily grows by opening Handelsbanken also seeks to reduce all macro new branches in locations where the Bank has risks, in order to have a business model that is every customer. ” not previously had operations. In this way, Handelsbanken grows customer by customer, branch by branch. This organic growth model independent of ﬂuctuations in the economy. means that Handelsbanken can achieve growth, The keys to the Bank coupled with low risk and good cost control. Almost all our customer relations start at the This method of working and of achieving growth customer’s branch, but after this customers has proved successful in an increasing number meet Handelsbanken far more often via their of locations and in an increasing number of smartphones, tablet devices, online, or on the countries. Handelsbanken has a nationwide phone. The goal is for customers to be able to branch network in the Bank’s six home markets: move freely between our various meeting places Sweden, the UK, Denmark, Finland, Norway and do their banking business when it suits and the Netherlands. them best. We like to say that we should give our customers “all the keys to the Bank”. Stable ﬁnances By means of low funding costs and low loan A full range of products and services losses, coupled with high proﬁtability, HandelsA vital condition for successful customer meetbanken builds a strong balance sheet. Stable ings is that our customers never lack any prodﬁnances are essential for the Bank to be able to H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 20 15 13 ORGANISATION AND WORKING METHODS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Organisation and working methods Handelsbanken is geographically organised so as to create the best possible conditions for relationships with our customers. Practically all important business decisions are therefore made close to our customers, at our 849 local branches worldwide. Our branches can be reached in many different ways: digitally via the internet and apps, personal visits to the branch or 24 hours a day by phone. OUR HOME MARKETS locally, close to the customer. This creates are responsible for the full range of products Handelsbanken has six home markets: Sweden, a cost-effective, ﬂexible organisation based and services that the local branches offer their the UK, Denmark, Finland, Norway and the on the customer’s requirements and circumcustomers. Netherlands. We have a nationwide branch netstances so that it can quickly react to market work in these countries, organised into one or changes. INDEPENDENT LOCAL BRANCHES more regional banks in each country. Handelsbanken’s geographical structure ensures In step with the establishment of new home EFFICIENT GEOGRAPHICAL STRUCTURE a local presence that creates loyal, satisﬁed markets, the Bank strives to devolve central Handelsbanken is an internationally active fullcustomers and provides access to local infordecision-making power, so that the decisions service bank with a local presence and longmation in the markets where we operate. can be taken as close to the customers and the term customer relations. The individual customDecision-making at Handelsbanken is strictly market as possible. Each home market has its er’s unique requirements are the governing decentralised to the local branch. own national organisation with responsibility for factor. Therefore, Handelsbanken has a full Every branch of Handelsbanken is led by a the proﬁtability of the branch operations in that range of products and services to meet all the manager who is responsible for all operations country. ﬁnancial needs of our customers. in his or her branch’s local area of operations. Handelsbanken is organised geographically. Branch managers staff and organise their This means that we do not face the challenges branches according to the business that the of a complex matrix organisation where both branch chooses to do in its local market. “ At Handelsbanken, we strive for as many employees and customers risk ending up in inefﬁcient work processes. Our geographical structure is decentralised business decisions as possible to be taken and cost-effective, with short, clear decision paths. Every local branch has its own area of operations, with its own cost centre. An ‘area of operations’ is a geographically delimited “ Handelsbanken’s decentralised structure area that constitutes the branch’s local market. has been developed locally, close to the When there are a sufﬁcient number of branches in a larger geographical area, Handelsbanken and refined for 144 customer. ” establishes a regional bank, containing all the branches’ proﬁt/cost centres. It includes joint administrative resources, regional expertise years, in order to and specialists to support the branches’ increase customer In the UK, we now have 197 branches, and the business. Bank’s growth there continues. Handelsbanken The regional bank is part of, or in turn forms, satisfaction and the has also opened several new branches in the a national organisation that may include several Netherlands, where we now have 23 branches. In addition, the Bank has opened new branches and meeting places in its more mature markets regional banks, depending on how many local branches there are in the country concerned, and where they are located. Bank’s efficiency. ” in the Nordic countries. In total, Handelsbanken At present, Handelsbanken has 849 proﬁt This mandate to take the important business has 849 branches in 25 countries worldwide. centres, each of which contributes to the decisions in discussion with the customer, is a The Bank has 23 ofﬁces – of which 13 branches Group’s proﬁts. sound basis for successful customer meetings. and ten representative ofﬁces – in 19 countries Handelsbanken’s geographical structure Our customers are able to meet the person who around the world. Their main task is to support means that it has a distinct local presence in takes the decisions – not a representative of a the Bank’s customers in its home markets with all the markets where the Bank operates. Our central decision-maker. their international business. local branches are responsible for all the Bank’s This engenders trust and increases customer We have given our branch managers a very customers and make all credit decisions within satisfaction. In most cases, the branch manager high degree of independence, as we are contheir geographical area of operations. All income also lives in the local town and is very much vinced that those who work closest to the cusand expenses within the branch’s area of operainvolved in the community in which she or he tomer will make the most sensible decisions, tions are allocated to the branch, while the works, giving valuable knowledge of the local from the customer’s and from the Bank’s point Bank’s central administrative departments and market. of view. business areas or national organisations have This in turn creates a sound basis for rapid At Handelsbanken, we strive for as many only one main task: to support the branches. access to local information when assessing business decisions as possible to be taken Product specialists at the Bank’s business areas credit risks, for example. At the same time, H A N D E L S B A N K E N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 14 ORGANISATION AND WORKING METHODS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT it increases the branch’s knowledge of its to the branch. Regardless of how the customer tomers’ everyday lives. By using the Swish app, customers and their local situation; it also chooses to contact the Bank, the local branch all customers can quickly and simply make payenables better personal service and a basis always offers several meeting places with high ments to private individuals, companies, associfor decisions that is adapted individually to availability, so that customers can present or ations and organisations that are linked to the our customers. carry out their business – for example via apps, service. At the central level, Handelsbanken estabe-mail, online, Handelsbanken Direkt Personal The option of digital signatures on various lishes policies and rules in a number of different Service, or a personal visit to a branch. types of documents means that more business areas, including lending, ethical standards and Our task is to make it simple for customers to processes have become paperless. This saves HR matters. It is within these central frameworks access the branch when it suits them best, and time for both customers and branches, and also that the branches take decisions that are based with the greatest possible freedom of action. reduces costs. on local information. We have long worked in this way, because New, better and more cost-effective inforHandelsbanken’s decentralised structure has it ensures that we offer our customers high mation technology is constantly creating new been developed and reﬁned for 144 years, in accessibility to their local branches. At Handelsmethods for the customer to contact Handelsorder to increase customer satisfaction and the banken, the customer’s needs always come banken. But in parallel with the high-tech Bank’s efﬁciency. With a geographically organﬁrst. environment of today, Handelsbanken also conised structure, it is easier for the branches to Technical advances are not only rapid, tinues to open new local branches with decencontribute to Group proﬁtability. increasing availability for our customers. They tralised powers of decision and personal service In addition, local, decentralised decisionalso lead to greater efﬁciency, so that branch in our home markets – simply because that is making reduces the Bank’s need of central costs decrease. what our customers want. functions and managers at middle levels. But The increasing digitalisation contributes at the same time it requires a well-deﬁned busito greater customer beneﬁt, and it increases ness model, a strong corporate culture and a accessibility to the Bank. Today, the great robust system for business control. Handelsbanken has applied this work method and these functions for a long time, and thus the Group has good cost-effectiveness. majority of customers have a smartphone, and therefore have access to the Bank’s apps. Here they can carry out more and more types of banking transactions, including paying bills, “ In Handelsbanken’s geographical structure, viewing balances, trading in securities and all contact paths – both THE BRANCH IS THE BANK applying for loans, which makes it easier for At Handelsbanken, the local branch always customers on an everyday basis. digital and personal has customer responsibility, regardless of how, Customer needs are always in focus, which where or when the customer contacts the Bank. But the customer can meet the branch in many different ways. Almost all the Bank’s customer means that Handelsbanken continually strives to enable the customer to do the same type of business with the Bank, regardless of the meet– lead to the branch. ” relationships begin with a personal meeting at a ing place. Therefore we are constantly expandlocal branch. However, after this, relatively few ing our apps with new functions and making Customers’ needs regarding how they wish to customer meetings take place at the customer’s them even more available and user-friendly. meet and visit the branch determine the develphysical branch. Although our customers conFor example, interest in savings has increased opment of our meeting places. sider one-to-one meetings to be important to in step with the development of the app for Thus, for many years we have offered many them, these are no longer the most common private customers. different paths into the Bank, to increase cusway for customers to meet the Bank. In the app for corporate customers, compatomers’ options when deciding when and how In step with rapid IT advances, Handelsnies can follow the trends of exchange rates, they wish to visit the branch. banken is constantly developing new meeting mutual funds, equities, indexes and the Bank’s places where customers can meet the branch. market outlook. In Handelsbanken’s geographical structure, all Swish is another example of a service that contact paths – both digital and personal – lead provides customer beneﬁt and simpliﬁes cusCountry Group units and Group organisations Branches CUSTOMER staff functions business areas and regional head ofﬁces This is how we are organised Handelsbanken’s way of working can best be depicted by an arrow where all the operations focus on the customer. The branches are closest to the customer and are responsible for the Bank’s customers in their local market. Each home market has its own national organisation with responsibility for the proﬁtability of the branch operations in that country. For our customer offering to be of the highest quality, we have a number of joint business areas for the Group where product owners design and develop our products and solutions. The central head ofﬁce also has joint units and staff functions with overarching responsibility for various functions at the Bank. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 20 15 15 DIGITAL DEVELOPMENT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Local branches as part of digital development At Handelsbanken, the branch is the Bank. Every local branch within the Bank is well-integrated into its local community. At the same time, the local branches offer digital meeting places for advanced banking services, which customers can access easily via various channels. It can be said that all roads in the Bank lead to the branch. At Handelsbanken, we regard our local branches as valuable assets. At ings, while other branches need open spaces in a more traditional the same time, all Handelsbanken’s business proceeds from customers’ environment. What all the branches have in common is that they are requirements and wishes. However our customers choose to visit the designed and adapted according to customer requirements. Bank, they always arrive directly at their local branch. For our customers, Personal cash handling has long been a service that many customers, being able to visit their branch via physical and digital meeting places is particularly in the Swedish home market, have very much wanted. But a question of security and personal service. as cash handling in Sweden has decreased, our customers’ needs for When a customer visits the Bank via their mobile app, it is the branch’s manual cash handling at our branches have also diminished. home page that they are visiting. The same applies if a customer opts to Branches’ opening hours are also adapted to customer and market call the Bank, or log on to Online Banking from a computer. requirements. In addition, in Sweden, Handelsbanken Direkt Personal Service is always open, and is staffed by professional bank ofﬁcers who ALL ROADS LEAD TO THE BRANCH help customers by phone – 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Similar serAll roads lead to the local branch, which has the entire responsibility for vice offerings are available in several home markets, including Norway. the customer. Regional banks, central product specialists and central But the most rapid development of our branches is taking place in the units of experts support the branches with the resources they need to digital branch environment. fulﬁl customer requirements and wishes. We know that nowadays, our customers visit our physical branches Handelsbanken is the Nordic region’s most international bank. It has relatively seldom. Instead, they visit their local branch considerably a strong position on the international ﬁnancial markets, with extensive more often via digital channels such as apps in smartphones and tablet expertise in all aspects of ﬁnance and business. This means that our devices. Many people ﬁnd that this is a simple, convenient way to 836 branches in Sweden, the UK, Denmark, Finland, Norway and the regularly check on their ﬁnances, pay their bills or trade in securities. In Netherlands are supported by comprehensive resources to support addition, they can keep an eye on the economic developments that the them in their aim of always providing their customers with world class Bank monitors, analyses and presents in many different ways, for our service. customers and other intevested parties. It is a matter of offering the best possible customer service and the highest possible availability, regardless of the channel that the customer CHALLENGES ON THE DIGITAL BANKING MARKET chooses for their visit – whether it is a personal visit to the branch’s Rapid advances in digital technology are changing our customers’ physical premises or a visit to the branch’s digital environment. behaviour. Technical solutions for banking services that were regarded At Handelsbanken we have long had the most satisﬁed bank customnot long ago as being unique, and only for a few advanced users, are ers in our six home markets, according to independent surveys by EPSI now everyday services that are used by most customers of all banks. Rating, which includes SKI (Swedish Quality Index). This is a positive In general terms, it is thus more difﬁcult for a bank to stand out among challenge for our local branches, since their objective is always to the competition by having unique technical features. Modern digital techachieve even higher customer satisfaction and to provide even better nology, with complete mobile apps for smartphones and tablet devices, customer service. etc., is now regarded by customers as a basic requirement for a bank. At the same time, rapid technical advances are placing new demands At the same time, the banks’ range of products and services is on the Bank. We know that our customers always can and wish to becoming increasingly standardised, without any major price differences. use new and improved technology to visit the Bank. Therefore, we are Most of the products and services offered by the Bank are much the constantly working to develop and improve the contact routes to our same as its competitors’ product ranges. And if a bank launches a new branches in the new digital branch environment. product or service, it is also relatively simple for its competitors to quickly In addition, we are developing our physical branches so that they are copy it and offer something similar. even better adapted to our customers’ needs. The overall trend on the digital banking market shows that it is difﬁcult for a bank to be unique – if it does not have something to offer its cusNEW BRANCHES DON’T ALWAYS LOOK AS THEY DID BEFORE tomer that other banks lack. Newly opened branches of Handelsbanken don’t always look the same And this is what Handelsbanken has. Our method of running a bank as before, with a large space devoted to cash desk services and cendiffers in several ways from our competitors. trally located on the town’s main street. Our new branches can also be smaller, and situated on the ﬁrst or second ﬂoor, possibly a couple of Church tower principle blocks away from the town centre. We have a geographical organisational structure which is decentralised In the Bank’s decentralised organisation, it is the local branch manand cost-effective, with short, clear decision paths. This results in a ager who decides where the branch is located and how it is designed distinct local presence in all the markets where the Bank operates. according to the local market. Every local branch has its own geographically delimited area of operaIn some cases, the interior of the branches is a little more personal, tions, with its own proﬁt responsibility. We usually refer to the ”church tower like a simple but pleasant living-room. At some branches the ofﬁce principle,” which means that the area that can be viewed by the branch space is split into several smaller rooms for individual customer meetmanager from the town’s church tower is the branch’s local market. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 16 DIGITAL DEVELOPMENT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Our local branches are responsible for all the Bank’s customers and or “the local bank,” which creates unique customer loyalty and long-term make all credit decisions within their area of operations. All income and customer relations. Our long-term integration into the local community expenses within the branch’s area of operations are allocated to the gives our branches unique knowledge of our customers’ circumstances branch, while the Bank’s joint staff functions and business areas have and needs. This is one factor in customers becoming increasingly satisﬁed only one main task: to support the branches. with and loyal to their local bank, Handelsbanken, which is also corroboDecision-making at Handelsbanken is strictly decentralised to the local rated by independent surveys conducted by SKI/EPSI. branch. Every branch of Handelsbanken is led by a manager who is Our branch managers often live in the town, and know their market responsible for all operations in his or her branch’s local area of operaand their customers well. Thus they also have unique knowledge of the tions. Branch managers staff and organise their branches according to local market conditions, with the ability to make better risk assessments the business that the branch chooses to do in its local market. and utilise more business opportunities. This is an important reason why Handelsbanken has long shown considerably lower loan losses than our Unique competitive advantages competitors. This leads to unique advantages for our customers: Handelsbanken Handelsbanken’s way of running a bank gives us a unique competitive not only has a well-established local presence in our six home markets. edge, with our 836 local branches in six countries making up the core of The local branches are also part of the local community in six countries. the Bank. This creates a feeling of afﬁnity in every town where the Bank has a branch. The customers often regard Handelsbanken as “the town bank” Online Cards Telephone ATMs Mobile Video call e-mail Handelsbanken Direkt Tablet Personal visit All roads lead to the local branch, both digitally and physically However our customers choose to visit Handelsbanken, they always arrive at their local branch. This applies whether it is a visit to the branch’s digital environment or a personal visit to the branch’s physical premises. Via a mobile app on a smartphone or a tablet device, the customer visits their local branch’s home page. The same applies if the customer opts to log on to Online Banking from a computer. If the customer opts to call the Bank, link up for a video call, or send an email, it is the customer’s local branch that replies. If the customer makes a purchase with a credit card or a withdrawal from an ATM, it is the customer’s account at their local branch which is debited. If the customer needs assistance with banking business after office hours, Handelsbanken Direkt Personal Service is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, in several of our home markets. When the matter has been resolved, the local branch receives immediate feedback regarding the customer’s transaction. In this way, all paths lead to the local branch. Handelsbanken has 836 local branches in our six home markets: Sweden, the UK, Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 20 15 17 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financial overview 2015 • Return on equity for total operations rose to 13.5 per cent (13.4). • The corporate goal of higher return on equity than the average of peer banks was achieved for the 44th year running – full provision to the Oktogonen profit-sharing foundation. • Operating profit grew by 7 per cent to SEK 20,475 million (19,212), the highest figure ever. • The period’s profit after tax for total operations rose to SEK 16,343 million (15,184). • Earnings per share for total operations increased by 8 per cent to SEK 8.57 (7.96). • The common equity tier 1 ratio according to CRD IV increased to 21.2 per cent (20.4) and the total capital ratio rose to 27.2 per cent (25.6). • The Board proposes an increase in the ordinary dividend to SEK 4.50 per share and an extra dividend of SEK 1.50 per share. • Moody’s upgraded Handelsbanken’s long-term credit rating to Aa2, and thus the Bank has the highest rating in Europe of all peer banks. • Income increased by 5 per cent to SEK 40,336 million (38,314). • Net interest income went up by 2 per cent to SEK 27,740 million (27,244) and in the UK, net interest income increased by 31 per cent. • Net fee and commission income rose by 9 per cent to SEK 9,320 million (8,556). • The Bank was the largest player for new savings on the mutual funds market in Sweden, with a market share of 31 per cent. • The C/I ratio was 45.3 per cent (45.2). • The loan loss ratio was 0.09 per cent (0.10). H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 19 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Review of operations The Group’s operating profit increased by 7 per cent to SEK 20,475 million (19,212). The period’s profit after tax for total operations rose to SEK 16,343 million (15,184) and earnings per share were SEK 8.57 (7.96). The Board proposes an ordinary dividend of billion (860), while corporate lending grew by which was chieﬂy attributable to annual salary SEK 4.50 per share and also an extra dividend 3 per cent to SEK 915 billion (886). increases and continued expansion in the of SEK 1.50 per share. The average volume of deposits and borrowBank’s growth markets. The common equity tier 1 ratio increased to ing rose by 13 per cent to SEK 1,007 billion (893). The average number of employees rose to SEK 21.2 per cent (20.4) and the return on The average volume of household deposits went 11,819 (11,692). Excluding the expanding operequity for total operations increased to 13.5 per up by 13 per cent to SEK 338 billion (300) and ations in the UK and the Netherlands, where the cent (13.4). corporate deposits increased by 13 per cent to average number of staff rose by 227 and 28 The C/I ratio was 45.3 per cent (45.2). SEK 669 billion (593). respectively, the average number of employees Net fee and commission income rose by 9 per decreased by 1 per cent. INCOME cent to SEK 9,320 million (8,556), mainly as a Variable remuneration, including social result of higher asset management, advisory and security costs and other payroll overheads, The Group – Income Full year Full year payment commissions. Fund management comdecreased to SEK -114 million (-140). SEK m 2015 2014 Change missions grew by 21 per cent to SEK 2,987 milOther administrative expenses went up by Net interest income 27 740 27 244 2% lion (2,475), as a result of increasing inﬂows and 2 per cent to SEK -5,203 million (-5,099), chieﬂy Net fee and commission rising market values. Other asset management as a result of increasing costs for property and income 9 320 8 556 9% commissions increased by 11 per cent to SEK premises, as well as higher costs for purchased Net gains/losses on 600 million (540). Net payment commissions services. Adjusted for exchange rate moveﬁnancial transaction 2 608 1 777 47% rose by 9 per cent to SEK 2,027 million (1,855), ments of SEK -144 million, other administrative Other income 668 737 -9% chieﬂy as a result of net commissions from card expenses went down by 1 per cent. Total income 40 336 38 314 5% operations increasing by 10 per cent to SEK 1,400 million (1,270). Advisory commissions LOAN LOSSES Income grew by 5 per cent to SEK 40,336 milgrew by 39 per cent to SEK 326 million (235), lion (38,314). The Group due to a higher level of activity on the market. – Loan losses Full year Full year Net interest income rose by 2 per cent to Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions SEK m 2015 2014 Change SEK 27,740 million (27,244). Exchange rate increased by 47 per cent to SEK 2,608 million Net loan losses -1 597 -1 781 -184 effects had a SEK 652 million positive impact (1,777). Capital gains from the sale of shares in Loan loss ratio as a on net interest income. % of loans 0.09 0.10 -0.01 SCA had a SEK 1,207 million positive impact on Higher lending volumes increased net interest Impaired loans, net 4 028 4 591 -12% proﬁts. Excluding the capital gains and nonincome by SEK 1,241 million, while lower lendProportion of recurring items in the period of comparison, ing margins had a negative impact of SEK -49 impaired loans, % 0.21 0.25 -0.04 the outcome was more or less unchanged. million. Decreasing short-term interest rates Other income amounted to SEK 668 million – particularly in Sweden – reduced deposit Loan losses decreased to SEK -1,597 million (737). margins by SEK -2,037 million, and negative (-1,781), and the loan loss ratio was 0.09 per interest rates meant that increased deposit EXPENSES cent (0.10). Credit quality remained stable, and volumes had a SEK -20 million negative effect the year’s loan losses derived principally from a on net interest income. The decrease in interest The Group small number of exposures. Net impaired loans – Expenses Full year Full year rates also meant that the interest on assets SEK m 2015 2014 Change decreased by 12 per cent to SEK 4,028 million funded by equity declined by SEK 477 million. (4,591), equivalent to 0.21 per cent (0.25) of Staff costs -12 581 -11 766 7% The benchmark effect in Stadshypotek lending. Other administrative decreased to SEK -105 million (-27), and the expenses -5 203 -5 099 2% cost of the Swedish Stability Fund and various Depreciation and FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY deposit guarantees went down by SEK 104 milamortisation -487 -462 5% The issue volume of bonds decreased during lion to SEK -1,118 million (-1,222). Total expenses -18 271 -17 327 5% the year to SEK 181 billion (189), of which SEK The remainder of the change in net interest 139 billion was covered bonds, SEK 32 billion income of SEK 1,160 million was chieﬂy attributTotal expenses increased by 5 per cent to senior bonds and SEK 10 billion was a subordiable to a change in the funding mix, since rising SEK -18,271 million (-17,327). Adjusted for nated loan in the form of an AT1 bond. SEK 50 deposit volumes contributed to a reduced need exchange rate movements of SEK -470 million, billion in covered bonds and SEK 12 billion in for market funding. the increase was just under 3 per cent. senior bonds were issued in the fourth quarter. Net interest income grew by 31 per cent in Staff costs rose by 7 per cent to SEK -12,581 The Bank has large volumes of liquid funds, the UK, by 16 per cent in the Netherlands, and million (-11,766). Of this increase, three percentmortgage loans and other assets that are not by 4 per cent in Denmark. Net interest income age points, or SEK -319 million, stemmed from encumbered and therefore represent protection fell by 3 per cent in Sweden, by 6 per cent in exchange rate effects. The preliminary provision for the Bank’s senior lenders. At the end of the Norway, and by 2 per cent in Finland. to the Oktogonen proﬁt-sharing foundation rose period, the ratio of non-encumbered assets to The average volume of loans to the public to SEK -858 million (-795). The impact of IAS 19 all non-encumbered market funding was 203 grew by 6 per cent to SEK 1,847 billion (1,746). increased costs for deﬁned beneﬁt pensions by per cent (237). Exchange rate effects had a positive effect of SEK -196 million, and two percentage points of At year-end, the Bank elected to reduce its SEK 22 billion on lending volumes. Household the increase were attributable to this. Excluding volume of short-term deposits, but retained a lending increased by 8 per cent to SEK 932 these items, staff costs rose by 2 per cent, liquidity reserve of over SEK 800 billion. Cash H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 20 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT funds and liquid assets invested with central equity tier 1 ratio. The effect of the fact that new 2016, and that the dividend is then expected to banks amounted to SEK 236 billion, while the lending volumes are lower risk than the credit be disbursed on 23 March 2016. volume of liquid bonds and other liquid assets portfolio average, while exposures leaving the totalled SEK 115 billion. The remainder of the portfolio are higher risk (known as volume OTHER INFORMATION reserve mainly comprises an unutilised issue migration), improved the common equity tier 1 IAS 19 amount of covered bonds at Stadshypotek. ratio by 1.0 percentage point. A higher net pension debt at the end of 2015, According to the current Swedish deﬁnition The effect of IAS 19 (pensions) reduced the coupled with updated actuarial estimates, from January 2013, the Handelsbanken Group’s common equity tier 1 ratio by 0.8 percentage means that in 2016, pension costs according liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) at year-end was points. to IAS 19 will increase staff costs in the Group 137 per cent. In USD, the LCR was 429 per The effect of AFS holdings increased the by some SEK 225 million. cent and in EUR it was 161 per cent. The common equity tier 1 ratio by 0.6 percentage Group’s LCR, calculated according to the Europoints. Sale of Visa Europe pean Commission’s delegated act, was 140 per Foreign exchange movements had a 0.2 In November 2015, Visa Inc. announced that it cent. At year-end, the net stable funding ratio percentage point negative effect, while the net intends to acquire Visa Europe Limited. The (NSFR) was 100 per cent. effect of other factors was a decrease of 0.2 acquisition requires the approval of authorities. percentage points. Handelsbanken is a member of Visa Sweden CAPITAL Economic Association and Visa Bankgruppe Fli Economic capital and available ﬁnancial in Norway. The Bank also has a Principal licence Capital-related matters 31 Dec 31 Dec SEK m 2015 2014 Change resources with Visa for card issuance in Finland, the UK Handelsbanken’s internal assessment of the and the Baltic countries. Through these organiCommon equity tier 1 ratio, CRD IV 21.2% 20.4% 0.8 capital requirement is based on the Bank’s sations and the licence, the Bank is an indirect Total capital ratio, CRD IV 27.2% 25.6% 1.6 model for Economic Capital (EC), which is and direct part-owner of Visa Europe and will Risk exposure amount measured in relation to the Bank’s Available therefore receive units of the purchase price if CRD IV 473 132 480 388 -2% Financial Resources (AFR). The Board stipulates the acquisition is completed. Common equity tier 1 that the AFR/EC ratio for the Group must capital 100 535 98 084 2% It is intended that the purchase price will conexceed 120 per cent. At the end of the fourth sist partly of a cash component and partly of Total own funds 128 489 122 858 5% quarter, Group EC totalled SEK 56.7 billion, preference shares. In addition, they intend to Capital requirement, Basel I ﬂoor 94 833 90 406 5% while AFR was SEK 129.5 billion. Thus, the ratio pay an additional purchase price if certain goals Total own funds, between AFR and EC was 228 per cent. For the are achieved. It is expected that the transaction Basel I ﬂoor 129 884 124 961 4% parent company, EC totalled SEK 48.8 billion, will be completed in the second or third quarter and AFR was SEK 104.2 billion. of 2016. The Bank’s goal is that its common equity tier 1 For the consolidated situation, EC totalled The part of the purchase price which accrues ratio under normal circumstances should SEK 53.4 billion, and AFR was SEK 125.8 billion. to Handelsbanken is partly dependent on the exceed the common equity tier 1 capital establishment of the ﬁnal allocation principles requirement communicated to the Bank by the RATING and currency exchange rates. The preference Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority by 1–3 During the second quarter, Moody’s upgraded shares are also associated with certain condipercentage points. Factoring in the Board’s proHandelsbanken’s long-term rating from Aa3 to tions which make it difﬁcult to assess their value. posed dividend, totalling SEK 6.00 per share, Aa2, and thus the Bank has the highest rating in It is therefore difﬁcult at present to estimate the the Bank’s common equity tier 1 ratio at yearEurope of all peer banks. Otherwise, Handelsoverall effects for Handelsbanken. The result will end amounted to 21.2 per cent. The Swedish banken’s long-term and short-term ratings with be reported when the transaction is completed. Financial Supervisory Authority’s assessment the other rating agencies which monitor the was that Handelsbanken’s common equity tier 1 Bank were unchanged. EVENTS AFTER THE END OF THE capital requirement at the end of Q3 2015 corCounterREPORTING PERIOD responded to a common equity tier 1 ratio of party risk Organisational change at Handelsbanken Rating Long-term Short-term assessment 18.6 per cent, and the Bank is thus within the Capital Markets target range. The raising of the countercyclical Standard & Poor’s AAA-1+ On 1 January 2016, the Merchant Banking buffer that becomes effective in Sweden and Fitch AAF1+ International business area was reorganised Norway in 2016 is expected to increase the Moody’s Aa2 P-1 Aa1 within the Handelsbanken Capital Markets busicommon equity tier 1 capital requirement by an DBRS AA (low) ness segment. This unit has changed its name amount equivalent to 0.3 percentage points of to Handelsbanken International, and in the the common equity tier 1 ratio. HANDELSBANKEN’S AGM ON 16 MARCH future will comprise the Bank’s ofﬁces outside Own funds were SEK 128 billion (123) and the The Board proposes a total dividend of SEK 6.00 its home markets, as well as Financial InstituBank’s total capital ratio rose to 27.2 per cent per share, comprising an ordinary dividend of tions and Transaction Banking. (25.6). Of the increase of 1.6 percentage points, SEK 4.50 per share and an extra dividend of Corporate Finance and Debt Capital Markets, the Bank’s AT1 issue contributed 2.1 percentage SEK 1.50 per share. which were previously part of Merchant Banking points, while matured subordinated loans In addition, the Board proposes that the International, have been transferred to the reduced the ratio by 1.1 percentage points. existing repurchase programme for a maximum Markets & Asset Management business area. Common equity tier 1 capital amounted to of 120 million shares be extended for another At the same time, the Large Corporates unit in SEK 101 billion (98) and the common equity tier year. The Board also proposes that the AGM Sweden is moving from Merchant Banking 1 ratio rose by 0.8 percentage points to 21.2 authorise the Board to be able to issue convertiInternational to the Handelsbanken Sweden per cent (20.4). The period’s proﬁt contributed ble debt instruments with the purpose of adaptbusiness segment. 0.9 percentage points after a deduction for the ing the Bank’s capital structure to the capital These operations will be reported in accorddividend. requirement prevailing at any time. ance with the new organisational structure as of Higher lending volumes affected the common The Board proposes that the record day for Q1 2016. Historical comparison ﬁgures will be equity tier 1 capital ratio by -0.5 percentage the dividend be Friday, 18 March 2016, which distributed in March. points. Credit risk migration in the loan portfolio means that Handelsbanken’s shares will be was neutral, and did not affect the common traded ex-dividend on Thursday, 17 March H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 20 15 21 FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW GROUP | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Five-year overview Group Consolidated income statement SEK m 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Net interest income 27 740 27 244 26 669 26 081 23 613 Net fee and commission income 9 320 8 556 7 804 7 369 7 673 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 2 608 1 777 1 357 1 120 1 016 Risk result insurance 157 165 142 196 209 Other dividend income 281 251 161 152 146 Share of proﬁt of associates 17 18 9 8 9 Other income 213 303 185 136 143 Total income 40 336 38 314 36 327 35 062 32 809 Staff costs -12 581 -11 766 -11 404 -11 167 -9 942 Other expenses -5 203 -5 099 -5 181 -5 069 -5 060 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -487 -462 -476 -464 -462 Total expenses -18 271 -17 327 -17 061 -16 700 -15 464 Proﬁt before loan losses 22 065 20 987 19 266 18 362 17 345 Net loan losses -1 597 -1 781 -1 195 -1 251 -816 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 7 6 17 -3 7 Operating proﬁt 20 475 19 212 18 088 17 108 16 536 Taxes -4 277 -4 069 -3 915 -3 092 -4 372 Proﬁt for the year from continuing operations 16 198 15 143 14 173 14 016 12 164 Proﬁt for the year pertaining to discontinued operations, after tax 145 41 122 22 159 Proﬁt for the year 16 343 15 184 14 295 14 038 12 323 Attributable to Shareholders in Svenska Handelsbanken AB 16 342 15 183 14 295 14 037 12 323 Minority interest 1 1 0 1 0 Earnings per share, continuing operations, SEK 8.49 7.94 7.45 7.44 6.50 after dilution 8.32 7.82 7.36 7.27 6.38 Earnings per share, discontinued operations, SEK 0.08 0.02 0.06 0.01 0.09 after dilution 0.07 0.02 0.06 0.01 0.08 Earnings per share, total operations, SEK 8.57 7.96 7.51 7.45 6.59 after dilution 8.39 7.84 7.42 7.28 6.46 A ﬁve-year overview for the parent company is shown on page 159. A 3:1 stock split was carried out in May 2015. The comparative ﬁgures in the above table have been adjusted for the new number of shares. The last ﬁve-year period was affected by the 15 per cent annual growth in equity annual loan loss ratio of just under 0.08 per global ﬁnancial crisis that started in 2007 and Since the ﬁnancial crisis began, in mid-2007, cent. The corresponding ﬁgure for the other gradually developed into a debt crisis and the Bank has increased its adjusted equity per major Nordic banks was 0.16 per cent. severe recession. During this period, Handelsshare by 84 per cent, from SEK 35.31 per share banken has increased its proﬁts, strengthened to SEK 65.14 per share. Taking into account More satisﬁed customers its balance sheet, expanded its operations and reinvestment of the period’s accumulated diviSince SKI (Swedish Quality Index) started its cusboosted customer satisfaction. dends, the average annual growth in adjusted tomer satisfaction surveys in 1989, every year for equity per share was 15 per cent. private customers and every year but one for corCreating shareholder value porate customers, Handelsbanken has been the During the past ﬁve years – since 31 December Lower risk major bank with the most satisﬁed customers in 2010 – Handelsbanken has generated positive At the beginning of 2007, Handelsbanken Sweden. In the autumn, Swedish Quality Index shareholder value of SEK 121 billion. Market began working on reducing the risks in its oper(SKI) presented its annual survey, and just as in capitalisation has grown by SEK 81 billion, ations in order to reduce volatility. For example, previous years, SKI found that “overall, Handelswhile Handelsbanken has paid out SEK 40 the occupational pensions company SPP was banken has the most satisﬁed banking custombillion in dividends to shareholders. Handelssold in autumn 2007. Other market risks were ers in Sweden”. For private customers, Handelsbanken is the only listed commercial bank in also purposefully reduced. banken’s index value was 72.4, as compared Sweden which did not need to ask its shareDuring the past ﬁve-year period, Handelswith the other major Swedish banks, all of which holders for new capital during the ﬁnancial banken’s total loan losses amounted to SEK recorded scores in the 65.3–66.2 range. For corcrisis. 6,640 million, which corresponds to an average porate customers, Handelsbanken’s index value H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 22 FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW GROUP | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK m 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Proﬁt for the year 16 343 15 184 14 295 14 038 12 323 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassiﬁed to the income statement Deﬁned beneﬁt plans -3 152 -2 699 1 402 2 583 Taxes on items that will not be reclassiﬁed to the income statement 688 592 -307 -568 Total items that will not be reclassiﬁed to the income statement -2 464 -2 107 1 095 2 015 Items that may subsequently be reclassiﬁed to the income statement Cash ﬂow hedges -501 8 772 -3 410 2 390 -297 Available-for-sale instruments 681 295 535 984 -1 318 Translation difference for the year 682 5 924 763 -126 -4 of which hedges of net investments in foreign operations -1 713 2 558 767 486 -2 Tax on items that may subsequently be reclassiﬁed to the income statement -394 -2 501 514 -913 443 of which cash ﬂow hedges 110 -1 924 744 -565 78 of which available-for-sale instruments 18 -14 -61 -248 365 of which hedges of net investments in foreign operations 87 -563 -169 -100 0 Total items that may subsequently be reclassiﬁed to the income statement -1 317 12 490 -1 598 2 335 -1 176 Total other comprehensive income -3 781 10 383 -503 4 350 -1 176 Total comprehensive income for the year 12 562 25 567 13 792 18 388 11 147 Attributable to Shareholders in Svenska Handelsbanken AB 12 562 25 566 13 792 18 387 11 147 Minority interest 0 1 0 1 0 Consolidated balance sheet SEK m 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Assets Cash and central banks 236 748 505 579 369 954 248 915 375 979 Loans to the public 1 866 467 1 807 836 1 696 339 1 680 479 1 591 128 Loans to other credit institutions 49 656 70 339 62 898 89 511 106 823 Interest-bearing securities 119 290 141 944 121 576 117 260 104 202 Other assets 249 972 290 978 233 954 247 786 276 234 Total assets 2 522 133 2 816 676 2 484 721 2 383 951 2 454 366 Liabilities and equity Deposits and borrowing from the public 753 855 1 022 267 825 205 682 223 724 888 Due to credit institutions 163 770 200 074 171 624 183 945 201 889 Issued securities 1 245 367 1 212 613 1 150 641 1 151 426 1 140 074 Subordinated liabilities 34 216 30 289 15 965 21 167 35 317 Other liabilities 196 657 224 606 209 947 241 340 257 674 Equity 128 268 126 827 111 339 103 850 94 524 Total liabilities and equity 2 522 133 2 816 676 2 484 721 2 383 951 2 454 366 was 74.1, as compared with the other major Organic growth Swedish banks, all of which recorded scores Five years ago, Handelsbanken had ﬁve home in the 64.4–70.2 range. markets, with a total of 691 branches. Five years The gap in customer satisfaction on the prilater, on 31 December 2015, Handelsbanken vate market between Handelsbanken and the had 836 branches in six home markets. average of the other major banks in Sweden was wider in 2015 than it was at the beginning of the ﬁnancial crisis in 2007–2008. On the other home markets, too, Handelsbanken had more satisﬁed customers than the sector average. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 23 KEY FIGURES PER YEAR | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Key figures per year Key ﬁgures for the Handelsbanken Group 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Proﬁt before loan losses, continuing operations, SEK m 22 065 20 987 19 266 18 362 17 345 Net loan losses, SEK m -1 597 -1 781 -1 195 -1 251 -816 Operating proﬁt, continuing operations, SEK m 20 475 19 212 18 088 17 108 16 536 Proﬁt for the year, continuing operations, SEK m 16 198 15 143 14 173 14 016 12 164 Proﬁt for the year, discontinued operations, SEK m 145 41 122 22 159 Proﬁt for the year, total operations, SEK m 16 343 15 184 14 295 14 038 12 323 Total assets, SEK m 2 522 133 2 816 676 2 484 721 2 383 951 2 454 366 Equity, SEK m 128 268 126 827 111 339 103 850 94 524 Return on equity, total operations, % 13.5 13.4 13.9 14.9 13.5 Return on equity, continuing operations, % 13.4 13.3 13.8 14.8 13.4 Return on capital employed, % 0.58 0.57 0.59 0.57 0.53 Cost/income ratio, continuing operations, % 45.3 45.2 47.0 47.6 47.1 Cost/income ratio, continuing operations, incl. loan losses, % 49.3 49.9 50.3 51.2 49.6 Loan loss ratio, % 0.09 0.10 0.07 0.08 0.05 Impaired loans reserve ratio, % 54.5 47.2 56.2 56.4 60.7 Proportion of impaired loans, % 0.21 0.25 0.18 0.18 0.16 Earnings per share, SEK 8.57 7.96 7.51 7.45 6.59 after dilution 8.39 7.84 7.42 7.28 6.46 Ordinary dividend per share, SEK 4.501 4.17 3.83 3.58 3.25 Total dividend per share, SEK 6.001 5.83 5.50 Adjusted equity per share, SEK 65.14 64.13 59.24 54.21 50.90 No. of shares as at 31 December, millions 1 907.0 1 907.0 1 906.9 1 898.4 1 872.2 of which outstanding 1 907.0 1 907.0 1 906.9 1 898.4 1 871.9 Average number of outstanding shares (millions) 1 907.0 1 907.0 1 904.4 1 885.5 1 869.2 after dilution 1 971.9 1 959.0 1 942.6 1 949.8 1 927.3 Common equity tier 1 ratio, % according to Basel II 19.2 17.9 15.6 Common equity tier 1 ratio, % according to CRR 21.2 20.4 Tier 1 ratio, % according to Basel II 21.5 20.4 18.4 Tier 1 ratio, % according to CRR 23.8 22.1 Capital ratio, % according to Basel II 21.6 20.7 20.9 Total capital ratio, % according to CRR 27.2 25.6 Average number of employees 11 819 11 692 11 503 11 192 11 184 No. of branches in Sweden 463 463 462 461 461 No. of branches in the UK 197 178 161 133 104 No. of branches in Denmark 57 57 56 54 54 No. of branches in Finland 46 46 45 45 45 No. of branches in Norway 50 51 49 49 50 No. of branches in the Netherlands 23 20 18 13 10 No. of branches in other countries 13 17 19 19 22 For deﬁnitions, see page 244. 1 Dividend as recommended by the Board. A 3:1 stock split was carried out in May 2015. The comparative ﬁgures in the above table have been adjusted for the new number of shares. H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 24 QUARTERLY PERFORMANCE | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Quarterly performance Quarterly performance for the Handelsbanken Group SEK m Q4 2015 Q3 2015 Q2 2015 Q1 2015 Q4 2014 Interest income 10 540 10 436 10 646 11 430 12 512 Interest expense -3 569 -3 602 -3 627 -4 514 -5 629 Net interest income 6 971 6 834 7 019 6 916 6 883 Fee and commission income 2 781 2 722 2 773 2 699 2 648 Fee and commission expense -438 -414 -414 -389 -420 Net fee and commission income 2 343 2 308 2 359 2 310 2 228 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 1 503 226 451 428 264 Risk result, insurance 36 40 55 26 34 Other dividend income 2 1 275 3 2 Share of proﬁt of associates -11 18 9 1 22 Other income 65 34 53 61 123 Total income 10 909 9 461 10 221 9 745 9 556 Staff costs -3 353 -2 953 -3 149 -3 126 -3 026 Other expenses -1 442 -1 197 -1 336 -1 228 -1 418 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -112 -126 -122 -127 -108 Total expenses -4 907 -4 276 -4 607 -4 481 -4 552 Proﬁt before loan losses 6 002 5 185 5 614 5 264 5 004 Net loan losses -475 -458 -359 -305 -697 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 6 4 1 -4 4 Operating proﬁt 5 533 4 731 5 256 4 955 4 311 Taxes -1 076 -1 028 -1 110 -1 063 -935 Proﬁt for the period from continuing operations 4 457 3 703 4 146 3 892 3 376 Proﬁt for the period pertaining to discontinued operations, after tax 44 55 27 19 -34 Proﬁt for the period 4 501 3 758 4 173 3 911 3 342 Attributable to Shareholders in Svenska Handelsbanken AB 4 501 3 757 4 173 3 911 3 342 Minority interest 0 1 0 0 0 Earnings per share, continuing operations, SEK 2.34 1.94 2.18 2.04 1.77 after dilution 2.28 1.90 2.13 2.00 1.75 Earnings per share, discontinued operations, SEK 0.02 0.03 0.01 0.01 -0.02 after dilution 0.02 0.03 0.01 0.01 -0.02 Earnings per share, total operations, SEK 2.36 1.97 2.19 2.05 1.75 after dilution 2.30 1.93 2.14 2.01 1.73 A 3:1 stock split was carried out in May 2015. The comparative ﬁgures in the above table has been adjusted for the new number of shares. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 25 BUSINESS SEGMENTS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Business segments Segment reporting 2015 Home markets Adjustments The NetherCapital and SEK m Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway lands Markets Other eliminations Total Net interest income 15 185 4 570 1 678 1 361 3 248 328 734 636 27 740 Net fee and commission income 4 566 452 436 387 395 23 3 025 36 9 320 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 379 194 77 60 94 5 1 230 569 2 608 Risk result – insurance 157 157 Share of proﬁt of associates 17 17 Other income 61 7 17 23 31 10 345 494 Total income 20 191 5 223 2 208 1 831 3 768 356 5 156 1 603 40 336 Staff costs -3 601 -1 870 -629 -369 -713 -158 -2 466 -2 651 -124 -12 581 Other administrative expenses -1 160 -429 -178 -161 -207 -37 -860 -2 171 -5 203 Internal purchased and sold services -2 578 -455 -279 -247 -370 -84 -103 4 116 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -88 -30 -15 -11 -13 -3 -79 -248 -487 Total expenses -7 427 -2 784 -1 101 -788 -1 303 -282 -3 508 -954 -124 -18 271 Proﬁt before loan losses 12 764 2 439 1 107 1 043 2 465 74 1 648 649 -124 22 065 Net loan losses -763 -224 -299 -83 -222 -2 -4 -1 597 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets -2 -12 8 0 6 0 7 7 Operating proﬁt 11 999 2 203 816 960 2 249 72 1 644 656 -124 20 475 Proﬁt allocation 881 34 72 110 57 0 -1 155 1 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 12 880 2 237 888 1 070 2 306 72 489 657 -124 20 475 Internal income 228 -1 481 -295 -367 -2 805 -175 -2 529 7 424 C/I ratio, % 35.2 53.0 48.3 40.6 34.1 79.2 87.7 45.3 Loan loss ratio, % 0.07 0.13 0.37 0.07 0.11 0.01 0.01 0.09 Assets 1 478 475 302 077 94 037 168 403 211 360 24 514 293 544 1 777 015 -1 827 292 2 522 133 Liabilities 1 408 410 291 625 87 818 162 217 198 394 23 663 286 044 1 777 015 -1 841 321 2 393 865 Allocated capital 70 065 10 452 6 219 6 186 12 966 851 7 500 14 029 128 268 Return on allocated capital, % 14.9 16.8 11.2 13.8 13.6 6.4 5.2 13.4 The year’s investments in non-ﬁnancial non-current assets 59 364 3 27 20 17 273 246 1 009 The year’s investments in associated companies 10 10 Average number of employees 4 457 1 794 631 496 676 159 1 777 1 829 11 819 Applied principles for segment reporting and a description of the items shown in the Other and Adjustments and eliminations columns are explained further in note G45. H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 26 BUSINESS SEGMENTS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Segment reporting 2014 Home markets Adjustments The NetherCapital and SEK m Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway lands Markets Other eliminations Total Net interest income 15 734 3 497 1 610 1 389 3 439 283 847 495 -50 27 244 Net fee and commission income 3 908 344 385 440 390 26 3 041 22 8 556 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 400 158 116 76 102 7 1 537 -619 1 777 Risk result – insurance 165 165 Share of proﬁt of associates 18 18 Other income 92 18 21 11 20 17 375 554 Total income 20 134 4 017 2 132 1 916 3 951 316 5 607 291 -50 38 314 Staff costs -3 421 -1 471 -584 -351 -711 -127 -2 542 -2 587 28 -11 766 Other administrative expenses -1 221 -333 -181 -158 -219 -28 -859 -2 100 -5 099 Internal purchased and sold services -2 770 -379 -273 -232 -390 -68 -126 4 188 50 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -85 -18 -19 -8 -11 -1 -79 -241 -462 Total expenses -7 497 -2 201 -1 057 -749 -1 331 -224 -3 606 -740 78 -17 327 Proﬁt before loan losses 12 637 1 816 1 075 1 167 2 620 92 2 001 -449 28 20 987 Net loan losses -657 -203 -529 -277 -141 -1 27 -1 781 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 4 1 0 0 1 6 Operating proﬁt 11 980 1 617 547 890 2 479 91 2 028 -448 28 19 212 Proﬁt allocation 930 35 62 85 66 8 -1 186 0 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 12 910 1 652 609 975 2 545 99 842 -448 28 19 212 Internal income -492 -1 230 -468 -429 -3 430 -154 -1 858 8 061 C/I ratio, % 35.6 54.3 48.2 37.4 33.1 69.1 81.6 45.2 Loan loss ratio, % 0.06 0.15 0.73 0.25 0.07 0.01 -0.05 0.10 Assets 1 402 774 263 459 88 395 177 009 206 536 38 651 423 265 1 919 427 -1 702 840 2 816 676 Liabilities 1 335 671 254 029 82 387 170 464 193 355 37 754 415 817 1 919 427 -1 719 055 2 689 849 Allocated capital 67 103 9 430 6 008 6 545 13 181 897 7 448 16 215 126 827 Return on allocated capital, % 15.7 15.2 8.5 12.4 15.9 9.2 8.1 13.3 The year’s investments in non-ﬁnancial non-current assets 53 41 13 12 14 11 144 186 474 The year’s investments in associated companies 2 2 Average number of employees 4 381 1 567 631 494 672 131 1 885 1 931 11 692 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 27 HANDELSBANKEN SWEDEN | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Handelsbanken Sweden Handelsbanken Sweden comprises six regional banks, as well as Handelsbanken Finans’s and Stadshypotek’s operations in Sweden. At Handelsbanken, the branches are the base of all operations, with responsibility for all customers of the Bank. The regional banks offer a full range of banking services at 463 branches throughout Sweden. Handelsbanken Finans offers finance company services and works through the Bank’s branches. Stadshypotek is the Bank’s mortgage company, and is completely integrated with the branch operations. Quarterly performance Handelsbanken Sweden Total Total Change SEK m Q4 2015 Q3 2015 Q2 2015 Q1 2015 2015 2014 % Net interest income 3 753 3 696 3 877 3 859 15 185 15 734 -3 Net fee and commission income 1 127 1 141 1 174 1 124 4 566 3 908 17 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 49 93 137 100 379 400 -5 Other income 16 5 5 35 61 92 -34 Total income 4 945 4 935 5 193 5 118 20 191 20 134 0 Staff costs -903 -906 -917 -875 -3 601 -3 421 5 Other administrative expenses -323 -266 -302 -269 -1 160 -1 221 -5 Internal purchased and sold services -632 -625 -642 -679 -2 578 -2 770 -7 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -21 -22 -21 -24 -88 -85 4 Total expenses -1 879 -1 819 -1 882 -1 847 -7 427 -7 497 -1 Proﬁt before loan losses 3 066 3 116 3 311 3 271 12 764 12 637 1 Net loan losses -317 -136 -236 -74 -763 -657 16 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 1 -3 -2 0 Operating proﬁt 2 750 2 980 3 075 3 194 11 999 11 980 0 Proﬁt allocation 226 262 211 182 881 930 -5 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 2 976 3 242 3 286 3 376 12 880 12 910 0 Internal income 79 111 68 -30 228 -492 C/I ratio, % 36.3 35.0 34.8 34.8 35.2 35.6 Loan loss ratio, % 0.11 0.05 0.08 0.03 0.07 0.06 Assets 1 478 475 1 461 059 1 453 439 1 408 973 1 478 475 1 402 774 5 Liabilities 1 408 410 1 394 305 1 389 297 1 339 345 1 408 410 1 335 671 5 Allocated capital 70 065 66 754 64 142 69 628 70 065 67 103 4 Return on allocated capital, % 13.3 15.2 16.0 15.1 14.9 15.7 Average number of employees 4 418 4 702 4 374 4 337 4 457 4 381 2 Number of branches 463 463 463 463 463 463 0 Business volumes, Sweden Change Average volumes, SEK bn 2015 2014 % Loans to the public1 1 154 1 118 3 of which households 688 645 7 of which mortgage loans 633 593 7 companies 466 473 -1 of which mortgage loans 270 266 2 Deposits from the public 450 399 13 of which households 262 238 10 companies 188 161 17 1 Excluding loans to the National Debt Ofﬁce. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 28 HANDELSBANKEN SWEDEN | ADMINISTRATION REPORT 463 branches FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Operating proﬁt increased marginally to Just as in previous years, the major SKI (Swedish SEK 11,999 million (11,980). Proﬁts before Quality Index) survey of customer satisfaction loan losses increased by 1 per cent, or SEK 127 found that “overall, Handelsbanken has the million, to SEK 12,764 million (12,637). Income most satisﬁed banking customers in Sweden”. rose by SEK 57 million, while expenses went For private customers, Handelsbanken’s index down by SEK 70 million. value was 72.4, as compared with the other Net interest income declined by 3 per cent, or major Swedish banks, all of which recorded SEK 549 million, to SEK 15,185 million (15,734). scores in the 65.3–66.2 range. For corporate Lower interest rates reduced the deposit margin customers, Handelsbanken’s index value was by SEK -1,897 million, while higher lending mar74.1, as compared with the other major Swedish gins had a SEK 473 million positive effect on net banks, all of which recorded scores in the interest income. Growing lending volumes 64.4–70.2 range. boosted net interest income by SEK 408 million, In 2015, Handelsbanken again won the while negative Swedish short-term interest rates “Swedish Business Bank of the Year” and meant that growing deposit volumes had a “Sweden’s Small Enterprise Bank” awards in SEK -106 million negative effect on net interest Finansbarometern’s annual survey. Handelsincome. The benchmark effect in Stadshypotek banken continues to gain the highest ratings in decreased by SEK 78 million to SEK -105 milthe categories of customer satisfaction, electrolion (-27). The fees to the Stability Fund and the nic services, and service and customer treatdeposit guarantee decreased slightly, amountment. These are also the areas that customers ing to SEK -667 million (-674). The remaining in the survey consider to be most important. positive deviations were chieﬂy attributable to In 2015, new savings in the Bank’s mutual decreasing funding costs, due to lower market funds in Sweden amounted to SEK 26.5 billion, funding requirements. corresponding to a market share of 31 per cent, Net fee and commission income grew by and thus the Bank was the largest player for 17 per cent to SEK 4,566 million (3,908), chieﬂy new savings in the Swedish mutual funds market. due to increased fee and commission income At the same time, the average volume of deposin the asset management area. Insurance and its from households was up by 10 per cent from payment commissions were also higher. the previous year, amounting to SEK 262 billion Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions (238). decreased by 5 per cent to SEK 379 million The average volume of mortgage loans to (400). private individuals increased by 7 per cent to Total expenses decreased by 1 per cent to SEK 633 billion (593), while the average volume SEK -7,427 million (-7,497). Staff costs rose by of lending to companies fell by 1 per cent to 5 per cent. Adjusted for internal organisational SEK 466 billion (473). changes and higher pension costs, the increase in staff costs was 3 per cent. Other expenses fell by 6 per cent. The C/I ratio improved to 35.2 per cent (35.6). Loan losses increased to SEK -763 million (-657) and the loan loss ratio was 0.07 per cent (0.06). H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 29 HANDELSBANKEN UK | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Handelsbanken UK Handelsbanken UK comprises branch operations in five regional banks and the asset management company Heartwood. Handelsbanken Finans’s operations in the UK are also included. At Handelsbanken, the branches are the base of all operations, with responsibility for all customers of the Bank. The regional banks offer banking services at 197 branches throughout the UK. Quarterly performance Handelsbanken UK Total Total Change SEK m Q4 2015 Q3 2015 Q2 2015 Q1 2015 2015 2014 % Net interest income 1 193 1 180 1 140 1 057 4 570 3 497 31 Net fee and commission income 130 114 105 103 452 344 31 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 47 44 54 49 194 158 23 Other income 2 1 2 2 7 18 -61 Total income 1 372 1 339 1 301 1 211 5 223 4 017 30 Staff costs -480 -482 -463 -445 -1 870 -1 471 27 Other administrative expenses -135 -104 -99 -91 -429 -333 29 Internal purchased and sold services -129 -116 -109 -101 -455 -379 20 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -11 -9 -5 -5 -30 -18 67 Total expenses -755 -711 -676 -642 -2 784 -2 201 26 Proﬁt before loan losses 617 628 625 569 2 439 1 816 34 Net loan losses -57 -65 -7 -95 -224 -203 10 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets -1 -2 -8 -1 -12 4 Operating proﬁt 559 561 610 473 2 203 1 617 36 Proﬁt allocation 9 8 8 9 34 35 -3 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 568 569 618 482 2 237 1 652 35 Internal income -358 -391 -361 -371 -1 481 -1 230 -20 C/I ratio, % 54.7 52.8 51.6 52.6 53.0 54.3 Loan loss ratio, % 0.13 0.15 0.02 0.22 0.13 0.15 Assets 302 077 310 882 303 804 286 835 302 077 263 459 15 Liabilities 291 625 300 159 293 277 277 037 291 625 254 029 15 Allocated capital 10 452 10 723 10 527 9 798 10 452 9 430 11 Return on allocated capital, % 17.0 16.5 18.3 15.3 16.8 15.2 Average number of employees 1 883 1 850 1 755 1 698 1 794 1 567 14 Number of branches 197 195 187 180 197 178 11 Business volumes, UK Change Average volumes, GBP m 2015 2014 % Loans to the public 14 834 13 153 13 of which households 4 809 4 044 19 companies 10 025 9 109 10 Deposits from the public 8 323 7 394 13 of which households 1 747 1 261 39 companies 6 576 6 133 7 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 30 HANDELSBANKEN UK | ADMINISTRATION REPORT 197 branches FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Operating proﬁt increased by 36 per cent to According to the EPSI customer satisfaction SEK 2,203 million (1,617). Income rose by survey, Handelsbanken had the most satisﬁed 30 per cent, while expenses went up by 26 per private and corporate customers among UK cent. Exchange rate movements increased banks for the seventh year running. Private cusoperating proﬁt by SEK 210 million; expressed tomers gave Handelsbanken an index value of in local currency, operating proﬁt improved by 83.6, compared with a sector average of 73.0. 19 per cent. Proﬁts take full account of expenses Corporate customers gave the Bank an index relating to continuing expansion, and 19 new value of 80.7, as compared with the sector branches have been opened over the past average of 72.7. 12 months. Business volumes – particularly deposits Proﬁt before loan losses grew by 34 per cent from households – continued to grow. In 2015, to SEK 2,439 million (1,816), as a result of growthe average volume of deposits from houseing business volumes and customer numbers. holds climbed by 39 per cent compared with In local currency, the increase was 18 per cent. the previous year, while lending to households Net interest income rose by 31 per cent to grew by 19 per cent. Overall, the average volSEK 4,570 million (3,497). Exchange rate moveume of lending increased by 13 per cent to ments increased net interest income by SEK GBP 14.8 billion, while deposits grew by 13 per 498 million, and expressed in local currency, net cent to GBP 8.3 billion. In the fourth quarter, the interest income grew by 14 per cent. The underlending/deposits ratio was 178 per cent, comlying growth in net interest income was primarily pared with 181 per cent in the corresponding due to higher deposit and lending volumes quarter of 2014. which increased net interest income by SEK Since the acquisition of Heartwood in May 482 million. Higher lending margins had a posi2013, its assets under management have tive impact of SEK 73 million. At the same time, increased from GBP 1.5 billion to GBP 2.5 lower deposit margins had a SEK -23 million billion. negative effect. Two new branches were opened during the Net fee and commission income increased fourth quarter, bringing the total number of by 31 per cent to SEK 452 million (344). This branches in the UK to 197. In addition, managincrease was due mainly to a rise of 31 per cent ers have been recruited for another nine new in asset management commissions and a rise branches. of 32 per cent in net payment commissions. On 1 January 2015, the Bank established a Heartwood’s asset management operations ﬁfth regional bank in the UK, with its head ofﬁce contributed asset management and advisory in Leeds. commissions of SEK 256 million (198). Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions went up by 23 per cent to SEK 194 million (158), due to expanding business volumes and a higher number of customers. Expenses rose by 26 per cent to SEK -2,784 million (-2,201). In local currency, expenses were up by 11 per cent, with the underlying cost increase being entirely due to the expanding operations. The average number of employees grew by 14 per cent to 1,794 (1,567). Loan losses were SEK -224 million (-203). In local currency terms loan losses went down, and the loan loss ratio fell to 0.13 per cent (0.15). H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 20 15 31 HANDELSBANKEN DENMARK | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Handelsbanken Denmark Handelsbanken Denmark consists of the branch operations in Denmark, which are organised as a regional bank, as well as Handelsbanken Finans’s and Stadshypotek’s operations in Denmark. At Handelsbanken, the branches are the base of all operations, with responsibility for all customers of the Bank. The regional bank offers a full range of banking services at 57 branches throughout Denmark. Handelsbanken Finans offers finance company services and works through the Bank’s branches. The mortgage operations at Stadshypotek are fully integrated with the branch operations. Quarterly performance Handelsbanken Denmark Total Total Change SEK m Q4 2015 Q3 2015 Q2 2015 Q1 2015 2015 2014 % Net interest income 418 417 424 419 1 678 1 610 4 Net fee and commission income 102 92 114 128 436 385 13 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 24 18 22 13 77 116 -34 Other income 3 4 5 5 17 21 -19 Total income 547 531 565 565 2 208 2 132 4 Staff costs -160 -162 -152 -155 -629 -584 8 Other administrative expenses -46 -42 -44 -46 -178 -181 -2 Internal purchased and sold services -70 -64 -73 -72 -279 -273 2 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -6 -2 -3 -4 -15 -19 -21 Total expenses -282 -270 -272 -277 -1 101 -1 057 4 Proﬁt before loan losses 265 261 293 288 1 107 1 075 3 Net loan losses -63 -190 -22 -24 -299 -529 -43 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 5 1 2 0 8 1 Operating proﬁt 207 72 273 264 816 547 49 Proﬁt allocation 19 18 17 18 72 62 16 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 226 90 290 282 888 609 46 Internal income -53 -100 -81 -61 -295 -468 37 C/I ratio, % 49.8 49.2 46.7 47.5 48.3 48.2 Loan loss ratio, % 0.31 0.94 0.11 0.12 0.37 0.73 Assets 94 037 95 510 92 108 88 492 94 037 88 395 6 Liabilities 87 818 89 229 85 721 82 541 87 818 82 387 7 Allocated capital 6 219 6 281 6 387 5 951 6 219 6 008 4 Return on allocated capital, % 11.3 4.5 14.1 14.8 11.2 8.5 Average number of employees 630 640 630 625 631 631 0 Number of branches 57 57 57 57 57 57 0 Average volumes, Denmark Change Average volumes, DKK bn 2015 2014 % Loans to the public 65.6 61.1 7 of which households 36.7 32.8 12 companies 28.9 28.3 2 Deposits from the public 28.0 23.6 19 of which households 11.1 9.9 12 companies 16.9 13.7 23 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 32 HANDELSBANKEN DENMARK | ADMINISTRATION REPORT 57 branches FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Operating proﬁt rose by 49 per cent to SEK 816 The EPSI annual customer satisfaction survey million (547), chieﬂy due to lower loan losses. showed that Handelsbanken had the most satProﬁt before loan losses increased by 3 per cent, isﬁed customers among banks in Denmark – on or SEK 32million; of this ﬁgure, SEK 30 million both the private and corporate side. Private derived from exchange rate effects. customers gave the Bank an index value of Net interest income rose by 4 per cent to 77.7, as compared with the sector average of SEK 1,678 million (1,610). In local currency, net 69.8. From corporate customers the Bank interest income increased by 1 per cent. Both received an index value of 72.2, as compared deposit and lending margins fell, while the main with the sector average of 68.9. positive contribution was made by lending volThe Bank continued to have a stable inﬂow umes. Fees for the Swedish Stability Fund and of new customers, and business volumes the deposit guarantee, together with the Danish continued to increase. Compared with the state deposit guarantee, burdened net interest previous year, the average volume of deposits income by SEK -56 million (-51). grew by 19 per cent to DKK 28.0 billion (23.6), Net fee and commission income grew by while lending rose by 7 per cent to DKK 65.6 13 per cent to SEK 436 million (385), mainly as billion (61.1). a result of the continuing ﬂow of new customers The Bank had a total of 57 branches in and higher income, particularly in the area of Denmark, which was unchanged. asset management. Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions declined to SEK 77 million (116); this was chieﬂy attributable to high non-recurring income in the comparison period. Expenses increased by 4 per cent to SEK -1,101 million (-1,057). Expenses, adjusted for the effects of exchange rate movements, increased by 1 per cent. Loan losses went down to SEK -299 million (-529), and the loan loss ratio fell to 0.37 per cent (0.73). H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 33 HANDELSBANKEN FINLAND | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Handelsbanken Finland Handelsbanken Finland consists of the branch operations in Finland, which are organised as a regional bank, as well as Handelsbanken Finans’s and Stadshypotek’s operations in Finland. At Handelsbanken, the branches are the base of all operations, with responsibility for all customers of the Bank. The regional bank offers a full range of banking services at 46 branches throughout Finland. Handelsbanken Finans offers finance company services and works through the Bank’s branches. The mortgage operations at Stadshypotek are fully integrated with the branch operations. Quarterly performance Handelsbanken Finland Total Total Change SEK m Q4 2015 Q3 2015 Q2 2015 Q1 2015 2015 2014 % Net interest income 345 333 341 342 1 361 1 389 -2 Net fee and commission income 93 96 98 100 387 440 -12 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 12 10 16 22 60 76 -21 Other income 7 3 7 6 23 11 109 Total income 457 442 462 470 1 831 1 916 -4 Staff costs -90 -92 -94 -93 -369 -351 5 Other administrative expenses -46 -35 -42 -38 -161 -158 2 Internal purchased and sold services -66 -57 -61 -63 -247 -232 6 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -4 -2 -3 -2 -11 -8 38 Total expenses -206 -186 -200 -196 -788 -749 5 Proﬁt before loan losses 251 256 262 274 1 043 1 167 -11 Net loan losses -13 -5 -51 -14 -83 -277 -70 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 0 0 0 0 Operating proﬁt 238 251 211 260 960 890 8 Proﬁt allocation 32 26 27 25 110 85 29 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 270 277 238 285 1 070 975 10 Internal income -72 -103 -93 -99 -367 -429 14 C/I ratio, % 42.1 39.7 40.9 39.6 40.6 37.4 Loan loss ratio, % 0.04 0.02 0.17 0.05 0.07 0.25 Assets 168 403 172 234 168 941 167 653 168 403 177 009 -5 Liabilities 162 217 166 220 162 958 161 658 162 217 170 464 -5 Allocated capital 6 186 6 014 5 983 5 995 6 186 6 545 -5 Return on allocated capital, % 13.6 14.4 12.4 14.8 13.8 12.4 Average number of employees 491 508 502 481 496 494 0 Number of branches 46 46 46 46 46 46 0 Average volumes, Finland Change Average volumes, EUR m 2015 2014 % Loans to the public 12 566 12 281 2 of which households 3 947 3 843 3 companies 8 619 8 438 2 Deposits from the public 3 593 4 513 -20 of which households 1 367 1 264 8 companies 2 226 3 249 -31 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 34 HANDELSBANKEN FINLAND | ADMINISTRATION REPORT 46 branches FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Operating proﬁt grew by 8 per cent to SEK 960 According to the annual EPSI customer satismillion (890). Exchange rate effects increased faction survey, Handelsbanken had the most the operating proﬁt by SEK 25 million, and satisﬁed corporate customers and the second expressed in local currency, operating proﬁt most satisﬁed private customers among banks grew by 5 per cent. Return on equity improved in Finland. Private customers gave the Bank to 13.8 per cent (12.4). a value of 81.9, as compared with the sector Income went down by 4 per cent. Net interest average of 75.8. Corporate customers gave income fell by 2 per cent to SEK 1,361 million the Bank a value of 76.4, as compared with (1,389). In local currency, net interest income fell the sector average of 73.9. by 5 per cent, which was chieﬂy attributable to An increased focus on savings resulted in lower lending and deposit margins. Fees for the more business with both new and existing Swedish Stability Fund and the deposit guarancustomers. tee decreased to SEK -51 million (-52). The average volume of deposits from houseNet fee and commission income fell by 12 per holds climbed by 8 per cent compared with the cent to SEK 387 million (440), and net gains/ corresponding period in the previous year, while losses on ﬁnancial transactions declined by lending to households grew by 3 per cent. 21 per cent to SEK 60 million (76). The average volume of lending to companies Total expenses rose by 5 per cent to grew by 2 per cent, while corporate deposits SEK -788 million (-749), which was mainly decreased by 31 per cent, owing to reduced attributable to movements in exchange rates. deposits from large corporates. In local currency terms, expenses were up by The Bank had 46 branches in Finland. A large 2 per cent. The average number of employees number of branches changed or adapted their was generally unchanged at 496 (494). premises during the year, with the purpose of Loan losses went down to SEK -83 million more efﬁciently managing changed customer (-277), and the loan loss ratio fell to 0.07 per behaviour and the increased focus on advisory cent (0.25). services. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 35 HANDELSBANKEN NORWAY | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Handelsbanken Norway Handelsbanken Norway consists of the branch operations in Norway, which are organised as a regional bank, as well as Handelsbanken Finans’s and Stadshypotek’s operations in Norway. At Handelsbanken, the branches are the base of all operations, with responsibility for all customers of the Bank. The regional bank offers a full range of banking services at 50 branches throughout Norway. Handelsbanken Finans offers finance company services and works through the Bank’s branches. The mortgage operations at Stadshypotek are fully integrated with the branch operations. Quarterly performance Handelsbanken Norway Total Total Change SEK m Q4 2015 Q3 2015 Q2 2015 Q1 2015 2015 2014 % Net interest income 788 785 840 835 3 248 3 439 -6 Net fee and commission income 89 103 103 100 395 390 1 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 22 29 14 29 94 102 -8 Other income 14 8 6 3 31 20 55 Total income 913 925 963 967 3 768 3 951 -5 Staff costs -169 -177 -183 -184 -713 -711 0 Other administrative expenses -52 -48 -54 -53 -207 -219 -5 Internal purchased and sold services -93 -85 -95 -97 -370 -390 -5 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -3 -3 -4 -3 -13 -11 18 Total expenses -317 -313 -336 -337 -1 303 -1 331 -2 Proﬁt before loan losses 596 612 627 630 2 465 2 620 -6 Net loan losses -30 -53 -44 -95 -222 -141 57 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 6 6 Operating proﬁt 566 565 583 535 2 249 2 479 -9 Proﬁt allocation 20 14 15 8 57 66 -14 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 586 579 598 543 2 306 2 545 -9 Internal income -643 -702 -742 -718 -2 805 -3 430 18 C/I ratio, % 34.0 33.3 34.4 34.6 34.1 33.1 Loan loss ratio, % 0.06 0.10 0.09 0.19 0.11 0.07 Assets 211 360 204 860 213 728 212 825 211 360 206 536 2 Liabilities 198 394 191 853 200 870 198 924 198 394 193 355 3 Allocated capital 12 966 13 007 12 858 13 901 12 966 13 181 -2 Return on allocated capital, % 14.1 13.9 14.5 12.2 13.6 15.9 Average number of employees 666 691 673 673 676 672 1 Number of branches 50 51 51 51 50 51 0 Average volumes, Norway Change Average volumes, NOK bn 2015 2014 % Loans to the public 201.8 190.2 6 of which households 81.3 76.3 7 companies 120.5 113.9 6 Deposits from the public 68.4 62.4 10 of which households 17.3 15.3 13 companies 51.1 47.1 8 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 36 HANDELSBANKEN NORWAY | ADMINISTRATION REPORT 50 branches FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Operating proﬁt fell by 9 per cent to SEK 2,249 According to the annual EPSI customer satismillion (2,479), chieﬂy due to lower net interest faction survey, Handelsbanken had customers income and higher loan losses. The depreciathat were more satisﬁed than the average for tion of the Norwegian krone reduced the operbanks in Norway. Private customers gave the ating proﬁt by SEK 95 million, and expressed in Bank an index value of 75.8, as compared with local currency, the proﬁt declined by 6 per cent. the sector average of 71.5. Corporate customIncome decreased by 5 per cent; this was ers gave the Bank an index value of 69.7, as attributable to a 6 per cent decline in net interest compared with the sector average of 67.9. income to SEK 3,248 million (3,439). In local Business volumes continued to grow. The currency terms, income decreased by 1 per average volume of deposits grew by 10 per cent and net interest income fell by 2 per cent. cent, while lending went up by 6 per cent. The Stiffer competition contributed to lending maraverage volume of deposits from households gins decreasing by SEK 441 million, while increased by 13 per cent to NOK 17.3 billion increasing business volumes made a positive (15.3), while lending to households grew by contribution to net interest income of SEK 188 7 per cent to NOK 81.3 billion (76.3). million. Higher deposit volumes and deposit The average volume of deposits from commargins had a positive impact of SEK 93 million. panies increased by 8 per cent to NOK 51.1 Fees for the Swedish Stability Fund and the billion (47.1), while lending to companies grew deposit guarantee burdened net interest income by 6 per cent to NOK 120.5 billion (113.9). by SEK -101 million (-104). Handelsbanken had 50 branches in Net fee and commission income grew marNorway. ginally to SEK 395 million (390), chieﬂy due to the continuing increase in fund management commissions. Expenses decreased by 2 per cent to SEK -1,303 million (-1,331). Staff costs were virtually unchanged, as was the average number of employees, which totalled 676 (672). Loan losses increased to SEK 222 million (-141) and the loan loss ratio was 0.11 per cent (0.07). H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 37 HANDELSBANKEN THE NETHERLANDS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Handelsbanken the Netherlands Handelsbanken the Netherlands consists of the branch operations in the Netherlands, which are organised as a regional bank. The regional bank offers banking services at 23 branches in the Netherlands. Quarterly performance Handelsbanken the Netherlands Total Total Change SEK m Q4 2015 Q3 2015 Q2 2015 Q1 2015 2015 2014 % Net interest income 88 84 81 75 328 283 16 Net fee and commission income 5 6 5 7 23 26 -12 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 1 3 1 0 5 7 -29 Other income Total income 94 93 87 82 356 316 13 Staff costs -43 -41 -36 -38 -158 -127 24 Other administrative expenses -11 -8 -10 -8 -37 -28 32 Internal purchased and sold services -22 -19 -21 -22 -84 -68 24 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -1 -1 -1 0 -3 -1 200 Total expenses -77 -69 -68 -68 -282 -224 26 Proﬁt before loan losses 17 24 19 14 74 92 -20 Net loan losses 0 1 -3 0 -2 -1 100 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets Operating proﬁt 17 25 16 14 72 91 -21 Proﬁt allocation 0 0 0 0 0 8 -100 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 17 25 16 14 72 99 -27 Internal income -50 -45 -43 -37 -175 -154 -14 C/I ratio, % 81.9 74.2 78.2 82.9 79.2 69.1 Loan loss ratio, % 0.00 -0.02 0.06 0.00 0.01 0.01 Assets 24 514 29 870 25 455 36 369 24 514 38 651 -37 Liabilities 23 663 28 964 24 609 35 476 23 663 37 754 -37 Allocated capital 851 906 846 893 851 897 -5 Return on allocated capital, % 6.4 8.5 5.8 4.9 6.4 9.2 Average number of employees 175 162 153 145 159 131 21 Number of branches 23 23 22 22 23 20 15 Average volumes, The Netherlands Change Average volumes, EUR m 2015 2014 % Loans to the public 2 171 1 932 12 of which households 1 022 723 41 companies 1 149 1 209 -5 Deposits from the public 750 1 065 -30 of which households 47 32 47 companies 703 1 033 -32 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 38 HANDELSBANKEN THE NETHERLANDS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT 23 branches FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Operating proﬁt decreased to SEK 72 million The EPSI annual customer satisfaction survey (91), due to continued investment in the expanshowed that Handelsbanken had the most sion of operations. The underlying business satisﬁed customers of banks in the Netherlands continues to show positive performance. – on both the private and corporate side. Private Income rose by 13 per cent, while expenses customers gave the Bank a value of 73.5, as went up by 26 per cent. compared with the sector average of 66.2. Net interest income increased by 16 per cent From corporate customers, Handelsbanken to SEK 328 million (283). A rise in lending volumes received a value of 72.8, as compared with the had a positive impact of SEK 45 million, increassector average of 57.6. ing lending margins by SEK 20 million. At the The average volume of deposits from housesame time, deposit margins had a negative holds grew by 47 per cent to EUR 47 million impact on net interest income of SEK -16 million. (32), while lending to households increased by Net fee and commission income decreased 41 per cent to EUR 1,022 million (723). As a marginally and amounted to SEK 23 million (26). result of reduced business volumes from a few Expenses rose by 26 per cent to SEK -282 large corporates, the average volume of deposmillion (-224), as a result of the continuing its from companies decreased by 32 per cent to investments in both infrastructure and the EUR 703 million (1,033), while lending to combranch network. The average number of panies fell by 5 per cent to EUR 1,149 million employees increased by 21 per cent to 159 (1,209). Business volumes with small and (131). medium-sized companies continued to grow. Loan losses were SEK -2 million (-1), which During the year, three new branches were corresponds to a loan loss ratio of 0.01 per cent opened, bringing the Bank’s total in the (0.01). Netherlands to 23. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 39 HANDELSBANKEN CAPITAL MARKETS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Handelsbanken Capital Markets In 2015, Handelsbanken Capital Markets consisted of the business areas Markets & Asset Management, Merchant Banking International and Pension & Life. It has employees in 24 countries. A large part of the income from Handelsbanken Capital Markets’s products, including asset management commissions and income from currency conversions, are booked directly in branch operations at the branch with customer responsibility and thus are not included in the income statement below. Quarterly performance Handelsbanken Capital Markets Total Total Change SEK m Q4 2015 Q3 2015 Q2 2015 Q1 2015 2015 2014 % Net interest income 209 164 171 190 734 847 -13 Net fee and commission income 774 747 757 747 3 025 3 041 -1 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 215 250 331 434 1 230 1 537 -20 Risk result insurance 36 40 55 26 157 165 -5 Other income 4 3 2 1 10 17 -41 Total income 1 238 1 204 1 316 1 398 5 156 5 607 -8 Staff costs -595 -600 -634 -637 -2 466 -2 542 -3 Other administrative expenses -229 -198 -216 -217 -860 -859 0 Internal purchased and sold services -50 -17 -26 -10 -103 -126 -18 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -24 -18 -18 -19 -79 -79 0 Total expenses -898 -833 -894 -883 -3 508 -3 606 -3 Proﬁt before loan losses 340 371 422 515 1 648 2 001 -18 Net loan losses 5 -10 4 -3 -4 27 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 0 0 0 0 0 Operating proﬁt 345 361 426 512 1 644 2 028 -19 Proﬁt allocation -307 -328 -278 -242 -1 155 -1 186 -3 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 38 33 148 270 489 842 -42 Internal income -589 -654 -631 -655 -2 529 -1 858 -36 C/I ratio, % 96.5 95.1 86.1 76.4 87.7 81.6 Loan loss ratio, % -0.03 0.06 -0.03 0.02 0.01 -0.05 Assets 293 544 391 394 404 893 477 421 293 544 423 265 -31 Liabilities 286 044 384 475 397 695 469 509 286 044 415 817 -31 Allocated capital 7 500 6 919 7 198 7 912 7 500 7 448 1 Return on allocated capital, % 1.6 1.5 6.4 10.7 5.2 8.1 Average number of employees 1 746 1 796 1 772 1 794 1 777 1 885 -6 Average volumes, Merchant Banking International Change Average volumes, SEK bn 2015 2014 % Loans to the public 47.9 45.5 5 of which households 4.6 4.0 15 companies 43.3 41.5 4 Deposits from the public 62.1 49.4 26 of which households 3.4 2.7 26 companies 58.7 46.7 26 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 40 HANDELSBANKEN CAPITAL MARKETS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE income, as well as recoveries in the period of comgrade of all the Swedish banks in its three-year Operating proﬁt fell by SEK 384 million, or parison. Net interest income fell by 18 per cent, rating of funds on the Swedish market. 19 per cent, to SEK 1,644 million (2,028). Total mainly due to lower deposit margins. Loan losses Total fund volume, including exchangeincome decreased by 8 per cent to SEK 5,156 amounted to SEK -4 million (+27), corresponding traded funds, increased during the year by million (5,607) while expenses were down by to a loan loss ratio of 0.01 per cent (-0.05). 14 per cent to SEK 384 billion (337). 3 per cent. Activity within capital market ﬁnancing Pension & Life decreased slightly during the period. The Bank Markets & Asset Management Operating proﬁt went down by 23 per cent to arranged 107 bond issues in 2015 for a value Operating proﬁt decreased by SEK 127 million, SEK 286 million (371). Insurance commissions of EUR 9.6 billion. or 11 per cent, to SEK 1,061 million (1,188). The grew as the result of increases in both the numDuring the year, the average volume of lendcost reductions of SEK 89 million, correspondber of people insured and assets under maning outside the Bank’s home markets increased ing to 5 per cent, could not fully compensate for agement. Income fell by 6 per cent, however, by 5 per cent to SEK 47.9 billion (45.5). At the the SEK 216 million fall in income, down 7 per primarily due to an increase in deferred capital same time, deposits went up by 26 per cent to cent. Net fee and commission income contributions as a result of low market rates. SEK 62.1 billion (49.4). decreased by 1 per cent to SEK 1,648 million Expenses rose by 10 per cent, primarily due to Demand for Handelsbanken’s pension solu(1,670), chieﬂy due to the continuing price the adaptation to the Solvency 2 regulations. tions remained ﬁrm. New sales in Sweden rose squeeze on brokerage fees. Net gains/losses by 45 per cent, and net insurance commissions on ﬁnancial transactions decreased by 17 per BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT were up by 8 per cent from the previous year at cent to SEK 1,237 million (1,490), primarily due Net savings in Handelsbanken’s mutual funds in SEK 631 million (587). to deteriorating market conditions for ﬁxed Sweden during 2015 totalled SEK 26.5 billion, income business. Expenses decreased by 5 per corresponding to a market share of 31 per cent. cent to SEK 1,875 million (1,964), mainly due to The Bank was thus the largest player for new a 6 per cent reduction in the workforce, to 504 savings on the mutual funds market in Sweden. employees (535). Total net savings in the Handelsbanken Group’s funds were SEK 31.3 billion. Xact remained Merchant Banking International the largest player for Nordic exchange-traded Operating proﬁt decreased by SEK 172 million, funds. or 37 per cent, to SEK 297 million (469). The Morningstar, a mutual fund research company, decrease was mainly due to lower net interest gave Handelsbanken’s funds the highest average Assets under management SEK bn 2015 2014 Mutual funds, excl. PPM and unit-linked insurance 282 247 PPM 22 18 Unit-linked insurance 82 74 of which external funds -2 -2 Total mutual funds 384 337 Structured products 18 22 Portfolio bond insurance 19 18 of which in Handelsbanken mutual funds and structured products -7 -6 Traditional insurance 9 10 of which in Handelsbanken mutual funds and structured products -1 -1 Discretionary and institutional assets, excl. insurance1 178 182 of which in Handelsbanken mutual funds and structured products -105 -82 Handelsbanken’s foundations 60 61 of which in Handelsbanken mutual funds and structured products -7 -8 Total assets under management, excl. securities in custody 548 533 Securities in custody, excl. mutual funds 308 293 1 Including the whole volume managed by Heartwood, of which Heartwood’s own funds SEK 19bn. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 41 HANDELSBANKEN CAPITAL MARKETS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Markets & Asset Management offers a full range Corporate Finance, Cash Management, Trade Pension & Life comprises the Handelsbanken of products and services linked to risk manageFinance and Export Finance, and was also Liv subsidiary and offers pension solutions and ment, securities, derivatives, mutual funds and involved in global banking collaborations. These other insurance solutions for private and corporesearch, as well as co-ordinating the Bank’s operations also included Handelsbanken’s rate customers. offering in the savings area. branches and representative ofﬁces at 24 locaThe segment also includes business support Merchant Banking International operated in the tions in 19 countries outside the Bank’s home units in these areas. following business areas: Debt Capital Markets, markets. Handelsbanken ndelsbanken has a nationwide branch netwo network in its six home markets: Sweden, the UK, Denmar Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. To support customers from the homeme mark markets, Capital Markets has an international national network etwo of ofﬁces in 19 countries worldwidde. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 42 HANDELSBANKEN CAPITAL MARKETS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Quarterly performance Markets & Asset Management Total Total Change SEK m Q4 2015 Q3 2015 Q2 2015 Q1 2015 2015 2014 % Net interest income 42 4 13 10 69 23 200 Net fee and commission income 421 402 423 402 1 648 1 670 -1 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 232 277 308 420 1 237 1 490 -17 Other income -6 -3 -5 -4 -18 -31 -42 Total income 689 680 739 828 2 936 3 152 -7 Staff costs -237 -247 -268 -260 -1 012 -1 069 -5 Other expenses -235 -200 -229 -199 -863 -895 -4 Total expenses -472 -447 -497 -459 -1 875 -1 964 -5 Proﬁt before loan losses 217 233 242 369 1 061 1 188 -11 Net loan losses Operating proﬁt 217 233 242 369 1 061 1 188 -11 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 2 -7 39 188 222 347 -36 Average number of employees 501 511 503 502 504 535 -6 Quarterly performance Merchant Banking International Total Total Change SEK m Q4 2015 Q3 2015 Q2 2015 Q1 2015 2015 2014 % Net interest income 160 155 150 176 641 777 -18 Net fee and commission income 206 207 199 187 799 819 -2 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 25 17 19 25 86 91 -5 Other income 5 4 7 4 20 45 -56 Total income 396 383 375 392 1 546 1 732 -11 Staff costs -199 -196 -200 -207 -802 -787 2 Other expenses -125 -102 -101 -115 -443 -503 -12 Total expenses -324 -298 -301 -322 -1 245 -1 290 -3 Proﬁt before loan losses 72 85 74 70 301 442 -32 Net loan losses 5 -10 4 -3 -4 27 Operating proﬁt 77 75 78 67 297 469 -37 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 44 53 58 49 204 298 -32 Average number of employees 573 588 585 601 587 616 -5 Quarterly performance Pension & Life Total Total Change SEK m Q4 2015 Q3 2015 Q2 2015 Q1 2015 2015 2014 % Net interest income 5 4 6 5 20 53 -62 Net fee and commission income 158 151 148 169 626 587 7 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions -42 -44 3 -11 -94 -48 -96 Other income 36 42 55 26 159 166 -4 Total income 157 153 212 189 711 758 -6 Staff costs -43 -42 -41 -46 -172 -168 2 Other expenses -63 -58 -64 -68 -253 -219 16 Total expenses -106 -100 -105 -114 -425 -387 10 Proﬁt before loan losses 51 53 107 75 286 371 -23 Net loan losses Operating proﬁt 51 53 107 75 286 371 -23 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation -8 -13 51 33 63 197 -68 Average number of employees 172 172 169 168 170 171 -1 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 43 HANDELSBANKEN’S SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Handelsbanken’s shares and shareholders Handelsbanken’s share was first listed on the Stockholm stock exchange in 1873, making it the oldest listed share on the exchange. In 2015, the share was noted at an all-time high on 14 trading days (26). There are two classes of Handelsbanken’s holm stock exchange. Handelsbanken’s share CREATING SHAREHOLDER VALUE share: class A and class B. Class A shares are was ﬁrst listed on the Stockholm stock Handelsbanken is one of few banks in Europe by far the most common and represent more exchange in 1873, making it the oldest listed which has created a positive shareholder value than 98 per cent of all shares, both in terms of share on the exchange. during the years of the ﬁnancial and debt crisis. the number of shares and the turnover. Class Handelsbanken is the only commercial bank on A shares each carry one vote while class B DIVIDEND the Stockholm stock exchange which has not shares have one-tenth of a vote. The share One of the purposes of Handelsbanken’s corponeeded to ask its shareholders for new capital capital is SEK 2,956 million, distributed over rate goal is to offer shareholders long-term high during this period. During the past ﬁve-year 1,907,046,082 shares. Each share thus repregrowth in value, expressed in increasing earnperiod, Handelsbanken has generated a posisents SEK 1.55 of the share capital. ings per share over a business cycle. The Bank tive shareholder value of SEK 121 billion. Market aims for the ordinary dividend to show longcapitalisation has grown by SEK 81 billion, while STOCK EXCHANGE TRADE term, stable growth which reﬂects the value creHandelsbanken has paid out SEK 40 billion in Handelsbanken’s shares are traded on several ation. But the dividend level must not lead to the dividends. different market places. Turnover is largest on authorities’ capital requirements not being met. Nasdaq Stockholm, but for the past couple of The Board is proposing to the 2016 AGM to SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE years, the shares have also been traded on decide on a total dividend of SEK 6.00 per share For 14 (26) of the trading days during the year, other venues, such as BATS Chi-X. In 2015, an (5.83), with the ordinary dividend being SEK 4.50 the Handelsbanken class A share was listed at average of 3.4 million class A shares in Handelsper share (4.17). The previous year’s dividend an all time high. The peak price for the year, banken were traded each day on Nasdaq amounts have been adjusted for the stock split SEK 142 (adjusted for the stock split carried out) Stockholm. The Handelsbanken share is in the carried out in 2015. The complete proposal on was reached on 3 March. As at 31 December group of the most traded shares on the Stockshare dividends is presented on page 191. 2015, Handelsbanken’s market capitalisation Handelsbanken’s shares 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Earnings per share, total operations, SEK 8.57 7.96 7.51 7.45 6.59 after dilution 8.39 7.84 7.42 7.28 6.46 Ordinary dividend per share, SEK 4.501 4.17 3.83 3.58 3.25 Total dividend per share, SEK 6.001 5.83 5.50 Dividend growth, ordinary dividend, % 81 9 7 10 8 Price of class A share, 31 December, SEK 112.90 122.20 105.33 77.47 60.33 Highest share price during year, SEK 142.00 124.27 106.53 83.30 75.33 Lowest share price during year, SEK 108.40 101.70 78.10 60.33 49.13 Share price performance, % -8 16 36 28 -16 Total return, % -3 21 41 34 -12 Dividend yield, % 4.01 3.4 3.6 4.6 5.4 Adjusted equity per share, SEK 65.14 64.13 59.24 54.21 50.90 Stock exchange price/equity, % 173 191 178 143 119 Average daily turnover on Nasdaq OMX (no. of shares) Class A 3 425 715 3 250 808 3 722 265 4 628 283 6 170 367 Class B 60 342 58 700 51 021 48 333 71 262 P/E ratio 13.2 15.3 14.0 10.4 9.2 Market capitalisation, SEK bn 215 233 201 147 113 No. of converted shares from the convertible subordinated loan issued in 2008, millions 0.0 0.0 8.5 26.2 1.8 No. of shares as at 31 December, millions 1907.0 1 907.0 1 906.9 1 898.4 1 872.2 Holding of repurchased shares, millions Holding of own shares in trading book, millions 0.3 Number of outstanding shares, as at 31 December, millions 1907.0 1 907.0 1 906.9 1 898.4 1 871.9 Dilution effect, end of period, millions 65.7 64.9 35.9 46.2 79.0 Number of outstanding shares after dilution, millions 1972.7 1 971.9 1 942.8 1 944.6 1 950.9 Average number of outstanding shares (millions) 1907.0 1 907.0 1 904.4 1 885.5 1 869.2 after dilution 1971.9 1 959.0 1 942.6 1 949.8 1 927.3 1 Dividend as recommended by the Board. A 3:1 stock split was carried out in May 2015. The comparative ﬁgures in the above table have been adjusted for the new number of shares. H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 44 HANDELSBANKEN’S SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT was SEK 215 billion (233). The Swedish stock the dividend paid on a class A share. The 30 per cent at the end of 2008 to 48 per cent market fell by 1 per cent during the year and the conversion price has been recalculated at (48) at the year-end. Handelsbanken has over Stockholm stock exchange’s bank index fell by 4 SEK 120.96 after the dividend paid in spring 100,000 shareholders. Almost two thirds of per cent. Handelsbanken’s class A share ended 2015, and the stock split carried out in May these owned fewer than 1001 shares. Just over the year at SEK 112.90, a decrease of 7.6 per 2015. The Bank can also in this case request two per cent of the shareholders owned more cent. Including dividends, the total return was conversion. than 20,001 shares each, and together they -2.8 per cent. held almost 91 per cent of the share capital. OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE Two shareholders own more than 10 per cent 3:1 STOCK SPLIT During the past few years, the proportion of of the shares: the Oktogonen Foundation and Following the approval of the AGM, a stock non-Swedish shareholders has increased from Industrivärden. split was performed in May 2015 in Svenska Handelsbanken AB, whereby each existing Share dividends in the past ten years Total return for the period share was split into three shares of the cor30 June 2007–31 December 2015 responding class (a 3:1 split). The ﬁrst day for SEK per share % trading following the split was 19 May 2015. 7 200 6 150 REPURCHASE OF SHARES At the AGM in March 2015, the Board received 5 100 a mandate to repurchase a maximum of 40 mil4 50 lion shares (corresponding to 120 million shares 3 following a split) until the AGM in March 2016. 0 This mandate was not used in 2015. 2 -50 1 CONVERTIBLE LOANS -100 0 Handelsbanken DNB 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 In spring 2011, the Bank issued a subordinated Nordea Swedbank SEB HSBC Danske BNP Intesa convertible loan for SEK 2.5 billion on market KBC Ordinary dividend Total dividend Santander Standard Chartered Erste BBVA Crédit Agricole Barclays terms directed at the Group’s employees. HoldSociété Générale Credit Suisse 2015 according to Board proposal. A 3:1 stock split Euro STOXX Banks Lloyds Deutsche Bank Unicredit UBS ers can convert to class A shares in Handelswas carried out in May 2015. Historical dividends Commerzbank Bank of Ireland Monte dei Paschi have been adjusted for this. Source: SNL, as at 31 December 2015 banken between 1 May 2016 and 30 November (dividends reinvested) 2016. The convertible is fully dividend-protected which means that the ordinary conversion price is adjusted downwards by an amount correThe largest Swedish shareholders Number of % of % of sponding in percentage terms to the dividend as at 31 December 2015 shares capital votes paid on a class A share. The conversion price is Oktogonen Foundation 195 604 716 10.26 10.43 SEK 71.62 after recalculation for dividends paid Industrivärden 193 985 037 10.17 10.34 since the convertible loan was issued up to and Swedbank Robur funds 80 293 642 4.21 4.28 including the dividend paid in spring 2015, and Lundbergs 52 825 000 2.77 2.82 for the stock split carried out in May 2015. The Alecta 40 469 000 2.12 2.16 Bank can also demand conversion. AMF and funds 27 239 060 1.43 1.45 In spring 2014, the Bank issued another subHandelsbanken funds 24 538 000 1.29 1.31 ordinated convertible loan for SEK 3.2 billion on Didner & Gerge Fonder 13 799 165 0.72 0.74 3rd National Swedish Pension Fund 12 305 543 0.65 0.66 market terms directed at the Group’s employThe J. Wallander & T. Hedelius Foundation, ees. Holders can convert to class A shares in The T. Browaldh Foundation 12 300 000 0.64 0.66 Handelsbanken between 1 May 2019 and 30 4th National Swedish Pension Fund 11 679 471 0.61 0.62 November 2019. The convertible is fully dividendSPP funds 11 162 194 0.59 0.60 protected, which means that the ordinary conSEB funds 10 517 744 0.55 0.56 version price is adjusted downwards by an Folksam 9 016 596 0.47 0.48 amount corresponding in percentage terms to Skandia 8 640 088 0.45 0.46 Shareholdings per shareholder Shareholdings 31 December 2015 Shareholders Number of Number of % of % of Number of shares Number class A shares class B shares share capital votes 1–500 shares 47 997 6 104 073 2 548 898 0.4 0.3 501–1,000 shares 17 036 9 781 850 2 926 559 0.7 0.5 1,001–5,000 shares 29 006 58 133 431 9 729 030 3.6 3.2 5,001–20,000 shares 9 288 76 959 975 8 632 557 4.5 4.2 20,001– shares 2 568 1 720 815 424 11 414 285 90.8 91.8 Totalt 105 895 1 871 794 753 35 251 329 100.0 100.0 Shares divided into share classes Average prices/ 31 December 2015 repurchased Share class Number % of capital % of votes amount Share capital Class A 1 871 794 753 98.20 99.80 2 901 252 533 Class B 35 251 329 1.80 0.20 54 639 560 Total 1 907 046 082 100.00 100.00 2 955 892 093 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 45 SUSTAINABILITY, EMPLOYEES AND THE ENVIRONMENT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Sustainability, employees and the environment Handelsbanken’s business opportunities and successes depend upon the confidence that customers, investors, the public and public authorities have in us and our employees. A condition for this confidence is that the Bank’s operations are subject to high ethical standards and responsible actions, and that employees of the Bank conduct themselves in a manner that upholds confidence. The following is a summary of the Bank’s sustainability work. The complete Sustainability Report is on pages 195–231 of this Annual Report. SUSTAINABILITY HANDELSBANKEN IN THE COMMUNITY to retain its local bank branches and thus Sustainability is completely integrated in HandelsHandelsbanken is a bank with long-term stabilcontinues to ﬁll an important function in the banken’s corporate culture and working ity – a bank which, regardless of the situation in local community. In 2015, we opened 22 new methods and encompasses the whole of the the world around us, is there for our customers. branches in our home markets. HandelsGroup’s operations in all markets where the By being a bank with stable ﬁnances and a stabanken is currently the only bank in a total of Bank operates. ble presence, Handelsbanken aims to fulﬁl its 68 locations. In addition to internal governance documents role as a responsible institution. Handelsbanken and guidelines, the Bank is also a member of also takes responsibility in this role by managing RESPONSIBLE LENDING the voluntary UN initiatives Global Compact and risks so that as few customers as possible have Handelsbanken has a very low risk tolerance. Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), and payment difﬁculties. The Bank can thus conWe maintain this low risk tolerance through the follows the OECD guidelines for multinational tinue to be a bank with stable ﬁnances, making Bank’s strong risk culture which is sustainable in companies. These initiatives and guidelines are a positive contribution to customers, shareholdthe long term and applies to all areas throughout totally in keeping with the values, principles and ers and the community. the Group. working methods that have applied at HandelsHandelsbanken considers it very important banken for a long time. that the Bank’s lending is responsible, and that it is based on an assessment of the customer’s HOW WE WORK WITH SUSTAINABILITY For Handelsbanken, corporate social responsibility is about the Bank acting responsibly and with a long-term perspective in areas where we “ By acting responsibly, we build long term repayment capacity. A weak repayment capacity can never be accepted with the argument that the customer is prepared to pay a high interest rate. The aim of short-term proﬁts for as a Bank can make a difference, either directly relations with our the Bank must take second place to what can or indirectly, through our own operations. By be considered sustainable in the long term. acting responsibly, we build long-term relations customers, employees, Handelsbanken’s credit policy states that the with our customers, employees, owners/invesBank must maintain sound ethical standards in tors and the wider community. owners and the wider its lending operations. This means that in its Companies can affect their environment in granting of credit, the Bank must work to ensure ﬁnancial, social and environmental terms. Different sectors have varying impact within the various areas of responsibility. Handelsbanken’s community. ” that principles of human rights, basic working conditions, anti-corruption and environmental considerations are upheld. various stakeholders are affected by how the Bank acts in relation to various matters. In 2015, HANDELSBANKEN IN THE LOCAL RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS Handelsbanken performed a materiality analyCOMMUNITY Handelsbanken integrates sustainability with sis, which was part of the process of deﬁning Handelsbanken is convinced of the need for a the investment decisions that the Bank makes the Bank’s most material sustainability queslocal presence. The basic concept of our way of on behalf of customers. Our approach to this is tions. This analysis conﬁrms to a high degree operating is that business decisions are made based on the UN Principles for Responsible the view that Handelsbanken has had of its susas close to the customer as possible. This is Investment, PRI, which Handelsbanken signed in tainability work over many years. why Handelsbanken offers a nationwide branch 2009. This means that we are committed to inteTo clarify the outcome of the most material network in the countries the Bank sees as its grating sustainability into research and investment issues for Handelsbanken, both internally and home markets. Our strictly decentralised geodecisions, and to engaging with the companies in externally, we have grouped these into six graphical organisation, where the local branch which Handelsbanken Fonder invests to promote areas: manager is responsible for all the Bank’s busigreater transparency relating to environmental, • the Bank’s business culture ness in its local operating area, means that social and corporate governance questions. • the Bank’s responsibility towards customers Handelsbanken is ﬁrmly established in the local • the Bank’s role in the community community. POLICY FOR ETHICAL STANDARDS • the Bank as an employer In the past few decades, many banks have Handelsbanken’s policy document regarding • the Bank as an investment significantly reduced their number of ethical standards formulate the basic guidelines • the Bank’s indirect impact. branches. Handelsbanken has instead elected for every employee’s actions. A self-evident rule H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 46 SUSTAINABILITY, EMPLOYEES AND THE ENVIRONMENT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT is that Handelsbanken and its employees must employees are responsible for constant develFOR GENDER EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY comply with the laws and regulations that govopment – their own and that of the operations. Working with gender equality, diversity and an ern the Bank’s operations. Therefore, all employees of the Bank participate inclusive corporate culture is a fundamental part in drawing up their own unit’s business plan. of Handelsbanken’s values and should also be a HUMAN RIGHTS This forms the basis of the planned PLUS pernatural and integral part of our daily work. It is Handelsbanken endorses the principles set out formance dialogue, which every employee has about making the most of the employees’ comin the United Nations Universal Declaration of with their line manager at least once a year. After bined potential, and of broadening the recruitHuman Rights. Since 2009, Handelsbanken this, each employee puts together an individual ment base, to become, to an even greater has adhered to UN’s Global Compact, cementaction plan setting out the goals to be attained extent, a bank that reﬂects the community in ing the Bank’s expressed support for universal and the conditions necessary for this. The which it operates. Diversity encompasses varihuman rights. employee has a salary dialogue review with the ous individuals’ different skills and work experiline manager, based on a follow-up of the action ence, different ways of thinking and solving EMPLOYEES plan carried out. problems. In 2015, Handelsbanken had 11,819 employees, In addition to this, all the Bank’s managers Initiatives have been taken in several parts of working in 25 countries, nearly 40 per cent of and employees carried out a separate compethe Group to further increase knowledge and whom were employed outside Sweden. tency mapping during the year; from now on, awareness of diversity. this will be carried out every year. The results are Handelsbanken’s gender equality goal is to be WE RECRUIT PEOPLE WHO SHARE documented and complement the Bank’s worka company where men and women have the THE BANK’S BASIC VALUES ing methods regarding performance reviews, same opportunities, chances and power to Above all, working at Handelsbanken is about action plans and follow-up. shape the Bank and their own career. In all counrelationships with other people. So when we tries where Handelsbanken operates, a gender recruit new employees, we always seek people INTERNAL LABOUR MARKET AND equality plan must be produced to support the who share the Bank’s basic values. For us, it is MANAGEMENT SUCCESSION Group’s equality goals. The plan must be based very important that our employees are driven by Handelsbanken’s strong corporate culture and on Handelsbanken’s fundamental values, and putting the customer ﬁrst, enjoy taking a large values are vital to the Bank’s success. During take into account the laws and guidelines applyamount of individual responsibility, and want to their period of employment, our employees are ing in the country. The purpose is to create as take their own initiatives. given the opportunity to develop within differeven a gender distribution as possible within difHandelsbanken’s joint Group guidelines for ent professional roles, to work in different ferent professional roles, working groups and its employees are based on the Bank’s corpoareas of operations and also to work outside units at the Bank. In the Group as a whole, 39 rate culture, working methods and fundamental their home country. Internal mobility contribper cent (37) of managers were women. The view of people. utes to both the working method and culture proportion of women among the total number being spread to all parts of the Bank, through of employees in the Group was 50 per cent (51). CONSTANT DEVELOPMENT transfer of the skills and experience gained to At the year-end, 47 per cent (45) of the Bank’s Handelsbanken’s strength is derived from the the employee’s new work tasks. This means managers in Sweden were women. The proporcombined expertise of our employees. The that internal recruitment and long-term tion of women among the total number of most important source of increased professionemployment are important for the Bank. To employees in Sweden was 53 per cent (54). alism is learning in your daily work, where all retain an employee, the right conditions must The Bank’s work with gender equality is conexist for development in their work and continuing, with various measures aimed at making sideration must also be taken of the stage of Handelsbanken an even more gender-equal life that she or he is in. Employees who are company. Training is carried out within the The Wheel – the relationship between the Bank’s secure and happy, with long and broad experiorganisation in order to increase awareness of operations and the employee’s development ence of the whole Bank, give good service and how social and cultural norms affect attitudes create long-term customer relationships. This and behaviour in everyday life. makes a vital contribution to the Bank having In the past few years in Sweden, the Bank, Business plan satisﬁed customers. The Handelsbanken together with trade unions, has worked to rectify process Group continues to have very low external unwarranted pay differentials between women Business planning staff turnover. In 2015, the ﬁgure was 3.0 per and men. In 2015, the work with gender-equal cent (3.2). salaries changed from being a project to becomSalary dialogue PLUS Managers at Handelsbanken must be exeming an integral part of the normal operations. The review CUSTOMER plary ambassadors for the Bank’s corporate Bank and the union organisations work together culture, which explains why most managers are to reinforce the results of the work in recent years recruited internally. In 2015, 100 per cent (100) and they closely monitor the trend for genderIndividual Action of all managers in Sweden were recruited interequal salaries within the Bank. Managers at the follow-up planning nally. For the Group as a whole, the correBank have a mandate and the tools to correct sponding ﬁgure is 93 per cent (93), including any differentials that are identiﬁed and every year, those markets where the Bank established all salaries are mapped by the Bank to act on any operations relatively recently. differentials that have arisen. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 47 SUSTAINABILITY, EMPLOYEES AND THE ENVIRONMENT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT In order for the Bank’s strong corporate culagreements. In these countries, employees who Some 98 per cent of the Group’s employees are ture to continue developing, an ongoing diaare not members of a union are also covered by now covered by Oktogonen. logue is necessary and as a condition for this, the terms of the collective agreement. we promote a good working atmosphere. In ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE the light of this, all types of discrimination and HANDELSBANKEN’S DIRECT harassment are totally unacceptable, which is ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT also stated in the Group-wide guidelines for employees. Incidents of discrimination concerning our employees are normally managed in the opera“ Handelsbanken’s overall goal with its A bank’s direct environmental impact is fairly limited. Handelsbanken’s aim is always that the Bank’s impact on the environment must be minimised. Its direct impact derives mainly from tions through the Bank’s HR units, but cases work environment consumption of energy, business travel and reported to the national discrimination ombudstransport, and also use of resources such as man or corresponding ofﬁcial body are followed work focuses on empaper. The Bank measures its environmental up at Group level. No such cases were reported impact on all six home markets. These markets in 2015. ployees enjoying good represent more than 96 per cent of the Bank’s total number of employees. WORK ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH health, developing on The total amount of carbon dioxide emissions Handelsbanken’s overall goal with its work enviin 2015 was 13,231 tonnes, which is a decrease ronment work focuses on employees enjoying a personal level and of 15 per cent compared with the previous year. good health, developing on a personal level and Total energy consumption decreased by 4 per functioning in an optimal way. This is a longfunctioning in an opticent to 106,913 MWh. The proportion of renew” term goal that includes factors such as clear and able electricity in the Nordic countries is 100 per honest communication, having the skills and mal way. cent, and for all home markets, the proportion is competence and the right conditions to perform 87 per cent. tasks and deal with work-related situations, having pride and conﬁdence in one’s work, respectThere is an ongoing dialogue between union HANDELSBANKEN’S INDIRECT ing others, and being respected oneself. representatives and managers concerning ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Each manager is responsible for performing operations – such as when changes and new Since 2009, Handelsbanken has adhered to regular work environment reviews together with services are to be launched – where valuable UN’s Global Compact. This means, for example, their employees. This includes matters relating information is exchanged at the very early that we have undertaken to describe how the to the physical and psychosocial work environstages. As well as matters which are dealt with Bank works with environmental matters. In ment, gender equality, diversity, and an incluin a dialogue with the union organisations in addition to the Bank’s own consumption of sive corporate culture. In a dialogue with their each country, Handelsbanken’s European Work resources, this mainly concerns the indirect staff, they identify what works well and what Council (EWC) functions as a forum for joint and environmental impact via lending, asset mancould be better. This results in a work environcross-border questions within the Handelsagement and agreements with suppliers. ment plan with activities to maintain and develop banken Group. The EWC consists of representa good work environment. The plan is then inteatives from nine countries: Denmark, Finland, grated with the unit’s business plan and in this Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, way becomes a natural part of how the operathe UK, Sweden and Germany. tion develops. The work environment plans are regularly folOKTOGONEN – THE BANK’S PROFITlowed up in order to evaluate and continuously SHARING SCHEME improve the Bank’s work with the work enviA condition for achieving the Bank’s ﬁnancial ronment and health. Handelsbanken also folgoal of better proﬁtability than the average of lows up the ﬁgures for healthy attendance (the peer banks in its home markets is that employopposite of sickness ﬁgures) and also reported ees outperform their peers in the rest of the incidents. sector. The Board thus considers it reasonable that employees should receive a share of any RELATIONS WITH UNIONS extra proﬁts. Every year but two since 1973, the Handelsbanken’s traditional good relationship Board has decided to allocate part of the Bank’s with unions is a valuable component of the proﬁts to a proﬁt-sharing scheme for employBank’s culture. The Bank supports the right of ees. The funds are managed by the Oktogonen all employees to join a trade union or employee Foundation. organisation. All employees in Denmark, Finland, All employees receive an equal part of France, Luxembourg, Norway, Sweden and the allocated amount, regardless of their posiAustria, comprising 80 per cent of the Bank’s tion and work tasks. The scheme includes employees, are covered by collective bargaining all employees in the Bank’s home markets. H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 48 Corporate Governance Report Handelsbanken is a Swedish public limited company, whose shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Here the Board submits its Corporate Governance Report for 2015. Handelsbanken applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. CONTENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK FOR CONTROL 56 STRUCTURE 50 Internal control for operations 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Internal Audit 56 AT HANDELSBANKEN 52 Compliance 56 The Bank’s culture and long-term goal 52 Risk control 56 Application of the Swedish Code POLICY DOCUMENTS 57 of Corporate Governance 52 PRINCIPLES FOR General information on regulation REMUNERATION AT and supervision of banks 52 HANDELSBANKEN 59 SHAREHOLDERS AND Fundamental remuneration SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETINGS 52 principles 59 Rights of shareholders 52 Principles for remuneration to executive ofﬁcers 60 Major shareholders 53 Variable remuneration 60 Annual general meeting 2015 53 Auditors 53 THE BOARD’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL REGARDING NOMINATION COMMITTEE 53 FINANCIAL REPORTING 61 Recruitment and Control environment 61 diversity-related work 53 Risk assessment 61 THE BOARD 54 Control activities 61 Composition of the Board 54 Information and communication 61 Independence of Board members 54 Follow-up 61 Regulations governing THE BOARD 62 the Board’s work 54 Chairman of the Board 54 SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND AUDIT AND WHISTLEBLOWING The Board’s work in 2015 54 FUNCTION 64 Committee work 54 THE BANK’S MANAGEMENT 55 Group Chief Executive 55 Senior Management and management structure 55 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Corporate Governance structure Corporate Governance at Handelsbanken – an overview 1. Shareholders 2. Nomination committee 3. External auditors and shareholders’ meetings 4. The Board 8. Remuneration 5. Credit committee 6. Audit committee 7. Risk committee committee 11. Corporate Governance 10. Group Chief Executive 9. Internal Audit 12. Central Credit 13. CFO and 14. Central Legal 15. Compliance 16. Risk control Department Group Finance Department Elects/appoints/initiates Informs/reports The diagram provides a summary of corporate governance at Handelsbanken. The shareholders take decisions at the AGM. For certain questions, the shareholders’ decisions are prepared by the nomination committee. The shareholders appoint a board which in turn appoints a CEO to manage the operating activities. The Board organises itself into various committees and has a corporate governance unit at its disposal. To support the work of governing the Bank, the CEO has Group Finance, the Central Credit Department and the Central Legal Department. There are also a number of control functions at the Bank. In addition, the shareholders exercise control via the external auditors. 1. SHAREHOLDERS AND 3. EXTERNAL AUDITORS funds and other aspects of the Bank’s ﬁnancial SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETINGS The auditors are appointed by the AGM for circumstances are satisfactorily controlled. The Shareholders exercise their right to decide on the period until the end of the following year’s Board establishes policies and instructions on matters concerning Handelsbanken at shareAGM. The auditors are accountable to the how this should be executed, and establishes holders’ meetings, which are the Bank’s highshareholders at the AGM. They carry out an a work procedure for the Board and also est decision-making body. Every year, an audit and submit an audit report covering matinstructions for the CEO. annual general meeting is held which among ters such as the Annual Report, including this These central policy documents state how other things appoints the Board, the Chairman Corporate Governance Report and the adminresponsibility and authority are allocated of the Board and auditors. In addition, it can istration of the Board and the CEO. In addition, among the Board as a whole and the commitdecide how the nomination committee is to be the auditors report orally and in writing to the tees, and also between the Chairman of the appointed. See also page 52. Board’s audit committee concerning how their Board and the CEO. The Board appoints the audit was conducted and their assessment CEO, Executive Vice Presidents and the Head 2. NOMINATION COMMITTEE of the Bank’s administrative order and internal of Internal Audit and stipulates the employThe nomination committee’s task is to prepare control. The auditors also submit a summary ment terms for these persons. The Board also and submit proposals to the AGM regarding report of their audit to the Board as a whole. decides the employment terms for the Heads the appointment of the Chairman and other of Compliance and Risk Control. The Chairmembers of the Board and fees to the Chair4. THE BOARD man is responsible for evaluating the Board’s man and other members of the Board. The The Board is responsible for the Bank’s organiwork and informs the nomination committee committee also proposes the appointment of sation and manages the Bank’s affairs on of the results of the evaluation. the auditors, and their fees. The AGM decides behalf of its shareholders. The Board is to conhow the nomination committee will be tinuously assess the Bank’s ﬁnancial situation 5. CREDIT COMMITTEE appointed. and ensure that the Bank is organised such The Board’s credit committee decides on that the accounting records, management of credit cases where the amount exceeds the H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 50 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT More information More information about Handelsbanken’s corporate governance is available at handelsbanken.se/ireng. The site includes the following information: • previous corporate governance reports from 2007 onwards • Articles of Association • information about the nomination committee • minutes of shareholders’ meetings from 2008 onwards. decision limit which the Central Board has 10. PRESIDENT AND GROUP CHIEF a unit that manages Handelsbanken’s contacts delegated to another unit. Cases of special EXECUTIVE (CEO) with public authorities. The Central Legal importance are decided by the Board. A repreThe CEO is appointed by the Board to lead Department is also responsible for operational sentative from the unit within the Bank to Handelsbanken’s day-to-day operations. In governance, meaning that the department which the credit case applies presents the addition to instructions from the Board, the CEO works to ensure that decisions taken by the case to the credit committee. is obliged to comply with the provisions of the CEO, as well as changes in legislation, public Swedish Companies Act and a number of other authority regulations and guidelines relating to 6. AUDIT COMMITTEE statutes concerning the Bank’s accounting, internal governance, risk management and conThe Board’s audit committee monitors the management of funds and operational control. trol, are implemented in internal guidelines and Bank’s ﬁnancial reporting by examining imporinstructions, with the aim of establishing respontant accounting matters and other factors that 11. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE sibilities and powers of authority within the Bank. may affect the qualitative content of the ﬁnanThe Corporate Governance unit ensures that cial reports. The committee also monitors the decisions made at shareholders’ meetings 15. COMPLIANCE effectiveness of the Bank’s and Group’s interand by the Board, as well as changes in legisThe Compliance function is responsible for nal control and internal audit, as well as the lation, regulations and corporate governance ensuring that laws, regulations and internal external auditors’ impartiality and independcode, are implemented in policy documents rules, as well as accepted business practices ence. It evaluates the audit work and assists from the Board, with the aim of stipulating and norms, are complied with in the operathe nomination committee in appointing audigeneral responsibilities and authorities. These tions conducted by the Handelsbanken Group. tors. The committee also reads reports from are then passed on within the organisation, The function must give support to the busithe Bank’s internal and external auditors. chieﬂy through guidelines and instructions ness operations and assist in developing the from the CEO. internal rules and implementation of regula7. RISK COMMITTEE tions. The compliance function must also idenThe Board’s risk committee monitors risk 12. CENTRAL CREDIT DEPARTMENT tify and report risks regarding compliance and control and risk management in the HandelsThe Central Credit Department is responsible check compliance with internal rules. A key banken Group. The committee prepares decifor formulating and maintaining the Bank’s task is also to inform the units concerned sions regarding the Bank’s risk strategy, risk credit policy, credit process and for preparing about the regulations and the risks that may tolerance, etc., and examines reports from the every major credit case that the Board’s credit arise in the operations due to inadequate comcompliance and risk control functions. committee or the whole Board decides on. The pliance. Compliance ofﬁcers have been Head of Credits reports to the CEO and is a appointed for all business areas and regional 8. REMUNERATION COMMITTEE member of the Board’s credit committee. The banks, and most central units, as well as for all The Board’s remuneration committee evaluates Head of Credits also reports to the Board about countries where the Bank operates. The Centhe employment conditions for the Bank’s execloan losses and risks in the credit portfolio. tral Compliance unit has functional responsibilutive ofﬁcers in the light of prevailing market ity for compliance. The Head of Central Comterms. The committee’s tasks include preparing 13. CFO AND GROUP FINANCE pliance reports regularly to the CEO, the risk the Board’s proposals to the AGM concerning Group Finance is responsible for control syscommittee, the remuneration committee and guidelines for remuneration to executive ofﬁctems, reporting, book-keeping, accounting the Board in matters regarding compliance. ers, monitoring and evaluating the application and taxes. It is also responsible for the Group’s of these guidelines, and preparing the Board’s liquidity, funding and capital, and for the 16. INDEPENDENT RISK CONTROL decisions on remuneration and other terms of Group’s overall risk management for all risks Risk Control identiﬁes, measures and analyses employment for executive ofﬁcers, as well as for except credit risk, compliance risk and operaGroup risk. The centrally placed Risk Control the heads of Compliance, Internal Audit and tional risks outside the department. For a function is responsible for monitoring and Risk Control. The committee also makes an detailed description of this risk management, reporting all the Group’s material risks at an independent assessment of Handelsbanken’s see note G2 on pages 80–105. The CFO aggregate level. This responsibility comprises remuneration policy and remuneration system. reports to the CEO and also regularly reports credit, counterparty and market risks (interest on behalf of the CEO to the Board’s audit rate, exchange rate, equity price and com9. INTERNAL AUDIT committee, risk committee and regarding marmodity price risk), operational risk, liquidity Internal Audit performs an independent, imparket risks, liquidity, funding and capital to the risks and insurance risks, as well as risks tial audit of the operations and ﬁnancial reportwhole Board. associated with the Group’s remuneration sysing of the Handelsbanken Group. A central tem. Risk Control reports continually to the task for Internal Audit is to assess and verify 14. CENTRAL LEGAL DEPARTMENT CEO and on a regular basis to the risk comprocesses for risk management, internal conThe Central Legal Department is responsible for mittee, the remuneration committee and the trol and corporate governance. The Head of legal matters within the Group, and provides Board. The Head of Central Risk Control also Internal Audit is appointed by the Board and other units with legal advisory services. The provides regular information to the CFO. Risk reports regularly to the audit committee, orally department monitors developments as regards Control reports directly to the CEO and acts and in writing, and also submits an annual regulations, laws, standards and guidelines on independently and is separate from the consummary report to the whole Board. Handelsbanken’s home markets, and organises trolled operations. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 20 15 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT scheme are made if Handelsbanken’s proﬁtabiltions and general guidelines from the Swedish HANDELSBANKEN ity is better than the average of peer banks on Financial Supervisory Authority. The SuperviCorporate governance concerns how rights and Handelsbanken’s home markets. sory Authority requires extensive reporting on obligations are allocated among the Bank’s entiHandelsbanken takes a long-term view of various matters such as the Bank’s organisaties, in accordance with prevailing laws and regboth its employees and its customers. The Bank tion, decision-making structure, internal control, ulations. Corporate governance also encomwishes to recruit young employees for longterms and conditions for the Bank’s customers passes the systems for decision-making, and term employment at the Bank by offering develand information to private customers. the structure through which shareholders conopment opportunities that make the Bank selfThe Supervisory Authority’s work also trol the Bank, directly and indirectly. Handelssufﬁcient in terms of skilled employees and includes systematically visiting various parts of banken’s shareholders exercise corporate govmanagers. the Bank. The purpose of this is to follow up the ernance principally by electing the Board, and This long-term approach also applies to the Bank’s actual compliance with the terms and the Board appoints the CEO. way in which the Bank relates to its customers. conditions of granted licenses and other The following are fundamental to corporate It is manifested in, for example, the ambition of detailed regulations. governance at Handelsbanken: the documents always giving the customer the best possible adopted by the Board, for example, the Board’s advice – without looking at what is most proﬁtaSHAREHOLDERS AND SHAREHOLDERS’ rules of procedure, instructions to the CEO ble for the Bank in the short term. This enables MEETINGS and the Head of Central Audit, and credit the Bank to build long-term relationships with Rights of shareholders instructions and policy documents regarding both customers and employees. At the end of 2015, Handelsbanken had over the Bank’s operations (see also pages 57–59); 105,000 shareholders. They have the right to and the instructions and guidelines issued by Application of the Swedish Code decide on matters related to the company at the the CEO. These documents are revised every of Corporate Governance AGM or extraordinary meetings of shareholders. year but can be adjusted more often when Handelsbanken applies the Swedish Code Handelsbanken has two classes of shares: necessary. of Corporate Governance with no deviations. class A and class B. Class A shares are by far However, the foundation of functioning corThe code is publicly available on the Swedish the most common and represented more than porate governance is not only formal docuCorporate Governance Board’s website. 98 per cent of all outstanding shares at the end ments but also the Bank’s corporate culture, According to the Code, information must be of 2015. Class A shares each carry one vote, corporate goal, working methods, and remusubmitted regarding the material shareholdings while class B shares carry one-tenth of a vote neration system. The Bank’s work with sustainof the CEO and his close relatives, or other parteach. Handelsbanken’s Articles of Association ability is also part of the corporate governance ownership in companies with which the Bank state that at shareholders’ meetings, no sharesince it is an integral part of managerial responhas signiﬁcant business relations. No such holder is allowed to exercise voting rights represibility at all levels of the organisation. shareholdings exist. senting more than ten per cent of the total numA central part of governance of Handelsber of votes in the Bank. banken comprises managing the risks that arise General information on regulation and Shareholders who wish to have a matter in operations. Risk management is described supervision of banks considered by the AGM must submit a written in detail in a separate risk section in the Annual The operations of Swedish banks are regulated request to the Board sufﬁciently far in advance Report, note G2 on pages 80–105, in the by law, and banking operations may only be run so that the matter can be included in the notice Bank’s Pillar 3 report and also brieﬂy in this with a licence from the Swedish Financial of the meeting. The Bank’s website contains Corporate Governance Report. Supervisory Authority. information as to when this request must have The regulations for banking operations are reached the Board. The Bank’s culture and long-term goal very extensive, and are not described in detail in At the AGM, the Bank’s shareholders make Handelsbanken’s goal is to have higher proﬁtathis report. A list of the key regulations is availavarious decisions of major importance to the bility than the average of peer banks in its home ble on the Swedish Financial Supervisory Bank’s governance. Shareholders’ decisions markets. This is mainly to be achieved by having Authority’s website. Handelsbanken’s main prininclude: more satisﬁed customers and lower costs than ciple is that operations outside Sweden are sub• adopting the income statement and balance those of competitors. One of the purposes of ject both to Swedish regulations and to the host sheet this goal is to offer shareholders long-term high country’s regulations, if these are stricter or • appropriation of proﬁts growth in value. require deviations from Swedish rules. • discharge from liability for the Board and the Handelsbanken is a full-service bank with a The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority CEO for the past ﬁnancial year decentralised working method, a strong local extensively supervises the Bank’s operations in • how many members should be on the Board presence due to nationwide branch networks Sweden and in all countries where the Bank of the Bank, who these members should be, and a long-term approach to customer relaruns branches, in other words, when the foreign and who should be the Bank’s auditors tions. The Bank’s decentralised working model operation is part of the Swedish legal entity • determining fees to Board members and involves strong trust in employees’ willingness Svenska Handelsbanken AB. Equivalent auditors and ability to take responsibility. This working authorities in other countries exercise limited • principles for remuneration to executive model has been consistently applied for many supervision over the branches’ operations, but ofﬁcers. decades and has resulted in the Bank’s very have full supervision over the Bank’s subsidiarstrong corporate culture. ies outside Sweden. The supervisory work The shareholders at a shareholders’ meeting The Oktogonen proﬁt-sharing scheme sharpis co-ordinated in a supervisory group for can also make decisions on the Bank’s Articles ens the employees’ focus on proﬁtability, and is Handelsbanken, led by the Swedish Financial of Association. The Articles of Association conthus a method of reinforcing a corporate culture Supervisory Authority. stitute the fundamental governing document for that is characterised by cost-awareness In addition to laws and ordinances, the the Bank. They specify which operations the and prudence. Allocations to the Oktogonen Swedish supervision is also based on regulaBank is to conduct, the limits on the amount of H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 52 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT share capital, the right of shareholders to partic• The re-election of eight board members and also auditor for Brummer & Partners, Folksam, ipate at shareholders’ meetings and the items to the election of two new board members, Lise Hoist Finance and Investment AB Öresund. be presented at the AGM. The Articles of AssoKaae and Frank Vang-Jensen, for the period Mr Bäckström was born in 1966. ciation state that the number of board members until the next AGM. Jesper Nilsson has been an authorised public must be at least eight and at most 15. They are • The election of Pär Boman as Chairman of accountant since 2007 and is principal auditor elected for one year at a time. Handelsbanken’s the Board. for Ernst & Young AB at Handelsbanken. In Articles of Association contain no stipulation • Fees to be paid to the Board members as foladdition, Mr Nilsson is an auditor for Creades regarding the appointment and discharging of lows: SEK 3,150,000 to the Chairman of the and Alecta. Mr Nilsson was born in 1964. board members nor concerning amendments Board, SEK 900,000 to the Vice Chairman to the Articles of Association. and SEK 640,000 to the other Board memNOMINATION COMMITTEE Information in preparation for meetings is bers, as well as remuneration for committee The shareholders at the 2010 AGM resolved to published at handelsbanken.se/ireng. Minutes work. establish instructions for how the nomination of previous meetings are also available there in • A stock split, and the resulting changes in the committee is to be appointed. According to English. Articles of Association. the decision, the instruction will apply until it is changed by a later AGM. The instruction states Major shareholders The shareholders at the meeting also adopted that the nomination committee shall comprise At the end of 2015, two shareholders had more the following guidelines for remuneration and ﬁve members: the Chairman of the Board and than 10 per cent of the votes: the Oktogonen other terms of employment for executive ofﬁcone representative from each of the Bank’s four Foundation with 10.4 per cent and AB Indusers, as proposed by the Board: largest shareholders as at 31 August the year trivärden with 10.3 per cent. Detailed informa• The total remuneration is to be on market before the AGM is held. tion on the Bank’s largest Swedish shareholders terms. However, the nomination committee must can be found on page 45. • Remuneration is only paid in the form of a not include representatives of companies which ﬁxed salary, pension provision and customary are signiﬁcant competitors of the Bank in any of Annual general meeting 2015 beneﬁts. its main areas of operations. It is the Chairman The annual general meeting took place on 25 • By special decision of the Board, the Bank of the Board’s task to contact the largest ownMarch 2015. can provide housing. ers, so that they appoint one representative 1,745 shareholders were represented at the • Variable remuneration beneﬁts, such as each to sit on the nomination committee together meeting. They represented 59 per cent of all bonuses or commission on proﬁts, are not with the Chairman. The 2016 nomination comvotes in the Bank. Nine of the ten board mempaid. mittee comprises: bers were present at the meeting. Also partici• The executive ofﬁcers in question are pating were the chairman of the nomination included in the Oktogonen proﬁt-sharing Voting power committee Anders Nyberg, as well as Erik scheme on the same terms as all employees in % as at Representative Shareholders 31 Aug 2015 Åström of Ernst & Young AB, principal auditor of the Bank. from the auditing companies elected by the • The retirement age is normally 65. Retirement Helena Stjernholm, AGM. The chairman of the meeting was Sven beneﬁts are deﬁned beneﬁt or deﬁned contriChair Industrivärden 10.34 Unger, a lawyer. bution, or a combination of the two. Jan-Erik Höög Oktogonen Foundation 10.35 The decisions made by the shareholders at • The period of notice on the part of a senior Lundberg ownership Mats Guldbrand group 2.49 the meeting included: manager is six months, and on the part of Bo Selling Alecta 2.16 • A dividend of SEK 17.50 per share, of which Handelsbanken a maximum of twelve Pär Boman, SEK 12.50 comprised the ordinary dividend. months. If the Bank terminates the contract Chairman of the • Authorisation for the Board to resolve on later than ﬁve years after the person’s Board acquisition of not more than 40 million appointment as one of the Bank’s executive shares in the Bank, as well as divestment ofﬁcers, the maximum period of notice is Information on the composition of the nominaof shares. 24 months. No other termination beneﬁts tion committee has been available on the Bank’s • The Board is to consist of ten members. are paid. website since 9 September 2015. • The Board shall have the right to deviate from In advance of the AGM on 16 March 2016, the established guidelines if there are special the nomination committee has the task of studAttendance at AGMs 2011–2015 reasons in an individual case. ying the Board’s evaluation of its work. The committee also submits proposals for the elecNo. % The guidelines do not affect remuneration tion of a chairman of the AGM, the Chairman of 2 000 100 previously decided for executive ofﬁcers. The the Board and other members of the Board, the 1 600 80 guidelines are applied to the Group Chief Execfees to the Chairman and other Board memutive, Executive Vice Presidents, other Executive bers, remuneration for committee work, and the 1 200 60 Directors, and any members of the Handelselection of and fees to auditors. banken Board who are also employees of the 800 40 Bank. Recruitment and diversity-related work In its work, the nomination committee takes 400 20 Auditors into account matters relating to diversity, Anders Bäckström is principal auditor for including gender distribution, on the Board. 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 KPMG AB at Handelsbanken and is chairman of Handelsbanken’s Board has adopted a policy No. of shareholders Proportion of votes the auditing team. Mr Bäckström has been an to promote diversity in the Board. The policy present/represented authorised public accountant since 1996. He is states that to promote independent opinions H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT and critical questioning, it is desirable that the are expressed in the Board’s rules of procedure, The credit committee normally holds one meetBoard should be characterised by sufﬁcient as well as in its instructions to the CEO and ing every month to take decisions on credit diversity in terms of age, gender, geographical to the Head of the Central Audit department. cases that exceed a set limit and that are not origin, and educational and professional backdecided on by the whole Board due to the ground. The proportion of women on the Board Chairman of the Board importance of these cases or legal requireof the Bank is 33 per cent and the proportion The Board’s rules of procedure state that the ments. On such occasions, the credit commitof members of another nationality than where Chairman shall ensure that the Board carries out tee prepares the cases. The heads of the Handelsbanken is domiciled is 56 per cent. In its work efﬁciently and that it fulﬁls its duties. This regional banks and the Head of Merchant Bankcompiling its proposal for the AGM, the nomiinvolves organising and managing the Board’s ing International presented cases from their own nation committee will also consider the evaluawork and creating the best possible conditions units in 2015 and participated when other cases tion of the Board carried out by the Chairman for this work. The Chairman must also ensure were presented, with the objective of providing of the Board. that the Board members continually update and them with a good picture of the Board’s approach expand their knowledge of the Bank’s operato risks. Credit cases that are decided upon by THE BOARD tions, and that new members receive approprithe whole Board are presented by the Head of After the shareholders at the 2015 AGM had ate introduction and training. The Chairman the Central Credit Department. If a delay in the appointed Pär Boman to be Chairman of the must be available to the CEO as an advisor and credit decision would cause inconvenience to Board, Fredrik Lundberg was appointed as Vice discussion partner, but must also prepare the the Bank or the borrower, the credit instructions Chairman at the ﬁrst Board meeting immediately Board’s evaluation of the CEO’s work. allow the CEO and the Head of the Central after the AGM. At the same time, the Board The Chairman’s duties include being chairCredit Department to decide on credit cases appointed members of the credit committee, man of the credit, remuneration and risk comduring the interval between credit committee audit committee, risk committee and remuneramittees, as well as being a member of the audit meetings. tion committee. Information about the Board is committee. The Chairman is responsible for In 2015, the credit committee had 13 meetings. shown on pages 62–63. ensuring that the Board’s work is evaluated annually. The 2015 Board evaluation was perAudit committee Composition of the Board formed by means of discussions with each The audit committee comprised the Chairman The Board consists of nine members following member. The discussions were based on a list of the Board (Pär Boman) and three Board Anders Nyrén’s decision in April 2015 to disconof relevant areas to be assessed. The Chairman members appointed by the Board (Jon Fredrik tinue his Board assignment. When the Board is informed the Board of the outcome of the evaluBaksaas, Ole Johansson and Bente Rathe). The elected, the nomination committee proposes ation and led a Board discussion on this. He latter members are independent of the Bank and members. The nomination committee includes also informed the nomination committee about its management, and in relation to major sharethe Oktogonen Foundation, which also prothe Board evaluation. holders. Bente Rathe chairs the committee. poses two of the members in the nomination The Chairman is responsible for maintaining The work of the audit committee includes the committee’s proposal. contact with the major shareholders concerning following: The Board members have broad and extenownership matters. As chairman of the Bank’s • Monitoring the ﬁnancial reporting and effecsive experience from the business world. Sevpension foundation, pension fund and staff tiveness of the Bank’s internal control and eral are, or have been, chief executives of major foundation, he has overall responsibility for owninternal audit. companies, and most of them are also board ership issues associated with shareholdings of • Establishing an audit plan for the work of members of major companies. See also pages these three entities. Internal Audit. 62–63. Several members have worked on the There is no other division of work for the • Regular contact with the external auditors. Bank’s Board for a long time and are very familBoard except as concerns the committees. These auditors report to the committee on iar with the Bank’s operations. The nomination signiﬁcant matters that have emerged from committee’s proposals at previous AGMs, The Board’s work in 2015 the statutory audit, especially regarding including their reasons, are available at During the year, the Board had ten meetings, shortcomings in the internal control of the handelsbanken.se/ireng. including an extended strategy meeting. The ﬁnancial reporting. Board has also taken a minuted decision. • Considering reports from Internal Audit. Independence of Board members The ﬁgure on page 55 gives an overview of The Swedish Code of Corporate Governance the Board’s work in 2015 relating to regularly The committee mainly meets in connection with stipulates that the majority of Board members occurring major items. In addition, matters disquarterly and annual reports. All interim reports elected by the AGM must be independent of cussed at each committee meeting are reported and annual highlights reports are reviewed by the Bank and the Bank’s management, and at the next Board meeting. the audit committee. Items are presented by the that at least two of the independent Board CEO, the CFO, the Head of Central Audit and members must also be independent of those of Committee work the persons with main responsibility from the the company’s shareholders that control ten Credit committee audit companies appointed by the AGM. per cent or more of the shares and votes in the The credit committee consisted of seven memIn 2015, the audit committee had six Bank. The composition of the Board fulﬁls the bers: the Chairman of the Board (Pär Boman, meetings. Code’s requirements for independence. See who is also chairman of the committee), the also page 52. Vice Chairman (Fredrik Lundberg), the chair of Risk committee the audit committee (Bente Rathe), the CEO The risk committee comprised the Chairman Regulations governing the Board’s work (Frank Vang-Jensen), the Head of the Central of the Board (Pär Boman, who is also chairman The fundamental rules regarding the distribution Credit Department (Per Beckman), and two of the committee) and three Board members of tasks among the Board, the Board commitBoard members appointed by the Board appointed by the Board (Jon Fredrik Baksaas, tees, the Chairman, the CEO and Internal Audit (Tommy Bylund and Ole Johansson). Ole Johansson and Bente Rathe). The latter H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT members are independent of the Bank, its manthe committee chairman) and two Board memVang-Jensen subsequently became Head of agement, and major shareholders. bers appointed by the Board (Ole Johansson Handelsbanken Denmark and then Head of The work of the risk committee includes the and Bente Rathe), who are independent of the Handelsbanken Sweden. His shareholdings in following: Bank, its management and major shareholders. the Bank and those of close relatives are 22,000 • Studying reports from the Heads of Risk ConThe tasks of the remuneration committee shares, as well as 6,530 shares held indirectly trol and Compliance. include making an independent assessment via the Oktogonen proﬁt-sharing scheme. In • Preparing the Board’s decisions regarding of Handelsbanken’s remuneration policy and addition, Frank Vang-Jensen has a holding of the establishment of the internal capital remuneration system. In addition, the remunerastaff convertible notes in Handelsbanken, adequacy assessment. tion committee prepares matters regarding issued on market terms to the Bank’s employ• Studying the validation and evaluation of the remuneration to be decided on by the Board ees in 2014. His holding in the 2014 convertible internal risk classiﬁcation system. and the AGM. After the shareholders at the totals SEK 5.0 million at a conversion price of • Preparing the Board’s decisions regarding AGM have decided on guidelines for the terms SEK 120.96, corresponding to 41,335 shares. risk tolerance and risk strategy. and conditions of remuneration to executive • Studying the evaluation of the risk calculation ofﬁcers, the Board decides on remuneration to Senior Management and management methods used for limiting ﬁnancial risks, calthese ofﬁcers and the heads of the control funcstructure culating capital requirements for market risks, tions: Internal Audit, Independent Risk Control Handelsbanken has long had a decentralised and calculating economic capital. and Compliance. The remuneration committee working method, where almost all major busi• Studying the quarterly presentation of the risk annually evaluates Handelsbanken’s guidelines, ness decisions are taken at the local bank control report. as well as its remuneration structures and levels branches, close to customers. Operations are • Studying the biannual presentations of the in accordance with the Swedish Code of pursued to a large extent within the parent comcompliance function’s six-month and full-year Corporate Governance. A statement from the pany, but also in subsidiaries. reports. committee in this regard is published on Branch operations are geographically organhandelsbanken.se/ireng prior to the AGM. ised into regional banks: six in Sweden, ﬁve in The Head of Independent Risk Control, who is In 2015, the remuneration committee had ten the UK, and one each in Denmark, Finland, also the Bank’s CRO, and the Head of Commeetings. Norway and the Netherlands. Together, these pliance themselves present their reports to the countries comprise the Bank’s home markets. risk committee. The Bank’s CEO, CFO and THE BANK’S MANAGEMENT Each regional bank is led by a head. The the Head of the Central Credit Department Group Chief Executive regional banks in Sweden and the UK are coalso attend meetings of the risk committee. Frank Vang-Jensen has been President and ordinated under the Head of Sweden and the The risk committee held ﬁve meetings during Group Chief Executive since March 2015. Frank Head of UK respectively. The organisation in the year. Vang-Jensen was born in 1967 and he has Sweden also includes the ﬁnance company worked at Handelsbanken since 1998. In 2006, operation, which is run within the HandelsRemuneration committee Frank Vang-Jensen became a member of what banken Finans AB subsidiary. The remuneration committee comprised the was then called the Group management as There are ﬁve business areas within HandelsChairman of the Board (Pär Boman, who is also Chief Executive of Stadshypotek AB. Frank banken. Three of these business areas are part Board work 20151 – Regularly occurring major items2 • Annual accounts • Interim report (Q1) • Interim report • Interim report (Q3) • Annual Report • Loan losses and credit risks (Q2) • Loan losses and credit risks • Loan losses and credit risks • Capital evaluation • Capital evaluation • Capital evaluation • Risk report • Total capital assessment • Risk statement and risk • Risk classification system declaration • Adopting the recovery plan • Questions ahead of the AGM • Evaluation of the Board Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 • Internal capital evaluation (ICAAP) • External audit report • Strategy meeting • Follow-up of remuneration • CEO’s instructions and guidelines and remuneration policy • Internal audit report • Information about the • Provision to Oktogonen nomination committee • Credit limits • Pension foundation and • Loan losses and credit risks • Limits for financial risks, etc. pension fund • Capital evaluation • Staff development • Process for evaluating the • Adjustment of terms of Inaugural Board meeting Board and the CEO employment • Vice Chairman, committee members and secretary are appointed • Evaluation of CEO • Corporate Governance documents • Funding • The Bank’s prospectus 1 The work of the committees is not presented in the chart. 2 Utilisation of market risk limits, liquidity and funding are dealt with at all meetings. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT of the Handelsbanken Capital Markets business Corporate Committee, risk evaluation of matebased on a policy established by the Board segment: Pension & Life, Markets & Asset Manrial decisions is ensured. and is performed on the basis of a risk-based agement and Handelsbanken International (until Members of the Corporate Committee, heads methodology in accordance with internationally the end of 2015 known as Merchant Banking of business areas, heads of regional banks and accepted standards issued by the Institute of International). The joint functions of these three heads of Handelsbanken’s home markets are Internal Auditors. The planned auditing tasks business areas, such as back-ofﬁce operations, members of the Senior Management group. are documented every year in an audit plan IT development, ﬁnance, HR, communications, Senior Management also includes the heads of which is established by the Board’s audit comrisk control and compliance, are co-ordinated the Bank’s central departments and administramittee on behalf of the Board. The conclusions under a joint head. The remaining two business tive functions. Senior Management is a consultaof internal audits, the actions to be taken, and areas are Stadshypotek and Retail & E-services. tive body, not a decision-making body. To a their status are reported regularly to the audit Each business area has Group-wide responsilarge extent, responsibilities and powers of committee and every year to the Board as a bility for its products and services. authority at Handelsbanken have been assigned whole. The Head of Internal Audit is also the The Pension & Life business area includes the to individual members of staff, rather than contact person for Handelsbanken’s separate Bank’s entire pensions-related offering, as well groups or committees. However, there are colsystem for whistleblowing. as the Handelsbanken Liv subsidiary. The Marlective decisions regarding credit decisions Internal Audit is regularly subject to indekets & Asset Management business area made in credit committees and the boards of pendent external quality reviews. In addition, includes trading in ﬁnancial instruments and regional banks. It is also required that the memthe Bank’s external auditors perform an annual asset management, with the Handelsbanken bers are unanimous regarding these decisions. quality review of the work of Internal Audit. Fonder subsidiary. The Handelsbanken InternaFurther information about Senior Management, tional business area includes all the Bank’s interExecutive Directors and the Corporate CommitCompliance national operations outside its home markets. tee can be found on pages 64–65. Compliance is the responsibility of all employees For every country outside the home markets in in the Group. Establishing compliance functions which Handelsbanken pursues operations there FRAMEWORK FOR CONTROL centrally, for regional banks, business areas and is a general manager who reports to the Head of Internal control for operations central departments, as well as for each country Handelsbanken International. Responsibility for internal control has been delewhere the Bank has operations, does not The Stadshypotek business area comprises gated from the CEO to managers who report release any employee from the responsibility of the Stadshypotek AB subsidiary, which pursues directly to the CEO and who are in charge of complying with the external and internal regulamortgage loan operations and other property internal control within their respective units. In tions applying to the operations. However, the ﬁnancing. Retail & E-services develops services turn, these managers have delegated responsiregulations are often complex and in some for e-commerce and traditional retailing under bility for internal control to managers who report cases the individual employee may have limited its own brand. to them. This responsibility means that ﬁt-forexperience. It is thus vital that supportive guidSince the year-end, operations in the purpose instructions and procedures for the ance is available from Compliance, to avoid misHandelsbanken Capital Markets business segoperation must be in place, and compliance takes. The compliance function must follow up ment have been reorganised. Merchant Bankwith these procedures must be monitored reguand actively ensure that laws, regulations and ing International has changed its name to larly. Thus, the responsibility for internal control internal rules, as well as accepted business Handelsbanken International, and from now on, and compliance is an integral part of managers’ practices and standards, are complied with in large corporate customers in Sweden will be responsibility at all levels in the Bank. the operations conducted by the Handelstaken care of within Handelsbanken Sweden. banken Group. In its supporting role, the funcAt the same time, Corporate Finance and Debt Internal Audit tion must provide advice and support to busiCapital Markets have been moved to the MarLong before external requirements on internal ness operations, and also assist in drawing up kets & Asset Management business area, to auditing were introduced, the Bank had an internal rules and implementing regulations, as achieve better co-ordination. internal audit function that was independent of well as providing information about new and The heads of the regional banks/general the line organisation. The organisation has cenamended rules for operations. managers in Denmark, Finland, Norway and the trally and regionally placed internal auditors. The Central Compliance is an independent unit Netherlands, and the general managers for the regional internal audit departments are part of with the functional responsibility for compliance international operations outside the home the Central Audit Department, which constitutes matters in the Group. The CEO appoints the markets, as well as the Head of UK operations, an integrated internal audit function. The Audit Head of Central Compliance. The Head of Cenare responsible to the public authorities in their Department comprises some 100 employees. tral Compliance reports quarterly to the CEO on respective countries for all operations that the The Head of the Central Audit Department is compliance in the Group. The Head of Central Bank and its subsidiaries pursue in those appointed by and reports to the Board. Thus the Compliance reports on compliance in the Group countries. internal audit function is the Board’s controlling twice a year directly to the Board’s risk commitThe Bank’s management includes Handelsbody. The elected organisation and long traditee and once a year to the Board as a whole. In banken’s Corporate Committee, whose main tion give Internal Audit the authority and integrity addition, material observations are reported task is to co-ordinate issues which are common required to enable the auditors elected by the regularly to the CEO. to the whole Group, and to prepare proposals to AGM to rely on measures and data from Internal be decided by the Board in accordance with Audit. Risk control Swedish regulations. In addition to the CEO, the Internal Audit is tasked with performing an The Bank is characterised by a clear division Corporate Committee consists of the CFO, the independent, impartial audit of the operations of responsibility where each part of the busiCIO and the Heads of Risk Control, Compliand ﬁnancial reporting of the Handelsbanken ness operations bears full responsibility for ance, HR, Credits and Sustainability, and also Group. This includes assessing and verifying risk management. There is local risk control the Head of Sweden and the Head of UK. Since processes for risk management, internal control at each regional bank and within the various the Head of Risk Control is a member of the and corporate governance. Their assignment is business areas, which check, for example, H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Control at Handelsbanken Shareholders External auditors Central Board Risk committee Credit committee Remuneration committee Audit committee Group Chief Executive Internal Audit Central Risk Control Central Compliance Regional banks, business areas and central units Local risk control Internal control is delegated so that all managers Local compliance are responsible for internal control. Functionally subordinated Reports that risks are within the limits and are correctly POLICY DOCUMENTS with other banks’ losses. The responsibility for valued. Local Risk Control carries out risk The following is a brief summary of the policy operational risk is an integral part of managerial analyses and veriﬁes that transactions are documents which the Board of Handelsbanken responsibility throughout the Group. conducted in a manner that does not entail has decided on and which apply at the time this undesirable risks. Local Risk Control reports Annual Report is published. Capital policy to the Central Risk Control and to the business The purpose of the capital policy is to ensure operations’ management. Credit policy that the Group’s supply of capital is satisfactory. Central Risk Control identiﬁes, measures, Credits may only be granted if there are good The Group must at all times be well capitalised analyses and reports all the Group’s material grounds for expecting the borrower to meet his or in relation to risk, and fulﬁl the goals established risks. This includes monitoring and checking her commitments. Credits must normally have by the Board and the capital adequacy requirethe Group’s risk management and assessing satisfactory collateral. The Bank strives to maintain ments established by supervisory authorities, that Handelsbanken’s risk management frameits historically low level of loan losses compared to even in situations of ﬁnancial stress (see the work is ﬁt-for-purpose and efﬁcient. Central other banks, thus contributing to the Bank’s proﬁtsection on risk in note G2 on pages 80–105). Risk Control also monitors that the risks and ability target and retaining its sound position. The Bank’s capital situation must also justify a risk management comply with the Bank’s risk continued high rating from the most important strategy and risk tolerance. Central Risk Policy for independent risk control rating agencies. Control is also generally responsible for correct Handelsbanken must have a risk control funcvaluation of ﬁnancial instruments. This respontion that is independent of the functions that are Financial policy sibility includes ensuring that senior manageto be monitored. Risk control must be enforced The Group’s funding must be well-diversiﬁed ment has reliable information regarding risks to regarding all material risks at Handelsbanken. in terms of markets, currencies and maturities. use in critical situations. Central Risk Control The risk control function must verify that all During stressed market conditions, the Bank also has functional responsibility for local risk major risks to which the Bank is exposed, or must have an adequate liquidity reserve to be control. may be exposed in the future, are identiﬁed and able to continue its operations for predeterThe Head of Central Risk Control reports managed by the relevant functions, and also mined periods of time, without new funding in directly to the CEO. Information is also provided supervise and monitor the company’s risk manthe ﬁnancial markets. to the CFO on a regular basis. The Head of Cenagement. The risk control function must also tral Risk Control reports regularly to the Board’s verify that every business unit monitors all its Policy for ﬁnancial risks risk committee and remuneration committee, material risks in an efﬁcient manner. The central Financial risks here refer to market risks and and once a year to the Board as a whole. The risk control function reports to the CEO. liquidity risks. Market risks are in turn divided Board is kept continuously informed of material into interest rate risks, equity price risks, currisks at the Bank. Central Risk Control is also in Policy for operational risk rency risks and commodity price risks. Financial charge of the Bank’s extensive risk reporting to The Bank’s tolerance of operational risk is very risks should normally only occur as a natural the supervisory authorities. low. Operational risk may, for example, relate to part of customer business, in connection with A more detailed description of the Bank’s risk processing errors or disruptions in IT systems. the Bank’s funding and liquidity management, management and control is contained in note Operational risk must be managed so that the and in its role as a market maker. Through this G2 on pages 80–105, and also in the Bank’s Group’s operational losses remain small, both in policy, the Board establishes measurement Pillar 3 Report. comparison with previous losses incurred, and methods for ﬁnancial risks. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Production and follow-up of corporate governance documents – an overview • New rules, regulations If a matter for the Board (or the Proposals for or recommendations Corporate Governance unit shareholders) decisions • Internally identiﬁed requirements If a matter Central Legal Department for the (operational corporate CEO governance) Proposals for decisions Decisions, assignments Delegation to the for the CEO Senior Management relevant person in Group Chief Executive The Board Senior Management Reporting policy documents Control functions follow up compliance with corporate governance documents This chart shows an overview of the process of producing and following up corporate governance documents. External factors – such as new regulations – or internal requirements may lead to a policy or guidelines needing to be drawn up or amended. The Corporate Governance unit formulates proposals for policies from the Board, which are then adopted by the Board. The Central Legal Department is responsible for formulating proposals for guidelines from the CEO, which are then submitted to the CEO for a decision. The CEO ensures that the policies and guidelines are implemented, and can delegate this task to a member of Senior Management. The Bank’s control functions have the task of monitoring compliance with these documents within the organisation. Information policy Policy on ethical standards always taking action where there is suspicion The Bank’s information must be correct, objecEmployees of the Bank must conduct themof corruption. tive and easy to understand. It must respect the selves in a manner that upholds conﬁdence in Employees of the Group must carry out recipient of the information and be provided at the Bank. All operations in the Group must be their responsibilities in all their activities at the the right time and in the right manner. The inforcharacterised by high ethical standards. FinanGroup and their external assignments in a mation should strengthen the Bank’s brand and cial advice must be based on the customer’s manner that upholds conﬁdence in Handelsthe trust of the Bank’s customers, the capital requirements. Conﬂicts of interest must be idenbanken, and must therefore not participate in market and society in general. Information protiﬁed and handled in a manner that is fair to all actions that may involve bribery or any other vided to the capital market must be correct, releparties involved. In case of doubt as to what is improper inﬂuence. The policy is available at vant, clear, reliable and in compliance with stock ethically acceptable, the matter must be dishandelsbanken.se/csreng. market regulations in all other respects. Informacussed with the employee’s immediate superior. tion is to be made public as soon as possible There must be no discrimination on grounds Policy for remuneration and suitability and simultaneously to the stock market, invessuch as gender or religion. The policy on ethical assessment tors, analysts, news services and other media. standards also describes how employees who In some countries, Handelsbanken is a party Normally, analysts and the media are simultanesuspect internal fraud or other irregularities to collective agreements concerning general ously invited to attend press conferences. should act, for example with the aid of Handelsemployment conditions during the period of banken’s whistleblowing system. The policy is employment, and on pension terms after reachSustainability policy available at handelsbanken.se/csreng. ing the age of retirement. Remuneration for work The policy establishes the focus for sustainabilperformed is set individually for each employee, ity in the Handelsbanken Group, in terms of Policy for managing conﬂicts of interest and is paid in the form of a ﬁxed salary, customHandelsbanken’s approach in material quesConﬂicts of interest are a natural part of a business ary salary beneﬁts and a pension provision. Varitions relating to customers, the Group’s actions operation, which means that these types of conable remuneration is applied with great caution as an employer and participant in society, and ﬂicts may arise within the Group’s operations. It is so as not to affect the Bank’s risk proﬁle. Salaalso the relationship with owners and investors. the responsibility of all heads of units within the ries are established locally in accordance with Handelsbanken aims to integrate ﬁnancial, social Bank to continuously identify potential conﬂicts the Bank’s decentralised method of working and and environmental sustainability into all its busiof interest. If a conﬂict of interest is identiﬁed, the take into account the collective agreements that ness operations. head of the unit responsible must ﬁrst ensure are binding upon the Bank. The remuneration Handelsbanken’s success is dependent on the that the customer’s interests are not adversely system is examined by compliance, independconﬁdence of customers, employees, owners, affected. If this is not possible, the customer must ent risk control and the HR department. public authorities and other stakeholders that be informed of the conﬂict of interest. The policy A more detailed description of Handelsbankthe Group is acting in a responsible manner. is available at handelsbanken.se/csreng. en’s remuneration principles is shown on page In order for this conﬁdence to be maintained, 59 and details about remuneration are shown in there must be transparency in the Group’s Policy against corruption note G8 on pages 108–111. sustainability activities. The policy is available The policy establishes the importance of preGroup HR performs suitability assessments at handelsbanken.se/csreng. venting and never accepting corruption, and of when board members are elected for the Bank’s H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT subsidiaries, and also performs suitability promptly and professionally, while maintaining a PRINCIPLES FOR REMUNERATION AT assessments ahead of decisions on appointdialogue with the customer, taking into considHANDELSBANKEN ment of members to the Senior Management eration the current regulations in the area to The Bank’s principles for remuneration to and the Head of Internal Audit. which the complaint relates. employees are long established. In general, Handelsbanken has low tolerance of risk and is Pension policy Policy for employees’ private securities of the opinion that ﬁxed remuneration contribPensions are part of the total remuneration to and currency transactions utes to healthy operations. This is, therefore, the the Bank’s employees. The total remuneration This policy applies to all Handelsbanken Group main principle. Variable remuneration is to be is to be on market terms. The pension terms employees – temporary as well as permanent – applied with caution, and is only paid to a very in the countries where the Bank pursues its closely-related persons and service providers. limited extent. Variable compensation is not operations must be competitive and adapted to Its purpose is to prevent any person who is covpaid to the Bank’s management, nor to any legislation and regulations, in accordance with ered by the policy from carrying out his or her employee who makes decisions on credits or the conditions prevailing in each country. own securities transactions that involve market limits. Handelsbanken complies with the Swedabuse, misuse or improper disclosure of conﬁish Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulations Policy for internal audit operations dential information under the regulations that governing remuneration policies in credit instituInternal Audit is to evaluate the efﬁciency and apply to the Bank and its employees, in accordtions, investment ﬁrms and fund management appropriateness of the Group’s processes for ance with prevailing legislation, directives from companies with a licence for discretionary portrisk management, internal steering and control. public authorities and voluntary agreements. folio management, which include special rules The audit function must impartially and indefor employees who receive variable remunerapendently examine the Group’s operations, Accounting policy tion and who are deemed to have a signiﬁcant accounts and governance process, ensure that This policy applies to the Bank’s accounting bearing on the institution’s risk proﬁle. The material risks are identiﬁed and managed in a function. The Bank’s accounts must be preregulations also contain provisions on deferred satisfactory manner, and ensure that material pared in accordance with the provisions of the remuneration. The heads of the areas conﬁnancial information is reliable, correct and Swedish Accounting Act and generally cerned, as well as those responsible for Risk delivered on time. Internal Audit is to report to accepted accounting standards in Sweden. The Control and Compliance, take part in the remuthe Board and its audit committee. consolidated accounts are prepared in accordneration committee’s preparation and assessance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU, plus ment of the Board’s remuneration policy and the Policy for managing and reporting events additional standards in accordance with the Bank’s remuneration system. of material importance Swedish Annual Accounts Act for Credit InstituBelow is an overall presentation of the Bank’s Incidents of material importance must be tions and Securities Companies, and the regufundamental principles for ﬁxed and variable reported to the Swedish Financial Supervisory lations and general guidelines issued by the remuneration. Other information concerning Authority. This refers to incidents that may Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. The remuneration paid by the Bank in accordance jeopardise the Bank’s or a subsidiary’s stability parent company’s annual report is prepared in with the current regulations is presented in note or protection of customers’ assets. accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts G8 on pages 108–111. This note also provides No such incidents occurred during the year. Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Cominformation about amounts for salaries, penpanies, and the regulations and general guidesions and other beneﬁts, and loans to Executive Policy for the Bank’s use of the external lines issued by the Swedish Financial SuperviDirectors. auditors’ services sory Authority. International units must prepare If the auditors that have been elected at the AGM accounts in accordance not only with the Fundamental remuneration principles are engaged for assignments other than auditing Group’s rules, but with the regulations that apply In Sweden and certain other countries, the Bank and related tasks, special instructions from the in the country where they are required to mainis party to collective agreements on general CEO must be complied with. Furthermore, this tain accounting records. terms and conditions of employment during the must be reported to the audit committee. employment period and on terms and condiDecisions regarding this policy are made by Policy on measures against money tions of pensions after employees have reached the Board’s audit committee. laundering and ﬁnancing of terrorism and retirement age. the observance of international sanctions The aim of the Bank’s policy on salaries is to Policy for compliance This policy is based on the Swedish law on increase the Bank’s competitiveness and proﬁtCompliance means the observance of laws, measures against money laundering and ﬁnancability, to enable the Bank to attract, retain and regulations, directives from public authorities ing of terrorism and the Swedish Act on Certain develop skilled staff, and to ensure good skills and internal rules, as well as accepted business International Sanctions. The Bank shall not pardevelopment and management succession planpractices or accepted standards. Using a riskticipate in transactions which may be suspected ning. Good proﬁtability and productivity perforbased approach, the compliance function is to of being linked to criminal activities, or transacmance at the Bank create the necessary condisupport and verify compliance. It reports to the tions of which the employees do not understand tions for salary growth for the Bank’s employees. Board and its risk committee, as well as to the the implications. The Bank’s work method is The Bank takes a long-term view of its staff’s CEO. The compliance function must be indebased on knowledge of customers, and an employment. Remuneration for work performed pendent of the functions that are monitored. understanding of customers’ operations. Knowis set individually for each employee, and is paid ledge of the customer must be achieved and in the form of a ﬁxed salary, customary salary Policy for handling customer complaints maintained for as long as the customer relationbeneﬁts and pension. At Handelsbanken, salThe branch responsible for the customer is ship exists. The Bank shall monitor and comply ary-setting takes place at local level. The main responsible for receiving and handling a cuswith decisions and sanctions pursuant to the principle is that salaries are set locally in salary tomer complaint. Complaints must be dealt with Swedish Act on Certain International Sanctions. reviews between the employee and his/her line H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT manager. These principles have been applied These ofﬁcers receive an allocation in HandelsMarkets and the UK subsidiary, Heartwood. for many years with great success. They mean banken’s proﬁt-sharing scheme Oktogonen on Nor is variable remuneration paid to the Bank’s that managers at all levels participate regularly the same conditions as all other employees of management or to any employee who makes in the salary process, and take responsibility for the Bank and are also entitled to convert salary decisions on credits or limits. Employees who, the Bank’s salary policy and the growth in their to pension on the same conditions as other alone or together with others, are entitled to own unit’s staff costs. employees. Note G8 on pages 108–111 prodecide on credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, Salaries are based on factors known in vides further information about remuneration commodity risk, currency risk or interest rate advance: the nature and level of difﬁculty of the to executive ofﬁcers. Fees for serving on the risk limits, as well as employees who, by decidwork, skills, performance and results achieved, boards of other companies on behalf of the ing on credits or product terms and conditions, leadership (for managers who are responsible Bank are to be paid to the Bank. can affect the Bank’s risk proﬁle, can have only for the career development of employees), Ahead of the 2016 AGM, the Board proposes ﬁxed remuneration. supply and demand on the market, and perforthe following guidelines for remuneration and Variable remuneration is based on Handelsmance as an ambassador for the Bank’s corpoother terms of employment for the executive banken’s model for setting salaries and it must rate culture. ofﬁcers of Handelsbanken. The guidelines shall be designed so that it does not encourage The principle of only having a ﬁxed salary not affect the remuneration previously decided unhealthy risk-taking and is within the limits of applies to 98 per cent of the Group’s employfor executive ofﬁcers. the Bank’s risk tolerance. The ﬁnancial result on ees, and is applied without exception to execu• The total remuneration is to be on market which the variable remuneration is based is tive ofﬁcers, all staff who decide on the Bank’s terms. charged with the actual cost of the capital and granting of credits, and employees in the Bank’s • Remuneration is only paid in the form of a liquidity required by the operations. control functions. ﬁxed salary, pension provision and customary Only employees within units whose proﬁts beneﬁts. By special decision of the Board, derive from commissions or intermediary transPrinciples for remuneration to the Bank can provide housing. Variable remuactions that take place without the Bank being executive ofﬁcers neration beneﬁts such as bonus and percentsubject to risk, are entitled to receive variable The shareholders at the AGM decide on guideage of proﬁts are not paid. remuneration. Variable remuneration is only paid lines for remuneration to the Group Chief Execu• The executive ofﬁcers in question are in cash (with the exception of certain deferred tive and other executive ofﬁcers. The guidelines included in the Oktogonen proﬁt-sharing variable remuneration in Heartwood, as speciare applied to the Group Chief Executive, Execscheme on the same terms as all employees ﬁed below), and the disbursement of at least utive Vice Presidents, other Executive Directors, of the Bank. 40 per cent of variable remuneration of and any members of the Handelsbanken Board • The retirement age is normally 65. Retirement SEK 100,000 or more must be deferred by at who are also employees of the Bank. For the beneﬁts are deﬁned beneﬁt or deﬁned contrileast three years. For variable remuneration AGM guidelines from 2015, see the Annual genbution, or a combination of the two. where the employee’s variable remuneration eral meeting 2015 section on page 53. • The period of notice on the part of an execuequals or exceeds the remuneration of any The Board decides on remuneration to the tive ofﬁcer is six (6) months, and on the part Executive Director, 60 per cent is deferred for ofﬁcers who are subject to the AGM’s remunerof Handelsbanken a maximum of twelve (12) four years. Deferred variable remuneration can ation guidelines (with the exception of the two months. If the Bank terminates the employbe removed or reduced if losses, increased risks Board members who are Handelsbanken ment contract later than ﬁve (5) years after the or increased expenses arise during the deferemployees), a total of 23 individuals (as at 31 person becomes one of the Bank’s executive ment period or if payment is deemed to be December 2015). The Board also decides on ofﬁcers, the period of notice is a maximum of unjustiﬁable in view of the Bank’s ﬁnancial situaremuneration for ofﬁcers with main responsibility twenty-four (24) months. No other termination. At Heartwood, half of deferred variable for the control functions: Compliance, Internal tion beneﬁts are paid. Other time periods may compensation is invested in Heartwood funds. Audit and Risk Control. apply due to collective agreements and Payment and the right of ownership to the variaIn accordance with guidelines from the AGM, labour legislation. ble remuneration do not accrue to the person remuneration is paid only in the form of ﬁxed sal• The Board shall have the right to deviate from with the entitlement until after the end of the ary and pension provisions, and also customary the established guidelines if there are special deferment period. No employee may receive beneﬁts such as a company car. Following a reasons in an individual case. variable remuneration of more than 100 per cent special decision by the Board, Handelsbanken of his/her ﬁxed remuneration. Variable remucan provide housing as part of the remuneraThese guidelines apply to the Group Chief Execneration for 2015 was equivalent to around one tion. No variable remuneration is paid, nor are utive, other Executive Directors and members of per cent of the total sum of salaries and fees in there any agreements on severance pay. The the Central Board of Handelsbanken who are the Group. period of notice on the part of the ofﬁcer is a also employees of the Bank. maximum of six months, and on the part of Handelsbanken a maximum of twelve months Variable remuneration or, if the Bank terminates the contract later than At Handelsbanken, the Board decides on the ﬁve years after the person becomes a member remuneration policy. The main principle of the of the group of executive ofﬁcers, the period of policy is that remuneration is paid in the form of notice is a maximum of 24 months. ﬁxed remuneration. However, the policy allows According to the AGM guidelines, the retirefor variable compensation, but for this a special ment age for new ofﬁcers is normally 65 years of decision is required by the CEO. The Board age. For ofﬁcers who remain in their positions after decides on the ﬁnal amount. reaching standard retirement age, a mutual period Variable remuneration occurs to a very limited of notice of no more than six months applies. extent, and only within Handelsbanken Capital H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT The Board’s report on internal control regarding financial reporting The presentation of Handelsbanken’s internal Group Finance is responsible for consolidated there are regulations and guidelines to ensure control process for ﬁnancial reporting is based accounts, consolidated ﬁnancial reports and availability, accuracy, conﬁdentiality and traceon the framework developed by the Committee for ﬁnancial and administrative control systems. ability of information in the business systems. of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway The unit’s responsibilities also include the As part of the quality control work for ﬁnancial Commission (COSO). The process was Group’s liquidity, the internal bank, own funds, reporting, the Board has set up an audit comdesigned to ensure compliance with the Bank’s tax analysis and Group-wide reporting to public mittee consisting of the Chairman of the Board principles for ﬁnancial reporting and internal authorities. The capital requirement is, however, and three Board members. The committee procontrol, and to ensure that the ﬁnancial reportcalculated by Central Risk Control. Group cesses crucial accounting matters and the ing has been prepared pursuant to the law, Finance must also ensure that the staff conﬁnancial reports produced by the Bank. The applicable accounting standards, and other cerned are aware of and have access to instruccommittee also supervises the efﬁciency of the requirements related to listed companies. tions of signiﬁcance to the ﬁnancial reporting. internal control, internal auditing and risk manRisk Control identiﬁes, checks and reports risks agement systems for ﬁnancial reporting. See the Control environment of errors in the Bank’s assumptions and assesssection under the Committee work heading on The control environment described above in this ments that form the basis of the Bank’s ﬁnancial page 54 for more details. Corporate Governance Report is fundamental reporting. to Handelsbanken’s internal control of ﬁnancial Reported amounts and analyses of income Information and communication reporting: organisational structure, division of statements and balance sheets are reconciled The Bank has information and communication responsibilities, guidelines and steering docuand checked regularly within the accounting paths with the aim of achieving completeness ments. and control organisation. and correctness in its ﬁnancial reports. The Risk assessment is another part of the interHeads of accounting and control at regional Group’s general accounting instructions and nal control process and comprises identiﬁcation banks, subsidiaries, central departments and special procedures for producing ﬁnancial and management of the risks that may affect international units are responsible for ensuring reports are communicated to the staff conﬁnancial reporting, as well as the control activithat the control activities in the ﬁnancial reportcerned via the Group’s intranet. The system ties aimed at preventing, detecting and correcting for their respective units are ﬁt-for-purpose used for ﬁnancial reporting encompasses the ing errors and deviations. – i.e. that they are designed to prevent, detect entire Group. and correct errors and deviations, and are in Risk assessment compliance with internal guidelines and instrucFollow-up The annual self-evaluations carried out at tions. At each quarterly closing of accounts, Internal Audit, Compliance and Central Risk regional banks, subsidiaries and central departthe units certify that the prescribed periodic Control, and also the accounting/control units, ments are an essential part of the Bank’s risk checks and reconciliation of accounts have monitor compliance with internal policies, assessment. Risks related to ﬁnancial reporting been carried out. instructions and other policy documents. Moniare part of this total analysis. The Head of Central Risk Control is responsitoring takes place at central level, but also In a self-evaluation, the events that constitute ble for setting up and maintaining a valuation locally in regional banks, subsidiaries, central potential risks to the operation are evaluated committee. The committee’s role is to support departments and international units. The and then the probability and consequences of risk control, Group Finance and the local risk instructions established by the Board for Intereach risk are estimated. Particular focus is and treasury functions in the decision-making nal Audit state that it must examine internal govplaced on the risk of fraud and the risk of loss or processes for valuation and reporting matters. ernance and control. Internal Audit is described embezzlement of assets. A plan of action is then The committee deals with the valuation of ﬁnanin more detail on page 56. The Group’s infordrawn up, based on the self-evaluation. Other cial assets and liabilities, including derivatives mation and communication paths are monitored aspects of Handelsbanken’s risk management at fair value and also ﬁnancial guarantees, both continually to ensure that they are ﬁt-for-purpose are detailed in note G2 on pages 80–105 and in own holdings and holdings on behalf of others. for the ﬁnancial reporting. the Bank’s Pillar 3 report. The committee must ensure that the valuation complies with external regulations, internal Control activities guidelines and current market practices. Various control activities are incorporated in the High information security is a precondition for entire ﬁnancial reporting process. good internal control of ﬁnancial reporting. Thus H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT The Board Name Pär Boman, Fredrik Lundberg, Jon Fredrik Baksaas, Tommy Bylund, Ole Johansson, Chairman Vice Chairman Board Member Board Member Board Member Year elected 2006 2002 2003 2000 2012 Year of birth 1961 1951 1954 1959 1951 Nationality Swedish Swedish Norwegian Swedish Finnish Position and assignChairman of Svenska Cellulosa President and CEO of Chairman of GSM Association. Bank Vice President at Chairman of Aker Arctic ments AB SCA y Vice Chairman AB L E Lundbergföretagen AB Handelsbanken y Chairman Technology Inc, Hartwall Industrivärden y Board y Chairman of Fastighets AB of the Oktogonen Foundation Capital Oy Ab y Vice Chairman member Skanska AB. L E Lundberg, Holmen AB, y Board member of Ljusdal of Konecranes Oyj Apb. Hufvudstaden AB, AB Municipality’s business policy Industrivärden, Indutrade AB foundation, Närljus. y Board member L E Lundbergföretagen AB, Skanska AB. Background 2006–2015 President and Active at Lundbergs since 1989–2015 Held various Employed at Handelsbanken 1975–2011 various positions CEO of Handelsbanken 1977 y CEO L E Lundbergpositions within the Telenor since 1980 y Branch manager within Wärtsilä (Metra) y 2002–2005 EVP, Head företagen AB since 1981. Group y CEO 2002–2015 at Handelsbanken since 1992. Group except for a period of Handelsbanken Markets y y Employee of Aker AS at Valmet 1979–1981 1998–2002 EVP, Head of (1988–1989), Stolt Nielsen y CEO 2000–2011. Regional Bank Denmark, Seaway AS (1985–1988) and Handelsbanken. Det Norske Veritas (1979–1985). Education Engineering and Business/ Graduate in Business Graduate in Business Upper Secondary School Diploma in Economics and Economics degree Administration and Master of Administration and PED from Business Administration Engineering, PhD (Econ) h.c. IMD and PhD (Tech) h.c. Remuneration 2015 1 SEK 3,075,000 SEK 1,232,500 SEK 1,000,000 SEK 0 SEK 1,530,000 Credit committee Chairman Deputy member Attendance 13/13 13/13 0 13/13 13/13 Audit committee Attendance 4/62 – 4/62 – 5/6 Remuneration Chairman committee Attendance 8/10 2 – – – 8/102 Risk committee Chairman Attendance 3/5 2 – 3/52 – 5/5 Board meetings Chairman Attendance 10/10 10/10 8/10 10/10 10/10 Own shareholdings 43,295, of which 20,795 in 242,010,037, of which 0 63,209, of which 63,209 in 45,955 and those of indirect holdings 3. 193,985,037 owned by AB indirect holdings3. Staff immediate family Industrivärden. convertible at nominal amount: 2011: SEK 1,131,799 2014: SEK 1,188,742 Dependent/ Not independent of the Bank Independent of the Bank Independent of the Bank, Not independent of the Independent of the Bank, its independent and its management (ex-CEO). and its management. Not its management and Bank and its management management and major Not independent of major independent of major major shareholders. (employee). Not independent shareholders. shareholders (Vice Chairman shareholders (Chairman of of major shareholders of AB Industrivärden). AB Industrivärden). (Chairman of Oktogonen Foundation). 1 2 During the period January 2015 until the AGM in March 2015, Jan Johansson Member of the Board/committee from March 2015 3 and Sverker Martin-Löf were Board members. During the period January Indirect holding of shares in Handelsbanken via the Oktogonen proﬁt-sharing foundation. 2015 to April 2015 inclusive, Anders Nyrén was a member of the Board and from January to March he was also Chairman of the Board. Their remuneration for this and for their work on the Board committees was as follows: Jan Johansson SEK 187,500, Sverker Martin-Löf SEK 356,250, and Anders Nyrén SEK 1,125,833. Pär Boman was an employee of Handelsbanken until the AGM in March 2015, and during his period of employment he did not receive any Board remuneration. Total remuneration to the Board in 2015 was SEK 10,548,333. 62 H AN DE L SB ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 15 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Name Lise Kaae, Bente Rathe, Charlotte Skog, Frank Vang-Jensen, Board Member Board Member Board Member Board Member Year elected 2015 2004 2012 2015 Year of birth 1969 1954 1964 1967 Nationality Danish Norwegian Swedish Danish Position and assignCFO Bestseller A/S y Board Chair of Ecohz AS and Bank ofﬁcer at Handelsbanken President and CEO of ments member Normal A/S, Cenium AS (both companies y Board member Financial Handelsbanken y No other Whiteway A/S and various are subsidiaries of Home Sector Union of Sweden, assignments. companies in the Bestseller Invest AS) y Board member Oktogonen Foundation, Group. Polaris Media ASA, SalMar Finansliv Sverige AB. ASA, Home Invest AS and its subsidiary Nordic Choice Hospitality Group AS. Background 1992–2008 1999–2002 Deputy CEO Employed at Handelsbanken 2014–2015 EVP, Head of PricewaterhouseCoopers. Gjensidige NOR (CEO of life since 1989. Handelsbanken Sweden insurance company, Chair of y 2007–2014 EVP, Head of Mutual Fund and Asset Handelsbanken Denmark Management Company) y 2006–2007 Chief Executive of y 1996–1999 CEO Gjensidige Stadshypotek AB y Employed Bank AS y 1993–1996 CEO at Handelsbanken since 1998. Elcon Finans AS y 1991–1993 Deputy CEO Forenede Forsikring y 1989–1991 CFO Forenede Forsikring y 1977–1989 Head of Credits and CFO E.A. Smith AS. Education Authorised Public Accountant Graduate in Business Economics Programme HD Financing & Credit, Administration and MBA Upper Secondary School HD Organisation & Management Remuneration 2015 1 SEK 480,000 SEK 1,561,250 SEK 0 SEK 0 Credit committee Deputy member Attendance – 13/13 1/13 9/132 Audit committee Chair Attendance – 4/6 2 – – Remuneration committee Attendance – 10/10 – – Risk committee Attendance – 5/5 – – Board meetings Attendance 7/102 10/10 10/10 7/102 Own shareholdings 0 3,990 22,232, of which 22,232 in 28,530, of which 6,530 in and those of indirect holdings 3. Staff indirect holdings 3. Staff immediate family convertible at nominal amount: convertible at nominal amount: 2011: SEK 242,722 2014: SEK 5,000,000 2014: SEK 251,744 Dependent/ Independent of the Bank, its Independent of the Bank, its Not independent of the Bank Not independent of the independent management and major management and major and its management Bank and its management shareholders. shareholders. (employee). Not independent (CEO). Independent of major of major shareholders (Board shareholders. Member of Oktogonen Foundation). Secretary of the Board and Corporate Governance Klas Tollstadius Secretary of the Board and Corporate Governance y Year of birth 1954 y Employed at Handelsbanken 1991 y Shareholdings* 20,895, of which 20,895 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 3,327,257, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 * Direct holdings of shares or convertibles refer to own holdings and those of closely related persons. ** Indirect holding of shares in Handelsbanken via the Oktogonen proﬁt-sharing foundation. 3 See note G38. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Senior Management and Audit and Whistleblowing Function Group Functions Executives Per Beckman 1, 2 Agneta Lilja 1, 2 Credits y Year of birth 1962 y Employed 1993 y Shareholdings* 10,895, of which 10,895 CIO y Year of birth 1961 y Employed 1985 y Shareholdings* 39,463, of which 39,463 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 5,545,428, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 3,763,599, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 Yonnie Bergqvist 1 Claes Norlén 1, 2 Central Head Ofﬁce y Year of birth 1961 y Employed 1979 y Shareholdings* 59,927, of which Central Head Ofﬁce y Year of birth 1955 y Employed 1978 y Shareholdings* 4,582, of which 59,516 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 5,000,000, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 2,839 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 4,654,514, 2014: SEK 5,441,079 Katarina Berner Frösdal 1, 2 Juha Rantamaa Sustainability y Year of birth 1956 y Employed 1979 y Shareholdings* 68,155, of which IT Operations & Development y Year of birth 1964 y Employed 2011 y Shareholdings* 8,881, 68,155 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 5,545,428, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 of which 8,881 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 242,722, 2014: SEK 1,188,742 Klas Bornälv Ulf Riese 1, 2 Infrastructure y Year of birth 1971 y Employed 1997 y Shareholdings* 10,665, of which CFO y Year of birth 1959 y Employed 1983 y Shareholdings* 142,025, of which 49,811 10,665 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 886,357, 2014: SEK 1,188,742 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 5,545,428, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 Maria Hedin 1, 2 Frank Vang-Jensen 1, 2 CRO y Year of birth 1964 y Employed 2010 y Shareholdings* 3,085, of which 2,839 President and Group Chief Executive y Year of birth 1967 y Employed 1998 y Shareholdings* in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 155,454, 2014: SEK 5,176,431 28,530, of which 6,530 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: –, 2014: SEK 5,000,000 Jan Häggström Martin Wasteson 2 Economic Research y Year of birth 1949 y Employed 1988 y Shareholdings* 25,683, of which Legal y Year of birth 1971 y Employed 2012 y Shareholdings* 1,060, of which 1,060 25,683 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 3,763,599, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: –, 2014: – Joakim Jansson 1, 2 Anders Öhman 1, 2 Business Support Capital Markets y Year of birth 1976 y Employed 2006 y Shareholdings* HR y Year of birth 1955 y Employed 2009 y Shareholdings* 8,604, of which 8,604 in indirect 5,041, of which 5,041 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: SEK 1,188,742 SEK 1,188,742 Anders H Johansson 1 Central Head Ofﬁce y Year of birth 1955 y Employed 1999 y Shareholdings* 9,246, of which 9,246 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 5,545,428, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 Johan Lagerström 1, 2 Communications y Year of birth 1961 y Employed 2002 y Shareholdings* 8,555, of which Independent of Senior Management 7,367 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 3,763,599, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 – Audit and Whistleblowing Function Rolf Marquardt 2 Tord Jonerot Compliance y Year of birth 1964 y Employed 2002 y Shareholdings* 7,585, of which 7,585 Audit y Year of birth 1958 y Employed 1990 y Shareholdings* 21,855, of which 21,855 in in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 886,357, 2014: SEK 1,188,742 indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 4,654,514, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Group Business Executives Nina Arkilahti 1 Lars Moesgaard 1 CEO Finland y Year of birth 1967 y Employed 1995 y Shareholdings* 18,104, of which CEO Denmark y Year of birth 1968 y Employed 1988 y Shareholdings* 7,408, of which 5,965 10,907 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 4,000,000, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: SEK 1,188,742 Anders Bouvin 1, 2 Stefan Nilsson CEO UK y Year of birth 1958 y Employed 1985 y Shareholdings* 40,247, of which 40,247 Eastern Sweden y Year of birth 1957 y Employed 1980 y Shareholdings* 63,085, of which in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 5,788,150, 2014: SEK 5,869,254 63,085 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 Michael Broom John Parker South West Great Britain y Year of birth 1959 y Employed 2009 y Shareholdings* 736, of Northern Great Britain y Year of birth 1955 y Employed 2006 y Shareholdings* 1,708, of which which 736 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: SEK 5,769,602 1,708 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: SEK 5,769,607 Per Elcar 1 Louise Sander Markets & Asset Management y Year of birth 1962 y Employed 2002 y Shareholdings* Pension & Life y Year of birth 1969 y Employed 2013 y Shareholdings* 721, of which 571 6,985, of which 6,985 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: –, 2014: SEK 1,188,742 SEK 1,188,742 Magnus Ericson Göran Stille Northern Sweden y Year of birth 1968 y Employed 1988 y Shareholdings* 19,611, of which Southern Sweden y Year of birth 1966 y Employed 1987 y Shareholdings* 10,895, of which 19,311 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: SEK 1,188,742 10,895 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 4,654,514, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 Michael Green 1, 2 Mikael Sørensen 1 CEO Sweden y Year of birth 1966 y Employed 1994 y Shareholdings* 14,529, of which CEO Netherlands y Year of birth 1966 y Employed 1994 y Shareholdings* 6,106, of which 14,529 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 5,545,428, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 6,106 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 John Hodson Ulrica Stolt Kirkegaard Southern Great Britain y Year of birth 1961 y Employed 2007 y Shareholdings* 1,337, of which Stadshypotek y Year of birth 1968 y Employed 1994 y Shareholdings* 13,768, of which 1,337 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: SEK 1,340,957 13,245 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,374,521, 2014: SEK 5,251,744 Katarina Ljungqvist Dag Tjernsmo 1 Western Sweden y Year of birth 1965 y Employed 1989 y Shareholdings* 22,785, of which CEO Norway y Year of birth 1962 y Employed 1988 y Shareholdings* 13,327, of which 13,327 22,785 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 4,000,000, 2014: SEK 5,441,079 Simon Lodge Pontus Åhlund North East Great Britain y Year of birth 1958 y Employed 2004 y Shareholdings* 2,791, of which Central Sweden y Year of birth 1963 y Employed 1983 y Shareholdings* 36,392, of which 2,791 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 4,654,514, 2014: SEK 5,769,602 33,392 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 3,763,599, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 Nick Lowe Carina Åkerström Central Great Britain y Year of birth 1958 y Employed 2007 y Shareholdings* 1,278, of which Stockholm Sweden y Year of birth 1962 y Employed 1986 y Shareholdings* 23,038, of which 1,278 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 1,131,799, 2014: SEK 5,152,092 23,038 in indirect holdings** y Convertibles 3: 2011: SEK 5,545,428, 2014: SEK 5,617,510 1 Executive Directors: Covered by the remuneration guidelines in accordance with the Swedish Companies Act. 2 Corporate Committee: A group of people who co-ordinate Group-wide issues and prepare proposals to be decided by the Board in accordance with Swedish regulations. * Direct holdings of shares or convertibles refer to own holdings and those of closely related persons. ** Indirect holding of shares in Handelsbanken via the Oktogonen proﬁt-sharing foundation. 3 See note G38. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 65 Financial reports Group CONTENTS Income statement 67 G23 Offsetting of ﬁnancial instruments 121 Statement of comprehensive income 68 G24 Intangible assets 122 Balance sheet 69 G25 Property and equipment 123 Statement of changes in equity 70 G26 Other assets 123 Cash ﬂow statement 71 G27 Prepaid expenses and Notes Group 72 accrued income 123 G1 Accounting policies and other G28 Due to credit institutions 124 basis for preparing the ﬁnancial reports 72 G29 Deposits and borrowing from the public 124 G2 Risk and capital management 80 G30 Liabilities where the customer G3 Net interest income 106 bears the value change risk 124 G4 Net fee and commission income 106 G31 Issued securities 125 G5 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial G32 Short positions 125 transactions 107 G33 Insurance liabilities 125 G6 Risk result – insurance 107 G34 Taxes 126 G7 Other income 107 G35 Provisions 127 G8 Staff costs 108 G36 Other liabilities 127 G9 Other expenses 112 G37 Accrued expenses and G10 Loan losses 112 deferred income 127 G11 Gains/losses on disposal G38 Subordinated liabilities 127 of property, equipment and intangible assets 115 G39 Classiﬁcation of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities 128 G12 Proﬁt for the year pertaining to discontinued operations 115 G40 Fair value measurement of ﬁnancial instruments 130 G13 Earnings per share 116 G41 Pledged assets, collateral G14 Other loans to central banks 116 received and transferred ﬁnancial assets 133 G15 Loans to other credit institutions 117 G42 Contingent liabilities 134 G16 Loans to the public 117 G43 Other commitments 134 G17 Interest-bearing securities 118 G44 Leases 135 G18 Shares 118 G45 Segment reporting 136 G19 Investments in associates 119 G46 Geographical information 138 G20 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 119 G47 Assets and liabilities in 138 currencies G21 Interests in unconsolidated structured entities 119 G48 Related-party disclosures 139 G22 Derivative instruments 120 G49 Capital adequacy 140 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 66 INCOME STATEMENT | GROUP Income statement Group Group SEK m 2015 2014 Interest income Note G3 43 052 50 899 Interest expense Note G3 -15 312 -23 655 Net interest income 27 740 27 244 Fee and commission income Note G4 10 975 10 143 Fee and commission expense Note G4 -1 655 -1 587 Net fee and commission income 9 320 8 556 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions Note G5 2 608 1 777 Risk result – insurance Note G6 157 165 Other dividend income 281 251 Share of proﬁt of associates Note G19 17 18 Other income Note G7 213 303 Total income 40 336 38 314 Staff costs Note G8 -12 581 -11 766 Other expenses Note G9 -5 203 -5 099 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets Note G24, G25 -487 -462 Total expenses -18 271 -17 327 Proﬁt before loan losses 22 065 20 987 Net loan losses Note G10 -1 597 -1 781 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets Note G11 7 6 Operating proﬁt 20 475 19 212 Taxes Note G34 -4 277 -4 069 Proﬁt for the year from continuing operations 16 198 15 143 Proﬁt for the year pertaining to discontinued operations, after tax Note G12 145 41 Proﬁt for the year 16 343 15 184 Attributable to Shareholders in Svenska Handelsbanken AB 16 342 15 183 Minority interest 1 1 Earnings per share, continuing operations, SEK Note G13 8.49 7.94 after dilution Note G13 8.32 7.82 Earnings per share, discontinued operations, SEK Note G13 0.08 0.02 after dilution Note G13 0.07 0.02 Earnings per share, total operations, SEK Note G13 8.57 7.96 after dilution Note G13 8.39 7.84 A 3:1 stock split was carried out in May 2015. The comparative ﬁgures in the above table have been adjusted for the new number of shares. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 67 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME | GROUP Statement of comprehensive income Group Group SEK m 2015 2014 Proﬁt for the year 16 343 15 184 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassiﬁed to the income statement Deﬁned beneﬁt plans -3 152 -2 699 Taxes on items that will not be reclassiﬁed to the income statement 688 592 Total items that will not be reclassiﬁed to the income statement -2 464 -2 107 Items that may subsequently be reclassiﬁed to the income statement Cash ﬂow hedges -501 8 772 Available-for-sale instruments 682 295 Translation difference for the year -1 713 5 924 of which hedges of net investments in foreign operations -394 2 558 Tax on items that may subsequently be reclassiﬁed to the income statement 215 -2 501 of which cash ﬂow hedges 110 -1 924 of which available-for-sale instruments 18 -14 of which hedges of net investments in foreign operations 87 -563 Total items that may subsequently be reclassiﬁed to the income statement -1 317 12 490 Total other comprehensive income -3 781 10 383 Total comprehensive income for the year 12 562 25 567 Attributable to Shareholders in Svenska Handelsbanken AB 12 562 25 566 Minority interest 0 1 The period’s reclassiﬁcations to the income statement are presented in Statement of changes in equity. Discontinued operations only affects Translation difference for the year in Other comprehensive income. During 2015, other comprehensive income totalled SEK -3,781m (10,383) after tax. The revaluation of pension liabilities had an adverse effect on this ﬁgure. In individual periods, the results of all items within other comprehensive income may ﬂuctuate due to changes in the discount rate, exchange rates and inﬂation. The pension liability for the deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans has increased and this affected other comprehensive income by SEK -2,464m after tax, compared with the period of comparison when the effect was SEK -2,107m after tax. The main reason for this year’s change is a decrease in the discount rate to 2.25% (3.00) for the Swedish pension obligations. Most of the Group’s long-term funding is hedged using derivatives, where all cash ﬂows are matched until maturity. Cash ﬂow hedging manages the risk of variations in the cash ﬂows related to changes in variable interest rates and currencies on lending and funding. The underlying funding and the asset which is being funded are valued at amortised cost, while the derivatives which are hedging these items are valued at market value. The impact on proﬁt/loss of the market valuation is reported under Cash ﬂow hedges. Over time, these values become zero at maturity for each individual hedge, but lead to volatility in other comprehensive income during their term. During the year, these value changes on hedge derivatives in cash ﬂow hedges were SEK -391m (6,848) after tax. The value changes are partly derived from exchange rate movements, but above all from changes in the discount rates of the respective currency. During the year, unrealised changes in the value of ﬁnancial assets classiﬁed as available for sale had a positive effect on other comprehensive income of SEK 700m (281) after tax. Unrealised exchange rate effects related to the restatement of foreign branches and subsidiaries to the Group’s presentation currency and the effect of hedging of net investments in foreign operations affected other comprehensive income during the year of SEK -1,626m (5,361) after tax during the ﬁrst half of the year. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 68 BALANCE SHEET | GROUP Balance sheet Group Group SEK m 2015 2014 ASSETS Cash and balances with central banks 202 630 454 532 Other loans to central banks Note G14 34 118 51 047 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks Note G17 74 777 78 219 Loans to other credit institutions Note G15 49 656 70 339 Loans to the public Note G16 1 866 467 1 807 836 Value change of interest hedged item in portfolio hedge 27 70 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Note G17 44 513 63 725 Shares Note G18 30 387 46 546 Investments in associates Note G19 245 286 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk Note G20 105 146 94 763 Derivative instruments Note G22 85 347 116 124 Reinsurance assets 10 6 Intangible assets Note G24 8 254 8 132 Property and equipment Note G25 2 348 2 239 Current tax assets 143 115 Deferred tax assets Note G34 1 489 389 Assets held for sale 1 442 1 196 Other assets Note G26 8 887 14 321 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Note G27 6 247 6 791 Total assets Note G39 2 522 133 2 816 676 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Due to credit institutions Note G28 163 770 200 074 Deposits and borrowing from the public Note G29 753 855 1 022 267 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk Note G30 105 225 94 864 Issued securities Note G31 1 245 367 1 212 613 Derivative instruments Note G22 40 592 62 878 Short positions Note G32 2 416 20 648 Insurance liabilities Note G33 607 663 Current tax liabilities 996 957 Deferred tax liabilities Note G34 8 844 9 209 Provisions Note G35 113 68 Net pension liabilities Note G8 5 314 1 480 Liabilities related to assets held for sale 759 580 Other liabilities Note G36 14 206 14 578 Accrued expenses and deferred income Note G37 17 585 18 681 Subordinated liabilities Note G38 34 216 30 289 Total liabilities Note G39 2 393 865 2 689 849 Minority interest 4 3 Share capital 2 956 2 956 Share premium 3 204 3 203 Reserves 8 440 12 220 Retained earnings 97 322 93 262 Proﬁt for the year, attributable to shareholders in Svenska Handelsbanken AB 16 342 15 183 Total equity 128 268 126 827 Total liabilities and equity 2 522 133 2 816 676 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 69 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY | GROUP Statement of changes in equity Group Group 2015 Deﬁned Fair Share Share beneﬁt Hedge value Translation Retained Minority SEK m capital premium plans reserve reserve reserve earnings interest Total Opening equity 2015 2 956 3 203 1 003 5 331 1 324 4 562 108 445 3 126 827 Proﬁt for the year 16 342 1 16 343 Other comprehensive income -2 464 -391 700 -1 625 -1 -3 781 Total comprehensive income for the year -2 464 -391 700 -1 625 16 342 0 12 562 Dividend -11 124 -11 124 Effects of convertible subordinated loans 0 1 1 2 Changes in minority interests 0 1 1 Closing equity 2015 2 956 3 204 -1 461 4 940 2 024 2 937 113 664 4 128 268 Group 2014 Deﬁned Fair Share Share beneﬁt Hedge value Translation Retained Minority SEK m capital premium plans reserve reserve reserve earnings interest Total Opening equity 2014 2 956 2 843 3 110 -1 517 1 043 -799 103 701 2 111 339 Proﬁt for the year 15 183 1 15 184 Other comprehensive income -2 107 6 848 281 5 361 0 10 383 Total comprehensive income for the year -2 107 6 848 281 5 361 15 183 1 25 567 Dividend -10 488 -10 488 Effects of convertible subordinated loans 0 360 49 409 Changes in minority interests 0 0 0 Closing equity 2014 2 956 3 203 1 003 5 331 1 324 4 562 108 445 3 126 827 During the period January to December 2015, convertibles for a nominal value of SEK 1m (6) relating to the 2008 subordinated convertible bond had been converted into 18,925 class A shares (89,772). At the end of the ﬁnancial year the number of Handelsbanken shares in the trading book was 0 (0). Speciﬁcation of changes in equity Change in hedge reserve SEK m 2015 2014 Hedge reserve at beginning of year 5 331 -1 517 Unrealised value changes during the year -1 681 14 631 Reclassiﬁed in the income statement1 1 290 -7 783 Hedge reserve at end of year 4 940 5 331 Change in fair value reserve SEK m 2015 2014 Fair value reserve at beginning of year 1 324 1 043 Unrealised market value change during the year for remaining and new holdings 748 240 Reclassiﬁed in the income statement2 -48 41 Fair value reserve at end of year 2 024 1 324 Change in translation reserve SEK m 2015 2014 Translation reserve at beginning of year 4 562 -799 Change in translation difference pertaining to branches -1 217 5 136 Change in translation difference pertaining to subsidiaries -403 230 Reclassiﬁed in the income statement3 -5 -5 Translation reserve at end of year 2 937 4 562 1 Tax that has been reclassiﬁed to the income statement pertaining to this item SEK 364m (2,195). 2 Tax that has been reclassiﬁed to the income statement pertaining to this item SEK 63m (-10). 3 Tax that has been reclassiﬁed to the income statement pertaining to this item SEK 1m (1). H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 70 CASH FLOW STATEMENT | GROUP Cash flow statement Group Group SEK m 2015 2014 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Operating proﬁt, total operations 20 656 19 304 of which paid-in interest 43 870 51 568 of which paid-out interest -16 084 -27 175 of which paid-in dividends 706 929 Adjustment for non-cash items in proﬁt/loss Loan losses 1 758 2 066 Unrealised changes in value 1 956 1 158 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments 487 462 Paid income tax -4 878 -4 011 Changes in the assets and liabilities of operating activities Other loans to central banks 16 928 -15 887 Loans to other credit institutions 20 635 -7 285 Loans to the public -60 419 -113 608 Interest-bearing securities and shares 35 113 -20 983 Due to credit institutions -36 304 28 450 Deposits and borrowing from the public -268 412 197 189 Issued securities 32 754 61 972 Derivative instruments, net positions 8 414 -44 123 Short-term positions -18 187 -2 197 Claims and liabilities on investment banking settlements 3 350 -1 033 Other -26 146 -48 676 Cash ﬂow from operating activities -272 295 52 798 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Change in shares 3 675 -1 969 Change in interest-bearing securities 11 3 405 Change in property and equipment -510 -391 Change in intangible assets -456 -258 Cash ﬂow from investing activities 2 720 787 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Repayment of subordinated loans -5 690 -2 905 Issued subordinated loans 10 082 16 612 Dividend paid -11 124 -10 488 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities -6 732 3 219 Cash ﬂow for the year -276 307 56 804 Liquid funds at beginning of year 454 532 334 794 Cash ﬂow from operating activities -272 295 52 798 Cash ﬂow from investing activities 2 720 787 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities -6 732 3 219 Exchange rate difference on liquid funds 24 405 62 934 Liquid funds at end of year 202 630 454 532 Liquid funds are deﬁned as Cash and balances with central banks. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 20 15 71 NOTES | GROUP Notes Group G1 Accounting policies and of hedge accounting allow the company’s own risk management to be better reﬂected in the acquisition balance sheet is recognised as goodwill in the Group’s balance sheet. Acquisitionother basis for preparing the ﬁnancial reports. The Bank is currently analysing related expenses are recognised when they financial reports the ﬁnancial effects of the new standard in more arise. The subsidiary’s ﬁnancial reports are detail. included in the consolidated accounts starting 1. STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with cuson the acquisition date until the date on which The consolidated accounts have been prepared tomers has also been published by the IASB. control ceases. Intra-group transactions and in accordance with international ﬁnancial reportAssuming that IFRS 15 is adopted by the EU, balances are eliminated when preparing the ing standards (IFRS) and interpretations of these and the date of implementation proposed by Group’s ﬁnancial reports. standards as adopted by the EU. In addition, the IASB is not changed, this standard will be Where the accounting policies applied for an the accounting policies also follow the Annual applied as of the 2018 ﬁnancial year. The current individual subsidiary do not correspond to the Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securiassessment is that the new standard will not policies applied in the Group, an adjustment is ties Companies (1995:1559), and the regulations have any material impact on Handelsbanken’s made to the consolidated accounts when conand general guidelines issued by the Swedish ﬁnancial reports, capital adequacy or large solidating the subsidiary. Financial Supervisory Authority, FFFS 2008:25, exposures. Mutual funds in which the Bank owns more Annual reports in credit institutions and securiIFRS 16 Leases has also been published by than 50 per cent of the shares are consolidated ties companies. RFR 1 Supplementary accountthe IASB. Assuming that IFRS 16 is adopted by in their entirety in the balance sheet under ing rules for groups as well as statements from the EU, and the date of implementation proAssets/Liabilities where the customer bears the the Swedish Financial Reporting Board are also posed by the IASB is not changed, this standvalue change risk. Ownership of between 20 applied in the consolidated accounts. ard will be applied as of the 2019 ﬁnancial year. and 50 per cent is consolidated in certain cases The parent company’s accounting policies The main change in the new standard is that if the circumstances indicate that the Bank has are shown in note P1. lease agreements where the Bank is the lessee, a controlling interest, for example if the fund has with certain exceptions, will need to be reported a broad management mandate and generates a Issuing and adoption of annual report in the balance sheet. The Bank is analysing the high proportion of variable return. Funds which The annual report and consolidated accounts ﬁnancial effects of the new standard. the Bank owns through unit-linked insurance were approved for issue by the Board on 8 None of the other changes in the accounting contracts are not consolidated. February 2016 and will be presented for adopregulations issued for application are assessed tion by the AGM on 16 March 2016. to have a material impact on Handelsbanken’s Associated companies ﬁnancial reports, capital adequacy, large expoCompanies in which Handelsbanken has a 2. CHANGED ACCOUNTING POLICIES ETC. sures or other circumstances according to the signiﬁcant inﬂuence are reported as associates. On 1 January 2015, the interpretative communiapplicable regulatory requirements. A signiﬁcant inﬂuence normally exists when the cation IFRIC 21 Levies came into effect for share of voting power in the company is at least application within the EU. This regulatory 3. BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION AND 20 per cent and at most 50 per cent. Associates change has not had a material impact on the PRESENTATION are reported in the consolidated accounts in Group’s ﬁnancial position and earnings, nor has Subsidiaries accordance with the equity method. This means it had any impact on capital adequacy. In other All companies directly or indirectly controlled by that the holding is initially reported at cost. The respects, the accounting policies, classiﬁcations Handelsbanken (subsidiaries) have been fully carrying amount is increased or decreased to and calculation methods applied by the Group consolidated. The Bank is deemed to have recognise the Group’s share of the associated during the ﬁnancial year agree in all essentials direct control of a company when it is exposed company’s proﬁts or losses after the date of with the policies applied in the 2014 annual to, or is entitled to, variable returns from its holdacquisition. Any dividends from associates report. ings in the company and can affect the return by are deducted from the carrying amount of the means of its inﬂuence over the company. Conholding. Shares of the proﬁt of associates are Future regulatory changes trol is normally presumed to exist if Handelsreported as Share of proﬁt of associates on a IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which is to replace banken owns more than 50 per cent of the separate line in the Group’s income statement. IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and voting power at shareholders’ meetings or the Measurement, was published by the IASB in equivalent. Discontinued operations and held-for-sale July 2014. Assuming that IFRS 9 is adopted by Subsidiaries are consolidated according to assets the EU, and the date of implementation prothe acquisition method. This means that the Non-current assets or a group of assets posed by the IASB is not changed, this standacquisition of a subsidiary is regarded as a (disposal group) are classiﬁed as held for sale ard will be applied as of the 2018 ﬁnancial year. transaction where the Group acquires the comwhen the carrying amount will be mainly recovThe standard comprises three areas: classiﬁcapany’s identiﬁable assets and assumes its liabiliered through sale and when the sale is highly tion and measurement, impairment of ﬁnancial ties and obligations. In the case of business probable. After classiﬁcation as an asset held instruments and general hedge accounting. The combinations, an acquisition balance sheet is for sale, special valuation principles are applied. new regulations for classiﬁcation and measureprepared, where identiﬁable assets and liabilities These principles essentially mean that, with ment of ﬁnancial instruments are based on the are valued at fair value at the time of acquisition. the exception of items such as ﬁnancial assets company’s business model and the purpose of The cost of the business combination comand liabilities, assets held for sale and disposal the holding. As a result of the new regulations prises the fair value of all assets, liabilities and groups are measured at the lower of the caron impairment, a model is being introduced issued equity instruments provided as payment rying amount and fair value less costs to sell. which is based on expected loan losses and for the net assets in the subsidiary. Any surplus Thus, property, plant and equipment or intannot on incurred loan losses as in the existing due to the cost of the business combination gible assets held for sale are not depreciated model in IAS 39. The new general regulations exceeding the identiﬁable net assets on the or amortised. Any impairment losses and H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 72 NOTES | GROUP subsequent revaluations are recognised directly Group’s presentation currency, the current applied for assets and liabilities carried on the in the income statement. Gains are not recogmethod has been used. This means that assets same line in the balance sheet. A classiﬁcation nised if they exceed accumulated impairment and liabilities are translated at the closing day into measurement categories of the ﬁnancial loss. Assets and liabilities held for sale are rate. Equity is translated at the rate applicable at assets and liabilities which are recognised on reported as a separate line item in the Group’s the time of investment or earning. The income the balance sheet is shown in note G39. balance sheet until the time of sale. statement has been translated at the average Upon initial recognition, all ﬁnancial assets Independent operations of a material nature annual rate. Exchange differences are recogand liabilities are designated at fair value. For which can be clearly differentiated from the nised as a component of Other comprehensive assets and liabilities at fair value through proﬁt Group’s other operations and which are classiincome and are included in the translation or loss, the transaction costs are recognised ﬁed as held for sale using the described policies reserve in equity. For other ﬁnancial instruments, the transaction are recognised as discontinued operations. costs are included in the acquisition value. Subsidiaries acquired solely for resale are also 6. RECOGNITION OF ASSETS AND recognised as discontinued operations. In LIABILITIES Loans and receivables recognition as a discontinued operation, the Purchases and sales of equities and money Unlisted interest-bearing assets are classiﬁed as operation’s proﬁt is reported on a separate line market and capital market instruments on the Loans and receivables. Loans and receivables in the income statement, separate from other spot market are recognised on the trade date. are carried at amortised cost, i.e. the discounted proﬁt/loss items. Proﬁt or loss from discontinThe same applies to derivatives. Other ﬁnancial present value of all future cash ﬂows relating to ued operations comprises the after-tax proﬁt assets and liabilities are normally recognised the instrument where the discount rate is the or loss of discontinued operations, the proﬁt or on the settlement date. Financial assets are asset’s effective interest rate at the time of loss after tax that arises when valuing the assets removed from the balance sheet when the conacquisition. Loans and receivables are subject held for sale/disposal groups that are included tractual rights to the cash ﬂows originating from to impairment testing when indications of an in discontinued operations at fair value less the asset expire or when all risks and rewards impairment loss are present. See section 9 for costs to sell, and realised proﬁt or loss from the related to the asset are transferred to another more details. The impairment loss is recognised disposal of discontinued operations. party. A ﬁnancial liability is removed from the in the income statement. Thus, loans and balance sheet when the obligation ceases or receivables are recognised at their net amount, 4. SEGMENT REPORTING is cancelled. after deduction for probable and actual loan The segment reporting presents income/ When accounting for business combinations, losses. Early redemption fees for loans and expenses and assets/liabilities broken down the acquired operations are recognised in the receivables which are repaid before maturity are by business segments. A business segment is Group’s accounts from the acquisition date. recognised immediately in the income statea part of the Group that runs operations which The acquisition date is the date when controlment under Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transgenerate external or internal income and ling inﬂuence of the acquired entity starts. The actions. expenses and of which the proﬁt/loss is reguacquisition date may differ from the date when larly assessed and followed up by the company the transaction is legally established. Assets held to maturity management as part of corporate governance. Financial assets and liabilities are set off in the Interest-bearing assets which the Group intends The principles for segment reporting are balance sheet if the Bank has a contractual right and has the capacity to hold to maturity are described further in note G45. and intention to settle with a net amount. Further reported in the Assets held to maturity category. information about set-off of ﬁnancial assets and Assets that are classiﬁed to be held to maturity 5. ASSETS AND LIABILITIES IN FOREIGN liabilities is provided in note G23. are carried at amortised cost. Assets held to CURRENCIES The policies for recognising assets and maturity are subject to impairment testing when The Group’s presentation currency is Swedish liabilities in the balance sheet are of special there are indications of an impairment loss. See kronor. The functional currency for the Group’s importance when accounting for repurchase section 9 for more details. operations outside Sweden usually differs transactions, securities loans and leases. See from the Group’s presentation currency. The the separate sections concerning these. Assets and liabilities held for trading currency used in the economic environment Assets and liabilities held for trading consist of where the operations are primarily conducted 7. CLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS listed ﬁnancial instruments and derivatives. is regarded as the functional currency. AND LIABILITIES Financial instruments held for trading are recogTransactions in foreign currency are transFor the purposes of measurement, in compliance nised at fair value in the balance sheet. Interest, lated to the functional currency on the transacwith IAS 39, all ﬁnancial assets are placed in the dividends and other value changes related to tion date. Monetary items and assets and liabilifollowing valuation categories: these instruments are recognised in the income ties at fair value are valued at the functional 1. loans and receivables statement under Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial currency’s spot price at the end of the balance 2. assets held to maturity transactions. sheet date. Translation differences arising from 3. assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss non-monetary items classiﬁed as available-for• held for trading Financial assets and liabilities which upon sale ﬁnancial assets are recognised as a com• which upon initial recognition were designated initial recognition were classiﬁed at fair value ponent of Other comprehensive income and at fair value through proﬁt or loss in the income statement accumulated in equity. Exchange rate differ4. available-for-sale assets. The option of classifying ﬁnancial instruments at ences arising when translating monetary items fair value through the income statement has comprising part of a net investment in a foreign Financial liabilities are classiﬁed as follows: been applied for ﬁnancial assets and liabilities operation are recognised in the same way. 1. liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss that are not held for trading but for which the Other exchange rate differences are recognised • liabilities held for trading internal management and valuation is based on in the income statement. • liabilities which upon initial recognition were fair values (for example, assets and liabilities designated at fair value through proﬁt or loss resulting from unit-linked insurance contracts). Translation of foreign operations to the 2. other ﬁnancial liabilities. This valuation principle has also been applied to Group’s presentation currency avoid inconsistencies when valuing assets and When translating the foreign units’ (including The classiﬁcation in the balance sheet is indeliabilities which are counter-positions of each branches’) balance sheets and income statependent of the measurement category. Thus, other and which are managed on a portfolio ments from the functional currency to the different measurement principles may be basis. The option of recognising assets and H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 73 NOTES | GROUP liabilities at fair value in proﬁt or loss has been way, i.e. they are not recognised in the balance instrument’s various components are similar applied for ﬁnancial instruments that are reporsheet during the life of the transaction. Depend(such as variable rate lending with an interest ted in the balance sheet under Interest-bearing ing on the counterparty, the payment made is rate cap) are not accounted for separately. The securities eligible as collateral with central recognised under Other loans to central banks, inherent value of the option to convert in issued banks, Loans to the public, Bonds and other Loans to other credit institutions or Loans to the convertible debt instruments is recognised sepainterest-bearing securities, Shares and Assets/ public. Collateral received which are sold on rately in equity. The value of the equity compoliabilities where the customer bears the value under repurchase agreements are reported as nent is determined at the time of issue as the difchange risk. off-balance sheet commitments. ference between the fair value of the convertible Changes in the fair value of ﬁnancial instruinstrument in its entirety reduced by the fair value ments that are measured at fair value are Securities loans of the liability component. The carrying amount reported in the income statement under Net Lent securities remain in the balance sheet and of the equity component is not adjusted during gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions. Interest are also reported off balance as Pledged assets. the life of the convertible instrument. The liability related to lending which upon initial recognition Borrowed securities are not recognised in the component is recognised at fair value in the balwas categorised at fair value in the income balance sheet unless they are sold, in which ance sheet at the time of issue. After initial recogstatement is recognised in Net interest income. case a value corresponding to the sold instrunition, the liability component is carried at amorment’s fair value is recognised as a liability. Bortised cost at the original effective interest rate. Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets rowed securities which are lent to a third party The majority of the Group’s holdings of ﬁnancial are reported as off-balance sheet commitments. 8. PRINCIPLES FOR FAIR VALUE instruments for which there is an active market MEASUREMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS but which are not held for trading are classiﬁed Financial guarantees and loan commitments AND LIABILITIES as available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets. Financial guarantees are contracts that require Fair value is deﬁned as the price that would be Financial assets which have been classiﬁed the issuer to make speciﬁed payments to reimreceived to sell an asset or paid to transfer a as available for sale are recognised at fair value burse the holder for a loss incurred because a liability in an orderly transaction between indein the balance sheet. Changes in market value speciﬁed debtor fails to make payment when pendent market participants. of the assets are recognised as a component of due in accordance with the terms of a debt For ﬁnancial instruments traded on an active Other comprehensive income and are included instrument, for example a credit guarantee. The market, the fair value is the same as the quoted in the fair value reserve in equity. Changes in fair fair value of an issued guarantee is the same as market price. An active market is one where value are not recognised in the income statethe premium received when it was issued. Upon quoted prices are readily and regularly available ment until the asset has been realised or an initial recognition, the premium received for the from a regulated market, execution venue, reliaimpairment loss has occurred. Interest related guarantee is recognised as deferred income in ble news service or equivalent, and where the to this category of assets is recognised directly the balance sheet. The guarantee is subseprice information received can be veriﬁed by in net interest income in the income statement. quently measured at the higher of the amortised means of regularly occurring transactions. The Exchange rate effects relating to monetary premium or the amount that represents the current market price is generally the same as assets which are available for sale are reported expected cost of settling the obligation to which the current bid price for ﬁnancial assets or the in Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions. the guarantee gives rise. In addition, the total current ask price for ﬁnancial liabilities. For groups Impairment testing of available-for-sale ﬁnancial guaranteed amount relating to guarantees of ﬁnancial instruments which are managed on assets is performed when there is an indication issued is reported off balance as a contingent the basis of the Bank’s net exposure to market of impairment; see section 9 concerning impairliability. A utilised guarantee is reported as a risk, the current market price is presumed to be ment losses for ﬁnancial assets. Dividends on probable or actual loan loss, depending on the the same as the price which would be received shares designated as available for sale are concircumstances. or paid if the net position were divested. tinuously recognised in proﬁt or loss as Other Premiums for purchased ﬁnancial guarantees For ﬁnancial instruments where there is no dividend income. are accrued and recognised as decreased interreliable information about market prices, fair est income in net interest income if the debt value is established using valuation models. The Reclassiﬁcation of ﬁnancial instruments instrument to which the guarantee refers is recvaluation models used are based on input data During the ﬁnancial year 2008, Handelsbanken ognised there. Other premiums for purchased which essentially can be veriﬁed using market reclassiﬁed some portfolios of interest-bearing guarantees are recognised in Net fee and observations such as market interest rates and securities. The regulations in IAS 39 only allow commission income. Loan commitments are share prices. If necessary, an adjustment is for reclassiﬁcation of certain ﬁnancial assets and reported off-balance until the settlement date made for other variables which a market particionly under exceptional circumstances. No furof the loan. Fees received for loan commitments pant would be expected to take into considerather reclassiﬁcation has been performed since are accrued in net fee and commission income tion when setting a price. The assumptions the reclassiﬁcation in 2008. The impact of the over the maturity of the commitment unless it is used in the valuation are based on internally reclassiﬁcation is described in note G39. highly probable that the commitment will be fulgenerated experience and are continuously ﬁlled, in which case the fee received is included examined by the risk organisation. The result Repurchase transactions in the effective interest rate of the loan. is compared with the actual outcome so as to Repurchase transactions, or repo transactions, identify any need for adaptations of assumprefer to agreements where the parties simultaCombined ﬁnancial instruments tions and forecasting models. neously agree on the sale of speciﬁc securities Clearly separable ﬁnancial components of and the repurchase of these securities at a assets and liabilities (such as derivatives) are Interest-bearing securities pre-determined price. Securities sold in a repo normally accounted for separately in the balance Interest-bearing securities issued by governtransaction remain on the balance sheet during sheet. This is the case, for example, for issues ments and Swedish mortgage bonds are valued the life of the transaction. The sold instrument is of equity-linked bonds and other structured using current market prices. Corporate bonds also reported off the balance sheet as collateral products where the derivative is reported sepaare valued using valuation techniques based on pledged. Depending on the counterparty, payrately from the host contract at fair value in the market yields for the corresponding maturity ment received is recognised under Due to credit income statement. adjusted for credit and liquidity risk. The values institutions or as Deposits and borrowing from Combined ﬁnancial instruments held for tradare regularly examined in order to ensure that the public. Securities bought in a repo transacing and combined ﬁnancial instruments where the valuation reﬂects the current market price. tion are accounted for in the corresponding the economic characteristics and risks of the The examinations are mainly performed by H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 74 NOTES | GROUP obtaining prices from several independent price over the life of the derivative. In addition, the as repossessed real property. An impairment sources and by reconciliation with recently perBank makes an independent valuation of the loss is recognised if the estimated recoverable formed transactions in the same or equivalent total credit risk component (own credit risk as value is less than the carrying amount and is instruments. well as counterparty risk) in outstanding modelrecognised as a loan loss in the income statevalued derivatives. Changes in fair value due to ment. A reported loan loss reduces the carrying Shares changed credit risk are recognised in proﬁt/loss amount of the loan in the balance sheet, either Shares listed on an active market are valued at to the extent that the overall effect exceeds nondirectly (actual loss) or by a provision account market price. When valuing listed shares, the recognised day 1 effects. for loan losses (probable loss). choice of model is determined by what is deemed In addition to this individual assessment of appropriate for the individual instrument. Lending classiﬁed to be measured loans, a collective assessment is made with Holdings of unlisted securities mainly consist at fair value the purpose of identifying the need to recogof various types of jointly owned operations Lending that is classiﬁed to be measured at fair nise an impairment loss that cannot yet be related to the Bank’s core business. In general, value through the income statement is valued at allocated to individual loans. The analysis is such holdings are valued at the Bank’s share the present value of expected future cash ﬂows. based on a distribution of individually valued of the company’s net asset value. For unlisted When performing the calculation the market rate loans in terms of the risk class. An impairment shares for which the company agreement is adjusted for credit risk. The credit risk preloss is recognised if this is justiﬁable taking into regulates the price at which the shares can be mium is assumed to be the same as the original account changes in the risk classiﬁcation and divested, the holdings are valued at the divestmargin as long as there is no proof that the expected loss. Impairment losses which have ment price determined in advance. In all matecounterparty’s repayment capacity has signiﬁbeen recognised for a group of loans are transrial respects, unlisted shares are classiﬁed as cantly deteriorated. Information about repayferred to impairment losses for individual loans available for sale. Value changes for these holdment capacity is obtained from the Bank’s interas soon as there is available information about ings are thus reported in Other comprehensive nal rating system. Value changes of loans at fair the impairment in value at an individual level. income. value are reported in net gains/losses on ﬁnanA group impairment test is also performed for When valuing unlisted shares in private cial transactions. homogeneous groups of smaller loans with a equity funds, valuation principles adopted by similar risk proﬁle. the European Venture Capital & Private Equity Assets and liabilities where the customer Loan losses for the period comprise actual Association (EVCA) are used. In these models, bears the value change risk losses and probable losses on credits granted, the market value of the investments is derived Assets where the customer bears the value minus recoveries and reversals of previous from a relative valuation of comparable listed change risk mainly comprise shares in unitimpairment losses recognised for probable loan companies in the same sector. Adjustments are linked insurance contracts. These shares are losses. Actual loan losses may refer to entire made for proﬁt/loss items that prevent comparivalued using the fund’s current market value loans or parts of loans and are recognised when son between the investment and the compared (NAV). Each asset corresponds to a liability there is no realistic possibility of recovery. This is company, and the value of the investment is where the customer bears the value change the case, for example, when a trustee in bankthen determined on the basis of proﬁt multiples risk. The valuation of these liabilities reﬂects the ruptcy has estimated bankruptcy dividends, such as P/E and EV/EBITA. Value changes valuation of the assets. Since the policyholders/ when a scheme of arrangement has been and capital gains on holdings in private equity shareholders have prior rights to the assets, accepted, or a concession has been extended funds which comprise part of the investment there is no motive to adjust the valuation for in some other way. An amount forgiven in conassets in the insurance operations are not credit risk. nection with reconstruction of a loan or group of reported directly in the income statement but loans is always classiﬁed as an actual loss. If the are included in the basis for calculating the yield 9. LOAN LOSSES AND IMPAIRMENT OF customer is following a payment plan for a loan split in the insurance operations. See section 12 FINANCIAL ASSETS which was previously classiﬁed as an actual for more information. Loans and receivables recognised at loan loss, the amount of the loss is subject to amortised cost new testing. Recoveries comprise reversed Derivatives All units with customer and credit responsibility amounts on loan losses previously reported as Derivatives which are traded on an active marin the Handelsbanken Group regularly perform actual losses. Information about probable and ket are valued at market price. Most of the individual assessments of the need for recognisactual losses is contained in note G10. Group’s derivative contracts, including interest ing impairment losses for loans and receivables Interest rate effects arising due to discountrate swaps and various types of linear currency that are recognised at amortised cost. Impairing effects when the period until the expected derivatives, are valued using valuation models ment testing is performed where there are payment is decreasing result in a reversal of based on market rates and other market prices. objective circumstances indicating that the previously provisioned amounts which are recThe valuation of non-linear derivative contracts recoverable amount of the loan is less than its ognised as interest income in accordance with that are not actively traded is also based on a carrying amount. Objective evidence could, the effective interest method. reasonable assumption of market-based input according to the circumstances, be late or nondata such as volatility. payment, bankruptcy, changed credit rating, or Disclosures concerning impaired loans When performing model valuation for derivaa decline in the market value of the collateral. Information concerning impaired loans is protives, in some cases there are differences When performing impairment testing, the vided gross, before a provision for probable between the transaction price and the value recoverable value of the loan is calculated by loan losses, and net, after a provision for probmeasured by a valuation model upon initial recdiscounting the estimated future cash ﬂows able loan losses. Loans are deﬁned as impaired ognition. Such differences occur when the related to the loan and any collateral (including if it is not probable that all contracted cash ﬂows applied valuation model does not fully capture guarantees) by the effective interest rate of the will be fulﬁlled. The full amount of all loans which all the components that affect the value of the loan. If the collateral is a listed asset, the valuahave been classiﬁed as impaired are carried derivative. Material unrealised results due to tion of the collateral is based on the quoted as impaired loans even if parts of the loan are positive differences between the transaction price; otherwise the valuation is based on the covered by collateral. Loans which have been price and the value measured by a valuation yield value or the market value estimated in written off as actual loan losses are not included model (day 1 effect) are not recognised in proﬁt/ some other manner. Collateral in the form of in impaired loans. loss upon initial recognition, but are amortised property mortgages is valued in the same way H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 75 NOTES | GROUP Valuation of repossessed property and hedging instrument is included in any hedge reserve in equity. The effective part of changes equipment to protect claims relationship. in value in cross-currency interest rate swaps Upon initial recognition, repossessed property Cash ﬂow hedges are applied to manage that hedge exchange rate risk in claims on forand equipment is recognised at fair value in exposures to variations in cash ﬂows relating to eign operations is recognised in the same manthe balance sheet. Repossessed property changes in the ﬂoating interest rates on lending ner. The ineffective components of hedges of and equipment (including repossessed lease and funding. The expected maturity for this type net investments in foreign operations are recogassets) which is expected to be divested in the of lending and funding is normally much longer nised in the income statement under Net gains/ near future is valued at the lower of the carthan the ﬁxing period, which is very short. Cash losses on ﬁnancial transactions. rying amount and fair value less costs to sell. ﬂow hedging is also used to hedge currency risk Repossessed property which is not expected in future cash ﬂows deriving from lending and 11. LEASES to be divested in the near future is reported as funding. Currency risks deriving from intragroup The Group’s leases are deﬁned as either ﬁnance investment properties at fair value in proﬁt/loss. monetary items can also be subject to this type or operating leases. A ﬁnance lease substanUnlisted shareholdings taken over to protect of hedging, if they give rise to currency expotially transfers all the risks and rewards incidenclaims are recognised as available-for-sale sures which are not fully eliminated on consolital to legal ownership of the leased asset from ﬁnancial assets. dation. Derivatives which are hedging instruthe lessor to the lessee. Other leases are operments in cash ﬂow hedges are measured at fair ating leases. All leases where the Group is the Impairment losses on available-for-sale value. If the derivative’s value change is effective lessor have been deﬁned as ﬁnancial leases. ﬁnancial assets – that is, it corresponds to future cash ﬂows Lease agreements of this kind are accounted for Impairment losses on available-for-sale ﬁnancial related to the hedged item – it is recognised as as loans in the balance sheet, initially for an assets are recognised when there is objective a component of Other comprehensive income amount corresponding to the net investment. evidence that one or more events of default and in the hedge reserve in equity. Ineffective Lease fees received are recognised on a continual have occurred with an impact on the expected components of the derivative’s value change are basis as interest income/repayments. Impairfuture cash ﬂows for the asset. For interestrecognised in the income statement under Net ment testing on ﬁnancial lease agreements is bearing ﬁnancial assets, examples of events of gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions. performed according to the same principles as default that may indicate an impairment loss Fair value hedges are used to protect the for other lending which is reported at amortised are a probable future bankruptcy, evidence of Group against undesirable impact on proﬁt/loss cost. considerable ﬁnancial difﬁculties on the part of due to exposure to changes in market prices. Operating lease contracts are not reported in the issuer, or evidence of permanent changes in Fair value hedges are applied for individual the balance sheet. Expenses relating to operating the market where the asset is traded. For equity assets and liabilities and for portfolios of ﬁnanleases where the Group is the lessee are recoginstruments, a permanent or considerable cial instruments. Hedged risks in hedging packnised on a straight-line basis as other expenses. decline in the fair value is an indication of the ages at fair value comprise the interest rate and need to recognise an impairment loss. When currency risk on lending and funding at ﬁxed 12. INSURANCE OPERATIONS recognising an impairment loss, the part of the interest rates and also lending with interest rate The Group’s insurance operations are run through cumulative loss that was previously recognised caps. The hedging instruments in these hedging the subsidiary Handelsbanken Liv. Products in the fair value reserve in equity is recognised relationships consist of interest rate swaps, consist mainly of legal life insurance in the form in the income statement. cross-currency interest rate swaps and interest of traditional life insurance, unit-linked insurance Previously recognised impairment losses rate options. In the case of fair value hedges, and risk insurance in the form of health insuron interest-bearing securities classiﬁed as the hedge instrument and hedged risk are both ance and waiver of premium. available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets are reversed recognised at fair value. Changes in value are in the income statement if the fair value of the recognised directly in the income statement Classiﬁcation and unbundling of insurance asset has increased since the impairment under Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transaccontracts loss was recognised and the increase can be tions. When portfolio hedging is applied, the Contracts that include signiﬁcant insurance risk objectively related to an event occurring after value of the hedged item is reported as a sepaare classiﬁed in the consolidated accounts as the impairment loss was recognised. Previous rate line item in the balance sheet in conjunction insurance contracts. Contracts that do not impairment losses on equity instruments claswith Loans to the public. When fair value hedges transfer signiﬁcant insurance risk are classiﬁed siﬁed as available-for-sale ﬁnancial instruments are prematurely terminated, the accrued value in their entirety as investment contracts. Generare not reversed. change on the hedged item is amortised in Net ally, this means that insurance policies with gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions. Accumurepayment cover are classiﬁed as investment 10. HEDGE ACCOUNTING lated value changes on portfolio hedges which contracts and other contracts are classiﬁed as The Group applies different methods for hedge have been terminated prematurely are reported insurance contracts. Insurance contracts conaccounting, depending on the purpose of the in the balance sheet under Other assets. sisting of both insurance components and savhedge. Derivatives – mainly interest rate swaps Hedging of net investments in foreign units is ings (ﬁnancial components) are split and recogand cross-currency interest rate swaps – are applied to protect the Group from exchange nised separately in accordance with the used as hedging instruments. In addition, when rate differences due to operations abroad. principles described below. hedging currency risks related to net investCross-currency interest rate swaps and loans in ments in foreign operations, liabilities in the foreign currencies are used as hedging instruAccounting for insurance components in functional currency of the respective foreign ments. The hedged item in these hedges is insurance contracts operation are used as a hedging instrument. As made up of net investments in the form of direct Premium income and insurance claims paid part of the Group’s hedging strategies, the value investments, as well as claims on foreign operafor insurance contracts are recognised in the changes of a hedging instrument are sometimes tions that are not expected to be settled in the income statement as a net amount under the divided into separate components and included foreseeable future. Loans in foreign currency item Risk result – insurance. The change in the in more than one hedge relationship. Therefore, that hedge net investments in foreign operations Group’s insurance liability is also reported under one and the same hedging instrument can are recognised in the Group at the exchange this item. hedge different risks. Division of hedging instrurate on the balance sheet date. The effective Premiums received which have not yet been ments is only done if the hedged risks can part of the exchange rate differences for such recognised as income are carried as a liability clearly be identiﬁed, the efﬁciency can be reliably loans is recognised as a component of Other for paid-in premiums under Insurance liabilities measured, and the total value change of the comprehensive income and in the translation in the balance sheet. The balance-sheet item H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 76 NOTES | GROUP Insurance liabilities also includes liabilities for Premium fees and administrative charges for arising from other assets, impairment testing sickness annuities, life annuities and other outinvestment contracts and ﬁnancial components of goodwill takes place at the level of cashstanding claims. The insurance liability is valued of insurance contracts are accrued and recoggenerating unit. A cash-generating unit is the by discounting the expected future cash ﬂows nised in the income statement under Fee and smallest identiﬁable group of assets that generrelating to insurance contracts entered into. commission income. Acquisition costs are recates cash inﬂows that are largely independent The valuation is based on assumptions concernognised directly in the income statement. of the cash inﬂows from other assets or groups ing interest, longevity, health and future charges. of assets. Goodwill which is followed up interThe assumptions concerning longevity vary Reinsurance nally at a lower level than the cash-generating depending on when the policy was taken out The reinsurer’s share of the Group’s insurance unit is tested at the lower level but never lower and takes into account expected future liabilities is recognised as Reinsurance assets than the business segment level. Material increases in longevity. The assumptions conin the balance sheet. assessments and assumptions in impairment cerning fees also depend on when the policy testing of goodwill are described in note G24. was taken out. Principally, this means a fee that 13. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Previously recognised goodwill impairment is proportional to the premium and a fee that is Recognition in the balance sheet losses are not reversed. proportional to the life insurance provisions. An intangible asset is an identiﬁable nonApplied assumptions on the insured’s future monetary asset without physical form. An intanIntangible assets with a ﬁnite useful life health are based on internally acquired experigible asset is only recognised in the balance Intangible assets for which it is possible to ence and vary depending on the product. Intersheet if the probable future economic beneﬁts establish an estimated useful life are amortised. est rate assumptions are based on current marattributable to the asset will ﬂow to the Group The amortisation is on a straight-line basis over ket rates and depend on the maturity of the and the acquisition cost can be reliably measthe useful life of the asset. Currently this means liability. The Group’s insurance liabilities are subured. This means that internally generated valthat customer contracts are amortised over 20 ject to regular review, at least annually, to ensure ues in the form of goodwill, trademarks, cusyears and that internally developed software is that the reported insurance liability is sufﬁcient tomer databases and similar are not recognised normally amortised over ﬁve years. In certain to cover expected future claims. If necessary, as assets in the balance sheet. infrastructure projects, the useful life is an additional provision is made. The difference Investments in software developed in-house assessed to be more than ﬁve years. For these is recognised in the income statement. are carried as an expense on a current basis to types of investment, the amortisation period is the extent that the expenditure refers to mainteup to 15 years. Brand names which are subject Accounting for investment contracts and nance of existing business operations or softto amortisation are amortised over ﬁve years. ﬁnancial components of insurance contracts ware. In the case of in-house development of The amortisation period is tested on an individIn-payments and out-payments referring to new software, or development of existing softual basis at the time of new acquisition and also customers’ savings capital originating in investware for new business operations, the expendicontinually if there are indications that the useful ment contracts and ﬁnancial components of ture incurred is capitalised from the time when life may have changed. Intangible assets with a insurance contracts are recognised directly over it is probable that economic beneﬁt that can be ﬁnite useful life are reviewed for impairment the balance sheet as deposits and withdrawals. reliably measured will arise. Expenditure arising when there is an indication that the asset may The ﬁnancial components of traditional life from borrowing costs is capitalised from the be impaired. The impairment test is performed insurance policies that are separated from the date on which the decision was made to capiaccording to the same principles as for intangiinsurance contract are recognised in the baltalise expenditure for development of intangible ble assets with an indeﬁnite useful life, i.e. by ance sheet as borrowing from the public. These assets. calculating the recoverable amount of the asset. liabilities are valued at the higher of the guaranWhen accounting for business combinations, teed amount and the current value of the insurthe acquisition price is allocated to the value of 14. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT ance contract. The guaranteed amount earns acquired identiﬁable assets, liabilities and conThe Group’s tangible non-current assets coninterest at the guarantee rate of interest and tingent liabilities in the acquired business. These sist of property and equipment. With the excepcorresponds to the amortised cost of the insurassets may also include intangible assets that tion of real property that constitutes investment ance contract. The current value of the insurwould not have been recognised in the balance assets in the insurance business, and reposance contract is equal to the value of the assets sheet if they had been acquired separately or sessed properties to protect claims, these managed on behalf of the policyholders, and internally generated. The part of the acquisition assets are recorded at cost of acquisition less earns interest with a return that is based on the price in a business combination that cannot be accumulated depreciation and impairment total return for the assets with a deduction for allocated to identiﬁable assets and liabilities is losses. any yield split. The yield split implies that the recognised as goodwill. Depreciation is based on the estimated useinsurer is allocated a contracted part of the total ful lives of the assets. A linear depreciation plan return if this return exceeds the guaranteed Goodwill and intangible assets with an is usually applied. The estimated useful lives are return during the calendar year. The calculation indeﬁnite useful life reviewed annually. The tangible assets that conis performed annually and is accumulated for Goodwill and other intangible assets with an sist of components with different estimated useeach individual insurance contract. This means indeﬁnite useful life are recorded at cost less ful lives are sub-divided into different categories that the conditional bonus is reduced in those possible impairment losses. These assets are with separate depreciation plans. Such deprecicases where the yield in an individual year is less tested annually for impairment when preparing ation of components is normally only applied for than the guaranteed interest rate and vice versa. the annual report or when there is an indication real property. Only components of the property The share that accrues to the Group under the that the asset is impaired. Impairment testing is whose acquisition costs are substantial in relayield split model is reported as Fee and comperformed by calculating the recoverable tion to the total acquisition cost are separately mission income. If the yield is less than the guaramount of the assets, i.e. the higher of the value depreciated. The remaining parts of the real anteed yield per contract, the difference is recin use and the fair value less costs to sell. As property (building structure) are depreciated as ognised in the income statement under Net long as the recoverable amount exceeds the a whole over their expected useful life. Currently, gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions. carrying amount, no impairment loss needs to the useful life for the building structure is 100 Assets and liabilities arising from unit-linked be recognised. Impairment losses are recogyears, for water and drains 35 years, for roofs insurance contracts are recognised at fair value nised directly in the income statement. 30 years, for frontage, heating, ventilation and in the balance sheet as Assets/Liabilities where Since it is not possible to differentiate cash electricity 25 years, for lifts 20 years and for the customer bears the value change risk. ﬂows arising from goodwill from cash ﬂows building ﬁxtures and ﬁttings ten years. Personal H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 77 NOTES | GROUP computers and other IT equipment are usually Retained earnings Net fee and commission income depreciated over three years and investments in Retained earnings comprise the proﬁts generIncome and expense for various kinds of serbank vaults and similar investments in premises ated from the current and previous ﬁnancial vices are recognised in the income statement over ten years. Other equipment is normally years. Dividends and repurchase of own shares under Fee and commission income and Fee depreciated over ﬁve years. are reported as deductions from Retained earnand commission expense, respectively. This Impairment testing of property and equipings. means that brokerage income and various types ment is carried out when there is an indication of management fees are recognised as comthat the value of the asset may have decreased. Minority interest missions. Other forms of income recognised Impairment loss is recognised in cases where The minority interest consists of the portion of as commission are payment commissions the recoverable amount is less than the carrying the Group’s net assets that is not directly or indiand card fees, premiums referring to ﬁnancial amount. Any impairment losses are recognised rectly owned by holders of the parent compaguarantees issued, as well as commissions immediately in the income statement. An impairny’s ordinary shares. The minority interest is from insurance operations. Positive yield split in ment charge is reversed if there is an indication recorded as a separate component of equity. the insurance operations is also recognised as that there is no longer any impairment loss and commission. Guarantee commissions that are there has been a change in the assumptions Accounting for own shares comparable to interest and such fees that conunderlying the estimated recoverable amount. Repurchased own shares are not carried as stitute integrated components of ﬁnancial instruassets but are offset against Retained earnings ments and therefore included when calculating 15. PROVISIONS under equity. the effective interest, are recognised under Net Provisions consist of recognised expected neginterest income and not commissions. ative outﬂows of resources from the Group and 17. INCOME which are uncertain in terms of timing or amount. Income is recognised in the income statement Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions Provisions are reported when the Group, as a when it is probable that future economic beneNet gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions consequence of past events, has a legal or ﬁts will be gained and these beneﬁts can be reliinclude all items with an impact on proﬁt or loss constructive obligation, and it is probable that ably measured. The following general principles which arise when measuring ﬁnancial assets an outﬂow of resources will be required to settle apply to recognition of income for various types and liabilities at fair value in the income statethe obligation. For recognition it must be possiof fees and charges: ment and when ﬁnancial assets and liabilities ble to estimate the amount reliably. The amount • Fees that are earned gradually as the services are realised. Speciﬁcally, the items reported recognised as a provision corresponds to the are performed, such as management fees in here are: best estimate of the expenditure required to asset management, are recognised as • Capital gains or losses from the disposal and settle the obligation at the balance sheet date. income at the rate these services are delivsettlement of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities. The expected future date of the settlement is ered. In practice, these are on a straight-line • Unrealised changes in value of the assets and taken into account in the estimate. basis. liabilities which upon initial recognition were • Fees attributable to a speciﬁc service or classiﬁed as Assets at fair value, through the 16. EQUITY action are recognised as income when the income statement, excluding the component Equity comprises the components described service has been performed. Examples of of change in value recognised as interest. here. such fees are brokerage and payment com• Realised and unrealised changes in value mission. on ﬁnancial assets and liabilities classiﬁed Share premium reserve • Fees that constitute part of the effective interas held for trading. The share premium reserve comprises the est of a ﬁnancial instrument are accrued in • Interest from ﬁnancial instruments held for options component of issued convertible notes cases where the instrument is valued at trading, with the exception of interest originatand the amount that in the issue of shares and amortised cost in accordance with the effecing from derivatives that are hedging instruconversion of convertible debt securities exceeds tive interest method. For ﬁnancial instruments ments whose interest ﬂows are reported in the quotient value of the shares issued. at fair value, such fees are recognised as net interest income. income immediately. • Dividend income on ﬁnancial assets classiﬁed Hedge reserve as held for trading. Unrealised changes in value on derivative instruNet interest income • Unrealised changes in fair value of the hedged ments which comprise hedge instruments in cash Interest income and interest expense are recogrisk in assets and liabilities which are hedged ﬂow hedges are reported in the hedge reserve. nised as Net interest income in the income items in fair value hedges, and amortisation of statement, with the exception of interest ﬂows unrealised value changes for hedges which Fair value reserve deriving from ﬁnancial instruments held for tradhave been prematurely terminated. The fair value reserve comprises unrealised ing. Net interest income also includes interest • Unrealised value changes on derivatives which changes in value on ﬁnancial assets classiﬁed deriving from derivative instruments that hedge comprise hedging instruments in fair value as available for sale. items whose interest ﬂows are recognised in Net hedges. interest income. In addition to interest income • Ineffective component of value changes on Translation reserve and interest expense, net interest income hedging instruments which are hedging cash The translation reserve comprises unrealised includes fees for state guarantees, such as ﬂow hedges and hedging of net investments foreign exchange effects arising due to transladeposit guarantees and the stability fee. in foreign operations. tion of foreign units to the presentation currency In order to arrive at a net interest income ﬁg• Negative yield split in the insurance operaof the consolidated accounts. ure which is free from interest deriving from tions, i.e. the losses arising when the yield on ﬁnancial assets and liabilities held for trading ﬁnancial assets in the insurance business is Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans and to gain an overall view of the activity in the less than the change in guaranteed yield. Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans comprises actutrading book, interest income and interest arial gains and losses on the pension obligation expense relating to ﬁnancial assets and liabilities Dividend received and return which exceeds the calculated return held for trading are recognised under Net gains/ Dividends on shares classiﬁed as available for sale on the plan assets. losses on ﬁnancial transactions. are recognised in proﬁt and loss as Other dividend H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 78 NOTES | GROUP income. Dividends on shares classiﬁed as ﬁnanEstimated yield (interest) on the plan assets. Insurance Sweden. The assumptions on future cial assets held for trading are recognised in the Interest on the plan assets is reported in proﬁt/ salary increases and inﬂation are based on the income statement as Net gains/losses on ﬁnanloss using the same interest rate as when anticipated long-term trend. The discount rate cial transactions. Dividends on shares in associestablishing the year’s interest expense. is based on ﬁrst-class corporate bonds. In this ates are not included in the Dividends item in the + The estimated cost of special payroll tax is context, covered mortgage bonds are considincome statement. The accounting for shares in accrued using the same principles as for the ered to be corporate bonds. The maturity is the the proﬁts of associates is described in section 3. underlying pension cost. same as the remaining period to payment. Calculation of costs and obligations resulting Note G8 provides a sensitivity analysis of the 18. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS from the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt plans depend Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt obligation for all major Staff cost on several assessments and assumptions which actuarial assumptions. This shows how the Staff costs consist of salaries, pension costs may have a considerable impact on the amounts obligation would have been affected by reasonand other forms of direct staff costs including reported. A more detailed description of these able possible changes in these assumptions. social security costs, special payroll tax on penassumptions and assessments is provided in sion costs and other forms of payroll overheads. section 20 and in note G8. Assessment of need to recognise an Any remuneration in connection with terminated impairment loss for loans and receivables employment is recognised as a liability when the 19. TAXES The value of the Group’s loans is reviewed reguagreement is reached and amortised over the The tax expense for the period consists of curlarly and individually for each loan. If necessary, remaining employment period. rent tax and deferred tax. Current tax refers to the loan is written down to the assessed recovtaxes relating to the period’s taxable result. erable amount. The estimated recoverable Accounting for pensions Deferred tax is tax referring to temporary differamount is based on an assessment of the Post-employment beneﬁts consist of deﬁned ences between the carrying amount of an asset counterparty’s ﬁnancial repayment capacity contribution plans and deﬁned beneﬁt plans. or liability and its taxable value. Deferred taxes and assumptions on the realisable value of any Beneﬁt plans under which the Group pays are valued at the tax rate which is deemed to be collateral. The ﬁnal outcome may deviate from ﬁxed contributions into a separate legal entity, applicable when the item is realised. Deferred the original provisions for loan losses. The and subsequently has no legal or constructive tax claims related to deductible temporary difassessments and assumptions used are subobligation to pay further contributions if the legal ferences and loss carry forwards are only recogject to regular examinations by the internal credit entity does not hold sufﬁcient assets to fulﬁl its nised if it is probable that they will be utilised. organisation. See also note G2 for a detailed obligations to the employee, are accounted for Deferred tax liabilities are carried at nominal description of internal risk control and how the as deﬁned contribution plans. Premiums paid value. Tax is recognised in the income stateBank manages credit risk. for deﬁned contribution plans are recognised ment, in Other comprehensive income or in the income statement as staff costs as they directly in equity depending on where the underarise. Other post-employment beneﬁt plans are lying transaction is reported. accounted for as deﬁned beneﬁt plans. For deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans, the pen20. ESTIMATES AND KEY ASSUMPTIONS sion payable is based on the salary and period In certain cases, the application of the Group’s of employment, implying that the employer accounting policies means that assessments bears all the material risks for fulﬁlling the penmust be made that have a material impact sion obligation. For the majority of deﬁned beneon amounts reported. The amounts reported ﬁt plans, the Group has kept plan assets sepaare also affected in a number of cases by rate in pension foundations and a pension fund. assumptions about the future. Such assumpFor deﬁned beneﬁt plans, the plan assets minus tions always imply a risk for adjustment of the the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations are reported as a reported value of assets and liabilities. The net liability in the balance sheet. Actuarial gains assessments and assumptions applied always and losses on the pension obligation and return reﬂect the management’s best and fairest which exceeds the return according to the disassessments and are continually subject to count rate are reported in Other comprehensive examination and validation. Below follows a income. report of the assessments and assumptions The pension cost recognised for deﬁned benthat have had a material impact on the ﬁnancial eﬁt plans is the net of the following items, which reports. Information on key assumptions is also are included in staff costs: described in the relevant notes. + Accrued pension rights for the year, i.e. the year’s proportion of the calculated ﬁnal total Actuarial calculation of deﬁned beneﬁt pension payment. The calculation of accrued pension plans pension rights is based on an estimated ﬁnal Calculation of the Group’s expense and obligasalary and is subject to actuarial assumptions. tions for deﬁned beneﬁt pensions is based on a + Interest expense for the year due to the number of actuarial, demographic and ﬁnancial increase in the present value of the pension assumptions that have a signiﬁcant impact on liability during the year since the period up the recognised amounts. Note G8 contains a to payment has decreased. The interest rate list of the assumptions used when calculating applied in calculating interest expense for the this year’s provision. The calculation of deﬁned year is the current corporate bond rate (the beneﬁt obligations for employees in Sweden rate at the start of the year) for maturities coris based on DUS14, which are assumptions responding to the period remaining until the on longevity that are generally accepted in pension liability is due to be disbursed. the market, based on statistics produced by H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 79 NOTES | GROUP G2 Risk and capital management Loan losses as a percentage of lending 1998–2015 Risks at Handelsbanken % 1.2 Description 1.0 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of the Bank facing economic loss because the Bank’s counterparties cannot fulﬁl their contractual obligations. 0.8 Market risk Market risks arise from changes in prices and volatilities in the ﬁnancial markets. Market risks are divided into interest rate risks, equity price risks, exchange rate risks and commodity price risks. 0.6 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank will not be able to meet its payment obligations when they fall 0.4 due, without being affected by unacceptable costs or losses. Operational risk Operational risk refers to the risk of loss due to inadequate or failed internal processes, human error, 0.2 erroneous systems or external events. The deﬁnition includes legal risk. Insurance risk The risk in the outcome of an insurance that depends on the insured party’s longevity or health. 0.0 Property risk The risk of changes in prices of the Bank’s property holdings. -0.2 Business risk The risk of unexpected changes in earnings that are not attributable to the risk categories described 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 above. Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* Remuneration risk Remuneration risk is the risk of loss or other damage arising due to the remuneration system. * For the period until 2000 inclusive, only Swedish Compliance risk Compliance risk is the risk that the Bank does not comply with laws, regulations and internal rules, banks are included. or accepted business practices or standards. Handelsbanken works on the basis of a wellThe Bank aims to be a relationship bank which ation must be ﬁxed since this contributes to the tested business model which has been unonly selects customers with a strong repayment long-term perspective which is a central feature changed for more than 40 years. This business capacity and ﬁnancial position. The quality reof Handelsbanken’s business model. Employees model means that the Bank has very low risk quirement must never be neglected in favour of with the authority to make business decisions tolerance. As a consequence of this, the Bank higher credit volumes, higher prices or market which imply a risk for the Bank can only receive has reported very stable proﬁtability levels for share. There is low tolerance of market risks ﬁxed remuneration with no variable components. a long period of time and its ﬁnancial goal has and they are only taken as part of customer The employees are one of largest owners of the been achieved for more than 40 years running. business, in connection with the Bank’s funding Bank via the Oktogonen Foundation which also The Bank’s business model focuses on taking and liquidity management, in its role as a market contributes to a high level of risk awareness. credit risks in its branch operations, and the maker, in its long-term shareholdings and in the Lending has a strong local involvement, where model means that the Bank only takes credit pension system. One result of the Bank’s low the close customer relationship and local knowrisks which are in line with its very restrictive tolerance of market risks is that a comparatively ledge promote low credit risks. In addition, the view of risk. The Bank aims to restrict as far lower proportion of the Bank’s earnings come Group must be well-capitalised at all times in reas possible all other risks such as market and from net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transaclation to the risks in the operations and hold liquid liquidity risks. For the past few decades, the tions. Tolerance is also low for operational risk assets so that is can always meet its payment loan loss ratio has been signiﬁcantly lower than and compliance risks. As far as possible, the commitments when they fall due, including in the average of other Nordic banks. The Bank’s Bank endeavours to prevent these risks and to stressed situations where funding is not possible stated goal is always that no credit will lead to a reduce the losses in this area. Losses must be in the ﬁnancial markets. In this way, Handelsloss. This approach completely determines the small, both in comparison with previous losses banken aims for a business model which is not branches’ granting of credit and work with their incurred, and in comparison with other banks. affected by ﬂuctuations in the business cycle. credit portfolios. This restrictive approach to risk means that By building up liquidity reserves and matchRISK STRATEGY the Bank is a stable and long-term business parting cash ﬂows, the Bank has worked on limiting Handelsbanken is a full-service bank, offering ner for its customers, regardless of the business its liquidity risks for a long period of time. This a wide range of various banking and insurance cycle or market situation. It contributes to good is also a natural consequence of the Bank’s products. These entail a variety of risks that are risk management and sustaining a high service low risk tolerance and this work started before systematically identiﬁed, measured and manlevel even when operations and the markets the new liquidity regulations were formulated. aged in all parts of the Group. Handelsbanken’s where the Bank operates are subject to strain. Handelsbanken is the only major Swedish bank restrictive approach to risk means that the Bank The same principles for the Bank’s approach to which has managed completely on its own for deliberately avoids high-risk transactions, even risks apply in all countries where the Bank operits funding, with no support from central banks if the expected remuneration may be high at ates and they are guiding principles in the Bank’s or public authorities, both throughout the latest that time. continued international expansion. ﬁnancial crisis and also in the crisis of the early This low risk tolerance is maintained through a 1990s. strong risk culture that is sustainable in the long RESILIENT RISK MANAGEMENT Market risks at Handelsbanken have also term and applies to all areas of the Group. The Since the turbulence in the ﬁnancial markets decreased further during the past few years risk culture is an integral part of the Bank’s work started in 2007, Handelsbanken has had good from already low levels to very low at present. and is deeply rooted among the Bank’s employaccess to liquidity in all currencies of importance This work has continued for a long period of ees. The Bank is characterised by a clear division to the Bank. The Bank has broadened its investime and started before the ﬁnancial crisis broke of responsibility where each part of the business tor base and increased the number of funding out and long before the regulations started to operations bears full responsibility for its business programmes for both covered and senior fundassign such importance to market risks as they and for risk management. As a consequence, ing. The fact that this has taken place in the do today. there are strong incentives for high risk awareprevailing market conditions is a clear sign of ness and for prudence in business operations. the market’s conﬁdence in the Bank’s business RISK TOLERANCE However, the decentralised business model is model and its work with risk. The Bank has had Handelsbanken’s decentralised business model combined with strong centralised controls. The and continues to have access to the ﬁnancial is based on taking credit risk in the branch low risk tolerance is also reﬂected in the view of markets via its short-term and long-term funding operations, but these risks must be kept low. remuneration. The main principle is that remunerprogrammes. Central Treasury’s liquidity H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 80 NOTES | GROUP portfolio, which is part of the Bank’s liquidity reare kept in all currencies that are important to has contributed to the strong position. The strong serve, has a low risk proﬁle and consists mainly the Bank. The total liquidity reserve covers the capital situation provides good protection insurof government bonds and covered bonds. At Bank’s liquidity requirements for more than three ance in the current macro-economic situation. the year-end, the Bank’s liquidity reserve exyears in a stressed scenario with an outﬂow of The Bank’s low tolerance of risk, sound capiceeded SEK 800 billion, which provides a high deposits and entirely without access to new talisation and strong liquidity situation mean that degree of resistance to possible disruptions in market funding. Operations can also be mainthe Bank is well equipped to operate under the the ﬁnancial markets. Of the reserve, balances tained for a considerable period of time even in new, stricter regulations and also under substanwith central banks and banks, as well as securian extreme situation when the foreign exchange tially more difﬁcult market conditions than those ties that are eligible as collateral with central markets are closed. experienced during the last few years. The Bank’s banks, totalled SEK 352 billion. The remainder The Bank’s capital situation continued to grow liquidity situation is described in more detail under was mainly an unutilised issue amount for covstronger during the year and its earnings have the heading Funding and liquidity risk. ered bonds at Stadshypotek. Liquidity reserves been stable. Coupled with low loan losses, this Handelsbanken’s risk management and risk control Business operations Local risk control Central risk control Capital and liquidity planning Compliance and Audit The Bank’s total view of risk management and Local Risk Control and that senior management has reliable inforrisk control comprises the following components: There is a local risk control function in each mation to use as a basis for managing risks in county where the Bank has operations, unless critical situations. Central Risk Control also has Business operations the operations are very limited, at each regional functional responsibility for ensuring that Local The Bank is characterised by a clear division bank, at central main departments and in ﬁnanRisk Control measures risks in a ﬁt-for-purpose of responsibility where each part of the busicial subsidiaries. Local Risk Control works with and consistent manner in the Group, and that ness operations bears full responsibility for its identifying, measuring, analysing and reporting the Bank’s management and Board receive business and for risk management. Those who risks in the operations, particularly market risks, regular reports and analyses of the current risk know the customer and market conditions liquidity risks, counterparty risks, operational situation. best are in the best position to assess the risk risk, reputation risk and where applicable, insurand can also act at an early stage if problems ance risks, risks associated with the design of Capital and liquidity planning arise. Each branch and each proﬁt centre is the remuneration system and risks in the asset If – despite the work in the three components responsible for dealing with any problems that management operations. Local Risk Control described above – Handelsbanken were to sufarise. This creates strong incentives for high risk also checks the limits for market, liquidity and fer serious losses, it holds capital to ensure its awareness and for prudence in the business counterparty risks and analyses breaches of survival both during and after extreme events. operations. credit limits. Local Risk Control is also responCapital planning is based on an assessment However, the decentralised credit decisible for a risk analysis being performed for new of the capital situation in terms of the legal sions are conditional on a joint credit process, products, IT systems and material processes capital requirement, combined with calculation for which the Central Credit Department is and also for evaluating the business operations’ of economic capital and stress tests. Stress responsible. work with operational risk. Local Risk Control tests identify the future-oriented measures that The Central Credit Department prepares reports to Central Risk Control and also to the need to be prepared or implemented to ensure credit decisions made by the Board or by the management of the operations. satisfactory capitalisation at any given time. In Board’s credit committee. The Central Credit addition, the Group must be well-capitalised at Department also ensures that credit assessCentral Risk Control all times in relation to the risks and hold liquid ments are consistent and that loans are granted As business decisions become more decenassets so that it can always meet its payment in accordance with the credit policy decided tralised, the need for central monitoring of the commitments when they fall due, including in by the Board. The Central Credit Department risk and capital situation increases. Central Risk stressed situations where funding is not posalso assesses risks in all major individual commitControl is therefore a natural and vital composible in the ﬁnancial markets. ments and provides support and advice to other nent of the Bank’s business model. areas of the credit organisation. Central Risk Control has the task of identifyCompliance and audit ing, measuring, analysing and reporting all the In addition to the parts described above, operaGroup’s material risks at an aggregate level. It tions are examined by compliance, at central, monitors that the risks and risk management business area and subsidiary level, and also by comply with the Bank’s low tolerance of risks the internal and external auditors. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 20 15 81 NOTES | GROUP The credit process and decision levels at Handelsbanken BRANCH LEVEL REGIONAL LEVEL CENTRAL LEVEL Account Branch Regional Regional Regional Central Central Central Proposal manager manager credit credit board Credit Board credit Board Decision specialist committee Department committee Breakdown of limit decisions Proportion of 66% 32% 2% number of limits Proportion of 9% 28% 63% limit amount * Excluding sovereign and bank limits decided at central level. CREDIT RISK slightest doubt among any of the participants, re-examination process to ensure that the credit the credit application is rejected. The largest decision is of high quality. The branch manager credits are decided by the Board’s credit comexamines the quality of the staff’s decisions and mittee, or by the entire Board, where cases have the regional credit departments examine the Credit risk is the risk of the Bank been reviewed by the Central Credit Department. quality of decisions made by branch managers. facing economic loss because However, no credit application may be processed The purpose of the quality review is to ensure the Bank’s counterparties cannot in the Bank without the recommendation of the that the Bank’s credit policy and internal instrucbranch manager who is responsible for the credit. tions are complied with, that credit quality is fulfil their contractual obligations. The decision procedure for credits is illusmaintained, and that credit decisions show that trated in the diagram below. It also shows the there is good credit judgement and a sound percentage of decisions and amounts at the business approach. A corresponding examinaAt Handelsbanken, the credit process is based various decision levels. tion of the quality is also performed for credit on a conviction that a decentralised organisaIn Handelsbanken’s decentralised organisadecisions made at higher levels in the Bank. tion with local presence ensures high quality tion, the documentation that forms the basis Credits granted by regional credit committees in credit decisions. The Bank is a relationship for credit decisions is always prepared by the and regional bank boards are examined by the bank where the branches maintain regular branch responsible for the credit, regardless of Central Credit Department, which also prepares contact with the customer, which gives them whether the ﬁnal decision is to be made at the and examines credits decided by the Bank’s an in-depth knowledge of each individual cusbranch, at regional level, in the Board’s credit Board or its credit committee. tomer and a continually updated picture of the committee or by the Board. Credit decision Rather than being a mass market bank, customer’s ﬁnancial situation. documentation includes general and ﬁnancial Handelsbanken is selective in its choice of In the Bank’s decentralised organisation, information regarding the borrower, and an customers, which means it seeks customers each branch responsible for the customer has assessment of their repayment capacity, loans with a high credit quality. The quality requiretotal credit responsibility. Customer and credit and credit terms, as well as a valuation of collateral. ment is never neglected in favour of higher responsibility lies with the branch manager or For borrowers whose total loans exceed credit volumes or to achieve higher returns. with the employees at the local branch apSEK 3 million, the credit decision is made in the The Bank also avoids participating in ﬁnancing pointed by the manager. form of a credit limit. In the case of loans to priwhere there are complex customer constellaBranch managers and most branch staff vate individuals against collateral in the residentions or complex transactions which are have personal decision limits allowing them to tial property, a limit requirement comes into play difﬁcult to understand. decide on credits to the customers they are for amounts exceeding SEK 6 million. For loans The local branch’s close contact with its responsible for. to housing co-operative associations against customers also enables the branch to quickly For decisions on larger credits, there are collateral in the residential property, a limit is identify any problems and take action. In many regional and central decision levels. Each adrequired for amounts exceeding SEK 12 million. cases, this means that the Bank can take acditional level of decision adds credit expertise. Credit limits granted are valid for a maximum tion more rapidly than would have been posEach decision level has the right to reject of one year. When extending limits, the decision sible with a more centralised management of credits both within their own decision level procedure requirement is the same as for a new problem loans. The branch also has full ﬁnancial and also credits which would otherwise have credit. responsibility for granting credits, and therefore been decided at a higher level. All participants In Handelsbanken’s decentralised organisaaddresses problems that arise when a customer throughout the decision process, regardless of tion where a large proportion of the credit and has repayment difﬁculties and the branch also level, must be in agreement in order for a posilimit decisions are made by individual branches, bears any loan losses. If necessary, the local tive credit decision to be made. If there is the it is important that there is a well-functioning branch obtains support from the regional head H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 82 NOTES | GROUP ofﬁce and central departments. The Bank’s business evaluation template used for the counProportion of exposure amount per product type per PD interval excluding defaulted credits method of working means that all employees terparty. PD is calculated individually for each – Corporate exposures whose work involves transactions linked to risk class and counterparty type. For institutioncredit risk acquire a solid and well-founded apal exposures and the corporate exposures that Proportion of exposure amount, % proach to this type of risk. This approach forms are subject to a capital requirement according 60 an important part of the Bank’s culture. The to the IRB Approach without own estimates of 50 work method and approach described are imLGD and CCF, prescribed values are applied for portant reasons for the Bank reporting very low the loss rates given default (LGD). The pre40 loan losses over a long period. scribed value that may be used is determined 30 by the collateral provided for each exposure. Risk rating system For retail exposures, the risk class is also 20 Handelsbanken’s risk rating system comprises based on the internal rating assigned to all a number of different systems, methods, procredit customers. The rating is not translated 10 cesses and procedures to support the Bank’s directly into a risk class as for corporate ex0 –0.05 0.05–0.1 0.1–0.2 0.2–0.3 0.3–0.6 0.6–1.0 1.0– classiﬁcation and quantiﬁcation of credit risk. posures; instead, the different exposures are PD, % Handelsbanken’s internal rating system is sorted into a number of smaller groups on the Derivatives Loans used to measure the credit risk in all operations basis of certain factors. Such factors include the Interest-bearing securities Other products reliably and consistently. The risk rating builds type of credit, the counterparty’s debt-servicing on the Bank’s internal rating, which is based on record and whether there are one or more boran assessment of each counterparty’s repayrowers. An average default rate is calculated for Proportion of exposure amount per product type ment capacity. The rating is determined by each of the smaller groups, and on the basis of per PD interval excluding defaulted credits the risk of ﬁnancial strain and by the assessed this, the groups are sorted into one of the ten – Institutional exposures resistance to this strain. The method and clasrisk classes. Different models are used for exposiﬁcation are based on the rating model that sures to private individuals and to small compaProportion of exposure amount, % the Bank has applied for several decades. nies respectively (that are also classed as retail 30 The internal rating is the most important exposures), but the principle is the same. 25 component of the Bank’s model for calculatFor retail exposures and exposures to ing the capital requirement in accordance with medium-sized companies, property companies 20 the IRB Approach. The rating is dynamic; it is and housing co-operative associations, the 15 reassessed if there are signs that the counterLGD is determined using the Bank’s own loss party’s repayment capacity has changed. The history. For exposures to large corporates that 10 rating is also reviewed periodically as stipuare subject to a capital requirement using the 5 lated in the regulations. The rating is made by IRB Approach with own estimates of LGD and the person responsible for granting the credit CCF, the LGD is determined on the basis of 0 –0.05 0.05–0.1 0.1–0.2 0.2–0.3 0.3–0.6 0.6–1.0 1.0– and it is subsequently checked by independinternal losses and external observations. For PD, % ent bodies. retail exposures secured by property in Sweden Derivatives Loans Interest-bearing securities Other products and for property exposures to medium-sized Risk classiﬁcation methods companies, property companies and housing To quantify its credit risks, the Bank calculates co-operative associations, different LGD values the probability of default (PD), the exposure the are applied depending on the loan-to-value ratio Proportion of exposure amount per product type Bank is expected to have if a default occurs of the collateral. For other exposures, the LGD per PD interval excluding defaulted credits (exposure amount), and the proportion of the value is determined by factors that may depend – Retail exposures loan that the Bank would be expected to lose on the existence and valuation of collateral, the Proportion of exposure amount, % in the case of default (loss given default – LGD). product and similar factors. Default is deﬁned as when the counterparty is For each exposure class, the PD is calculated 35 either more than 90 days late in making payfor each of the risk classes that refer to non30 ment, or when an assessment has been made defaulted counterparties or agreements. PD is 25 that the counterparty will not be able to pay as based on calculations of the historical percent20 contractually agreed, for example, if declared age of defaults for different types of exposure. bankrupt. The average default rate is then adjusted by a 15 The PD value is expressed as a percentage margin of conservatism and a business cycle 10 where, for example, a PD value of 0.5 per cent adjustment factor. The margin is intended to 5 means that one borrower of 200 with the same ensure that the long-term probability of default PD value is expected to default within one year. is not underestimated. 0 –0.05 0.05–0.1 0.1–0.2 0.2–0.3 0.3–0.6 0.6–1.0 1.0– A credit in default does not necessarily mean The business cycle adjustment factor adjusts, PD, % Derivatives Loans that the Bank will incur a loss since in most where necessary, the average default rates obInterest-bearing securities Other products cases there is collateral for the exposure. Nor served during the period determined as the basis does a default mean that it is out of the question for estimating the PD for an expected long-term that the counterparty will pay at some time in level. The long-term level is based on information limitations of the material used for estimates the future, since the payment problems may be at portfolio level since 1985. The method takes when the risk measure is updated annually. PD temporary. into consideration expected migration between at agreement level, counterparty level and portFor corporate and institutional exposures, the risk classes during a business cycle. As the folio level will, however, vary over time due to internal rating set for each counterparty is diperiod of time that can be used for estimating migration between risk classes. Since one of the rectly converted into a risk class on a scale from the PD is increasing, the need for business cycle most important parts of the risk classiﬁcation, 1 to 10 (where risk class 10 refers to defaulted adjustment is gradually reduced over time. Handelsbanken’s internal rating, has a signiﬁcounterparties). Corporate exposures are dividThe adjustment evens out part of the varicantly longer horizon than a year, that effect is ed into four counterparty types based on the ation in PD by risk class that arises due to the expected to be limited during normal ﬂuctuaH AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 83 NOTES | GROUP tions of the business cycle. Handelsbanken um-sized companies, property companies and start with the borrower’s repayment capacity. applies the conservative principle that the busihousing co-operative associations, the Bank According to the Bank’s credit policy, weak ness cycle adjustment factor can cause PD to uses its own calculated conversion factors. repayment capacity can never be accepted be adjusted upwards, but not downwards. Here, it is the product referred to that mainly on the grounds that good collateral has been When establishing LGD, the risk measure governs the conversion factor, but the utilisation offered to the Bank. Collateral may, however, must reﬂect the loss rates during economically level may also be of relevance. substantially reduce the Bank’s loss if the borunfavourable circumstances, known as downIn addition to the capital adequacy calcularower cannot fulﬁl his or her obligations. Credits turn LGD. For collateral in property, the downtion, measures of risk (PD, exposure amounts, must therefore normally be adequately secured. turn LGD is based on observed loss rates from LGD) are used to calculate the cost of capital Unsecured credit is almost exclusively the property crisis in the early 1990s. For other in each individual transaction and to calculate granted to customers with good repayment collateral relating to retail exposures, observed economic capital (EC). This means that margins capacity. For unsecured long-term credit comLGD is adjusted for downturns by a factor in the form of business cycle adjustments and mitments to companies, the Bank often enters which depends on the PD and type of prodconservatism adjustments in the risk measureinto an agreement with the customer on special uct. For corporate exposures in the IRB ments are also included in the cost of capital credit terms which allow the Bank to renegotiate Approach with own estimates of LGD and CCF, in individual transactions and in calculations of or terminate the loan in the case of unfavourable the LGD is adjusted for downturns so that the economic capital, which means that the loss performance. Bank’s observed losses in the crisis years of levels that the risk measurements imply are Since collateral is not generally utilised until 1991–1992 can be explained by the risk conservative. The method used means that the a borrower faces serious repayment difﬁculweights with a good margin. Bank’s historical losses have a direct impact on ties, the valuation of collateral focuses on the When the exposure amount (EAD) is to be risk calculations and capital requirement. expected value in the case of a rapid sale in calculated, certain adjustments are made to the For corporate, institutional and retail exunfavourable circumstances in connection with carried exposure. Examples of this are composures, the adjoining ﬁgures show how the insolvency. The value of certain assets may mitted loan offers or revolving credits, where exposure is distributed between bonds and change considerably in an insolvency situation the Bank agrees with the customer that the other interest-bearing securities, and loans, leading to a forced sale. customer may borrow up to a certain amount derivatives and other products respectively. A large part of lending to credit institutions in the future. This type of commitment constiOther products are, for example, guarantees consists of reverse repos. A reverse repo is a tutes a credit risk that must also be covered and committed loan offers. The diagrams show repurchase transaction in which the Bank buys by adequate capital. Normally this means that how the exposure amounts, excluding credits interest-bearing securities or equities with a the credit granted is adjusted using a certain in default, are distributed between different PD special agreement that the security will be recredit conversion factor (CCF) for the part of the ranges in each exposure class. The PD values sold to the seller at a speciﬁc price on a speciﬁc credit that is unutilised at the time of reporting. used are those applied when calculating the date. Handelsbanken regards reverse repos as For certain product categories for corporate capital requirement. secured lending. exposures and institutional exposures, the conIn special circumstances, the Bank may buy version factors are determined by the regulatory COLLATERAL credit derivatives or ﬁnancial guarantees to code, while for retail exposures and certain When Handelsbanken assesses the credit risk hedge the credit risk in claims, but this is not product categories for large corporates, mediof a speciﬁc customer, the assessment must part of the Bank’s normal lending process. Credit risk exposure on balance sheet, broken down by collateral SEK m 2015 2014 Residential property1 1 207 242 1 114 011 of which private individuals 845 481 782 821 Other property 293 936 271 041 Sovereigns, municipalities and county councils2 313 475 603 319 Guarantees3 8 627 18 876 Financial collateral 40 632 63 493 Collateral in assets 23 789 18 256 Other collateral4 21 854 21 230 Unsecured4 242 361 258 698 Total credit risk exposure on balance sheet 2 151 916 2 368 924 Loans to the public, broken down by collateral SEK m 2015 2014 1 Residential property 1 207 242 1 114 011 of which private individuals 845 481 782 821 Other property 293 936 271 041 Sovereigns, municipalities and county councils2 76 609 98 076 Guarantees3 8 134 18 305 Financial collateral 16 797 22 035 Collateral in assets 23 789 18 256 Other collateral4 21 854 21 230 Unsecured4 218 106 244 882 Total loans to the public 1 866 467 1 807 836 1 Including housing co-operatives. 2 Refers to direct sovereign exposures and government guarantees. 3 Does not include government guarantees. 4 Comparative numbers are changed due to changed calculation method. H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 84 NOTES | GROUP CREDIT PORTFOLIO credit institutions and off-balance sheet items Breakdown of the portfolio divided into the type of product. In a capital The Bank’s credit portfolio is presented in this adequacy context, they are categorised as exsection based on the balance sheet item catposure classes speciﬁed by the regulations for egories. each calculation method. Exposure means the Based on the balance sheet, credits are sum of items on and off the balance sheet. categorised as loans to the public and loans to Credit risk exposures SEK m 2015 2014 Loans to the public1 1 866 467 1 807 836 of which reverse repos 7 742 23 858 Loans to other credit institutions 49 656 70 339 of which reverse repos 23 394 42 138 Unutilised part of granted overdraft facilities2 129 216 102 778 Committed loan offers 267 200 271 001 Other commitments 24 441 14 134 Guarantees, credits 9 750 10 335 Guarantees, other 61 274 60 033 Letters of credit 6 433 5 369 Derivatives2 85 347 116 124 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 74 777 78 219 Bonds and other ﬁxed-income securities 44 513 63 725 Total 2 619 074 2 599 893 Cash and balances with central banks 202 630 454 532 Other loans to central banks 34 118 51 047 Total 2 855 822 3 105 472 1 SEK 1,619m (2,181) of this amount is loans which upon initial recognition were classiﬁed at fair value in the income statement. 2 Refers to the total positive market values. Including legally viable netting agreements, the exposure is SEK 59,687m (SEK 70,478m). Geographical breakdown 2015 Loans Off-balance-sheet commitments Credit Cash and Other Unutilised institutions balances lending Committed part of granexcl. central with central to central Derivative loan offers ted overdraft Letters of SEK m Public banks banks banks instruments Investments Guarantees etc. fac. credit Other Total Sweden 1 214 093 17 513 174 15 998 84 435 87 522 24 897 137 606 89 522 3 650 16 816 1 692 226 UK 194 069 610 55 538 364 77 6 636 36 565 6 235 40 2 768 302 902 Denmark 82 854 61 113 15 653 42 7 4 099 12 088 8 155 166 0 123 238 Finland 115 090 42 44 823 118 0 3 974 18 028 7 059 175 170 189 479 Norway 209 327 189 6 101 2 103 6 890 30 262 16 228 114 4 687 275 901 Netherlands 22 344 377 1 040 6 241 212 30 214 Germany 5 336 264 111 3 303 5 432 342 21 14 809 Poland 2 396 4 41 1 038 1 139 3 619 USA 4 233 24 776 94 626 471 30 744 14 758 15 310 375 1 395 186 688 Other countries 16 725 6 197 726 204 1 017 4 389 5 667 949 872 36 746 Total 1 866 467 49 656 202 630 34 118 85 347 119 290 71 024 267 200 129 216 6 433 24 441 2 855 822 Geographical breakdown 2014 Loans Off-balance-sheet commitments Credit Cash and Other Unutilised institutions balances lending Committed part of granexcl. central with central to central Derivative loan offers ted overdraft Letters of SEK m Public banks banks banks instruments Investments Guarantees etc. fac. credit Other Total Sweden 1 194 402 18 368 253 6 926 115 104 112 376 25 033 124 761 72 334 2 483 14 134 1 686 174 UK 169 596 575 55 779 342 88 5 986 31 077 5 659 48 269 150 Denmark 79 030 85 111 28 021 66 5 3 531 28 443 220 139 512 Finland 115 087 163 69 176 108 4 912 18 817 6 494 216 214 973 Norway 204 067 428 2 353 15 758 6 748 37 219 15 729 92 282 394 Netherlands 18 504 11 971 0 823 6 536 160 37 994 Germany 5 228 227 87 3 570 3 776 711 53 13 652 Poland 2 255 6 35 1 204 1 83 3 584 USA 2 716 43 323 312 770 496 28 570 14 024 14 451 339 1 723 418 412 Other countries 16 951 7 164 1 997 262 993 4 537 5 920 1 269 534 39 627 Total 1 807 836 70 339 454 532 51 047 116 124 141 944 70 368 271 001 102 778 5 369 14 134 3 105 472 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 85 NOTES | GROUP Loans to the public, breakdown by sector and counterparty type 2015 2014 Loans before Provisions Loans after Loans before Provisions Loans after deduction of for probable deduction of deduction of for probable deduction of SEK m provisions loan losses provisions provisions loan losses provisions Private individuals 912 517 -755 911 762 852 466 -813 851 653 of which mortgage loans 736 768 -31 736 737 683 991 -30 683 961 of which other loans with property mortgages 107 591 -146 107 445 99 063 -101 98 962 of which other loans, private individuals 68 158 -578 67 580 69 412 -682 68 730 Housing co-operative associations 169 595 -20 169 575 153 058 -21 153 037 of which mortgage loans 148 064 -7 148 057 136 748 -9 136 739 Property management 511 308 -697 510 611 485 377 -589 484 788 Manufacturing 33 540 -1 542 31 998 38 508 -726 37 782 Retail 24 236 -267 23 969 27 736 -343 27 393 Hotel and restaurant 8 981 -30 8 951 8 299 -25 8 274 Passenger and goods transport by sea 10 354 -543 9 811 12 221 -405 11 816 Other transport and communication 11 195 -60 11 135 20 184 -39 20 145 Construction 15 500 -92 15 408 15 225 -114 15 111 Electricity, gas and water 26 560 -52 26 508 24 888 -24 24 864 Agriculture, hunting and forestry 11 318 -15 11 303 10 703 -16 10 687 Other services 19 789 -66 19 723 20 241 -42 20 199 Holding, investment, insurance companies, mutual funds etc. 71 179 -282 70 897 71 945 -187 71 758 Sovereigns and municipalities 22 452 0 22 452 35 627 0 35 627 Other corporate lending 22 759 -117 22 642 35 469 -483 34 986 Total loans to the public, before collective provisions 1 871 283 -4 538 1 866 745 1 811 947 -3 827 1 808 120 Collective provisions for individually assessed loans -278 -284 Total loans to the public 1 871 283 1 866 467 1 811 947 1 807 836 Loans to the public after deduction of provisions, geographical breakdown, by sector and counterparty type 2015 Other SEK m Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands countries Total Private individuals 682 992 57 273 46 352 34 317 80 150 5 867 4 811 911 762 of which mortgage loans 635 871 0 29 001 21 083 50 782 0 0 736 737 of which other loans with property mortgages 14 023 45 685 13 276 8 806 16 222 5 532 3 901 107 445 of which other loans, private individuals 33 098 11 588 4 075 4 428 13 146 335 910 67 580 Housing co-operative associations 137 604 0 552 16 947 14 472 0 0 169 575 Property management 244 996 115 262 13 726 28 682 85 729 14 538 7 678 510 611 Manufacturing 15 401 2 692 1 443 3 386 2 565 1 059 5 452 31 998 Retail 12 304 4 596 1 367 1 688 2 969 0 1 045 23 969 Hotel and restaurant 2 507 3 218 1 734 268 153 0 1 071 8 951 Passenger and goods transport by sea 3 612 6 1 002 2 626 2 520 0 45 9 811 Other transport and communication 5 734 625 1 184 947 2 282 362 1 11 135 Construction 6 606 2 006 550 865 5 064 0 317 15 408 Electricity, gas and water 9 908 406 76 8 540 6 729 184 665 26 508 Agriculture, hunting and forestry 9 481 1 512 120 123 18 0 49 11 303 Other services 11 939 3 986 1 433 1 241 1 114 0 10 19 723 Holding, investment, insurance companies, mutual funds etc. 49 996 982 9 700 3 449 1 446 110 5 214 70 897 Sovereigns and municipalities 10 918 0 1 11 335 198 0 0 22 452 Other corporate lending 10 231 1 547 3 637 704 3 962 225 2 336 22 642 Total loans to the public, before collective provisions 1 214 229 194 111 82 877 115 118 209 371 22 345 28 694 1 866 745 Collective provisions for individually assessed loans -137 -42 -23 -28 -44 -1 -3 -278 Total loans to the public 1 214 092 194 069 82 854 115 090 209 327 22 344 28 691 1 866 467 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 86 NOTES | GROUP Credit risk concentrations opportunity and capacity to reduce them using The proportion of exposures to property Handelsbanken’s branches focus strongly on various risk mitigation measures. counterparties with a poorer rating than the establishing long-term relationships with cusIn addition to mortgage loans and lending to Bank’s risk class 5 (normal risk) is very low. 99 tomers of sound creditworthiness. If a branch housing co-operative associations, Handelsper cent (98) of total property lending in Sweden identiﬁes a good customer, it should be able to banken has considerable lending operations for is in risk class 5 or better. The corresponding do business with this customer, irrespective of property management (SEK 511 billion). Propﬁgures for property lending in the UK are 96 per whether the Bank as a whole has major expoerty management refers here to all companies cent (93), Denmark 94 per cent (94), Finland 98 sure to the business sector that the customer assessed for credit purposes as “property comper cent (99), Norway 97 per cent (96) and the represents. In granting credit the Bank thus has panies”. It is common for groups of companies Netherlands 98 per cent (98). For counterparties no built-in restrictions to having relatively extenoperating in other industries to have subsidiaries in poorer risk classes than normal, the majority sive exposures in individual sectors. The Bank managing the properties in which the group conare in risk classes 6 or 7 with only small volumes monitors and calculates concentration risks ducts business, and such property companies in the higher risk classes 8 and 9. continually for various business sectors, geoare also considered here to belong to property In the past few years, Handelsbanken has graphic areas and individual major exposures. management. However, the underlying credit seen major credit growth in the UK as a result of Concentration risks are identiﬁed in the Bank’s risk in such cases is not only property-related. an expansion of the branch network. A relatively calculation of economic capital for credit risks A large proportion of property lending is to large part of the growth has been in propertyand in the stress tests conducted in the internal government-owned property companies, murelated credits. In its expansion, Handelsbanken capital adequacy assessment. The Swedish nicipal housing companies and other housinghas had the same strict requirements on repayFinancial Supervisory Authority also calculates related operations where the borrowers consistment capacity and collateral quality as in its other a separate capital adequacy supplement unently have strong, stable cash ﬂows and thus home markets. The result of this is a high conder Pillar 2 for concentration risks in the credit very high creditworthiness. A large part of lendcentration of customers in good risk classes and portfolio. This ensures that Handelsbanken ing to the property sector is therefore to coma loan loss ratio in line with other home markets. has sufﬁcient capital, also taking into account panies with a very low probability of default and For information about LTVs in property manconcentration risks. If the concentration risks low LTVs. The Bank’s exposure to the property agement, see page 19. are judged to be excessive, the Bank has the sector is speciﬁed in the tables below. Speciﬁcation 2015 2014 loans to the public – Property management Loans before Provisions Loans after Loans before Provisions Loans after deduction of for probable deduction of deduction of for probable deduction of SEK m provisions loan losses provisions provisions loan losses provisions Loans in Sweden State-owned property companies 5 042 5 042 5 684 5 684 Municipal-owned property companies 12 242 12 242 16 926 16 926 Residential property companies 91 484 -35 91 449 87 797 -19 87 778 of which mortgage loans 77 367 -4 77 363 70 370 -3 70 367 Other property management 136 333 -71 136 262 131 710 -105 131 605 of which mortgage loans 61 993 -7 61 986 64 392 -5 64 387 Total loans in Sweden 245 101 -106 244 995 242 117 -124 241 993 Loans outside Sweden UK 115 669 -408 115 261 102 152 -255 101 897 Denmark 13 816 -89 13 727 14 446 -127 14 319 Finland 28 704 -22 28 682 27 483 -28 27 455 Norway 85 787 -58 85 729 79 859 -43 79 816 Netherlands 14 539 14 539 11 423 11 423 Other countries 7 692 -14 7 678 7 897 -12 7 885 Total loans outside Sweden 266 207 -591 265 616 243 260 -465 242 795 Total loans – property management 511 308 -697 510 611 485 377 -589 484 788 Speciﬁcation 2015 2014 loans to the public – Property management Companies Companies Type of collateral and owned by owned by country government and government and municipality/ municipality/ property lending Multi-family Commercial property lending Multi-family Commercial guaranteed by dwellings/ properties guaranteed by dwellings/ properties government and residential and other government and residential and other SEK m Total municipality property collateral Unsecured Total municipality property collateral Unsecured Sweden 245 101 18 746 99 658 111 881 14 816 242 117 24 669 92 972 111 558 12 918 UK 115 669 0 52 582 59 053 4 034 102 152 0 45 577 53 320 3 255 Denmark 13 816 0 7 717 4 870 1 229 14 446 0 7 113 5 563 1 770 Finland 28 704 11 117 4 577 12 247 763 27 483 9 827 3 902 12 959 795 Norway 85 787 0 12 209 64 187 9 391 79 859 0 12 350 56 996 10 513 Netherlands 14 539 0 7 286 6 904 349 11 423 0 4 451 6 943 29 Other countries 7 692 531 580 5 819 762 7 897 557 579 5 542 1 219 Total 511 308 30 394 184 609 264 961 31 344 485 377 35 053 166 944 252 881 30 499 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 87 NOTES | GROUP Speciﬁcation – Loans to the public – Property management, risk class and country 2015 SEK m Other Accum.% Risk class Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands countries Total % of total 1 20 034 943 53 2 903 1 127 115 1 044 26 219 5.13 5 2 73 556 22 677 829 11 365 18 026 1 942 3 249 131 644 25.75 31 3 92 801 56 376 6 197 11 006 45 263 10 247 2 869 224 759 43.96 75 4 43 115 24 298 4 338 1 619 15 418 1 873 172 90 833 17.76 93 5 12 592 6 249 1 548 1 125 3 430 75 289 25 308 4.95 98 6 1 606 1 939 289 401 1 444 221 30 5 930 1.16 99 7 889 1 331 190 118 793 66 0 3 387 0.66 99 8 161 363 26 17 91 0 0 658 0.13 99 9 107 87 8 9 15 0 2 228 0.04 100 Defaults 240 1 406 338 141 180 0 37 2 342 0.46 100 Total 245 101 115 669 13 816 28 704 85 787 14 539 7 692 511 308 100 Speciﬁcation – Loans to the public – Property management, risk class and country 2014 SEK m Other Accum.% Risk class Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands countries Total % of total 1 20 614 984 73 3 263 1 390 164 1 047 27 535 5.67 6 2 74 952 22 468 850 10 904 16 038 1 751 3 762 130 725 26.93 33 3 88 932 46 474 7 088 10 274 40 298 8 157 2 523 203 746 41.98 75 4 39 221 18 286 3 738 1 854 14 648 1 059 176 78 982 16.27 91 5 14 602 7 090 1 821 794 4 089 16 308 28 720 5.92 97 6 1 962 3 198 209 236 2 186 26 42 7 859 1.62 98 7 1 130 1 689 166 54 851 250 0 4 140 0.85 99 8 294 669 144 37 116 0 0 1 260 0.26 100 9 111 102 60 7 12 0 0 292 0.06 100 Defaults 299 1 192 297 60 231 0 39 2 118 0.44 100 Total 242 117 102 152 14 446 27 483 79 859 11 423 7 897 485 377 100 Speciﬁcation – Loans to the public – Property management, risk class, type of collateral and unsecured 2015 SEK m Loans Collateral Multi-family Guarantee from dwellings/ Commercial government or Risk class residential property property municipality Other collateral Unsecured 1 26 219 14 662 6 208 3 355 188 1 806 2 131 644 49 028 57 171 10 543 2 527 12 375 3 224 759 81 039 124 876 5 296 4 115 9 433 4 90 833 32 732 52 902 682 755 3 762 5 25 308 9 133 13 189 420 340 2 226 6 5 930 1 279 4 034 14 52 551 7 3 387 899 2 222 0 50 216 8 658 236 270 0 16 136 9 228 40 92 3 2 91 Defaults 2 342 579 890 0 49 824 Total 511 308 189 627 261 854 20 313 8 094 31 420 Speciﬁcation – Loans to the public – Property management, risk class, type of collateral and unsecured 2014 SEK m Loans Collateral Multi-family Guarantee from dwellings/ Commercial government or Risk class residential property property municipality Other collateral Unsecured 1 27 535 15 403 5 616 4 558 139 1 819 2 130 725 45 759 60 303 10 956 3 195 10 512 3 203 746 72 906 109 122 5 210 4 926 11 582 4 78 982 26 337 43 371 920 4 588 3 766 5 28 720 9 553 14 612 619 2 402 1 534 6 7 859 1 807 5 221 12 533 286 7 4 140 1 022 2 680 0 234 204 8 1 260 257 672 0 12 319 9 292 110 138 6 2 36 Defaults 2 118 758 813 0 45 502 Total 485 377 173 912 242 548 22 281 16 076 30 560 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 88 NOTES | GROUP COUNTERPARTY RISK tions with the same counterparty. Handelsbanken’s for fulﬁlling the parties’ obligations. All parties Counterparty risk arises when the Bank has enpolicy is to aim to have netting agreements with all which use a central counterparty must provide tered into derivative contracts with a counterparty counterparties which are credit institutions. Netting collateral for all transactions. In most cases the for instruments such as futures, swaps or options, agreements are supplemented with agreements for risk weight for centrally cleared derivatives is or contracts regarding loans of securities. issuing collateral for the net exposure, which further considerably lower than for other types of derivaCounterparty risk is regarded as a credit risk reduces the credit risk. No transactions with matetives. The risk-weighted amount for derivative where the market value of the contract deterrial speciﬁc correlation risk have been identiﬁed. transactions with central counterparties is SEK mines the size of the exposure. If the contract has The collateral for these transactions is mainly 342 million (176). a positive value, the default of the counterparty cash, but government securities are also used. Payment risks arise in transactions where the means a potential loss for the Bank – in the same Due to the high proportion of cash, the concenBank has fulﬁlled its commitments in the form of way as for a loan. tration risks in the collateral are limited. foreign exchange conversion, payments or delivery In calculating both the capital requirement and A small number of the collateral agreements enof securities, but cannot at the same time ensure economic capital (EC), counterparty exposures tered into by the Bank include terms and conditions that the counterparty has fulﬁlled its commitments are taken into account based on the exposure concerning rating-based threshold amounts for to the Bank. The risk amount equals the amount amounts stipulated by the capital adequacy reguHandelsbanken. These conditions mean that the of the payment transaction. The payment risks are lations. These credit exposures are then treated in Bank must provide further collateral for the counnot included in the credit limit of each customer; the same way as other credit exposures. terparty in question, in the event of the Bank’s instead, they are covered by a separate limit. At In addition to derivatives, the capital adequacy rating from external parties being lowered. At the Handelsbanken, the risk of value changes in spot regulations treat both repurchase transactions year-end, a downgrading from AA-/Aa2 to A+/Aa1 transactions is categorised as payment risk, while and equity loans as counterparty risks. When calwould have meant the Bank having to issue further the risk of value changes in derivative transactions is culating EC, these transaction types are treated in collateral of SEK 42 million (76). categorised as credit risk. the same way. The Bank applies the mark to marThe Bank holds a portfolio of credit derivatives Setting a limit for the payment risk is a vital part ket method to calculate the exposure amount for (credit default swaps, CDS) which is classed as of Handelsbanken’s constant aim to limit risks. counterparty risks for capital adequacy purposes. trading book. The value of purchased protecThis includes developing technical solutions which The size of counterparty exposures is restricted tion is SEK 46 million (521), and the value of sold reduce the period of time during which there is by setting credit limits in the regular credit process. protection is SEK 0 million (474). The portfolio is a payment risk. In these efforts, Handelsbanken The size of the exposures may vary substantially being wound down. co-operates with various banking sector clearing due to ﬂuctuations in the price of the underlying In addition to the capital requirement for couninstitutions. The Bank has also established colasset. In order to take account of the risk that the terparty risk, derivative transactions result in capilaborations with the banks considered to be the exposure may increase, supplements are added tal requirements for value change risks related to strongest and the most creditworthy. to the value of the exposure when setting credit the counterparty’s credit quality (credit valuation Handelsbanken participates in clearing collimits. These add-ons are calculated using standard adjustment, CVA). The capital requirement for laborations such as CLS (Continuous Linked amounts that depend on the type of contract and CVA was SEK 713 million (534). Derivatives which Settlement) for currency trading. Handelsbanken the time to maturity. The exposures are calculated are cleared via central counterparties also give is part-owner of CLS together with around 60 and followed up daily. The counterparty risk in rise to capital requirements. Central counterparof the largest international FX banks. Handelsderivatives is reduced through so-called netting ties are clearing houses which act as the counbanken is also a partner and direct member of agreements, which involve setting off positive valterparty for both the buyer and seller in various EBA (Euro Banking Association) and its euro ues against negative values in all derivative transactransactions, and thus take over the responsibility payment system. Counterparty risks in derivative contracts excluding standard add-ons for potential future exposure SEK m 2015 2014 Positive gross market value for derivative contracts 109 287 128 764 Netting gains 49 600 58 286 Current set-off exposure 59 687 70 478 Collateral 35 678 38 191 Net credit exposure for derivatives 24 009 32 287 Counterparty risks in derivative contracts including potential Total credit future exposure 2015 Current Potential exposure/exposet-off future sure value for Risk-weighted Capital SEK m exposure exposure derivatives/EAD amount requirement Sovereign exposures 1 783 1 035 2 818 63 5 Institutional exposures 45 087 25 296 70 383 13 336 1 067 Corporate exposures 12 671 4 181 16 852 4 473 358 Other 145 86 231 181 14 Total 59 686 30 598 90 284 18 053 1 444 of which operations in trading book 18 522 13 524 32 046 6 628 530 Counterparty risks in derivative contracts including potential Total credit future exposure 2014 Current Potential exposure/exposet-off future sure value for Risk-weighted Capital SEK m exposure exposure derivatives/EAD amount requirement Sovereign exposures 7 766 1 824 9 590 19 2 Institutional exposures 41 726 21 611 63 338 9 683 775 Corporate exposures 20 799 7 107 27 905 7 215 577 Other 187 302 489 153 12 Total 70 478 30 844 101 322 17 070 1 366 of which operations in trading book 34 439 15 986 50 425 9 195 736 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 89 NOTES | GROUP MARKET RISK ing on other markets than those where it has liquidity risk are allocated by the CEO and the its lending so that it can diversify its sources of CFO to the Head of Central Treasury, who in funding. The funding can also have a different turn allocates these to the business-operating maturity than the assets which are to be funded. units. The Head of Central Treasury has operaMarket risks arise from price and Central Treasury manages a liquidity portfolio tional responsibility under the CFO for managing volatility changes in the financial that can be converted into liquidity at short interest rate, currency and liquidity risks. Limits notice in conjunction with possible disruptions for equity price risk and commodity risk are almarkets. Market risks are divided in the markets where the Bank conducts its oplocated directly to the Head of Capital Markets into interest rate risks, equity erations. The portfolio secures the Group’s payby the CFO. price risks, exchange rate risks ments in the daily clearing operations and forms The CEO and the CFO also decide on supand commodity price risks. part of the Bank’s liquidity reserve. plementary risk measures, limits and detailed Market risks also arise to meet customers’ guidelines. The supplementary limit measures demand for ﬁnancial instruments with exposure aim to reduce the Bank’s sensitivity to volatility to the ﬁxed income, currency, equity or comchanges in the ﬁnancial markets, and to limit Handelsbanken has a restrictive view of market modities markets. To meet this demand, it may the risks of speciﬁc holdings and the liquidity risks. Market risks at Handelsbanken have debe necessary for the Bank to have certain holdrisk per currency. These measures also limit creased further during the past few years from ings. This situation arises for example when the the risks from a maturity perspective. The CFO, already low levels to very low at present. This Bank has undertaken to set prices in its function CEO and Board continually receive reports on work has continued for a long period of time as a market maker. the market risks and utilisation of the limits. and started before the ﬁnancial crisis broke out Market risk is measured using several differMarket risks in the Bank’s business operaand long before the regulations started to asent methods. Various sensitivity measures are tions mainly arise at Central Treasury, Handelssign such importance to market risks as they do used, showing the changes in value arising from banken Capital Markets and Handelsbanken today. One result of this is that a much smaller pre-deﬁned changes in prices and volatilities. Liv, and are managed there. The market risks at part of the earnings come from net gains/losses Position-related risk measures and probabilitythe insurance company, Handelsbanken Liv, are on ﬁnancial transactions. based Value at Risk models (VaR) are also used. described in a separate section. Consequently, At a full-service bank like Handelsbanken, The Bank’s limit system restricts the size of the information on market risks given in this secmarket risks arise when the Bank’s customers the exposure to market risks. Measurement tion refers to risks excluding Handelsbanken Liv. demand services where the Bank must have methods and limits are established by the ﬂexible funding. The Bank can also obtain fundBoard. The limits for interest rate, currency and Decision levels and monitoring of market risk Board CEO CFO Central Treasury Handelsbanken Liv Other business units Handelsbanken Capital Markets H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 90 NOTES | GROUP Risk measured as VaR individual classes of risk and at portfolio level with The VaR model does not identify risks associatVaR is calculated for the portfolios at Handelsa 99-per cent conﬁdence level and a one-day ed with extreme market ﬂuctuations. The calcubanken Capital Markets and Central Treasury holding period. The method means that different lations are therefore supplemented with regular which are classiﬁed as trading book. VaR is a risk classes can be handled in a uniform way so stress tests where the portfolios are tested probability-based measure and expresses the that they can be compared and aggregated into against scenarios based on all events in the losses in Swedish kronor that may arise in risk a total market risk. The overall risk in the portfolios ﬁnancial markets since 1994. The results of positions due to movements in the underlying which are classiﬁed as trading book was SEK 16 these stress tests are also reported to the markets over a speciﬁed holding period and for million (12) at the year-end. VaR is reported to the CFO, CEO and the Board’s risk committee on a given conﬁdence level. VaR is calculated for CFO, the CEO and the Board on a regular basis. a regular basis. VaR for trading book, Handelsbanken Capital Markets and Central Treasury Total Equities Fixed income Currency Commodities SEK m 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Average 12 14 1 1 12 14 5 2 1 1 Maximum 19 24 4 3 17 24 9 6 5 3 Minimum 8 8 0 1 7 9 2 0 0 0 Year-end 16 12 2 1 15 13 7 4 2 1 Worst outcome in stress test for trading book – Handelsbanken Capital Markets and Central Treasury SEK m 2015 2014 Average 40 27 Maximum 130 46 Minimum 12 13 Year-end 107 37 INTEREST RATE RISK Interest rate risk in the trading book To estimate the effect of interest rate changes Interest rate risk mainly arises at Handelsbanken The trading book at Handelsbanken comon the income statement, the net interest Capital Markets, Central Treasury and in the prises Capital Markets’ and Central Treasury’s income effect is also measured. The net interlending operations. Interest rate risk is measportfolios which are classiﬁed as trading book. est income effect when interest rates change ured in several ways at the Bank. General interThe general interest rate risk in the trading is measured as the change in net interest inest rate risk is measured and limited as the sum book was SEK 51 million (117) and the speciﬁc come over a twelve-month period in the case of the least favourable changes in fair value per interest rate risk was SEK 5 million (7). VaR of a general increase of market rates by one currency in the case of substantial instantaneand other risk measurements are used for the percentage point. This effect reﬂects the differous upward or downward parallel shifts of one trading book, supplemented by various stress ences in interest-rate ﬁxing periods and volume percentage point for all interest rates. At the scenarios. Yield curve twist risks – which are composition between assets, liabilities and year-end, the Bank’s total general interest rate measured and followed up on a regular baderivatives outside the trading book, assuming risk was SEK 1,423 million (908). In the calculasis – show the development of the risks in the that the size of the balance sheet is constant. In tion of general interest rate risk, deposits withcase of hypothetical changes in various yield the calculation, it is assumed that deposits without an established interest-ﬁxing period are ascurves. The non-linear interest rate risk, for out an established interest-ﬁxing period have an sumed to have an average interest-ﬁxing period example, part of the risk in interest rate opaverage interest-ﬁxing period of approximately of approximately one month. This risk measure tions, is measured and a limit set with preone month. The net interest income effect at the includes both interest-bearing items at market deﬁned stress scenarios expressed in matriyear-end was SEK 929 million (788). value and not at market value, and it is therefore ces. This means that the risk is measured as not appropriate to assess the effects on the balchanges in underlying market interest rates ance sheet and income statement. and volatilities. Speciﬁc interest rate risk is measured and limits set are using sensitivity to changes in Interest rate risk in other operations credit spreads. This risk mainly arises within In the lending operations, interest rate risk arises Handelsbanken Capital Markets and in the Cenas a result of the lending partly having different tral Treasury liquidity portfolio. The risk is measinterest-rate ﬁxing periods than the funding. In ured and limited on the basis of different rating bond funding, the reverse may also apply, i.e. classes and is calculated as the least favourable that the interest-rate ﬁxing period on the bonds change in market value in the case of an upward is longer than the interest-rate ﬁxing period for or downward parallel shift in the credit spreads the lending that the bonds are funding. Inteof one basis point, i.e. the difference between rest rate risk is mainly managed by means of the interest on the current holding and the yield interest rate swaps. In general, interest rate risk on a government bond with the same maturity. exposure is in markets which are characterised This is performed for each individual counterby good liquidity. The general interest rate risk party and the outcomes are summed as an in other operations measured as above was absolute total. The total speciﬁc interest rate risk SEK 1,384 million (819) and the speciﬁc interest at the year-end was SEK 7 million (9). rate risk was SEK 2 million (2). H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 91 NOTES | GROUP General interest rate risk for positions not included in the trading book (change in fair value as the worst outcome in the case of a one percentage point parallel shift in the yield curve) SEK m 2015 2014 SEK 920 241 DKK 234 206 EUR 68 103 NOK 12 101 USD 112 91 GBP 24 60 Other currencies 14 17 Total 1 384 819 Interest rate adjustment periods for assets and liabilities 2015 SEK m Up to 3 mths 3–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–5 yrs Over 5 yrs Total Assets Loans 1 237 710 149 780 97 672 351 750 29 555 1 866 467 Banks and other ﬁnancial institutions 284 882 862 453 131 76 286 404 Bonds etc. 40 709 502 2 754 59 920 12 071 115 956 Total assets 1 563 301 151 144 100 879 411 801 41 702 2 268 827 Liabilities Deposits 737 001 5 117 2 508 349 2 744 977 Banks and other ﬁnancial institutions 125 322 32 221 2 679 547 3 630 164 399 Issued securities 440 990 90 976 87 107 575 551 84 959 1 279 583 Other liabilities Total liabilities 1 303 313 128 314 92 294 576 447 88 591 2 188 959 Off-balance sheet items -233 048 27 449 15 152 162 738 60 726 33 017 Difference between assets and liabilities including off-balance sheet items 26 934 50 279 23 737 -1 908 13 837 112 879 The table shows the interest rate adjustment periods for interest-rate related assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2015. Non-interest-bearing assets and liabilities have been excluded. Interest rate adjustment periods for assets and liabilities 2014 SEK m Up to 3 mths 3–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–5 yrs Over 5 yrs Total Assets Loans 1 261 702 85 192 94 117 338 804 28 020 1 807 835 Banks and other ﬁnancial institutions 480 157 1 643 194 169 77 482 240 Bonds etc. 40 039 4 730 15 057 45 553 17 189 122 568 Total assets 1 781 898 91 565 109 368 384 526 45 286 2 412 643 Liabilities Deposits 980 659 31 768 7 292 1 543 1 007 1 022 269 Banks and other ﬁnancial institutions 185 229 8 208 696 474 5 468 200 075 Issued securities 287 955 94 458 153 569 605 712 101 208 1 242 902 Other liabilities Total liabilities 1 453 843 134 434 161 557 607 729 107 683 2 465 246 Off-balance sheet items -124 028 -12 929 -22 541 138 925 36 792 16 219 Difference between assets and liabilities including off-balance sheet items 204 027 -55 798 -74 730 -84 278 -25 605 -36 384 The table shows the interest rate adjustment periods for interest-rate related assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2014. Non-interest-bearing assets and liabilities have been excluded. H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 92 NOTES | GROUP EQUITY PRICE RISK ucts, which gives rise to equity price risk, both Equity price risk outside the trading book The Bank’s equity price risk mainly arises at linear and non-linear. The non-linear equity price The majority of the Group’s shareholdings Handelsbanken Capital Markets through cusrisk arises via options mainly included in the outside the trading book, 71 per cent (81), comtomer trading and in the Bank’s own equity structured products. prise shares listed on an active market valued portfolio. The extent of own position-taking, which arisat market price. Holdings of unlisted securities The equity price risk table shows the risk in es to meet customers’ needs, is restricted by mainly consist of various types of jointly owned the Bank’s total equity positions in the case of the limits decided by the Bank’s Board, the CEO operations related to the Bank’s core business. an instantaneous change in equity prices and and the CFO. The Bank limits and measures In general, such holdings are valued at the volatilities by +/-10 and +/-25 per cent respecthe equity price risk at Handelsbanken Capital Bank’s share of the company’s net asset value, tively. At the year-end, the Bank’s worst case Markets using matrices. The advantage of this or alternatively at the price of the last completed outcome of this risk was SEK 651 million (825). method is that it effectively identiﬁes equity price transaction. Equity exposures outside the tradrisk including the non-linear risk. VaR as well as ing book are classiﬁed as available for sale and Equity price risk in the trading book other risk measures and stress scenarios are are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet. The equity price risk at Handelsbanken Capital used as a complement when measuring the Markets arises in customer-generated equityequity price risk. At the year-end, the Bank’s related transactions. Handelsbanken Capital VaR for equity price risk in the trading book was Markets is a market maker for structured prodSEK 2 million (1). Equity price risk Change in volatility SEK m 2015 2014 Change in equity price -25% 0% 25% -25% 0% 25% 10% 647 651 654 833 833 834 -10% -651 -648 -645 -825 -822 -820 EXCHANGE RATE RISK shown in the table on page 70: Statement of in the normal banking operations as part of Handelsbanken has home markets outside changes in equity – Group. managing customer payment ﬂows and in fundSweden and also operations in a number of The Bank’s direct foreign exchange exposure ing operations at Central Treasury. The Board, other countries. Indirect currency exposure of arises as a consequence of customer-driven CEO and CFO have set position limits for these a structural nature therefore arises, because intra-day trading in the international foreign risks. At year-end, the aggregate net position the Group’s accounts are expressed in Swedexchange markets. This trading is conducted amounted to SEK 391 million (355). The exish kronor. The structural risk is minimised by at Handelsbanken Capital Markets. The Board, change rate risk in the Bank does not depend matching assets and liabilities in the same the CEO and the CFO have set VaR limits for on trends for an individual currency or group of currency as far as possible. The exchange rate this exchange rate risk. currencies, because the positions are very short movements that affect the Bank’s equity are Some foreign exchange exposure also arises and arise in management of customer-driven ﬂows. The total exchange rate risk in the trading book and other operations was SEK 36 million Exchange rate sensitivity (6), measured as the impact on the Bank’s earn(worst outcome +/5% change SEK against the respective currency) ings of an instantaneous 5 per cent change of SEK m 2015 2014 the Swedish krona. EUR 3 14 COMMODITY PRICE RISK NOK 20 2 DKK 3 1 Exposure in commodity-related instruments USD 4 11 only occurs as a result of customer-based tradGBP 6 0 ing in the international commodity markets and Other currencies 8 10 is restricted by limits decided by the Board, CEO and CFO. Trading in commodities is con1 Positive effect of worst outcome +/5% change. ducted exclusively at Handelsbanken Capital Markets. Commodity price risk, both linear and non-linear, is measured as the absolute total Equity exposures outside the trading book of risk for all commodities to which the Bank is SEK m 2015 2014 exposed. At the year-end, the commodity price risk was SEK 5 million (6), measured as the Classiﬁed as available for sale 6 581 8 367 maximum loss on price changes up to 20 per of which listed 4 667 6 753 of which unlisted 1 914 1 614 cent in underlying commodities and changes in volatility up to 35 per cent. At the year-end, Classiﬁed as available for sale 6 581 8 367 the Bank’s VaR for commodity price risk was of which business-related 5 198 6 198 SEK 2 million (1). of which other holdings 1 383 2 169 Fair value reserve at beginning of year 1 460 1 217 Unrealised market value change during the year for remaining and new holdings 789 237 Realised due to sale and settlements during the period -111 6 Fair value reserve at end of year 2 138 1 460 Included in tier 2 capital 0 0 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 93 NOTES | GROUP FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY RISK outgoing cash ﬂows over time in all currencies is important to adopt a future-oriented perspecof importance to the Bank and by maintaining tive in funding and liquidity risk management. large liquidity reserves of good quality. The balance sheet is therefore structured in Furthermore, the Bank aims for breadth in such a way that the real economy players in the Liquidity risk is the risk that the its funding programmes and their use, so that form of companies and households and their no type of investor is treated at a disadvantage needs for credit can be supported even during Bank will not be able to meet its compared to others. This ensures that the Bank lengthy periods of stress in the ﬁnancial marpayment obligations when they can keep its core business intact for a long pekets. Short-term assets cover short-term fall due without being affected riod of time, even if there is extensive disruption liabilities by a good margin. In the diagram on by unacceptable costs or losses. in the ﬁnancial markets. the previous page, the balance sheet is deThe starting point of this work is a wellscribed in a stressed scenario where 20 per matched balance sheet, where illiquid assets cent of deposits are assumed to disappear are ﬁnanced using stable funding. The illiquid within one year and all access to new market In 2015, Handelsbanken was slightly less acassets comprise credits to households and funding disappears. Despite the stress, shorttive than previously in the bond markets, mainly companies; these credits constitute the term assets are estimated to exceed short term due to a large increase in deposits. The Bank Bank’s core business. The long-term stable liabilities by a considerable amount at year-end. has, however, continued to meet investors funding of these assets consists of covered A long-term crisis could result in a reduced balto the same extent as previously, updated its bonds issued by Stadshypotek, senior bonds ance sheet with retained core business, wherefunding programmes and also in other respects issued by Handelsbanken, deposits from by the volume of short-term assets is gradually maintained the conditions for bond funding on households and companies, subordinated used to pay back maturing short-term liabilities. all relevant funding markets worldwide. This liabilities and equity. Part of the core operaIn the event of an even longer crisis, measures enables funding operations to be maintained in tions are short-term lending to households have been prepared to create liquidity which will circumstances that are much more difﬁcult than and companies and on the liabilities side, provide more support to the business operations. those which have existed in the past few years. some of the deposits for these customers The market has great conﬁdence in HandelsHandelsbanken is the only major Swedish are shorter term. banken and its assessment is that Handelsbank which has managed completely on its own The main point is that illiquid assets are not banken has a low credit risk. One illustration of for its funding throughout the latest ﬁnancial crifunded with long-term liabilities. The rest of this is that the cost of insuring a credit risk on sis, with no support from central banks or public the balance sheet comprises liquid assets and the Bank, which is known as the CDS spread, is authorities. liabilities that are shorter term. one of the lowest of all among European banks, The short-term market funding and deposits and Handelsbanken has the lowest funding cost Funding strategy from ﬁnancial institutions ﬁnance liquid assets of all peer banks. Handelsbanken has a low tolerance of liquidiand assets with shorter maturities. In addition, Good diversiﬁcation between different types ty risks and works actively to minimise them in short-term assets and liabilities arise via transof sources of funding in various markets, curtotal and also in each individual currency. The actions that support customer-driven transacrencies and forms of funding instruments is a aim is to have good access to liquidity, a low tions, such as derivative and repo transactions key component of the funding strategy. This relevel of variation in results and a considerable with other banks. duces the signiﬁcance of individual markets or capacity to meet customers’ funding needs, A balance sheet is a snapshot of assets and sources of funding. In recent years, the Bank even in difﬁcult times. This is achieved by liabilities. To ensure that the Bank’s obligations has considerably broadened its long-term maintaining a good matching of incoming and towards customers and investors are fulﬁlled, it international funding and has issued signiﬁcant Composition of the balance sheet from a maturity perspective, as at 31 December 2015 SEK bn 3 000 J Cash and balances with JLiabilities to banks <1 year central banks 2 500 JIssued covered bonds <1 year J Bonds and other liquid securities including Short-term derivatives 1 012 assets 851 J Issued other securitites <1 year 2 000 J Loans to banks <1 year J Stress on deposits: Short-term liabilities 20% of deposits leaving J Loans repaid and amortised within 1 year * 1 500 J Other liabilities <1 year including derivatives J Loans to general public 1–5 years J Issued securities >1 year 1000 J Loans to general public J Remaining deposits after stress >5 years 500 J Other liabilities J Other assets J Equity 0 Assets Liabilities * Scheduled amortisations, contractual maturities and estimated additional loan repayments. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 94 NOTES | GROUP volumes of bonds in, for example, the eurozone, volumes of unutilised collateral that can be used relevant factors. Handelsbanken’s restrictive the UK, the US, Asia and Australia. The most in the event of disruptions in the ﬁnancial marapproach to risk-taking means that the nonimportant sources of funding are deposits from kets. One prerequisite for being able to pledge encumbered assets are of high quality. Since households and companies as well as covered additional collateral is for the Bank to have colHandelsbanken wishes to have a balanced and senior bonds. The short-term funding lateral at its disposal from the outset. The Bank utilisation of covered and senior bonds, there mainly comprises deposits from ﬁnancial compatherefore retains substantial volumes of nonis a large volume of mortgage loans which are nies and institutions as well as issues of encumbered assets that could be used as colnot encumbered. Other non-encumbered loans certiﬁcates and CDs. Central Treasury has a lateral in the issue of covered bonds and liquid also have a low risk measured, for example, in number of different funding programmes for securities with very high credit ratings. The Bank terms of the Bank’s internal rating. market funding at its disposal, which in addition is restrictive about entering into agreements The table of non-encumbered assets shows to the programmes reported in the table Fundwith other parties than credit institutions, such that the volume of non-encumbered assets for ing programmes/limits on page 97, include as CSA agreements that stipulate that the Bank, Handelsbanken is 203 per cent of the outstandcovered bonds in Swedish kronor. Bonds and according to certain criteria, may be forced to ing volume of non-encumbered funding. At the certiﬁcates are issued under these programmes provide collateral to another counterparty. In end of the year, the Bank decided to reduce the in the Bank’s and Stadshypotek’s names. The addition to securing the Bank’s liquidity, this volume of short-term deposits. This explains the funding programmes ensure well-diversiﬁed also contributes to limiting the extent to which decrease in holdings with central banks and the access to funding in terms of different currenthe Bank’s senior lenders could have lower priratio between non-encumbered assets in relacies, the number of investors and geographic ority than lenders who invest in covered bonds, tion to the outstanding volume of non-covered breakdown. known as subordination. funding compared with previous quarters. To assess the degree of subordination beThe majority of the encumbered assets Encumbered assets and cover pools tween investors of non-encumbered funding consist of Stadshypotek’s cover pools, which An important part of Handelsbanken’s liquidity and encumbered funding, the volume and credit comprise mortgage loans provided as collateral management consists of retaining signiﬁcant quality of the non-encumbered assets are the for outstanding covered bonds. The Bank also Handelsbanken’s 5-year CDS spread compared with ITRAXX Financials 2007–2015 Basis points 400 300 200 100 0 Dec-06 Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Mar-08 Jun-08 Sep-08 Dec-08 Mar-09 Jun-09 Sep-09 Dec-09 Mar-10 Jun-10 Sep-10 Dec-10 Mar-11 Jun-11 Sep-11 Dec-11 Mar-12 Jun-12 Sep-12 Dec-12 Mar-13 Jun-13 Sep-13 Dec-13 Mar-14 Jun-14 Sep-14 Dec-14 Mar-15 Jun-15 Sep-15 Dec-15 ITRAXX Financials 5-year SHB CDS 5-year Source: Ecowin, Bloomberg ITRAXX Financials is an index of CDS spreads for the 25 largest bond issuers in the European bank and insurance sector. It describes the average premium that an investor requires in order to accept credit risk on the companies. Encumbered assets and other pledged collateral Reported values SEK bn 2015 2014 Loans to the public1 618 623 Government instruments and bonds 26 29 Equities 1 1 Cash 22 31 Other 113 105 Total pledged assets2 780 789 Other pledged assets3 33 36 Loans to the public are reported at amortised cost. Other pledged assets are reported at fair value. The reported value of the liabilities related to the collateral was SEK 833bn. 1 Of which over-collateralisation in the cover pool (OC) SEK 57bn (57). 2 Of which SEK 18bn (27) is collateral which can be freely reclaimed by the Bank. 3 Of which SEK 22bn (27) is collateral which can be freely reclaimed by the Bank. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 95 NOTES | GROUP Non-encumbered/non-pledged assets 2015 2014 % of % of non-secured non-secured 1 SEK bn NEA funding2 NEA 1 funding2 Cash and balances with central banks 238 28 519 62 Liquid bonds in liquidity portfolio 114 42 129 77 Loans to households including derivatives 486 461 of which mortgage loans 283 75 310 114 of which loans secured by property mortgage 14 77 15 116 of which other household lending 189 100 136 132 Loans to companies including derivatives 786 702 of which mortgage loans 170 120 90 142 of which loans to housing co-operative associations excl. mortgage loans 40 125 32 146 of which loans to property companies inc./excl. mortgage loans risk category 1–3 238 153 221 173 risk category 4–5 88 163 79 182 of which risk category >5 11 165 14 184 of which other corporate lending risk category 1–3 150 182 169 204 risk category 4–5 71 191 74 212 risk category >5 18 193 23 215 Loans to credit institutions including derivatives 46 64 risk category 1–3 46 198 63 223 risk category >3 0 198 1 223 Other assets 0 198 0 223 Other lending 39 203 117 237 Non-encumbered/non-pledged assets 1 709 203 1 992 237 1 NEA: Non-encumbered assets. 2 Issued short and long non-secured funding and due to credit institutions. Collateral received available for encumbrance Fair value of collateral received Fair value of encumbered avalable for encumbrance collateral received SEK bn 2015 2014 2015 2014 Government instruments and bonds 11 29 5 1 Shares 4 4 4 4 Total 15 33 9 5 The carrying amount of the liabilities and other commitments for which the collateral has been pledged amounts to SEK 8bn (5). Cover pool data Sweden Norway SEK m 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Stadshypotek total lending, public 936 504 878 943 66 986 64 243 Available assets for cover pool 859 398 786 304 62 264 58 311 Utilised assets in cover pool 600 025 600 850 17 701 22 394 Maximum LTV, weighted average ASCB deﬁnition1 53.6 49.3 56.7 49.4 Volume-weighted LTV (LTV Mid) 27.1 25 29.1 25.4 LTV, breakdown 0–10% 23.5 23.9 19.6 23.1 10–20% 20.1 20.9 20.3 22 20–30% 16.8 18.1 17.3 18.1 30–40% 13.7 15.2 14.9 15.6 40–50% 10.8 12.3 12.1 12.4 50–60% 8 9.5 9.2 8.8 60–70% 5.4 0 5.5 0 70–75% 1.7 0 1.1 0 Loan amount, weighted average, SEK 625 700 638 600 3 115 226 3 156 843 Loan term, weighted average, no. of months 42 41 22 22 Interest ﬁxing periods, breakdown Floating rate % 45 50 100 100 Fixed rate % 55 50 0 0 1 The calculation method has been changed which has affected the comparison ﬁgures for 2014. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 96 NOTES | GROUP has voluntary OC (over-collateralisation – extra that it must promote long-term stable growth in The size of collateral in the clearing systems assets in addition to those which are needed to proﬁts by limiting market and liquidity risks. This is determined on the basis of what the Bank cover the issued bonds) of 10 per cent which is is achieved by matching cash ﬂows between deems is required to fulﬁl its obligations, both included in the pool. These extra assets are in funding and lending. The Bank thus minimises in normal circumstances and in case of larger the pool in case the value of the mortgage loans the economic risks in funding and can thereby ﬂows. If the ﬂow changes, the size of collateral were to fall to a level such that further assets decide on stable and long-term internal interest and liquidity is adjusted, and in times of crisis, are needed to match the volume of outstandrates to the business-operating units. Furthercollateral can also be redistributed and the ing bonds. When assessing the risk that it will more, all liquidity risk limits are channelled to liquidity reserve can be activated. The Bank be necessary to add further assets, the loan to -the operations via Central Treasury. secures liquidity in its nostro accounts for exvalue (LTV) of the mortgage loans in the cover In the wake of the ﬁnancial crisis of recent pected payment and settlement undertakings pool is of fundamental importance. The lower years, a number of new regulations have been through active liquidity planning and monitoring the LTV, the lower the risk that more mortgage introduced. The Bank has previously implein all currencies. loans are required in the pool if prices fall in the mented a number of measures at its own initiaproperty market. Handelsbanken’s average LTV, tive. It has therefore fulﬁlled these regulations Pricing of liquidity risk LTV Max, was 53.6 per cent in the Swedish pool for a long period of time. The measures include An important part of liquidity risk management and 56.7 per cent in the Norwegian pool. This a centralised treasury function with overall reis that deposits and lending are priced internally, shows that the Bank can withstand substantial sponsibility for all funding and liquidity risk mantaking into account the liquidity risks that they drops in prices of underlying property assets agement, an increased proportion of long-term give rise to. For example, when the Bank grants before further mortgage loans have to be added funding, internal prices that reﬂect the market a loan with a long maturity this creates the need to the pools. price, liquidity risk and maturity. In addition, the to obtain additional long-term funding – which is The assets which the Bank has chosen to transparency related to funding, liquidity risk more expensive than shorter-term funding. This keep outside the pool are shown in the table and the proportion of pledged assets has been is because investors who purchase the Bank’s on the previous page and can be used for issues considerably increased. long-term bonds normally demand higher comof covered bonds if necessary. Central Treasury is also responsible for the pensation for the maturity. This must be taken Bank’s clearing operation and monitors liquidity into account in the Bank’s internal pricing by Organisation ﬂows during the day to ensure that the Bank has ensuring that the price which internal units in Handelsbanken has a highly decentralised busisufﬁcient collateral in its payment systems at the Bank have to pay for the loans they obtain ness model, but all funding and liquidity risk any given time to meet the Bank’s payment obfrom Central Treasury varies according to facmanagement in the Group are centralised to ligations. The Bank’s liquidity monitoring takes tors such as the maturity period. No liquidity Central Treasury. Funding and liquidity risk manplace locally, near the transactions, and is suprisks can be taken locally. The internal pricing is agement is governed by policies established plemented by central management of collateral important in order to create the right incentive by the Board which also decides on limits. and the liquidity reserve for the whole Group. and to avoid unsound risk-taking. The Bank has Guidelines from the CEO and CFO make these The Bank participates in Continuous Linked worked with maturity-based internal prices for a policies concrete. The guidelines stipulate limits, Settlement (CLS) and local payment systems long time. They ensure that the price at contract the composition of the funding and guides in the required to support the core operation and in level takes into account the liquidity risk that the case of disruptions in the funding markets. this way ensures payments and settlements by agreement has given rise to. This system was The basic condition for the funding operation is providing liquidity or collateral. already fully implemented at the Bank in 2010. Funding programmes/limits as at 31 December 2015 Utilised amount, Programme Currency Programme size current programme Countervalue SEK m ECP1 EUR 5 000 3 271 29 881 ECP (Stadshypotek)1 EUR 4 000 106 968 French commercial paper EUR 7 500 673 6 148 Swedish commercial paper SEK 25 000 400 400 Swedish commercial paper (Stadshypotek) SEK 90 000 0 0 USCP USD 15 000 7 032 58 734 AMTN AUD 5 000 650 3 956 AMTCN (Stadshypotek) AUD 5 000 750 4 565 EMTN1 USD 50 000 23 681 197 793 EMTCN (Stadshypotek)1 EUR 20 000 10 864 99 243 US 144A/3(a)(2) USD 20 000 10 900 91 041 Stadshypotek US 144A USD 15 000 3 750 31 322 Samurai JPY 400 000 192 300 13 335 MTN1 SEK 100 000 15 392 15 392 General funding > 1 yr1 USD 15 000 2 324 19 411 Extendible notes USD 15 000 3 804 31 773 Total 603 962 Total programme or limited amounts, SEK m 1 722 839 Unutilised amount, SEK m 1 118 877 Remaining to utilise, % 65 1 It is possible to issue in other currencies than the original programme currency under these programmes, where currency conversion takes place at the time of issue. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 97 NOTES | GROUP Long-term market funding – composition Maturity profile long-term market funding Stress test of liquidity, including liquidity-creating During the year, Handelsbanken issued longmeasures – accumulated liquidity position SEK bn SEK bn term market funding in all currencies that are important to the Bank. Short-term funding 250 900 mainly takes place through issues of certiﬁcates 800 200 700 of deposit under the various loan programmes in Sweden, Europe and the US. These loan pro600 150 grammes are supplemented by funding in the 500 international interbank market. Central Treasury 100 400 ensures that the maturity structure and currency 300 composition in the balance sheet are in keeping 50 200 with the Bank’s risk tolerance. In total, SEK 214 100 billion in long-term market funding was issued 0 0 1 Jan 2016 13 Jan 2016 26 Jan 2016 8 Feb 2016 21 Feb 2016 3 Mar 2016 16 Mar 2016 29 Mar 2016 25 Jun 2016 2 Nov 2016 9 Aug 2017 14 Jan 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 >2027 during the year. Covered bonds Subordinated debt Senior bonds and extendible notes Other Refers to issued securities as at 31 December 2015 with an original maturity exceeding one year. Short-term market funding per currency Long-term market funding per currency Long-term market funding per instrument as at 31 December 2015 as at 31 December 2015 as at 31 December 2015 SEK 0% (0) SEK 48% (435) EUR 15% (51) EUR 21% (195) Covered bonds 60% (546) USD 69% (237) USD 21% (194) Subordinated debt 4% (35) Other 16% (54) Other 10% (93) Senior bonds and extendible notes 29% (267) Other 7% (69) Refers to the currency breakdown as at 31 December 2015 Refers to the currency breakdown as at 31 December Refers to breakdown per instrument as at 31 December for issued securities with original time to maturity of less 2015 for issued securities with original time to maturity of 2015 for issued securities with original time to maturity of than one year. Amounts in brackets SEK billions. more than one year. Amounts in brackets SEK billions. more than one year. Amounts in brackets SEK billions. Holdings with central banks and banks, and securities holdings in the liquidity reserve as at 31 December 2015, market value SEK m SEK EUR USD Other Total Cash and balances with and other lending to central banks 15 998 45 560 94 626 80 175 236 359 Balances with other banks and National Debt Ofﬁce, overnight 0 43 75 1 062 1 180 Government-issued securities 33 915 6 900 16 933 57 748 Securities issued by municipalities and other public entities 2 045 275 3 068 5 388 Covered bonds 35 707 2 554 10 521 48 782 Own covered bonds 1 314 1 314 Securities issued by non-ﬁnancial companies 502 135 637 Securities issued by ﬁnancial companies (excl. covered bonds) 214 4 15 233 Other securities Total 89 695 55 471 114 702 91 773 351 641 Holdings with central banks and banks, and securities holdings in the liquidity reserve as at 31 December 2014, market value SEK m SEK EUR USD Other Total Cash and balances with and other lending to central banks 5 797 81 766 312 770 103 509 503 842 Balances with other banks and National Debt Ofﬁce, overnight 13 697 254 343 1 173 15 467 Government-issued securities 38 470 7 743 15 946 3 785 65 944 Securities issued by municipalities and other public entities 158 171 329 Covered bonds 36 765 2 710 11 263 50 738 Own covered bonds 8 398 86 1 401 9 885 Securities issued by non-ﬁnancial companies 1 423 432 1 855 Securities issued by ﬁnancial companies (excl. covered bonds) 124 96 49 269 Other securities Total 104 832 93 087 329 059 121 351 648 329 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 98 NOTES | GROUP Liquidity reserve expected outgoing cash ﬂows from the Bank end, the Group’s aggregated LCR according to As at the year-end, Handelsbanken’s total must always be matched with incoming cash the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s liquidity reserve exceeded SEK 800 billion and ﬂows into the Bank that are at least of the same deﬁnition was 137 per cent (140), which shows it covers the Bank’s liquidity requirement in amount, and that a positive cash ﬂow and cash that the Bank has large resistance to short-term stressed conditions for over three years. position must be maintained – even in stressed disruptions in the funding markets. This also To ensure sufﬁcient liquidity to support its conditions. This kind of gap analysis is suppleapplies in US dollars and euros. core operations in stressed ﬁnancial conditions, mented by scenario tests, in which the effect on Daily stress testing of cash ﬂows based on the Bank holds large liquidity reserves. Liquidliquidity is stressed and analysed using various certain assumptions is used to test resistance to ity reserves are kept in all currencies that are assumptions. These stress tests are performed long-term disruptions in the market. For examrelevant to the Bank and are accessible from at Group level and also individually for the curple, it is assumed that the Bank cannot obtain Central Treasury. The liquidity reserve is inderencies that are important to the Bank. The funding in the ﬁnancial markets at the same time pendent of funding and foreign exchange marinternal governance of the Bank’s liquidity situas 10 per cent of non-ﬁxed-term deposits from kets and can provide liquidity to the Bank at any ation is based on these stressed liquidity ﬁgures. households and companies disappear gradually time – some parts immediately and other parts Since 2013, Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) in the ﬁrst month. It is further assumed that the gradually over a period of time. has been a binding requirement for Swedish Bank will continue to conduct its core activities, The liquidity reserve comprises several difbanks, and Handelsbanken reports it according i.e. that ﬁxed-term deposits from and loans to ferent parts. Cash, balances and other lending to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s households and companies will be renewed to central banks are components which can deﬁnition. The ﬁgure states the ratio between at maturity and that issued commitments and provide the Bank with immediate liquidity. The the Bank’s liquidity buffer and net cash ﬂows in credit facilities will be partly utilised by customreserve also comprises government bonds, a very stressed scenario during a 30-day period. ers. The Bank also takes into account that covered bonds and other high-quality securities The ratio must be more than 100 per cent. The balances with central banks and banks will be which are liquid and eligible as collateral with requirement applies to LCR at aggregate level utilised and that Central Treasury’s securities central banks. These can also provide the Bank and separately for US dollars and euros. Since can immediately supply liquidity if provided as with immediate liquidity. The remainder of the 1 October 2015, the European Commission’s collateral in central banks. liquidity reserve comprises an unutilised issue delegated act contains a minimum European Measures to create liquidity are also used to amount for covered bonds and other liquidityrequirement for LCR. The minimum requirement gradually provide the Bank with liquidity. With creating measures. is initially 60 per cent and will be gradually raised these conditions, the Bank will be liquid for more to 100 per cent by 2018 when the delegated act than three years. Thus, the Bank also has maLiquidity risk will be fully implemented. The LCR introduced jor powers of resistance to serious, long-term The Bank handles a large number of incoming by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authordisruptions in the funding markets. and outgoing cash ﬂows every day. The gap beity is based on considerably more stressed A condition for the Bank to be able to maintween incoming and outgoing ﬂows is restricted assumptions, particularly in terms of outﬂow tain such substantial resistance to disruptions in by means of limits. Central Risk Control reports assumptions regarding deposits and the comthe ﬁnancial markets as stated above is that the risk utilisation daily to the CFO, weekly to the position of the liquidity portfolio. balance sheet is well balanced. The diagram on CEO and continuously to the Board. The LCR may display a degree of volatility page 94 shows that the volume of current asLiquidity planning is based on an analysis over time, for example when funding that was sets signiﬁcantly exceeds the volume of current of cash ﬂows for the respective currency. As a originally long term and that ﬁnances mortgage liabilities in a stressed scenario where 20 per general rule, a larger exposure is permitted in loans is replaced by new long-term funding, or cent of the deposits are assumed to disappear currencies with high liquidity than in currencies when the composition of counterparty categowithin one year. Furthermore, the volume and where the liquidity is low. The strategy is that ries varies in the short-term funding. At the yearquality of unutilised collateral must be able to give the Bank the liquidity it needs in times of crisis. Consistently steering the Bank towards Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) positive future net cash ﬂows, instead of point% 2015 2014 in-time ratios, also secures this over time. EUR 161 154 The maturity analysis table shows cash ﬂows USD 429 137 for the contracted payment commitments, Total 137 140 including interest ﬂows, due for payment at the latest within the stated time intervals. The table Calculated according to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s directive 2012:6 which came into force on 1 January 2013. shows holdings of bonds and other interestbearing securities in the time intervals in which Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) – decomposition they can be converted to liquidity if they are SEK m 2015 2014 pledged as collateral or sold. Assets, liabilities Liquid assets 283 573 312 480 and interest ﬂows are also shown that mature Liquid assets level 1 242 606 270 364 in the time intervals corresponding to the conLiquid assets level 2 40 967 42 116 tractual maturity dates. Interest ﬂows for lendCash outﬂows 318 364 595 043 ing in the mortgage operations are matched in Deposits from customers 141 589 205 068 time with the liabilities that funded the lending. Market funding 142 770 351 164 Financial guarantees, committed loan offers Other cash outﬂows 34 005 38 811 and unutilised overdraft facilities are reported in Cash inﬂows 111 599 372 482 their entirety in a 0 –1-month time interval. The Inﬂows from maturing lending to non-ﬁnancial customers 22 612 25 437 total outstanding amount of these commitments Other cash inﬂows 88 987 347 045 does not necessarily represent future funding requirements. For derivative instruments, cash The components are deﬁned in line with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s directives and requirements for the liquidity coverage ratio and reporting of liquid assets and cash ﬂows, FFFS 2012:6. Liquid assets level 1 corresponds to Chapter ﬂows are reported net for interest rate swaps and 3, Section 6. Liquid assets level 2 corresponds to Chapter 3, Section 7. Deposits from customers corresponds to Chapter 4, gross for instruments where gross cash ﬂows Sections 4–9. Market funding corresponds to Chapter 4, Sections 10–13. Other cash ﬂows corresponds to Chapter 4, Sections 14–25. Lending to non-ﬁnancial customers corresponds to Chapter 5, Section 4. Other cash inﬂows corresponds to Chapter 5, are paid or received, such as currency swaps. Sections 6–12. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 99 NOTES | GROUP Maturity analysis for ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, 2015 Unspeciﬁed SEK m Up to 1 mth 1–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–2 yrs 2–5 yrs Over 5 yrs maturity Total Cash and balances with central banks 236 752 236 752 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks1 75 192 75 192 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities2 44 951 44 951 Loans to credit institutions 31 161 13 968 212 230 787 3 920 50 278 of which reverse repos 14 586 8 833 23 419 Loans to the public 58 113 233 279 171 597 191 513 364 138 940 827 1 959 467 of which reverse repos 7 742 7 742 Other 34 952 215 020 249 972 of which shares and participating interests 30 387 30 387 of which claims on investment banking settlements 4 565 4 565 Total assets 481 121 247 247 171 809 191 743 364 925 944 747 215 020 2 616 612 Due to credit institutions 69 819 67 894 1 620 5 868 903 7 736 14 113 167 953 of which repos 290 290 of which central banks 13 066 55 291 5 1 333 69 695 Deposits and borrowing from the public 3 119 43 653 7 729 1 084 2 396 6 650 689 373 754 004 of which repos 0 Issued securities 3 98 204 356 399 120 523 182 911 478 689 79 415 1 316 141 of which covered bonds 23 44 708 68 531 120 017 337 249 33 424 603 952 of which certiﬁcates and other securities with original maturity of less than one year 96 773 270 064 7 722 374 559 of which senior bonds and other securities with original maturity of more than one year 1 408 41 627 44 270 62 894 141 440 45 991 337 630 Subordinated liabilities 374 825 2 566 4 226 21 791 10 416 40 198 Other 8 940 315 985 324 925 of which short positions 2 416 2 416 of which investment banking settlement debts 6 524 6 524 Total liabilities 180 456 468 771 132 438 194 089 503 779 104 217 1 019 471 2 603 221 Off-balance-sheet items Financial guarantees and unutilised commitments 420 857 Derivatives 2015 SEK m Up to 1 mth 1–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–2 yrs 2–5 yrs Over 5 yrs Total Total derivatives inﬂow 270 580 390 214 75 129 115 406 274 686 110 695 1 236 710 Total derivatives outﬂow 269 984 384 083 72 032 108 327 254 483 108 497 1 197 406 Net 596 6 131 3 097 7 079 20 203 2 198 39 304 Maturity analysis for ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, 2014 Unspeciﬁed SEK m Up to 1 mth 1–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–2 yrs 2–5 yrs Over 5 yrs maturity Total Cash and balances with central banks 505 579 505 579 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks1 78 618 78 618 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities2 64 389 64 389 Loans to credit institutions 27 920 37 022 812 333 706 4 204 70 997 of which reverse repos 9 576 32 589 42 165 Loans to the public 96 163 226 110 157 476 180 500 350 694 898 017 1 908 960 of which reverse repos 23 859 23 859 Other 55 897 235 081 290 978 of which shares and participating interests 46 546 46 546 of which claims on investment banking settlements 9 351 9 351 Total 828 566 263 132 158 288 180 833 351 400 902 221 235 081 2 919 521 Due to credit institutions 108 169 58 681 982 5 467 1 096 7 993 22 555 204 943 of which repos 88 88 of which central banks 45 647 47 374 116 3 948 97 085 Deposits and borrowing from the public 237 220 54 865 14 723 1 709 2 893 8 595 703 632 1 023 637 of which repos 168 168 Issued securities 3 80 155 312 655 163 892 189 492 439 450 105 760 1 291 404 of which covered bonds 3 255 63 108 89 216 118 756 295 715 43 644 613 694 of which certiﬁcates and other securities with original maturity of less than one year 72 171 239 067 46 845 358 083 of which senior bonds and other securities with original maturity of more than one year 4 729 10 480 27 831 70 736 143 735 62 116 319 627 Subordinated liabilities 388 341 4 931 3 245 24 323 955 34 183 Other 28 608 322 825 351 433 of which short positions 20 648 20 648 of which investment banking settlement debts 7 960 7 960 Total 454 540 426 542 184 528 199 913 467 762 123 303 1 049 012 2 905 600 Off-balance-sheet items Financial guarantees and unutilised commitments 387 913 Derivatives 2014 SEK m Up to 1 mth 1–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–2 yrs 2–5 yrs Over 5 yrs Total Total derivatives inﬂow 362 607 459 377 82 332 134 595 293 242 136 415 1 468 568 Total derivatives outﬂow 355 952 448 422 78 481 126 537 273 046 132 743 1 415 181 Net 6 655 10 955 3 851 8 058 20 196 3 672 53 387 1 SEK 25,294m (21,927) of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. 2 SEK 6,021m (6,023) of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. 3 SEK 550,827m (529,498) of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. For deposit volumes the column “Unspecified maturity” refers to deposits payable on demand. The table contains interest flows which means that the balance sheet rows are not reconcilable with the Group’s balance sheet. Maturity tables without interest flows including maturity tables in foreign currencies can be found in the Fact Book. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 100 NOTES | GROUP RISKS IN THE INSURANCE OPERATIONS exchange rate risk. The main risk at Handelssuch a way that the premium can be changed banken Liv is interest rate risk. At year-end, annually, thus allowing the company to comVaR was SEK 819 million (754). pensate for changes in morbidity. The sickness/ Liquidity risk in the insurance operations is disability result for 2015 is SEK 53 million, where The risks in the insurance the risk that the company will not be able to SEK 32 million is attributable to sickness cases business mainly comprise meet its payment obligations when they fall due, reported during the year, SEK 4 million to existmarket risks and insurance risks. or that the company will not be able to sell secuing sickness cases which are being closed, and rities at acceptable prices. This risk is limited by the remaining SEK 17 million to sickness cases most of the investment assets being invested in which have occurred but not yet been reported, listed securities with good liquidity. and also settlements of sickness cases. Market risk The insurance operations report their market Handelsbanken Liv conducts life insurance Insurance risk and insurance risks as well as operational risk operations with traditional management, unitInsurance companies set their premiums based to the insurance company’s board and chief linked insurance and portfolio bond insurance. on assumptions regarding the size of costs for executive, to Handelsbanken’s Central Risk For unit-linked and portfolio bond insurance, the future insurance events. Insurance risk is the risk Control and to the Bank’s CFO and CEO. The customer chooses the investment option and that the actual and assumed insurance costs difrisk situation is also reported regularly to the bears the market risk. In traditional insurance fer. The ultimate governing document is HandelsBoard of the Bank. with guaranteed interest, Handelsbanken Liv banken Liv’s risk management policy, estabbears the risk of fulﬁlling the ﬁnancial guarantees lished by the Board of the insurance company. A Solvency II entailed by the insurance terms. supplementary steering document, adopted by In 2016, the new Solvency II regulations will The ﬁnancial guarantee means that the comthe Board of the insurance company, states the come into force. One overall purpose of the pany makes a capital contribution at the value of limits within which risk-taking insurance may be regulations is to strengthen protection for insurthe insurance contract at speciﬁc points in time if entered into. Insurance risk at Handelsbanken ance policyholders by more clearly linking the the value is less than the guaranteed value of the Liv is related to the following events: capital requirement to how the insurance cominsurance. Any capital contributions are realised at • mortality – payment to beneﬁciaries in the panies identify, measure and manage their risks. the year-end or when there is an insurance event. event of the death of the insured person During the past few years, Handelsbanken Liv Handelsbanken Liv’s board establishes the • longevity – payment that is dependent on the has worked actively on adapting its operations annual investment guidelines for the company, insured person living, e.g. pension disburseto the new regulatory demands and it will report which is ultimately the controlling document for ments according to the new regulations in 2016. allocation of the company’s investment assets • morbidity – payment in the event of illness or relating to traditionally managed insurance. work incapacity COMPLIANCE RISK The purpose of the investment guidelines is • accident – payment in the event of accident. to provide instructions on how the assets are to be invested given the undertakings to the An insurance policy may contain combinations policyholders and the statutory requirements of protection for these four events. Compliance risk is the risk that of the Swedish Insurance Business Act and the Most of Handelsbanken Liv’s policies are the Bank does not comply with applicable regulations of the Swedish Financial taken out by small companies and private indilaws, regulations and internal Supervisory Authority. viduals. There is no risk concentration in terms Handelsbanken Liv has a low risk tolerance. of insurance risk, other than that most of the rules, or accepted business The goal of the asset management is to secure policies are taken out in Sweden. practices or standards. the company’s obligations to the policyholders. Increased life expectancy in Sweden affects Market risk at Handelsbanken Liv arises in the insurance company’s future obligations. the management of investment assets for the The effect is positive for mortality insurance but traditional insurance and from the fact that value negative for life insurance since life expectancy The Handelsbanken Group has high ambitions of the company’s guaranteed obligations is is rising and pension disbursements must regarding good administrative order, ethical sensitive to interest rate changes. then be made over a longer period. In 2015, standards and compliance with laws and The total market risk at Handelsbanken Liv is Handelsbanken Liv started to use the life exregulations. In its Compliance Policy, Handelscalculated using Value at Risk (VaR) with a 99.5 pectancy assumptions based on the industry banken’s Central Board has established that: per cent conﬁdence level and a holding period standard, DUS14, and observed mortality in its of three months. In addition, the company’s own portfolio. If mortality continues to decline Compliance work process solvency ratio, the so-called trafﬁc-light model and in general were to be 10 per cent lower than and liability coverage are checked accordthe company’s assumptions, the present value RISK ANALYSIS ing to statutory requirements. The market risk of the expected increased cost would be SEK & PRIORITY management model used by Handelsbanken 67 million for the part of the group with longevP U Liv weights the risk of a capital contribution at ity risk. Most of Handelsbanken Liv’s insurance ESPONSIBILITY REPORTING & REMENTS YR EQUI &D TOR E insurance contract level together with the risk policies with mortality risk are, however, priced A YR N OF AC FOL RE GU TIO of a capital contribution at company level due annually. This means that the company can uniGA TIF L LE to the increased present value of future guaranlaterally change the premium from year to year. TIV LO ITY W EN B U SIN E SS teed amounts. Market risk is measured in terms Thus, an incorrect mortality assumption can be ID PORT of the overall sensitivity of the capital contribuchanged with rapid effect. UP tions to market disruptions. The risk exposure Changes in morbidity occur much more rapINT &S EL is checked daily against a limit stipulated by the idly than changes in mortality, which may conLI G EN IC E V RI CE AD Board of Handelsbanken. The larger of the value tribute to variations in the risk result. The result SK REG U L ATIO N ASS Y of contributions to policyholders or contributherefore depends both on how many insured ES IT SM TIV tions due to solvency constitutes the risk utilisapersons fall ill and how many recover in relation ENT AC tion. Sub-categories of ﬁnancial risk are interest to the assumptions applied. Sickness/disability rate risk, equity risk, credit risk, property risk and insurance products are generally designed in H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 101 NOTES | GROUP “The Bank has a low tolerance with regard to for prioritisation, activities in the form of support tional losses were SEK 74 million (63). This is compliance risks and, as far as possible, it must and advice as well as controls, identifying coma low ﬁgure, both in comparison with previous endeavour to prevent these risks.” The objective pliance risks and reporting these. To evaluate years and compared with other banks, as is that no breaches of regulations should occur Handelsbanken’s compliance risks, a three-level shown in the ﬁgure below. within the Group’s operations, and that compliassessment scale is used: “Low”, “Medium” and Operational risk occurs in all operations at ance risks are identiﬁed and managed. “High”.The assessments are based on the risk of Handelsbanken. The responsibility for identifyPoor management of compliance risks may sanctions, losses or damage to the brand. The ing, assessing and managing operational risk lead to increased operational and legal risks, Head of Central Compliance reports identiﬁed is therefore part of managerial responsibility at reputation risk and the risk of intervention by the compliance risks and action taken every quarter all levels in Handelsbanken. The Bank’s decensupervisory authorities. The work of compliance to the CEO, every six months to the Board’s risk tralised method of work promotes good manaims to identify compliance risks and to ensure committee and annually to the Board. agement of operational risk by means of the that the requisite action is taken to manage them. cost-consciousness which leads to vigilance The Swedish Financial Supervisory AuCompliance risk against potential loss risk in daily procedures thority’s regulations and general guidelines In 2015, a few compliance risks were reported and events. Operational errors and deﬁciencies regarding governance, risk management and as high and were subject to rapid action to are reduced as far as possible. This applies to control at credit institutions (FFFS 2014:1), EBA reduce them to an acceptable level. In 2015, minor but frequent events and major events Guidelines on Internal Governance (GL44), and the risk that the Bank would be used for money which could cause major unexpected losses. ESMA’s Guidelines on certain aspects of the laundering or for ﬁnancing of terrorism was the The strong focus on good administrative order MiFID compliance function requirements estabhighest risk. In spring 2015, the Bank received in the Group also contributes to all parts of the lish the guidelines for how supervisory authoria sanction from the Swedish Financial Superoperations keeping their risks at a level which ties consider the compliance function should be visory Authority since the Bank’s anti-money is in line with the Bank’s strict view of risk. set up, and how work with compliance matters laundering measures were not considered to Management of operational risk is thus carried should be carried out. In addition to these, be adequate. An extensive project was immediout in the business operations and its work is the Basel Committee’s “Compliance and the ately started to ensure good management of the checked by Local and Central Risk Control. compliance function in banks” establishes how risks and compliance in this area. Specially appointed local co-ordinators for compliance should function. Handelsbanken The increasingly comprehensive and detailed operational risk are in place at regional banks, has implemented this work method through its regulations concerning investment advice and main departments, subsidiaries and units outpolicies, guidelines and instructions. insurance mediation constitute a compliance side the Bank’s home markets to assist manrisk for Handelsbanken and for the banking agers in their processing of operational risk. Organisation system as a whole. The Bank has undertaken They are responsible for ensuring that existing Handelsbanken’s compliance function is orextensive measures in order to manage this risk. methods and procedures for managing operaganised as a central compliance department A new user access system with three different tional risk are used in the business operations. (“Central Compliance”), and also local complilevels of certiﬁcation has been introduced for They are also responsible for monitoring that ance ofﬁcers or departments (“Local Compliemployees who give advice, system support for the business operations take and implement ance”) in every business area, regional bank and advisory services has improved, comprehensive appropriate proactive measures. The Local central department, and in all countries where internal training has been carried out and internal Risk Control functions at regional banks, main Handelsbanken has local operations. control of the advice given has been enhanced. departments, subsidiaries and units outside the Another area which comprises a potential Bank’s home markets check that management Responsibility risk for the Bank and the banking sector as a of operational risk is correctly performed. This Compliance is an essential part of Handelswhole is data quality. The Bank is deemed to is done by means of regular quality assurance banken’s operations and is thus the responsibilhave complete information for its risk manageand evaluation of the operations’ work with ity of all managers and employees in the Group. ment, but future, new requirements are very operational risk. Compliance is responsible for identifying and strict in terms of automatic aggregation of data Central Risk Control has the overall responassessing material compliance risks, performin various dimensions. A large internal project sibility for the methods and procedures used ing regular controls and assessments as to how is in progress to ensure compliance in this area to identify, steer, control and report operational the Bank fulﬁls its obligations with regard to when the new regulations come into force. risk, and for follow-up at overall Group level. To legislation, regulations and other rules applying achieve and maintain good quality in this manto the licensed operations, providing support OPERATIONAL RISK agement, Central Risk Control has close, reguand advice to the Bank’s units regarding compliance questions and reporting to management and the Board regarding compliance and compliance risks. Central Compliance has the Operational risk refers to the risk Volume-weighted operational losses as a proportion of operating profit functional and operational responsibility for all of loss due to inadequate or failed % compliance work at Handelsbanken. Central internal processes, human error, 3.0 Compliance may delegate functional responsibility for following up regulations to Local Comerroneous systems or external 2.5 pliance, which is thus allocated the operational events. The definition includes 2.0 responsibility and the authority for how the work legal risk. is to be performed at the unit in question. 1.5 Local compliance functions are evaluated by Central Compliance, in order to assess whether 1.0 they have satisfactory independence and sufHandelsbanken has a low tolerance of opera0.5 ﬁcient quantitative and qualitative resources. tional risk. Operational risk must be managed so that the Group’s operational losses remain 0.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Risk-based compliance work small, both in comparison with previous own Compliance’s risk-based work follows a structure losses incurred, and with other banks’ operaHandelsbanken Average competitors Swedbank, SEB, DnB based on identifying regulations, risk analysis tional losses. In 2015, Handelsbanken’s operaH A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 102 NOTES | GROUP Operational risk management at Handelsbanken 1a. Business 1b. Operational 2a. Local 2b. Central 3. Internal Audit operations Risk Coordinator Risk Control Risk Control Exchange of experience lar co-operation with both local co-ordinators local co-ordinator for operational risk. Local Risk The central crisis team has permanent staff for operational risk and the Local Risk Control Control is informed about the completed OPRA consisting of members of management and/ functions. Central Risk Control is also responrisk analysis, including the action plan, and it or those close to them. The central crisis team sible for analysing and reporting the Group’s evaluates the procedure. Central Risk Control functions as a liaison crisis team in the event of operational risk to the management and Board. provides regular support to the co-ordinators a major crisis in the Group, supports the local As an aid to continual identiﬁcation, handling for operational risk in planning, implementation crisis teams working with an acute crisis and and management of operational risk, the Bank and follow-up and also performs an annual agfunctions as a crisis team for the main central has a reporting and case management system gregate assessment of the evaluations from all departments. Continuity planning focuses on for incidents, a self-assessment procedure Local Risk Control units. taking preventive measures to minimise the and Key Risk Indicators (KRI). All employees Key Risk Indicators is a method of identifyconsequences of a serious disruption of busithroughout the Group must collect facts about ing operational risk at an early stage. Key Risk ness operations. Local Risk Control performs incidents which have affected their unit and Indicators were implemented in 2015 as a tool an annual evaluation of the procedure. Central which result in a loss in excess of SEK 25,000. at local and central level. Local co-ordinators Risk Control then performs an aggregated To further promote the unit’s proactive work for operational risk regularly collect data and evaluation at Group level. with risks, all employees are encouraged to present it to the local management. Some Key Handelsbanken uses TSA, The Standardised also collect facts about incidents which lead to Risk Indicators are collected by Central Risk Approach, to calculate the capital requirement smaller losses or no loss at all. Control and presented to management and the for operational risk. According to TSA, the Incidents reported are reviewed and categoBoard. capital requirement is calculated by multiplyrised on a regular basis by the local co-ordinaSince May 2015, the Bank has been a meming a factor speciﬁed in the regulations by the tor for operational risk. The Bank categorises ber of ORX (Operational Riskdata eXchange average operating income during the last three operational risk according to seven types of Association). The main purpose of ORX is for years of operation. Different factors are applied events: participating banks to exchange anonymised in different business segments. • Execution, Delivery & Process Management data concerning incidents leading to operaThe total capital requirement for operational • Business Disruptions & System Failures tional losses. ORX also has an important funcrisk for the whole of the Handelsbanken Group • Clients, Products & Business Practices tion in standardising and ensuring the quality of was SEK 4,655 million (4,439) at the end of 2015. • External Crime data on operational risk. Extensive research is • Damage to Physical Assets being done on methods regarding operational RISKS IN THE REMUNERATION SYSTEM • Employment Practices and Workplace Safety risk and it is an important forum for exchange of • Internal Fraud. information. The Bank pays great care when processing OPRA risk analysis is a self-assessment procenew products and services and major changes Remuneration risk is the risk of dure to document and assess operational risk to existing products and services. Each busiloss or other damage arising due which may have an impact on the Bank. These ness area, subsidiary and regional bank with to the remuneration system. are carried out at least once a year at all units. product responsibility processes new products The respective head of all regional banks, main in accordance with central guidelines, which units, subsidiaries and international units outare minimum requirements. This includes an side the Bank’s home markets is responsible for established process for deciding how products The aim of Handelsbanken’s policy on salaries this being performed. The local co-ordinator for are to be introduced. A risk analysis led by is to increase the Bank’s competitiveness and operational risk provides support for the planLocal Risk Control is always performed before proﬁtability, to enable the Bank to attract, retain ning and implementation. Normally, between a product is launched. The analysis takes acand develop skilled staff, and to ensure good ﬁve and eight experienced employees who have count of the risks for the Bank and for the cusskills development and management succesa good overview of the unit’s operations and tomer, including operational risk. Central Risk sion planning. Good long-term proﬁtability and risks participate in the sessions. The aim is to Control is involved in complex cases or when productivity performance at the Bank create the assess the consequence and likelihood of an this is justiﬁed for other reasons. conditions for stable and positive salary develevent. The assessment of the impact includes There are contingency and continuity plans opment for the Bank’s employees. both ﬁnancial losses and lost reputation. Imin place in all parts of the Group for dealing with Remuneration for work performed is set portant information includes facts and statistics serious disruptions. The contingency plans individually for each employee, and is paid from incidents reported during the previous year help the crisis team to quickly and systematiin the form of a ﬁxed salary, customary saltogether with incidents that have affected other cally start to deal with a crisis situation and its ary beneﬁts and a pension provision. At parts of the Group or other banks and compaeffects. There is a central crisis team for the Handelsbanken, salaries are set at local level. nies. The self-assessment procedure results in whole Group, and a local crisis team within Salaries are set in salary reviews between the an action plan stating the risks to be reduced, each regional bank, subsidiary and international employee and their line manager. These prinhow this will be done, who is responsible and unit outside the Bank’s home markets and ciples have been applied for many years. They time limits for when measures are to be taken. also at Central Risk Control, Central IT, Group mean that managers at all levels participate The action plan is a working document that Finance, the national organisations in Sweden regularly in salary processes, and take reis regularly followed up during the year by the and in the UK, and Handelsbanken Capital sponsibility for the Bank’s salary policy and the business operations with the support of the Markets. growth in their own unit’s staff costs. Salaries H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 103 NOTES | GROUP are based on salary-setting factors deﬁned risk management, counteract excessive riskassets – and the outcome at a 99.97 per cent in advance: the nature and level of difﬁculty taking, ﬁt in with the Bank’s low tolerance of conﬁdence level. of the work, skills, performance and results risks and support the Bank’s long-term interDiversiﬁcation effects between the different achieved, leadership (for managers who are ests. The remuneration system is designed in risk classes are taken into account when calcuresponsible for the career development of such a way that there is no risk that the Bank’s lating EC. Since the risks are partly independent employees), supply and demand in the market, own funds are undermined as a result of manof each other, the capital requirement for all risks and the task of ambassador for the Bank’s datory payment of variable remuneration. It is is lower than the sum of the economic capital corporate culture. possible to reduce or remove variable remufor each individual risk. Handelsbanken has low tolerance of remuneration, wholly or partly – this applies both The capital and other ﬁnancial resources neration risks and actively strives to keep them to allocations for variable remuneration and to which form a buffer that can absorb negative at a low level. This is achieved in part by only deferred variable remuneration which has not outcomes are called available ﬁnancial resourcusing variable remuneration to a very limited yet been paid. es (AFR). AFR is Handelsbanken’s equity with extent and only in the areas where this is marFor more detailed information and statistics the addition of other ﬁnancial values on and off ket practice and necessary in order to achieve about the Bank’s remuneration system, see the balance sheet, available to cover losses with the goals for the unit’s operations. Where the Corporate Governance Report and note a one-year time horizon. variable remuneration exists, it is subject to G8 in the Annual Report. In risk and capital management, the Group deferred payment. applies a shareholder perspective. The ecoIn 2015, SEK 114 million (115) was paid in ECONOMIC CAPITAL nomic capital model provides an overall view of variable remuneration to 217 employees (216). the Group which makes it possible to optimise This amount corresponds to a small part of tothe risk and capital situation from the shareholdtal salaries and the number of employees who er’s perspective. The outcome of the calculareceive variable remuneration is also a small Handelsbanken’s model for tions plays an important role when new transacproportion of the total number of employees. calculating economic capital tions or structural changes are considered. The Bank’s principles for remuneration to emCredit risk is calculated using simulated outployees are long established. The principles for identifies in one measurement comes of default for all the Group’s counterparthe Bank’s remuneration system are stipulated the Group’s overall risks and ties and exposures. in the remuneration policy which is decided by indicates the capital which, Market risks comprise the risk in the assets the Board. More detailed guidelines and implewith very high probability, will classiﬁed as the trading book, the interest rate mentation directives are decided by the CEO. risk in the banking operations, market risks in The responsibility for identifying and managing cover unexpected losses or the insurance operations and the risk of value remuneration risks rests with every respondecreases in value. losses in the Bank’s own share portfolio. sible manager in the operations and is manThe risk in the pension obligations mainly aged according to internal policy documents, consists of the risk of a decrease in the values guidelines and instructions. Local Risk Control that exist for securing the Bank’s pension obregularly monitors that the remuneration Central Risk Control is responsible for compreligations. Most of the pension obligations are system is applied as intended. Central Risk hensive monitoring of the Group’s various risks. in Sweden and are secured there in a pension Control is responsible for analysing the risks The Bank’s model for economic capital (EC) is foundation and insured in an occupational associated with the remuneration policy and an instrument in this monitoring. It is also the pension fund. the remuneration system before the remunerafoundation of the Bank’s assessment of the The non-ﬁnancial risks are operational risk, tion policy is processed and established by the internal capital requirement. This assessment business risk, property risk and insurance risk. Board. This is done at least once a year. The is intended to ensure that the Group has sufﬁBusiness risk is related to unexpected variations report analyses elements such as the incentive cient capital at all times in relation to all risks in in earnings in the business area in question. For structure, the balance between ﬁxed and varithe Group. The Group perspective means that example, this may arise if demand or competiable remuneration, deferral rules, and effects economic capital also includes risks in the insurtion changes unexpectedly, thus resulting in on own funds. In addition, Central Risk Control ance operations and risks in the Bank’s pension lower volumes and squeezed margins. Property evaluates the application of the remuneration obligations. risk captures the risk of a fall in the value of the system. Based on this risk analysis and evaluEconomic capital is calculated with a time properties which the Bank owns. ation, an assessment is made as to whether horizon of one year and a conﬁdence level that the remuneration system is designed in a way reﬂects an acceptable level of risk and desired that could threaten the Bank’s ﬁnancial posirating. The Board has determined that the caltion. The responsibility also includes ensuring culation of economic capital must be made with Total of AFR and EC including diversification, that risk costs are calculated correctly in the a 99.97 per cent conﬁdence level, which capas at 31 December 2015 context of remuneration. tures an event which is extremely unfavourable Handelsbanken’s remuneration policy and for the Bank. EC is the difference between the SEK bn remuneration system are deemed to generate outcome in an average year – with positive re150 low risks and promote sound and effective sults and good growth in the value of the Bank’s 120 90 Allocated variable renumeration 2015 2014 Earned variable remuneration1, SEK m 114 115 60 Salaries and fees, SEK m 7 986 7 574 No. of persons to whom variable remuneration has been allocated 217 216 30 Average number of employees 11 819 11 692 Allocated variable remuneration, as proportion of salaries and fees, % 1.4 1.5 0 AFR EC No. of persons to whom variable remuneration has been allocated as a proportion of average number of employees, % 1.8 1.8 Credit risk Market risk 1 All variable remuneration is paid in cash. The amounts are excluding social security costs. Non-ﬁnancial risk Risk in pension obligations H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 104 NOTES | GROUP At year-end, EC was SEK 57 billion (57), of which Capital planning is performed through an ongoing showing that Handelsbanken’s long-term capicredit risks accounted for the main part of the toanalysis of changes in volume, risk and perfortal situation is very stable from both a ﬁnancial tal risk. The Board stipulates that the AFR/EC ramance, and by monitoring events that may affect and regulatory perspective. tio should be at least 120 per cent. The ratio was the capital requirements and capital level. Short228 per cent (214) at year-end, which illustrates term forecasting includes all sub-components The Group’s targets for regulatory capital that the Bank is well-capitalised in relation to its that make up the Group’s own funds and, in addiThe Board continuously sets the targets for overall risks. The Swedish Financial Supervisory tion to the regulatory minimum requirements and the Bank’s capitalisation. A cornerstone of the Authority has come to the same conclusion in its buffers, the capital requirement includes Pillar 2 of internal capital requirement assessment of the overall capital assessment of the Bank. the regulations. This work also includes conductregulatory capital situation is stress and scenario The risk and capital situation reported is a ing various sensitivity analyses, with a short-term analysis of the Bank’s situation, both long-term snapshot picture, even though the risk calperspective, of the expected change in the capital and short-term. The scenarios used are princiculations include margins of conservatism for adequacy requirement and own funds. The Bank pally based on the Bank’s internal risk tolerance business cycle ﬂuctuations. To perform a ﬁnal can thus be prepared to alter the size and comand the direct requirements resulting from the assessment of the Group’s capital adequacy position of its own funds if required – for example, regulations and other requirements from public requirements, account must also be taken of through market operations. authorities. In addition to the internal assessthe stress and scenario analysis carried out as The result of the short-term analysis forms ment of the capital requirement, the Swedish part of the Bank’s capital planning. the basis of any capital operations performed Financial Supervisory Authority has communiand is reported weekly to the CFO, on a regucated that the target ﬁgures of Swedish banks CAPITAL PLANNING lar basis to the CEO and, if necessary, to the must not be lower than the total capital requireBoard. The analysis is based on a cautious ment calculated by the Supervisory Authority, basic scenario, with decision points in the near regardless of the banks’ internal calculations. future for how existing earnings capacity can The Bank has taken this into account when Handelsbanken’s capital cope with various changes in volume, as well setting the target ﬁgures for the regulatory planning aims to ensure that the as the effects which arise from potential capital capitalisation. operations. The Board has decided that the common Group has adequate financial The part of capital planning that comprises equity tier 1 ratio, which is the most relevant resources available at all times midto long-term forecasts aims to ensure measure for the governance of the Bank under and that the capital is of optimal compliance with statutory capital adequacy the current regulatory framework, under normal composition. requirements and that the Group’s available circumstances must be between 1 and 3 perﬁnancial resources (AFR) at all times cover by centage points above the total common equity a good margin all risks calculated according to tier 1 capital assessment communicated to the the economic capital model. Bank by the Swedish Financial Supervisory The capital requirement is a function of the The long-term forecast also includes an asAuthority. The other capital tiers (the tier 1 ratio Group’s risks, expected development, the sessment of the trend for the Bank’s overall capand the total capital ratio) must be at least 1 perregulations and target ratios, Handelsbanken’s ital over the period: the minimum requirements, centage point above the total capital assessmodel for economic capital and also of stress the combined buffer requirements and the Pillar ment communicated to the Bank by the Supertests. The Bank’s capital requirement is reported 2 requirement. The objective is to forecast the visory Authority for the respective capital tiers. weekly to the CFO, regularly to the CEO, and at expected performance and judge whether the In November 2015, the Financial Supervisory least quarterly to the Board. Bank’s resistance is satisfactory in various sceAuthority informed Handelsbanken that they As part of proactive capital planning, there narios. The planning horizon is at least ﬁve years assess that Handelsbanken’s requirement for is a contingency and action plan with speciﬁc and takes account of the Group’s overall busicommon equity tier 1 capital corresponds to a measures that can be taken if the Bank needs to ness performance trend. common equity tier 1 ratio of 18.6 per cent. improve its capital position. The purpose of the A basic scenario forms the foundation of contingency and action planning is to ensure that the long-term capital forecast. This scenario there is a warning system that identiﬁes potential is obtained from expected performance in the threats at an early stage and that the Group is next ﬁve years regarding proﬁt, volume growth, prepared to take rapid action, if necessary. ﬁnancial assumptions such as loan losses, and A long-term capital plan is drawn up annuperformance of the equity, property and ﬁxed ally, which is designed to give a comprehensive income markets. The basic scenario is then overview of the Group’s current capital situation, compared to the outcomes in a number of busia forecast of expected capital performance, and ness cycle and crisis scenarios. The stress scethe outcome in various scenarios. These scenarios have been established following analysis narios are designed to substantially differ from of the historical links between the impacts of expected events and thus harmonise with the different macroeconomic variables on the ﬁnanGroup’s low risk tolerance. The capital plan also cial markets and have been selected by using contains proposals for how to maintain the capithe scenarios expected to have the most severe tal situation at a satisfactory level in a strongly impact on Handelsbanken. negative business environment, from both a The result of the internal capital adequacy asregulatory and shareholder perspective. sessment is reported quarterly to the Board. The capital planning is divided into short-term At the end of 2015, the common equity tier 1 and midto long-term forecasting. The part of ratio was 21.2 per cent (20.4). The ratio between capital planning that comprises short-term foreAFR and EC was 228 per cent (214) at the same casts up to two years ahead principally focuses date. Thus, AFR exceeds the assessed internal on assessing existing performance and the develcapital requirement (EC) by a very good margin. opment of the capital requirement. This forecastThe Bank’s strong position is further eming is necessary to enable continual adaptation of phasised by the result of the various forwardthe size and composition of own funds. looking stress scenarios which are carried out, H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 105 NOTES | GROUP G3 Net interest income SEK m 2015 2014 Interest income Loans to credit institutions and central banks 1 356 1 642 Loans to the public 41 963 49 280 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 651 719 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 915 1 016 Derivative instruments -2 386 -2 484 Other interest income 1 377 1 359 Total interest income 43 876 51 532 Of which interest income reported in net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 824 633 Interest income according to income statement 43 052 50 899 Interest expense Due to credit institutions and central banks -908 -1 033 Deposits and borrowing from the public -1 881 -3 686 Issued securities -18 166 -21 233 Derivative instruments 8 364 4 838 Subordinated liabilities -1 695 -1 283 Other interest expense -1 574 -1 523 Total interest expense -15 860 -23 920 Of which interest expense reported in net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions -548 -265 -15 312 -23 655 Net interest income 27 740 27 244 Includes interest income on impaired loans SEK 107m (98). Total interest income on assets recognised at amortised cost and available-for-sale assets was SEK 44,808m (52,407). Total interest expense on liabilities recognised at amortised cost was SEK 23,676m (28,493). G4 Net fee and commission income SEK m 2015 2014 Brokerage and other securities commissions 1 071 1 104 Mutual funds 2 987 2 475 Custody and other asset management fees 600 540 Advisory services 326 235 Insurance 639 637 Payments 3 364 3 133 Loans and deposits 1 096 1 131 Guarantees 421 424 Other 471 464 Total fee and commission income 10 975 10 143 Securities -244 -225 Payments -1 337 -1 278 Other -74 -84 Total fee and commission expense -1 655 -1 587 Net fee and commission income 9 320 8 556 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 106 NOTES | GROUP G5 Net gains/losses on financial transactions SEK m 2015 2014 Trading, derivatives, FX effect etc. 1 965 -955 Other ﬁnancial instruments denominated at fair value in proﬁt/loss -497 2 277 of which interest-bearing securities -401 2 259 of which loans -96 18 Financial instruments at amortised cost 53 160 of which loans 482 611 of which liabilities -429 -451 Financial instruments available for sale 1 203 369 Hedge accounting Fair value hedges -53 -81 of which hedging instruments 38 197 of which hedged items -91 -278 Ineffective portion of cash ﬂow hedges 32 10 Hedge ineffectiveness on net investment in foreign operations Gains/losses on unbundled insurance contracts -95 -3 Total 2 608 1 777 Trading, derivatives, FX effect etc. Financial instruments available for sale and interest expense deriving from hedging This item mainly contains unrealised and The item contains realised gains/losses on instruments are recognised in net interest realised changes in market value and interest ﬁnancial assets classiﬁed as available for sale. income. Value changes of hedging instruments referring to ﬁnancial assets and liabilities held Interest income from these assets is recognised in cash ﬂow hedges which exceed the value for trading. under net interest income and dividends on the changes of hedged future cash ﬂows are line Other dividend income. Unrealised value reported under “Ineffective portion of cash ﬂow Other ﬁnancial instruments denominated changes on available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets hedges”. The impact on earnings of ineffective at fair value in proﬁt/loss are recognised in other comprehensive income portions of net investment hedges in foreign The item contains unrealised and realised value and amounted to SEK 792 million (244) before operations is recognised in “Hedge ineffectivechanges on instruments which upon initial tax during the ﬁnancial year. Realised value ness on net investments in foreign operations”. recognition were classiﬁed at fair value in the changes in available-for-sale ﬁnancial instruments income statement.* Unrealised value changes previously recognised in other comprehensive Gains/losses on unbundled insurance on these instruments comprise interest rate income and which were reclassiﬁed to the contracts and currency effects and the effects of changed income statement during the ﬁnancial year “Gains/losses on unbundled insurance concredit risk. The accumulated value change due amounted to SEK 110 million (51) before tax. tracts” corresponds to the result generated to changes in credit risk from lending which upon This amount has been partly recognised in net when calculating the guaranteed yield on the initial recognition were classiﬁed at fair value in interest income. ﬁnancial component in unbundled insurance the income statement is SEK 2 million (4). contracts. Hedge accounting Financial instruments at amortised cost “Fair value hedges” includes the net proﬁt/loss The item contains capital gains/losses that of unrealised and realised fair value changes on arise when loans are redeemed ahead of time, hedging instruments and the hedged risk com* Value changes deriving from ﬁnancial instruments which are investment assets in the Group’s insurance operations are and capital gains/losses generated from repurponent in ﬁnancial assets and liabilities which not included in this item. The principles for reporting results chases of the Bank’s own issued securities. are part of hedging packages. Interest income deriving from insurance operations are reported in note G1. G6 Risk result – insurance SEK m 2015 2014 Premiums written 499 510 Insurance claims paid -376 -377 Change in provisions for unsettled claims 11 45 Other 23 -13 Total 157 165 G7 Other income SEK m 2015 2014 Rental income 33 34 Other operating income 180 269 Total 213 303 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 107 NOTES | GROUP G8 Staff costs Average number SEK m 2015 2014 of employees 2015 Men Women 2014 Men Women Salaries and fees -7 986 -7 574 Sweden 7 263 3 410 3 853 7 383 3 402 3 981 Social security costs -1 874 -1 851 Norway 766 420 346 766 415 351 Pension costs1 -1 360 -1 091 Finland 614 258 356 613 259 354 Provision to proﬁt-sharing foundation -858 -795 Denmark 690 361 329 702 347 355 Other staff costs -503 -455 UK 1 904 1 129 775 1 667 1 000 667 Total -12 581 -11 766 Luxembourg 62 36 26 67 39 28 1 Germany 53 30 23 59 32 27 The components in the reported pension costs are shown in the Pension costs table. USA 71 46 25 74 47 27 Netherlands 170 109 61 140 86 54 Salaries and fees Singapore 39 12 27 38 9 29 SEK m 2015 2014 China 72 29 43 69 26 43 Executive ofﬁcers2 -150 -144 Poland 42 16 26 43 16 27 Others -7 836 -7 430 Russia 1 1 0 1 1 0 Total -7 986 -7 574 Other countries 72 26 46 70 28 42 2 Total 11 819 5 883 5 936 11 692 5 707 5 985 Executive Directors and Board in the parent company and Chief Executives, Deputy Chief Executives and boards in subsidiaries. Gender distribution 2015 2014 Remuneration3 exceeding EUR one million No. of persons 2015 2014 % Men Women Men Women Range EUR 1.0–1.5m 4 4 Executive ofﬁcers excluding boards 67 33 67 33 Range EUR 1.5–2.0m 1 1 Boards 73 27 71 29 Range EUR 2.0–2.5m 1 Of which in parent company 67 33 80 20 Range EUR exceeding 2.5m Of which in subsidiaries 74 26 70 30 Total 5 6 3 Including pension and other salary beneﬁts. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Chief Executives, Deputy Chief Executives and ary beneﬁts are SEK 0.9 million and the pension Information about remuneration principles to all Board members. cost was SEK 2.9 million, corresponding to employees in the Handelsbanken Group is proRemuneration to executive ofﬁcers of the 40.0 per cent of his salary. The CEO’s pension vided in more detail in the Corporate GovernHandelsbanken Group is paid only in the form of is deﬁned contribution, with a retirement age of ance Report on pages 59–60. Handelsbanken ﬁxed salary and pension provisions, as well as 65. The pension premium includes disability and has deﬁned 8,101 employees (7,662) whose customary beneﬁts such as a company car. surviving dependants’ insurance. activities can affect the Group’s risk proﬁle to Following a special Board decision, the Bank The previous CEO of the parent company, a material extent. At Handelsbanken, these can provide housing as part of the remuneration. Pär Boman, left his employment with the Bank employees are designated as “risk-takers”. No variable remuneration is paid. Executive ofﬁcon 25 March. For the period from 1 January until The tables report the Group’s remuneration ers who are employees of the Bank are included 25 March 2015, Pär Boman received a ﬁxed to its employees according to the Commisin Handelsbanken’s proﬁt-sharing scheme Oktosalary after conversion to pension amounting sion Delegated Regulation (EU) 604/2014 gonen and are entitled to convert salary to pento SEK 2.8 million (11.2). Other salary beneﬁts and according to FFFS 2011:1, most recently sion on the same conditions as all employees. were SEK 0.1 million (0.3) and the Bank’s penamended in FFFS 2014:22. Board members in the Handelsbanken Group sion cost was SEK 2.4 million (7.1). Before For the ﬁnancial year 2015, Handelsbanken who are not employees of the Bank have only conversion to pension, the pension cost was has reserved SEK 858 million to the Oktogonen received a fee according to the decision of the SEK 2.2 million, including settlement of SEK 0.6 proﬁt-sharing scheme. The corresponding AGM. million in accordance with IAS 19, which coramount for 2014 was SEK 795 million and for Board members who are employees of the responds to 73.8 per cent (49.9 ) of the salary. 2013, it was SEK 1,096 million. The reserved Bank or its subsidiaries receive remuneration External fees for serving on the boards of other amount is established by the Board the year and pension beneﬁts by reason of their employcompanies on behalf of the Bank have been after the ﬁnancial year. After a deduction for ment. No further remuneration or pension benepaid to the Bank. Pär Boman’s deﬁned beneﬁt social security costs, the allocation established ﬁts are paid for serving on the Board. Fees to pension is 60 per cent of his most recently for 2014 corresponded to SEK 53,925 for a board members in the parent company are established annual salary, with lifelong disbursefull-time employee. shown on pages 62–63 of the Corporate ment starting from the age of 60. The pension Governance Report. is co-ordinated with the statutory pension REMUNERATION TO EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The pension cost stated by the Bank in the insurance and is placed in a paid-up policy in The executive ofﬁcers of the parent company remuneration information for executive ofﬁcers conjunction with the termination of employment. are the CEO, the other Executive Directors and below consists of the service cost relating to Board members, who are presented on pages deﬁned beneﬁt pensions according to IAS 19, Remuneration and pension terms for other 62–65. The remuneration to executive ofﬁcers the agreed premiums for deﬁned contribution executive ofﬁcers in the parent company of the parent company is in accordance with the pensions, and any pension premiums that have Pension terms guidelines for remuneration established by the been sacriﬁced from salary. 8 of the Bank’s other Executive Directors (12) 2015 annual general meeting (AGM). See also receive a deﬁned beneﬁt retirement pension of pages 58–60. The CEO’s remuneration and pension terms a maximum of 65 per cent of their salary at the Information regarding remuneration, pension For the period from 25 March until 31 Decemtime of retirement, and also a pension premium obligations, and credits to and deposits from ber 2015, CEO Frank Vang-Jensen, who was of a maximum of two per cent of their salary. executive ofﬁcers of Handelsbanken is also appointed during the year, received a ﬁxed salTheir minimum retirement age is 60* and the provided on these pages for the subsidiaries’ ary amounting to SEK 7.3 million. His other saldeﬁned beneﬁt retirement pension is earned H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 108 NOTES | GROUP Remuneration1 to risk-takers2, business segments 2015 2014 SEK m Remuneration No. of persons Remuneration No. of persons Handelsbanken Sweden 1 912 3 375 1 894 3 184 Handelsbanken UK 974 1 072 765 836 Handelsbanken Denmark 427 464 428 456 Handelsbanken Finland 180 315 171 307 Handelsbanken Norway 572 627 513 615 Handelsbanken the Netherlands 44 45 39 39 Handelsbanken Capital Markets 1 755 1 747 2 005 1 803 Others 469 456 467 422 Total 6 333 8 101 6 282 7 662 Remuneration1 to risk-takers2 2015 2014 Executive Other Executive Other Management3 risk-takers Management3 risk-takers Earned ﬁxed remuneration, SEK m 158 6 084 138 6 029 Earned variable remuneration, SEK m 91 115 Total 158 6 175 138 6 144 No. of persons with ﬁxed remuneration only 19 7 843 21 7 378 No. of persons who may receive both ﬁxed and variable remuneration 0 239 263 Total number of persons 19 8 082 21 7 641 Allocated variable remuneration, SEK m 114 115 of which deferred4 50 59 of which disbursed 64 56 No. of persons to whom variable remuneration has been allocated 217 216 Deferred variable remuneration at beginning of year 152 102 Allocated and deferred variable remuneration during the year 50 59 Disbursed during the year -21 -9 Adjusted during the year 0 0 Deferred variable remuneration at end of year 181 152 Guaranteed variable remuneration recognised as an expense in connection with new employment, SEK m Contracted guaranteed variable remuneration recognised as an expense in connection with new employment, SEK m Earned remuneration has been recognised as an expense in its entirety. Earned variable remuneration is allocated at individual level during the ﬁnancial year after it has been earned. Allocated variable remuneration for the year was earned in its entirety during 2014. Allocated variable remuneration is disbursed or deferred in accordance with the Bank’s policy for variable remuneration. The right of disposal of the deferred remuneration transfers to the employee at the time of disbursement. All variable remuneration is paid in cash. The amounts are excluding social security costs. During the year, termination beneﬁts for 56 risk-takers (51) have been recognised as an expense for SEK 47m (46), and have been contracted for SEK 44m (47) for 55 risk-takers (52). The largest individual contracted termination beneﬁt is SEK 5.6m (4.1). During the year, guaranteed variable remuneration has been allocated to 0 persons (0). 1 Including pension and other salary beneﬁts. 2 Employees whose duties signiﬁcantly can affect the Bank’s risk proﬁle (Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 604/2014). 3 The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority uses the concept of senior management in its regulations FFFS 2014:22. At Handelsbanken this corresponds to the Executive Directors. 4 As of 2015, part of the deferred remuneration in the subsidiary Heartwood Wealth Management Limited consists of fund shares in Heartwood Funds. In 2015 this share amounted to SEK 1.7m. successively during the period of employment; it An accrued deﬁned beneﬁt pension is vested salary beneﬁts were SEK 11.0 million (6.6) and is fully earned for these persons by the time they and secured in the Bank’s pension foundation the Bank’s pension cost was SEK 37.2 million reach the age of retirement. or assured in the Bank’s pension fund. If service (27.7). Before conversion to pension, the pen1 Executive Director (1) with a retirement age ceases before retirement age, the person receives sion cost was SEK 36.5 million (27.3), correof 65 has a deﬁned beneﬁt retirement pension a paid-up policy for the deﬁned beneﬁt and/or sponding to 42.1 per cent of the salary (35.5). which is fully earned at the age of 60 and deﬁned contribution pension earned. Fees for serving on the boards of other comreceives a pension premium which is two per panies on behalf of the Bank have been paid to cent of the salary until the age of 60. Between Remuneration the Bank. the ages of 60 and 65, a pension premium is In 2015, Deputy CEO Claes Norlén received a * In new pension terms entered into after 1 January 2012, instead received, amounting to 35 per cent of ﬁxed salary amounting to SEK 5.0 million (5.0). the age of retirement is 65. the salary. Other salary beneﬁts are SEK 0.1 million (0.1) ** Claes Norlén reached the age of 60 in 2015 and thus according to the agreement his pension is fully earned. After 9 Executive Directors (7) receive a deﬁned and the pension cost was SEK 1.9** million the age of 60, his salary does not qualify for a pension. contribution pension with 65 as the age of retire(2.3), corresponding to 38.5 per cent (46.7) of *** A total of 19 Executive Directors as at 31 December 2015. ment. The premium is individual and is a maxihis salary. **** Pension obligations are amounts which, in accordance with IAS 19, the Bank reserves for payment of future mum of 50 per cent of the salary. 5 (3) of these Other Executive Directors, an average of 19 deﬁned beneﬁt pensions. The size of the amounts depends persons have a collectively agreed occupational individuals (19) during the year, have received on ﬁnancial and demographic assumptions which may change from year to year BTP and BTPK pension, in addition to the conﬁxed salary, after conversion to pension, ***** The increase in the pension obligation is essentially due to tracted premium. amounting to SEK 86.2 million (76.6). Other actuarial deviations, mainly a lower discount rate. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 109 NOTES | GROUP G8 Cont. Remuneration to executive ofﬁcers in previous CEO, Pär Boman, was SEK 223.1 (918). In 2015, the Bank’s interest income from subsidiaries million (169.6).***** As at 31 December 2015, these persons for credits totalled SEK 1.0 million Fees paid to the 16 board members (11) of subthe pension obligation for the Deputy CEO (2.2) in the parent company and SEK 0.8 million sidiaries who are not employees of the Bank or Claes Norlén was SEK 90.1 million (73.4), and (1.0) in the subsidiaries. Interest paid to these its subsidiaries are SEK 2.1 million (1.2). for the other Executive Directors in the parent persons for deposits in the parent company was In 2015, the Chief Executives and Deputy company – 17 individuals as at 31 December SEK 3.9 million (10.2). Chief Executives of the subsidiaries, 24 individu2015 – pension obligations were SEK 773.6 As at 31 December 2015, credits to executive als (22), received ﬁxed salaries after conversion million. ofﬁcers in the subsidiaries in the Handelsbanken to pension amounting to SEK 36.1 million (39.0). As at 31 December 2015, pension obligations Group were SEK 131.9 million (235). Other salary beneﬁts were SEK 1.5 million (1.4) in the Handelsbanken Group for all present and Credit and deposit terms for the aforemenand the Bank’s pension cost was SEK 5.4 million previous executive ofﬁcers totalled SEK 2,878 tioned persons are in accordance with the same (5.9). Before conversion to pension, the pension million (2,316). As at 31 December 2015, penprinciples as for all other employees of the cost was SEK 5.3 million (5.8), corresponding to sion obligations in the parent company for all Handelsbanken Group. All credits are subject 14.6 per cent (19.6) of the salary. present and previous executive ofﬁcers totalled to a credit assessment. Remuneration is not paid to Chief Executives SEK 2,733 million (2,192). The number of people and Deputy Chief Executives of subsidiaries covered by these obligations in the Group is 83 who have other main work tasks at Handels(78), of whom 53 are pensioners (47). The correbanken. sponding number for the parent company is 67 * In new pension terms entered into after 1 January 2012, (63), of whom 48 are pensioners (42). the age of retirement is 65. PENSION OBLIGATIONS TO EXECUTIVE ** Claes Norlén reached the age of 60 in 2015 and thus according to the agreement his pension is fully earned. After OFFICERS CREDITS TO AND DEPOSITS FROM the age of 60, his salary does not qualify for a pension. During his previous period of service in the EXECUTIVE OFFICERS *** A total of 19 Executive Directors as at 31 December 2015. **** Pension obligations are amounts which, in accordance Handelsbanken Group, CEO Frank Vang-Jensen As at 31 December 2015, credits to executive with IAS 19, the Bank reserves for payment of future has earned deﬁned beneﬁt pension for which ofﬁcers were SEK 146.2 million (206) in the deﬁned beneﬁt pensions. The size of the amounts depends the pension obligation**** amounts to SEK 17.9 parent company and SEK 67.4 million (61) in the on ﬁnancial and demographic assumptions which may change from year to year million (12.9) as at 31 December 2015. As at 31 subsidiaries. Deposits in the parent company ***** The increase in the pension obligation is essentially due to December 2015, the pension obligation for the from these persons totalled SEK 662.5 million actuarial deviations, mainly a lower discount rate. Net pension obligations Plan assets SEK m 2015 2014 SEK m 2015 2014 Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 29 150 24 938 Opening balance 23 458 23 289 Fair value of plan assets 23 836 23 458 Interest on plan assets 711 781 Net pensions -5 314 -1 480 Funds contributed by the employer 182 280 Compensation to employer -505 -572 In addition to the deﬁned pension obligations and plan assets in the above table, provisions Funds paid directly to employees -319 -176 have been made in the years 1989-2004 to Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse Actuarial gains (+)/losses (-) 334 -320 (pension foundation) to a special supplementary pension (SKP). This includes plan assets whose market value amounts to SEK 12,310m (11,970). SKP entails a commitment to the Foreign exchange effect -25 176 Bank amounting to the same amount as the plan assets. Closing balance 23 836 23 458 A part of the commitment, SEK 9,768m (9,518), is conditional. No signiﬁcant plan amendments, curtailments and settlements have been made during the year. Return on plan assets SEK m 2015 2014 Pension costs Interest on plan assets 711 781 SEK m 2015 2014 Actuarial gains (+)/losses (-) 334 -320 Service cost -764 -656 Actual return 1 045 461 Interest on deﬁned beneﬁt obligation -758 -729 Interest on plan assets 711 781 Gains and losses from settlements and Allocation of plan assets curtailments -3 -2 SEK m 2015 2014 Social security costs, deﬁned beneﬁt plans -15 -12 Shares listed on an active market 21 540 21 316 Pension costs, deﬁned beneﬁt plans -829 -618 Shares not listed on an active market 332 493 Pension costs, deﬁned contribution plans -518 -478 Interest-bearing securities listed on Social security costs, deﬁned contribution plans -13 5 an active market 1 745 1 807 Total pension costs -1 360 -1 091 Interest-bearing securities not listed on an active market 293 224 Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation Other plan assets -74 -382 SEK m 2015 2014 Total 23 836 23 458 Opening balance 24 938 21 556 The plan assets include shares in Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) with a market value Service cost 764 656 of SEK 132m (0) on the balance sheet date 31 December 2015. Bonds issued by Svenska Interest on deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 758 729 Handelsbanken AB (publ) are included with a market value of SEK 531m (570). Other plan Paid beneﬁts -763 -684 assets include compensation from the pension foundation that has not yet been paid out. Gains and losses from settlements and curtailments 3 2 Actuarial gains (-)/losses (+) 3 486 2 441 Foreign exchange effect -36 238 Closing balance 29 150 24 938 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 110 NOTES | GROUP Actuarial gains (-)/losses (+), deﬁned beneﬁt obligation SEK m 2015 2014 Changes in demographic assumptions -3 762 Changes in ﬁnancial assumptions 3 210 1 679 Experience-based adjustments 279 Total 3 486 2 441 Future cash ﬂows SEK m Outcome 2015 Forecast 2016 Paid beneﬁts -763 -685 Deﬁned beneﬁt pensions are mainly paid to employees in Sweden, Norway and the UK. Of the total net obligation, the Swedish plan is SEK 25,665m (21,311), the Norwegian plan is SEK 1,076m (1,219) and the UK plan is SEK 2,374m (2,373). In addition, there is a small deﬁned beneﬁt plan in Germany which, given its size, is not considered material and therefore is not presented in more detail. In Sweden, a retirement pension is paid from the age of 65 in accordance with the pension agreement between the Employers’ Association of the Swedish Banking Institutions (BAO) and the Swedish Financial Sector Union/Swedish Confederation of Professional Associations. The amount is 10% of the annual salary up to 7.5 income base amounts. On the part of the salary between 7.5 and 20 income base amounts, the retirement pension is 65% and in the interval between 20 and 30 income base amounts, it is 32.5% of the annual salary. No retirement pension is paid on the portion of the salary in excess of 30 income base amounts. In Norway, retirement pensions are paid from the age of 67. The amount of the pension is partly dependent on the period of service and the ﬁnal salary up to 12 base amounts. The retirement pension including the statutory pension is expected to be approximately 70% of the ﬁnal salary up to 12 base amounts. In the UK, deﬁned-beneﬁt pensions are paid to employees who were employed before 1 January 2006. For employees who started after this date, deﬁned contribution pensions are paid. The normal retirement age is 65. The maximum retirement pension is some 67% of the pensionable salary, which is achieved after 40 years of service. The pensionable salary is limited to a maximum amount which is currently GBP 149,400. The pension plans are funded externally, meaning plan assets are held by trusts or similar legal entities. The trust’s (or equivalent) activities are regulated by national laws and practices, as is the relationship between the Group and the trust (or equivalent) managing the plan assets, and provides the framework for how the plan assets shall be composed of different types of assets. In Sweden, the Pension Obligations Vesting Act and the Mutual Beneﬁt Societies Act are applied, in Norway the Norwegian National Insurance Act is applied and in the UK, the standard UK pensions and tax law is applied. Main assumptions Sweden Norway UK 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Discount rate, % 2.25 3.00 2.90 2.80 3.80 3.41 Expected salary increase, % 3.5 3.5 2.5 3.3 4.8 4.7 Pension indexing, % 2.0 2.0 2.3 3.0 3.3 3.2 Income base amount, % 3.0 3.0 na na na na Inﬂation, % 2.0 2.0 1.5 1.8 3.5 3.4 Staff turnover, % 3.0 3.0 0–81 0–81 na na Remaining life expectancy at retirement age, years 23.0 21.9 23.4 21.6 25.0 25.0 Average duration (Macaulay), years 17.8 16.7 21.7 23.0 24.0 23.0 1 Age-related interval; 8% for the youngest annually, gradually decreasing to 0% for the oldest. Sensitivity analysis Effects on the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation Increased deﬁned Decreased deﬁned beneﬁt obligation, SEK m beneﬁt obligation, SEK m Changes in assumptions 2015 2014 2015 2014 Discount rate, % 0.5 3 077 2 544 -2 167 -2 214 Expected salary increase, % 1.0 1 693 1 508 -1 955 -1 656 Pension indexing, % 0.5 1 149 1 183 -1 642 -1 451 Remaining life expectancy at retirement age, years 1.0 959 766 -811 -767 The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation to signiﬁcant actuarial assumptions, the same method has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised within the statement of ﬁnancial position. The method is described in the accounting principles (see note G1, section 20). Compared with the 2014 Annual Report there have been no changes in the methods used when preparing the sensitivity analyses. Through its deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans, the Bank is exposed to a number of risks, the most signiﬁcant of which are detailed below: Asset volatility: The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields. If plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deﬁcit. The pension plans hold a signiﬁcant proportion of equities which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term while providing volatility and risk in the short term. The Bank believes that due to the long-term nature of the plan liabilities, a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of the Bank’s long-term strategy to manage the plans efﬁciently. Changes in bond yields: A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans’ bond holdings. Inﬂation risk: The plans’ beneﬁt obligations are linked to inﬂation, and higher inﬂation will lead to higher liabilities. The plans’ assets are not affected by inﬂation in a material way, meaning that an increase in inﬂation will also increase the deﬁcit. Life expectancy: The plans’ obligations are to provide beneﬁts for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans’ liabilities. Asset-Liability matching (ALM): The composition of the plan assets is matched to the pension liabilities composition and expected development. The overall goal is to generate a return, over the medium and long-term, that at least corresponds to the development of the pension liability. The majority of the plan assets are invested in equities, but investments are also made in ﬁxed income instruments and cash. A high proportion of shares is deemed appropriate in order to manage the plans effectively. Funding arrangements: Minimum funding requirements differ between plans but where such requirements are based on collective agreements or internal policies the funding requirement is generally that the pension obligations measured according to local requirements shall be covered in full. Funding levels are monitored regularly. The Bank considers that the current contribution rate is appropriate. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 5 111 NOTES | GROUP G9 Other expenses SEK m 2015 2014 Property and premises -1 243 -1 174 External IT costs -1 623 -1 623 Communication -342 -349 Travel and marketing -335 -339 Purchased services -1 027 -995 Supplies -182 -207 Other administrative expenses -451 -412 Total -5 203 -5 099 Of which expenses for operating leases Minimum lease fee -689 -754 Variable fee -74 -19 Total -763 -773 Operating leases are mainly related to agreements that are normal for the operations regarding ofﬁce premises and ofﬁce equipment. Rental costs for premises normally have a variable fee related to the inﬂation rate and to property taxes. In 2015, the cost of the largest individual lease contract was approx. SEK 172m (167). None of the major lease contracts has a variable fee. Remuneration to auditors and audit companies KPMG Ernst & Young AB SEK m 2015 2014 2015 2014 Audit assignment -13 -14 -4 -2 Audit operations outside the audit assignment -3 -5 Tax advice -1 Other services Internal audit costs were SEK 149m (135) during the year. G10 Loan losses SEK m 2015 2014 Speciﬁc provision for individually assessed loans The year’s provision -1 832 -1 982 Reversal of previous provisions 372 305 Total -1 460 -1 677 Collective provision The year’s net provision for individually assessed loans 0 76 The year’s net provision for homogeneous loans -3 3 Total -3 79 Off-balance sheet items Losses on off-balance sheet items 0 -2 Reversal of previous losses on off-balance sheet items 0 1 Change in collective provision for off-balance sheet items -33 16 Total -33 15 Write-offs Actual loan losses for the year -964 -1 998 Utilised share of previous provisions 659 1 515 Recoveries 204 285 Total -101 -198 Net loan losses -1 597 -1 781 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 112 NOTES | GROUP Impaired loans etc. SEK m 2015 2014 Impaired loans 8 844 8 702 Speciﬁc provisions for individually assessed loans -4 444 -3 734 Provisions for collectively assessed homogeneous groups of loans with limited value -94 -93 Collective provisions for individually assessed loans -278 -284 Net impaired loans 4 028 4 591 Total impaired loans reserve ratio, % 54.5 47.2 Proportion of impaired loans, % 0.21 0.25 Impaired loans reserve ratio excluding collective provisions, % 51.3 44.0 Loans past due > 60 days, which are not impaired 1 218 2 133 Impaired loans reclassiﬁed as normal loans during the year 167 34 Loans are classiﬁed as impaired if it is probable that the contractual cash ﬂows will not be fulﬁlled. The full amount of each receivable that gives rise to a speciﬁc provision is included in impaired loans even if this amount is partly covered by collateral. Received collateral is thus not taken into account when calculating the reserve ratio. For other deﬁnitions, see page 244. Change in provision for probable loan losses 2015 Collective Provision for Provision for provision for collectively Total provision individually individually assessed for probable SEK m assessed loans assessed loans homogeneous loans loan losses Provision at beginning of year -3 734 -284 -93 -4 111 The year’s provision -1 832 -49 -1 881 Reversal of previous provisions 372 0 4 376 Utilised for actual loan losses 659 42 701 Foreign exchange effect etc. 91 6 2 99 Provision at end of year -4 444 -278 -94 -4 816 Change in provision for probable loan losses 2014 Collective Provision for Provision for provision for collectively Total provision individually individually assessed for probable SEK m assessed loans assessed loans homogeneous loans loan losses Provision at beginning of year -3 454 -357 -92 -3 903 The year’s provision -1 982 -57 -2 039 Reversal of previous provisions 305 76 3 384 Utilised for actual loan losses 1 515 57 1 572 Foreign exchange effect etc. -118 -3 -4 -125 Provision at end of year -3 734 -284 -93 -4 111 Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, by sector 2015 Impaired loans Loans past due Of which past > 60 days, which 1 SEK m Gross Provisions Net due > 60 days are not impaired Private individuals 1 424 -755 669 494 757 Housing co-operative associations 35 -20 15 1 2 Property management 1 943 -697 1 246 410 149 Manufacturing 2 103 -1 542 561 49 21 Retail 394 -267 127 74 4 Hotel and restaurant 116 -30 86 85 168 Passenger and goods transport by sea 1 734 -543 1 191 0 Other transport and communication 78 -60 18 16 8 Construction 150 -92 58 40 77 Electricity, gas and water 73 -52 21 5 Agriculture, hunting and forestry 34 -15 19 3 0 Other services 101 -66 35 27 15 Holding, investment and insurance companies, mutual funds etc. 500 -282 218 74 17 Other corporate lending 159 -117 42 39 0 Credit institutions Total 8 844 -4 538 4 306 1 317 1 218 1 Carrying amount after taking into account speciﬁc provisions for individually valued loans and provisions for collectively valued loans but excluding collective provisions for loans which are individually assessed. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 113 NOTES | GROUP G10 Cont. Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, by sector 2014 Impaired loans Loans past due Of which past > 60 days, which 1 SEK m Gross Provisions Net due > 60 days are not impaired Private individuals 1 569 -813 756 575 1 148 Housing co-operative associations 49 -21 28 14 25 Property management 1 759 -589 1 170 885 397 Manufacturing 1 639 -726 913 70 113 Retail 596 -343 253 167 14 Hotel and restaurant 45 -25 20 11 260 Passenger and goods transport by sea 1 615 -405 1 210 Other transport and communication 49 -39 10 9 41 Construction 188 -114 74 42 56 Electricity, gas and water 32 -24 8 8 0 Agriculture, hunting and forestry 23 -16 7 1 2 Other services 73 -42 31 25 56 Holding, investment and insurance companies, mutual funds etc. 316 -187 129 34 2 Other corporate lending 749 -483 266 266 19 Credit institutions Total 8 702 -3 827 4 875 2 107 2 133 1 Carrying amount after taking into account speciﬁc provisions for individually valued loans and provisions for collectively valued loans but excluding collective provisions for loans which are individually assessed. Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, geographical breakdown 2015 Impaired loans Loans past due Of which past > 60 days, which 1 SEK m Gross Provisions Net due > 60 days are not impaired Sweden 3 229 -2 156 1 073 445 396 Norway 208 -130 78 46 181 Finland 973 -679 294 199 400 Denmark 2 803 -1 040 1 763 216 18 UK 1 437 -447 990 307 168 Netherlands 2 -1 1 Rest of Europe 192 -85 107 104 53 North America Asia 2 Total 8 844 -4 538 4 306 1 317 1 218 Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, geographical breakdown 2014 Impaired loans Loans past due Of which past > 60 days, which 1 SEK m Gross Provisions Net due > 60 days are not impaired Sweden 3 455 -1 707 1 748 724 836 Norway 294 -138 156 118 381 Finland 949 -685 264 243 622 Denmark 2 741 -925 1 816 332 26 UK 1 103 -291 812 618 194 Netherlands 21 -8 13 11 Rest of Europe 137 -73 64 61 74 North America Asia 2 0 2 Total 8 702 -3 827 4 875 2 107 2 133 1 Carrying amount after taking into account speciﬁc provisions for individually valued loans and provisions for collectively valued loans but excluding collective provisions for loans which are individually assessed. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 114 NOTES | GROUP Maturity structure for past due loans which are not impaired 2015 Loans to the public Loans to SEK m credit institutions Households Corporate Other Total Past due ≥ 5 days ≤ 1 month 1 868 692 1 2 561 Past due > 1 month ≤ 2 months 213 68 281 Past due > 2 months ≤ 3 months 141 29 170 Past due > 3 months ≤ 12 months 340 107 447 Past due > 12 months 360 241 601 Total 2 922 1 137 1 4 060 Maturity structure for past due loans which are not impaired 2014 Loans to the public Loans to SEK m credit institutions Households Corporate Other Total Past due ≥ 5 days ≤ 1 month 2 615 2 989 50 5 654 Past due > 1 month ≤ 2 months 312 152 0 464 Past due > 2 months ≤ 3 months 202 383 585 Past due > 3 months ≤ 12 months 609 224 833 Past due > 12 months 508 207 715 Total 4 246 3 955 50 8 251 Assets repossessed for protection of claims SEK m 2015 2014 Property 429 465 Movable property 19 7 Shares 12 16 Carrying amount 460 488 Movable property mainly consists of repossessed leased assets. In addition to repossessed property shown in the table above, repossessed property is also included in discontinued operations, see note G12. The valuation principles for assets and liabilities repossessed for protection of claims are described in note G1. G11 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets SEK m 2015 2014 Equipment 16 2 Property -9 4 Total 7 6 G12 Profit for the year pertaining to discontinued operations SEK m 2015 2014 Income 2 721 2 281 Expenses -2 469 -2 132 Operating proﬁt from discontinued operations 252 149 Tax -36 -51 Total 216 98 Impairments -71 -57 Proﬁt for the year pertaining to discontinued operations 145 41 Operating proﬁt from discontinued operations comprises return on the Bank’s holdings in the Plastal Group. The Plastal Group’s operations consist of manufacturing of exterior plastic components for the auto industry. The Bank intends to divest operations in the Plastal Group as soon as conditions permit. As the fair value of Plastal, less costs to sell, is lower than the carrying amount, an impairment has been made. The impairment essentially corresponds to the year’s depreciation and does not affect the current year’s tax. The fair value of Plastal has been calculated on the basis of valuation models where different valuation methods, such as peer valuation and discounted cash ﬂow, have been used to obtain a reliable measurement. As far as possible, the material for the assumptions has been taken from external market observations. The valuation is to a material extent based on own assumptions. In the valuation hierarchy described in note G40 it would therefore be classiﬁed as level 3. A description of the Bank’s valuation policy for discountinued operations is provided in note G1. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 115 NOTES | GROUP G13 Earnings per share 2015 2014 Proﬁt for the year, continuing operations, SEK m 16 198 15 143 of which interest expense on convertible subordinated loan after tax -199 -170 Proﬁt for the year, discontinued operations, SEK m 145 41 of which interest expense on convertible subordinated loan after tax Proﬁt for the year, total operations, SEK m 16 343 15 184 of which interest expense on convertible subordinated loan after tax -199 -170 Average number of shares converted during the year (millions) 0.0 0.0 Average holdings of own shares in trading book (millions) Average number of outstanding shares (millions) 1907.0 1 907.0 Average dilution effect, number of shares (millions) 64.9 52.0 Average number of outstanding shares after dilution (millions) 1971.9 1 959.0 Earnings per share, continuing operations, SEK 8.49 7.94 after dilution 8.32 7.82 Earnings per share, discontinued operations, SEK 0.08 0.02 after dilution 0.07 0.02 Earnings per share, total operations, SEK 8.57 7.96 after dilution 8.39 7.84 Earnings per share after dilution is measured by taking the effects of conversion of outstanding convertible shares into account. The implication of this is that the number of potential converted shares are added to the average number of outstanding shares and that proﬁt for the year is adjusted for the year’s interest expense on outstanding convertible subordinated loans after tax. A 3:1 stock split was carried out in May 2015. The comparative ﬁgures in the above table have been adjusted for the new number of shares. G14 Other loans to central banks SEK m 2015 2014 Other loans to central banks in Swedish kronor 15 998 7 042 Other loans to central banks in foreign currency 18 120 44 005 Total 34 118 51 047 Of which reverse repos 1 245 Average volumes SEK m 2015 2014 Other loans to central banks in Swedish kronor 26 353 15 483 Other loans to central banks in foreign currency 40 286 34 901 Total 66 639 50 384 Of which reverse repos 1 154 1 003 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 116 NOTES | GROUP G15 Loans to other credit institutions SEK m 2015 2014 Loans in Swedish kronor Banks 2 009 1 311 Other credit institutions 552 409 Total 2 561 1 720 Loans in foreign currency Banks 20 706 23 422 Other credit institutions 26 389 45 197 Total 47 095 68 619 Probable loan losses Total loans to other credit institutions 49 656 70 339 Of which reverse repos 23 394 42 138 Average volumes SEK m 2015 2014 Loans to other credit institutions in Swedish kronor 8 155 13 051 Loans to other credit institutions in foreign currency 80 078 71 692 Total 88 233 84 743 Of which reverse repos 43 240 38 420 G16 Loans to the public SEK m 2015 2014 Loans in Swedish kronor Households 715 563 664 333 Companies 473 845 483 207 National Debt Ofﬁce 3 338 19 044 Total 1 192 746 1 166 584 Loans in foreign currency Households 244 439 231 566 Companies 434 098 413 797 National Debt Ofﬁce Total 678 537 645 363 Probable loan losses -4 816 -4 111 Total loans to the public 1 866 467 1 807 836 Of which reverse repos 7 742 23 858 Average volumes, excl. National Debt Ofﬁce SEK m 2015 2014 Loans to the public in Swedish kronor 1 170 301 1 136 043 Loans to the public in foreign currency 677 029 609 717 Total 1 847 330 1 745 760 Of which reverse repos 18 458 16 565 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 117 NOTES | GROUP G17 Interest-bearing securities 2015 2014 Nominal Fair Carrying Nominal Fair Carrying SEK m amount value amount amount value amount Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 72 263 74 777 74 777 76 239 78 223 78 219 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 42 602 44 513 44 513 61 357 63 722 63 725 Total 114 865 119 290 119 290 137 596 141 945 141 944 Of which unlisted securities 364 364 4 569 4 569 Interest-bearing securities distributed by issuer 2015 2014 Nominal Fair Carrying Nominal Fair Carrying SEK m amount value amount amount value amount Government 59 932 62 471 62 471 66 097 68 008 68 005 Credit institutions 7 186 9 015 9 015 10 828 11 164 11 166 Mortgage institutions 29 266 31 560 31 560 39 776 41 760 41 760 Other 18 481 16 244 16 244 20 895 21 013 21 013 Total 114 865 119 290 119 290 137 596 141 945 141 944 Average volumes SEK m 2015 2014 Interest-bearing securities 140 313 120 245 Interest-bearing securities, insurance operations 7 391 8 260 Total 147 704 128 505 G18 Shares SEK m 2015 2014 Holdings at fair value over the income statement Listed 19 632 34 338 Non-listed 4 174 3 841 Total 23 806 38 179 Holdings classiﬁed as available for sale Listed 4 667 6 753 Non-listed 1 914 1 614 Total 6 581 8 367 Total shares 30 387 46 546 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 118 NOTES | GROUP G19 Investments in associates There are no individually signiﬁcant investments in associates held by Handelsbanken. There are certain entities that are considered strategic to the banking operation of the Group supporting, among others, payment services. Investments in associates SEK m 2015 2014 Carrying amount at beginning of year 286 272 Share of proﬁt for the year 17 21 Tax -9 -3 Shareholders’ contribution 10 2 Dividend -7 -7 Divestments 0 Impairment -53 Translation difference 1 1 Carrying amount at end of year 245 286 Income from associates SEK m 2015 2014 Proﬁt for the year 8 18 Total other comprehensive income 1 1 Total comprehensive income for the year 9 19 Carrying amount, SEK m Corporate identity Number of Voting Associates number Domicile shares power, % 2015 2014 Bankomat AB 556817-9716 Stockholm 150 20.00 52 50 Bankomatcentralen AB 556197-2265 Stockholm 1 100 21.89 0 0 BDB Bankernas Depå AB 556695-3567 Stockholm 13 000 20.00 13 10 BGC Holding AB 556607-0933 Stockholm 25 382 25.38 80 69 Dyson Group plc 163096 Shefﬁeld 122 387 481 29.99 29 41 Finansiell ID-teknik BID AB 556630-4928 Stockholm 12 735 28.30 23 24 Flisekompaniet Holding AS 992 999 136 Oslo 2 400 47.00 0 52 Getswish AB 556913-7382 Stockholm 10 000 20.00 8 2 Upplysningscentralen UC AB1 556137-5113 Stockholm 2 448 24.48 40 38 Total 245 286 1 Information concerning the Group. G20 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk SEK m 2015 2014 Unit-linked and portfolio bond insurance assets 101 724 91 739 Other fund assets 3 422 3 024 Total 105 146 94 763 G21 Interests in unconsolidated structured entities Fund holdings SEK m 2015 2014 Assets Shares 398 1 172 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 89 725 79 735 Total ﬁnancial assets 90 123 80 907 A structured entity is an entity that has been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity, such as when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual arrangements. Handelsbanken’s interests in unconsolidated structured entities are limited and consist of fund holdings. Funds are owned primarily through unit-linked contracts at Handelsbanken Liv. Investments in funds through unit-linked contracts are never consolidated, see note G1 for the Bank’s accounting principle regarding consolidation of funds, and these are thus unconsolidated structured entities. Handelsbanken also owns some fund holdings in its role as market maker. The maximum exposure to loss on all interests in unconsolidated structured entities is the current carrying amount of the interest. The total assets for these entities are not considered meaningful for the purpose of understanding the related risks and so have not been presented. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 119 NOTES | GROUP G22 Derivative instruments Nominal amount/maturity Nominal amount Positive market values Negative market values Over 1 yr SEK m Up to 1 yr up to 5 yrs Over 5 yrs 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Derivatives held for trading Interest rate-related contracts Options 62 017 49 702 4 891 116 610 277 658 1 341 3 502 1 403 3 698 FRA/futures 544 286 115 655 659 941 2 334 217 475 1 137 511 1 549 Swaps 433 958 981 657 335 246 1 750 861 1 879 716 34 613 45 277 35 430 46 382 Other instruments 3 058 0 50 Currency-related contracts Options 74 687 1 159 33 75 879 62 320 471 663 700 953 Futures 120 382 5 582 237 126 201 115 250 1 669 3 050 1 703 1 709 Swaps 514 871 72 600 5 284 592 755 748 799 7 178 17 074 8 232 6 577 Other instruments 0 Equity-related contracts Options 9 250 21 091 270 30 611 35 952 2 032 2 537 2 656 2 371 Futures 2 779 2 779 10 306 1 8 32 36 Swaps 55 762 1 126 56 888 35 861 1 245 736 1 641 1 999 Other instruments 2 362 39 Commodity-related contracts Options 1 852 394 108 2 354 4 530 250 183 537 528 Futures 14 632 2 053 11 16 696 28 668 940 1 002 899 1 079 Swaps 12 8 Credit-related contracts Swaps 762 8 468 679 9 909 9 564 458 620 247 91 Total 1 835 238 1 259 487 346 759 3 441 484 5 548 273 50 673 75 789 53 991 67 069 Derivatives for fair value hedges Interest rate-related contracts Options 2 830 3 900 55 6 785 10 495 38 6 Swaps 1 512 1 512 11 011 1 196 Currency-related contracts Swaps 965 63 Total 2 830 5 412 55 8 297 22 471 38 69 1 196 Derivatives for cash ﬂow hedges Interest rate-related contracts Swaps 60 138 351 295 83 702 495 135 505 953 20 674 25 976 3 243 3 598 Currency-related contracts Swaps 54 343 222 719 61 539 338 601 289 099 37 902 26 919 6 998 4 644 Total 114 481 574 014 145 241 833 736 795 052 58 576 52 895 10 241 8 242 Total derivative instruments 1 952 549 1 838 913 492 055 4 283 517 6 365 796 109 287 128 753 64 233 75 507 Of which exchange-traded derivatives 233 328 1 314 691 490 676 1 613 1 804 Of which OTC derivatives settled by CCP 1 030 386 716 067 2 106 12 009 1 463 11 140 Of which OTC derivatives not settled by CCP 3 019 803 4 335 038 106 691 116 068 61 157 62 563 Amounts set off -1 414 478 -23 940 -12 629 -23 641 -12 629 Net amount 2 869 039 85 347 116 124 40 592 62 878 Currency breakdown of market values SEK -37 576 -253 325 221 736 17 138 USD 225 036 396 046 -73 477 98 084 EUR 99 729 121 792 -53 710 -60 771 Other -177 902 -135 760 -30 316 21 056 Total 109 287 128 753 64 233 75 507 Derivative contracts are presented gross in the table. Offsetted amounts consist of the offsetted market value of contracts for which the Bank has the legal right and intention to settle contractual cash ﬂows net (including cleared contracts). These contracts are presented on a net basis in the balance sheet per counterparty and currency. As of 2015, the notional amounts associated with the offsetted market values are disclosed. The Bank amortises positive differences between the value measured by a valuation model upon initial recognition and the transaction price (day 1 proﬁt), over the life of the derivative. Such not yet recognised day 1 proﬁt amounted to SEK 539m (465) at year-end. H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 120 NOTES | GROUP G23 Offsetting of financial instruments 2015 Repurchase agreements, securities borrowing SEK m Derivatives and similar agreements Total Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial assets 109 287 31 815 141 102 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities set off in the balance sheet -23 940 -23 940 Net amounts of ﬁnancial assets presented in the balance sheet 85 347 31 815 117 162 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -25 660 -25 660 Collateral received -35 678 -31 815 -67 493 Net amount 24 009 24 009 Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting agreements and similiar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities 64 233 290 64 523 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial assets set off in the balance sheet -23 641 -23 641 Net amounts of ﬁnancial liabilities presented in the balance sheet 40 592 290 40 882 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -25 660 -25 660 Assets pledged -6 614 -290 -6 904 Net amount 8 318 8 318 2014 Repurchase agreements, securities borrowing SEK m Derivatives and similar agreements Total Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial assets 128 753 68 887 197 640 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities set off in the balance sheet -12 629 -12 629 Net amounts of ﬁnancial assets presented in the balance sheet 116 124 68 887 185 011 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -45 652 -45 652 Collateral received -38 191 -68 857 -107 048 Net amount 32 281 30 32 311 Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting agreements and similiar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities 75 507 256 75 763 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial assets set off in the balance sheet -12 629 -12 629 Net amounts of ﬁnancial liabilities presented in the balance sheet 62 878 256 63 134 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -45 652 -45 652 Assets pledged -9 674 -256 -9 930 Net amount 7 552 7 552 Derivative instruments are set off in the balance the same counterparty in a bankruptcy situation. The amount set off for derivative assets include sheet when the settlement of two or more derivaHandelsbanken’s policy is to sign netting agreeset-off cash collateral of SEK 964 million derived tives reﬂects the Bank’s anticipated cash ﬂows. ments with all bank counterparties. Netting agreefrom the balance sheet item Deposits and borThis occurs when the Bank has both a contractual ments are supplemented with agreements for rowing from the public. The amount set off for right and intention to settle the agreed cash ﬂows issuing collateral for the net exposure. The collatderivative liabilities include set-off cash collateral with a net amount. The remaining counterparty eral used is mainly cash, but government securiof SEK 664 million derived from the balance risk in derivatives is reduced through netting ties are also used. Collateral for repurchase agreesheet item Loans to the public. agreements, i.e. netting positive values against ments and borrowing and lending of securities is negative values in all derivative transactions with normally in the form of cash or other securities. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 121 NOTES | GROUP G24 Intangible assets 2015 Trademarks Internally and other Customer developed Total SEK m Goodwill rights contracts software 2015 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 6 597 64 408 1581 8 650 Cost of acquisition of additional intangible assets 455 455 Disposals and retirements -89 -89 Foreign exchange effect -137 1 2 -4 -138 Cost of acquisition at end of year 6 460 65 410 1 943 8 878 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at beginning of year -19 -70 -429 -518 Disposals and retirements 89 89 Amortisation for the year -13 -21 -147 -181 Impairments for the year -17 -17 Foreign exchange effect 0 2 1 3 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at end of year -32 -89 -503 -624 Carrying amount 6 460 33 321 1 440 8 254 2014 Trademarks Internally and other Customer developed Total SEK m Goodwill rights contracts software 2014 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 6 431 57 367 1 476 8 331 Cost of acquisition of additional intangible assets 257 257 Disposals and retirements -153 -153 Foreign exchange effect 166 7 41 1 215 Cost of acquisition at end of year 6 597 64 408 1 581 8 650 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at beginning of year -6 -45 -445 -496 Disposals and retirements 153 153 Amortisation for the year -11 -19 -128 -158 Impairments for the year -9 -9 Foreign exchange effect -2 -6 0 -8 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at end of year -19 -70 -429 -518 Carrying amount 6 597 45 338 1 152 8 132 Intangible assets with an Goodwill indeﬁnite useful life SEK m 2015 2014 2015 2014 Handelsbanken Sweden 3 331 3 331 Handelsbanken UK 178 173 Handelsbanken Finland 16 16 Handelsbanken Denmark 2 290 2 373 Handelsbanken Norway 635 694 Handelsbanken Capital Markets 10 10 3 3 Total 6 460 6 597 3 3 Impairment testing of goodwill and volumes, income, expenses and loan losses. age return requirement. In the annual impairment intangible assets with an indeﬁnite useful life The forecasts are mainly based on an internal testing, the discount rate was 6.3 per cent after Recognised goodwill mainly derives from tradiassessment of the future income and cost tax (7.3). The corresponding rate before tax was tional banking operations on Handelsbanken’s development, economic climate, expected 9.2 per cent (10.6). home markets. Goodwill and intangible assets interest rates and the expected impact of future The difference between the recoverable with an indeﬁnite useful life are tested for impairregulations. After the ﬁrst ﬁve-year period, a amounts and the carrying amounts in the annual ment annually in connection with the closing of forecast is made based on the assumption of a impairment test of goodwill was deemed to be the annual accounts. When performing impairlong-term growth rate. The estimated cash satisfactory. The calculated value in use of ment testing, the value in use of the units to ﬂows are based on historical real GDP growth, goodwill is sensitive to a number of different which goodwill has been allocated is calculated as well as the Riksbank’s long-term inﬂation variables, which are signiﬁcant for expected by discounting estimated future cash ﬂows and target. The year’s impairment test is based on cash ﬂows and the discount rate. The variables the terminal value. In the table, goodwill has an assumption of a long-term growth rate of that are of greatest signiﬁcance to the calculation been allocated among the business segments. two per cent (2). The total forecast period is 20 are assumptions for interest rates, the business Goodwill which is followed up internally at a years. The terminal value used is the forecast cycle, future margins and cost-effectiveness. lower level than the business segment level is value of the net assets of the tested unit. EstiNo reasonably possible change in important tested at the lower level. mated cash ﬂows have been discounted at a assumptions would affect the reported value of For the ﬁrst ﬁve years, estimated future cash rate based on a risk-free interest rate and a risk goodwill. ﬂows are based on forecasts of risk-weighted adjustment corresponding to the market’s averH A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 122 NOTES | GROUP G25 Property and equipment Property and equipment SEK m 2015 2014 Equipment 631 468 Property 1 269 1 299 Property repossessed for protection of claims 448 472 Total 2 348 2 239 Property repossessed for protection of claims contains properties which are regularly measured at fair value in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies for assets repossessed to protect claims. See note G1. The fair value of properties which are regularly measured at fair value is SEK 429m (465). Unrealised value changes on these properties had an impact of SEK 5m (6) on the year’s proﬁt. The valuation of private housing is essentially based on market observations of comparable property purchases in the location in question. The valuation of commercial properties is based on discounting future cash ﬂows using assumptions such as rents, vacancy levels, operating and maintenance costs, yield requirement and calculation interest rates. The valuation is also based on the condition of the property, its location and alternative areas of use. The Bank’s principle is always to use an independent, authorised valuer for valuing commercial and ofﬁce buildings, and industrial properties. Valuations which are only based on market observations (SEK 411m) are classiﬁed as level 2 in the valuation hierarchy described in note G40. Valuations where own assumptions are used to a material extent (SEK 18m) are classiﬁed as level 3 in the valuation hierarchy. Unrealised value changes in level 3 relating to properties which are regularly measured at fair value have affected the year’s proﬁt by SEK 4m (0). The year’s sale of properties which are regularly measured at fair value amounts to SEK 167m (108) of which SEK 8m (80) was classiﬁed as level 3 before the sale. The value of new properties added during the year is SEK 149m (112), with SEK 9m (20) of this classiﬁed as level 3. Equipment SEK m 2015 2014 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 1 399 1 627 Cost of additional acquisition for the year 318 208 Reclassiﬁcation from other balance sheet item 195 Disposals and retirements -221 -481 Foreign exchange effect -37 45 Cost of acquisition at end of year 1 654 1 399 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at beginning of year -931 -1 135 Reclassiﬁcation from other balance sheet item -83 Amortisation for the year according to plan -253 -244 Disposals and retirements 217 478 Foreign exchange effect 27 -30 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at end of year -1 023 -931 Carrying amount 631 468 Property SEK m 2015 2014 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 2 155 2 120 Cost of additional acquisition for the year 0 New construction and rebuilding 41 23 Disposals and retirements -29 -3 Foreign exchange effect -7 15 Cost of acquisition at end of year 2 160 2 155 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at beginning of year -856 -811 Amortisation for the year according to plan -38 -44 Impairments for the year Disposals and retirements 4 0 Foreign exchange effect -1 -1 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at end of year -891 -856 Carrying amount 1 269 1 299 G26 Other assets SEK m 2015 2014 Claims on investment banking settlements 4 565 9 351 Other 4 322 4 970 Total 8 887 14 321 G27 Prepaid expenses and accrued income SEK m 2015 2014 Accrued interest income 3 785 4 612 Other accrued income 2 319 1 864 Prepaid expenses 143 315 Total 6 247 6 791 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 123 NOTES | GROUP G28 Due to credit institutions SEK m 2015 2014 Due in Swedish kronor Banks 16 722 23 252 Other credit institutions 8 271 9 188 Total 24 993 32 440 Due in foreign currency Banks 138 194 166 458 Other credit institutions 583 1 176 Total 138 777 167 634 Total due to credit institutions 163 770 200 074 Of which repos 290 88 Average volumes SEK m 2015 2014 Due to credit institutions in Swedish kronor 44 483 27 566 Due to credit institutions in foreign currency 236 991 205 444 Total 281 474 233 010 Of which repos 2 915 1 625 G29 Deposits and borrowing from the public Deposits from the public Average volumes SEK m 2015 2014 SEK m 2015 2014 Deposits in Swedish kronor Deposits from the public Households 260 849 224 905 Deposits from the public in Swedish kronor 417 509 364 833 Companies 174 979 177 175 Deposits from the public in foreign currency 293 480 281 508 National Debt Ofﬁce Total 710 989 646 341 Total 435 828 402 080 Borrowing from the public Deposits in foreign currency Borrowing in Swedish kronor 36 511 49 330 Households 74 640 65 758 Borrowing in Swedish kronor, insurance Companies 178 904 235 794 operations 9 425 10 373 National Debt Ofﬁce Borrowing in foreign currency 250 208 186 526 Total 253 544 301 552 Total 296 144 246 229 Of which repos 8 552 8 685 Total deposits from the public 689 372 703 632 Borrowing from the public SEK m 2015 2014 Borrowing in Swedish kronor 29 846 41 954 Borrowing in foreign currency 34 637 276 681 Total 64 483 318 635 Of which repos 168 Of which insurance operations 8 879 10 010 Total deposits and borrowing from the public 753 855 1 022 267 G30 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk SEK m 2015 2014 Unit-linked and portfolio bond insurance liabilities 101 724 91 739 Other fund liabilities 3 501 3 125 Total 105 225 94 864 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 124 NOTES | GROUP G31 Issued securities 2015 2014 SEK m Nominal amount Carrying amount Nominal amount Carrying amount Commercial paper Commercial paper in Swedish kronor 6 371 6 594 9 816 10 621 Of which at amortised cost 400 400 for trading 5 971 6 194 9 816 10 621 Commercial paper in foreign currency 356 682 365 002 308 656 318 468 Of which at amortised cost 355 240 363 306 307 283 316 666 for trading 1 442 1 696 1 373 1 802 Total 363 053 371 596 318 472 329 089 Bonds Bonds in Swedish kronor 418 572 439 281 459 884 448 643 Of which at amortised cost 418 572 439 281 459 884 448 643 for fair value hedges Bonds in foreign currency 434 221 434 490 432 965 434 881 Of which at amortised cost 434 221 434 490 431 995 434 764 for fair value hedges 970 117 Total 852 793 873 771 892 849 883 524 Total issued securities 1 215 846 1 245 367 1 211 321 1 212 613 SEK m 2015 2014 Issued securities at beginning of year 1 212 613 1 150 641 Issued 1 142 907 950 171 Repurchased -72 680 -107 726 Matured -1 043 828 -851 680 Foreign exchange effect etc. 6 355 71 207 Issued securities at end of year 1 245 367 1 212 613 Average volumes SEK m 2015 2014 Swedish kronor 456 539 470 359 Foreign currency 775 075 695 565 Total 1 231 614 1 165 924 G32 Short positions Average volumes SEK m 2015 2014 SEK m 2015 2014 Short positions at fair value Swedish kronor 17 879 18 878 Equities 1 499 1 273 Foreign currency 263 809 Interest-bearing securities 917 19 375 Total 18 142 19 687 Total 2 416 20 648 G33 Insurance liabilities SEK m 2015 2014 Liability for sickness annuities 235 229 Liability for life annuities 162 177 Liability for other unsettled claims 196 219 Liability for prepaid premiums 14 38 Total 607 663 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 125 NOTES | GROUP G34 Taxes Deferred tax assets SEK m 2015 2014 Hedging instruments 206 270 Intangible assets 7 9 Property and equipment 20 31 Pensions 1 252 75 Other 4 4 Total 1 489 389 Deferred tax liabilities SEK m 2015 2014 Loans to the public1 6 116 6 471 Hedging instruments 2 408 2 663 Intangible assets 72 77 Property and equipment 91 89 Pensions 0 -295 Other 157 204 Total 8 844 9 209 Net deferred tax liabilities 7 355 8 820 Recognised in Foreign Change in deferred taxes 2015 Opening Recognised in other comprehenexchange Closing SEK m balance income statement sive income effect balance Loans to the public1 6 471 -355 6 116 Hedging instruments 2 393 6 -197 2 202 Intangible assets 68 -6 0 3 65 Property and equipment 58 12 1 71 Pensions -370 -189 -688 -5 -1 252 Other 200 -48 0 1 153 Total 8 820 -580 -884 -1 7 355 Recognised in Foreign Change in deferred taxes 2014 Opening Recognised in other comprehenexchange Closing SEK m balance income statement sive income effect balance Loans to the public1 6 616 -145 6 471 Hedging instruments -96 3 2 486 2 393 Intangible assets 93 -35 10 68 Property and equipment 49 9 58 Pensions 464 -228 -592 -14 -370 Other 18 -12 194 200 Total 7 144 -408 2 098 -14 8 820 Tax expenses recognised in the income statement SEK m 2015 2014 Current tax Tax expense for the year -4 820 -4 426 Adjustment of tax relating to prior years -37 -51 Deferred tax Changes in temporary differences 580 408 Total -4 277 -4 069 Nominal tax rate in Sweden, % 22.0 22.0 Deviations Different tax rate in insurance operations -0.6 -0.7 Non-taxable income/non-deductible expenses -0.7 -0.1 Tax relating to prior years 0.2 0.0 Effective tax rate, % 20.9 21.2 1 Of which leases SEK 6,116m (6,467). H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 126 NOTES | GROUP G35 Provisions Provision for guarantee Other Total Total SEK m commitments provisions 2015 2014 Provisions at beginning of year 7 61 68 141 Provisions during the year 33 12 45 30 Utilised -91 Written back -12 Provisions at end of year 40 73 113 68 Provision for guarantee commitments consists of provisions for a number of off-balance sheet items. The Group is the subject of claims in a number of civil actions which are being pursued in general courts of law. The Group’s assessment is that the actions will essentially be settled in favour of the Bank. The assessment is that the amounts in dispute would not have a material effect on the Bank’s ﬁnancial position or proﬁt/loss. The amounts allocated for future settlement of the claims towards the Bank are presented under other provisions. G36 Other liabilities SEK m 2015 2014 Liabilities on investment banking settlements 6 524 7 960 Other 7 682 6 618 Total 14 206 14 578 G37 Accrued expenses and deferred income SEK m 2015 2014 Accrued interest expenses 12 148 13 334 Other accrued expenses 4 302 4 210 Deferred income 1 135 1 137 Total 17 585 18 681 G38 Subordinated liabilities SEK m 2015 2014 Subordinated loans in Swedish kronor 10 519 10 308 Subordinated loans in foreign currency 23 697 19 981 Total 34 216 30 289 Average volumes SEK m 2015 2014 Subordinated loans in Swedish kronor 10 510 9 831 Subordinated loans in foreign currency 28 144 18 852 Total 38 654 28 683 Speciﬁcation, subordinated loans Original nominal amount in Interest Outstanding Issuance/Maturity Currency each currency rate, % amount IN SWEDISH KRONOR Swedish subordinated liabilities1 13 337 10 519 Total 10 519 IN FOREIGN CURRENCY 2014/ﬁxed-term2 EUR 1 500 2.656 13 717 2015/perpetual3 USD 1 200 5.250 9 980 Total 23 697 Total subordinated liabilities 34 216 1 Swedish subordinated loans are individually less than 10% of the total subordinated liabilities. The total includes one perpetual subordinated loan at a ﬂoating rate. The loan is a subordinated convertible loan of nominally SEK 3.2bn issued to the Group’s employees on market terms. The loan does not have the status of regulatory capital but can be converted into Handelsbanken shares. The Bank has the right to demand conversion at any time and the holder has the right to demand conversion between 1 May and 30 November 2019, at the adjusted conversion price of SEK 120.96. The initial conversion price has been adjusted for dividends and a split during the term of the loan. If the common equity tier 1 ratio for the Bank or calculated according to the consolidated situation falls below 7%, there will be automatic conversion. For information regarding other Swedish subordinated loans, see note G49. 2 For further information about subordinated loans in EUR, see note G49. 3 For further information about subordinated loans in USD, see note G49. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 127 NOTES | GROUP G39 Classification of financial assets and liabilities 2015 At fair value in income Derivatives Financial statement divided into identiﬁed Investments assets Other Total as hedge held to Loans and available ﬁnancial carrying Fair SEK m Trading Other1 instruments maturity receivables for sale liabilities amount value Assets Cash and balances with central banks 202 630 202 630 202 630 Other loans to central banks 34 118 34 118 34 118 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 33 286 39 717 752 0 1 022 74 777 74 777 Loans to other credit institutions 49 656 49 656 49 445 Loans to the public 1 619 1 864 848 1 866 467 1 878 810 Value change of interest hedged item in portfolio hedge 27 27 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 7 788 32 996 250 3 479 44 513 44 513 Shares 22 757 1 049 6 581 30 387 30 387 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 105 077 69 105 146 105 146 Derivative instruments 30 997 54 350 85 347 85 347 Other assets 10 8 877 8 887 8 887 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 211 642 5 392 2 6 247 6 247 Total ﬁnancial assets 95 049 181 100 54 350 1 002 2 165 617 11 084 2 508 202 2 520 307 Investments in associates 245 Other non-ﬁnancial assets 13 686 Total assets 2 522 133 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 163 770 163 770 165 587 Deposits and borrowing from the public 753 855 753 855 753 825 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 105 156 69 105 225 105 225 Issued securities 7 890 1 237 477 1 245 367 1 267 460 Derivative instruments 31 693 8 899 40 592 40 592 Short positions 2 416 2 416 2 416 Other liabilities 16 14 190 14 206 14 206 Accrued expenses and deferred income 6 17 579 17 585 17 585 Subordinated liabilities 34 216 34 216 37 191 Total ﬁnancial liabilities 42 021 105 156 8 899 2 221 156 2 377 232 2 404 087 Other non-ﬁnancial liabilities 16 633 Total liabilities 2 393 865 1 Classiﬁed to be measured at fair value. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 128 NOTES | GROUP 2014 At fair value in income Derivatives Financial Other statement divided into identiﬁed Investments assets ﬁnancial Total as hedge held to Loans and available assets/ carrying Fair SEK m Trading Other1 instruments maturity receivables for sale liabilities amount value Assets Cash and balances with central banks 454 040 492 454 532 454 532 Other loans to central banks 51 047 51 047 51 047 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 42 095 34 377 749 998 78 219 78 223 Loans to other credit institutions 70 339 70 339 70 061 Loans to the public 2 181 1 805 655 1 807 836 1 823 256 Value change of interest hedged item in portfolio hedge 70 70 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 26 235 34 915 253 2 322 63 725 63 722 Shares 36 628 1 551 8 367 46 546 46 546 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 94 674 89 94 763 94 763 Derivative instruments 63 450 52 674 116 124 116 124 Other assets 35 13 892 394 14 321 14 321 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 408 654 1 3 546 2 2 180 6 791 6 791 Total ﬁnancial assets 168 851 168 352 52 674 1 003 2 398 678 11 689 3 066 2 804 313 2 819 386 Investments in associates 286 Other non-ﬁnancial assets 12 077 Total assets 2 816 676 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 200 074 200 074 202 411 Deposits and borrowing from the public 1 022 267 1 022 267 1 022 274 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 94 775 89 94 864 94 864 Issued securities 12 423 1 200 190 1 212 613 1 243 804 Derivative instruments 54 780 8 098 62 878 62 878 Short positions 20 648 20 648 20 648 Other liabilities 16 14 562 14 578 14 578 Accrued expenses and deferred income 315 18 366 18 681 18 681 Subordinated liabilities 30 289 30 289 34 411 Total ﬁnancial liabilities 88 182 94 775 8 098 2 485 837 2 676 892 2 714 549 Other non-ﬁnancial liabilities 12 957 Total liabilities 2 689 849 1 Classiﬁed to be measured at fair value. Reclassiﬁed ﬁnancial assets 2015 2014 Reclassiﬁed Reclassiﬁed Reclassiﬁed Reclassiﬁed from held for from available from held for from available SEK m trading for sale trading for sale Carrying amount 11 4 092 12 4 469 Fair value 11 4 078 13 4 535 Value change recognised in the income statement 11 209 Value change recognised in other comprehensive income 1 109 2 318 Value change that would have been recognised in income statement if the assets had not been reclassiﬁed -1 11 1 209 Value change that would have been recognised in other comprehensive income if the assets had not been reclassiﬁed 12 54 Interest recognised as income 0 49 0 82 All holdings presented above were reclassiﬁed to loans and receivables on 1 July 2008. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 129 NOTES | GROUP G40 Fair value measurement of financial instruments Financial instruments at fair value 2015 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks Held for trading 33 284 2 33 286 Denominated at fair value 37 875 1 842 39 717 Available for sale 1 022 1 022 Loans to the public 1 609 10 1 619 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Held for trading 6 027 1 761 7 788 Denominated at fair value 31 988 1 008 32 996 Available for sale 3 479 3 479 Shares Held for trading 18 964 3 793 22 757 Denominated at fair value 667 382 1 049 Available for sale 4 666 1 014 901 6 581 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 104 345 732 105 077 Derivative instruments 275 85 072 85 347 Total 242 592 96 101 2 025 340 718 Liabilities Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 104 424 732 105 156 Issued securities 7 890 7 890 Derivative instruments 786 39 806 40 592 Short positions 2 098 318 2 416 Total 107 308 48 014 732 156 054 Financial instruments at fair value 2014 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks Held for trading 42 095 42 095 Denominated at fair value 32 721 1 656 34 377 Available for sale 998 998 Loans to the public 2 168 13 2 181 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Held for trading 21 643 4 592 26 235 Denominated at fair value 33 586 1 329 34 915 Available for sale 2 091 231 2 322 Shares Held for trading 33 175 3 359 94 36 628 Denominated at fair value 1 037 514 1 551 Available for sale 6 753 817 797 8 367 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 93 976 698 94 674 Derivative instruments 630 115 494 116 124 Total 268 705 129 646 2 116 400 467 Liabilities Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 94 077 698 94 775 Issued securities 12 329 94 12 423 Derivative instruments 1 566 61 312 62 878 Short positions 20 560 88 20 648 Total 116 203 73 729 792 190 724 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 130 NOTES | GROUP Valuation hierarchy result of a new assessment of market activity. are related to the Bank’s business. For example, In the tables, ﬁnancial instruments at fair value On the assets side, interest-bearing securities these may be participating interests in clearing have been categorised in terms of how the valuworth SEK 21 million have been moved from organisations and infrastructure collaboration ations have been carried out and the extent of level 1 to level 2, and shares and participating on Handelsbanken’s home markets. In general, market data used in the valuation. The categoriinterests worth SEK 82 million have been such holdings are valued at the Bank’s share of sation is shown as levels 1–3 in the tables. moved from level 2 to level 1. On the liabilities the company’s net asset value, or alternatively Financial instruments which are valued at the side, derivatives worth SEK 69 million have at the price of the last completed transaction. current market price are categorised as level 1. been moved from level 1 to level 2, and shortIn all material respects, unlisted shares are clasThese ﬁnancial instruments mainly comprise term positions worth SEK 6 million have been siﬁed as available for sale. Value changes for government instruments and other interestmoved from level 2 to level 1. Changes in level these holdings are thus reported in other combearing securities that are traded actively, listed 3 holdings during the year are shown in a prehensive income. equities, and short positions in corresponding separate table. The year’s realised value changes on ﬁnancial assets. Level 1 also includes the majority of The holdings in level 3 mainly comprise instruments in level 3 is SEK -179 million (75), of shares in mutual funds and other assets which unlisted shares and holdings in private equity which SEK -186 million (20) is included for calare related to unit-linked insurance contracts funds. Holdings in private equity funds are culation of the yield split in the insurance operaand similar agreements and the corresponding valued using valuation models mainly based tions. The remaining amount has been recogliabilities. Financial instruments which are valued on a relative valuation of comparable listed nised in net gains/losses on ﬁnancial using valuation models which substantially are companies in the same sector. The perfortransactions. based on market data are categorised as level mance measurements used in the compari2. Level 2 mainly includes interest-bearing secuson are adjusted for factors which distort the Differences between the transaction price rities and interestand currency-related derivacomparison between the investment and the and the value produced using a valuation tives. Financial instruments, the value of which company used for comparison. Subsequently, model to a material extent is affected by input data that the valuation is based on earnings multiples, As stated in the accounting policies in note G1, cannot be veriﬁed using external market infore.g. P/E ratios. Most of these holdings reprewhen performing model valuation of derivatives, mation, are categorised as level 3. sent investment assets in the Group’s insurance material positive differences between the valuThe categorisation is based on the valuaoperations. Value changes on the investment ation at initial recognition and the transaction tion method used on the balance sheet date. assets are included in the basis for calculating price (so-called day 1 gains) are amortised over If the category for a speciﬁc instrument has the yield split in the insurance operations and the life of the derivative. As a consequence of changed since the previous balance sheet date are therefore not reported directly in the income the application of this principle, SEK 126 million (31 December 2014), the instrument has been statement. (88) has been recognised in net gains/losses moved between the levels in the table. During The Group’s holdings of unlisted securities on ﬁnancial transactions during the year. At the the ﬁnancial year, some of the volumes have mainly consist of the Bank’s participating interend of the year, non-recognised day 1 gains been moved between level 1 and level 2, as a ests in various types of joint operations which amounted to SEK 539 million (465). Reconciliation of ﬁnancial instruments in level 3 2015 Assets where Liabilities where the customer the customer Derivatives Loans to bears the value bears the value Issued SEK m Shares net position the public change risk change risk securities Carrying amount at beginning of year 1 405 13 698 -698 -94 Acquisitions 57 94 Repurchases/sales -142 Matured -5 Unrealised value change in income statement -116 34 -34 Unrealised value change in other comprehensive income 82 Transfer from level 1 or 2 2 Transfer to level 1 or 2 -3 Carrying amount at end of year 1 283 10 732 -732 Reconciliation of ﬁnancial instruments in level 3 2014 Assets where Liabilities where the customer the customer Derivatives Loans to bears the value bears the value Issued SEK m Shares net position the public change risk change risk securities Carrying amount at beginning of year 1 388 18 490 -490 -84 Acquisitions 56 -10 Repurchases/sales -56 Matured -7 Unrealised value change in income statement -62 208 -208 Unrealised value change in other comprehensive income 79 1 Transfer from level 1 or 2 1 Transfer to level 1 or 2 Carrying amount at end of year 1 405 13 698 -698 -94 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 131 NOTES | GROUP G40 Cont. Principles for information about the fair The valuation of ﬁxed-rate lending is based on In the table, the valuation used for the informavalues of ﬁnancial instruments which are the current market rate with an adjustment for tion about the fair value of ﬁnancial instruments carried at cost or amortised cost an assumed credit and liquidity risk premium on reported at cost or amortised cost is categorised Information about the fair values of ﬁnancial instrumarket terms. The premium is assumed to be in the valuation hierarchy described above. ments which are carried at cost or amortised cost the same as the average margin for new lendMeans of payment and deposits are considered is given in note G39 and in the table. These instruing at the time of the measurement. Interestto be equivalent to cash and have been categoments essentially comprise lending, deposits and bearing securities have been valued at the rised as level 1. Level 1 also contains interestfunding. For means of payment and short-term current market price where this has been availbearing securities (assets and liabilities) for which receivables and liabilities, the carrying amount is able. Funding and interest-bearing securities there is a current market price. Lending where considered to be an acceptable estimate of the where market price information has not been the assumption about credit and liquidity prefair value. Receivables and liabilities with the matufound have been valued using a valuation model mium has materially affected the information rity date or the date for next interest rate ﬁxing fallbased on market data in the form of prices or about fair value has been categorised as level 3. ing within 30 days are deﬁned as short-term. interest for similar instruments. Other instruments are categorised as level 2. Fair value of ﬁnancial instruments recognised at cost or amortised cost 2015 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 202 630 202 630 Other loans to central banks 15 653 18 465 34 118 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 752 752 Loans to other credit institutions 14 852 33 452 1 141 49 445 Loans to the public 6 981 1 828 1 868 382 1 877 191 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 250 250 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 69 69 Total 241 118 53 814 1 869 523 2 164 455 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 57 422 108 165 165 587 Deposits and borrowing from the public 688 286 65 539 753 825 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 69 69 Issued securities 706 337 553 233 1 259 570 Subordinated liabilities 37 191 37 191 Total 1 452 045 764 197 2 216 242 Fair value of ﬁnancial instruments recognised at cost or amortised cost 2014 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 454 532 454 532 Other loans to central banks 27 905 23 142 51 047 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 753 753 Loans to other credit institutions 14 816 54 753 492 70 061 Loans to the public 6 817 50 992 1 763 266 1 821 075 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 250 250 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 89 89 Total 505 073 128 976 1 763 758 2 397 807 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 60 442 141 969 202 411 Deposits and borrowing from the public 708 364 313 910 1 022 274 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 89 89 Issued securities 674 330 557 051 1 231 381 Subordinated liabilities 34 411 34 411 Total 1 443 136 1 047 430 2 490 566 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 132 NOTES | GROUP G41 Pledged assets, collateral received and transferred financial assets Assets pledged for own debt SEK m 2015 2014 Cash 22 017 31 427 Government instruments and bonds 25 920 28 552 Loans to the public 617 726 623 244 Shares 933 1 323 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 102 382 92 386 Other 10 856 12 720 Total 779 834 789 652 Of which pledged assets that may be freely withdrawn by the Bank 17 672 27 497 Other pledged assets SEK m 2015 2014 Cash 863 2 101 Government instruments and bonds 18 609 25 185 Loans to the public 3 820 3 702 Shares 10 196 4 751 Other 18 Total 33 488 35 757 Of which pledged assets that may be freely withdrawn by the Bank 22 345 26 788 Other pledged assets refers to collateral pledged for obligations not reported in the balance sheet. Assets pledged Collateral received the agreement. The purchase price received is Assets pledged in the form of interest-bearing For reverse repurchase agreements and equity reported as a liability to the counterparty. securities mainly comprise securities pledged loans, securities are received that can be sold or According to the standard terms of a repuras collateral to central banks and other credit repledged to a third party. Such securities are chase agreement, the right of ownership of the institutions, for payment systems, securities not reported in the balance sheet. The fair value sold securities is transferred in its entirety from trading and clearing and also securities sold of received securities under reverse repurchase the seller to the buyer. This means that the under binding repurchase agreements (repos). agreements and agreements on equity loans buyer has the right to sell on, repledge or otherAssets pledged in the form of equities mainly was SEK 24,327 million (38,562) at the end of wise dispose of the purchased securities. comprise lent equities and equities in the insurthe ﬁnancial year, where collateral worth SEK According to the standard agreements for ance operations. 8,933 million (5,295) had been sold or repledged equity loans, the exposure to the value change in Loans to the public pledged as security to a third party. Information about received the lent equity remains with the lender. Lent equimainly comprise collateral registered for the pledges for lending and other received collateral ties thus remain in the balance sheet throughout beneﬁt of holders of covered bonds issued by is shown in note G2. the life of the loan. Collateral for lent securities is Stadshypotek. The collateral mainly comprises normally in the form of cash or other securities. loans granted against mortgages in singleTransferred ﬁnancial assets reported in Cash collateral received is carried as a liability in family homes, second homes, multi-family the balance sheet the balance sheet. In the same way as for repurdwellings or housing co-operatives with a loanTransferred ﬁnancial assets are assets where the chase agreements, the standard agreement used to-value ratio within 75 per cent of the market rights to future cash ﬂows are directly or indirectly for equity loans means that during the life of the value. In the event of the company’s insolvency, transferred to an external counterparty. Most of loan, the borrower has the right to sell on, repledge pursuant to the Covered Bonds Act and the the transferred ﬁnancial assets carried in the balor otherwise dispose of the borrowed securities. Right of Priority Act, the holders of the covered ance sheet comprise interest-bearing securities Government instruments, bonds and equities bonds have prior rights to the pledged assets. which have been sold under binding repurchase provided as collateral for securities trading, If, at the time of a bankruptcy decision, the agreements and lent equities. Normally the terms clearing etc. where the title to the instrument assets in the total collateral fulﬁl the terms of for the binding repurchases and equity loans are has been transferred to the counterparty are the Act, these must be kept separate from the stipulated in framework agreements between the reported as other transferred ﬁnancial assets. bankruptcy estate’s other assets and liabilities. Bank and the respective counterparty. Transferred ﬁnancial assets also include certain The holders of the bonds will then receive conBinding repurchase agreements imply selling assets where the customer bears the value tractual payments under the terms of the bond securities with an undertaking to repurchase change risk. This item comprises portfolios of until maturity. them at a ﬁxed price at a pre-determined time in ﬁnancial instruments where the Bank has the Assets where the customer bears the the future. The seller of the securities thus conformal right of ownership but where the risks value change risk mainly comprise units in tinues to be exposed to the risk of value changes related to the assets and also the right to future unit-linked insurance contracts in Handelsduring the life of the agreement. Securities sold cash ﬂows have been transferred to a third party. banken Liv where the policyholders have under repurchase agreements remain at market The valuation of these assets reﬂects the valuapriority rights. value in the balance sheet throughout the life of tion of the corresponding liability item. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 133 NOTES | GROUP G41 Cont. Transferred ﬁnancial assets recognised in the balance sheet 2015 2014 Carrying amount Carrying amount Carrying associated Carrying associated SEK m amount liability amount liability Shares, securities lending 220 831 1 646 2061 Shares, other 10 196 3 337 Government instruments and bonds, repurchase agreements 290 290 196 201 Government instruments and bonds, other 57 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 1 162 1 162 1 008 1 008 Total 11 868 1 535 6 244 1 415 1 Received cash collateral. G42 Contingent liabilities SEK m 2015 2014 Guarantees, loans 9 750 10 335 Guarantees, other 61 274 60 033 Letters of credit 4 287 3 733 Other 2 146 1 636 Total 77 457 75 737 Contingent liabilities mainly consisted of various types of guarantees. The nominal amounts of the guarantees are shown in the table. G43 Other commitments SEK m 2015 2014 Loan commitments 267 200 271 001 Unutilised part of granted overdraft facilities 129 216 102 778 Other 24 441 14 134 Total 420 857 387 913 Contracted irrevocable future operating lease charges distributed by maturity SEK m 2015 2014 Within 1 year 774 710 Between 1 and 5 years 2 172 1 673 Over 5 years 1 250 456 Total 4 196 2 839 Operating leases are mainly related to agreements that are normal for the operations regarding ofﬁce premises and ofﬁce equipment. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 134 NOTES | GROUP G44 Leases Disclosures on gross investment and present value of future minimum lease payments SEK m 2015 2014 Gross investment 37 180 39 537 The present value of future minimum lease payments at balance sheet date 35 985 37 802 Distribution of gross investment and minimum lease payments by maturity Between Over SEK m Within 1 yr 1 and 5 yrs 5 yrs Total 2015 Distribution of gross investment 4 379 16 442 16 359 37 180 Distribution of the present value of future minimum lease payments 4 360 16 198 15 427 35 985 2014 Distribution of gross investment 4 543 15 886 19 107 39 537 Distribution of the present value of future minimum lease payments 4 516 15 591 17 695 37 802 Unearned ﬁnance income SEK m 2015 2014 Unearned ﬁnance income 1 195 1 735 Companies within the Group are lessors in all ﬁnance leases. All leases have guaranteed residual values. The book value of the provision for impaired loans with respect to minimum lease payments is SEK 0.2m (4). The variable part of the lease fee included in this year’s proﬁt is SEK 151m (197). The decrease is due to lower interest rates and lower volumes. At the end of the year in the Group there were six lease exposures each with an individual carrying amount exceeding SEK 1bn. The total carrying amount of these exposures was SEK 17.1bn (18.0) which is equivalent to 0.9% of the Group’s total credit volume as at 31 December 2015. The carrying amount of the largest individual exposure was SEK 7.4bn (7.8). The average remaining maturity for this exposure was 4.3 years (5.2). These exposures are in the transport and energy sectors. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 135 NOTES | GROUP G45 Segment reporting Segment reporting 2015 Home markets Adjustments Capital and Continuing SEK m Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands Markets Other eliminations operations Net interest income 15 185 4 570 1 678 1 361 3 248 328 734 636 27 740 Net fee and commission income 4 566 452 436 387 395 23 3 025 36 9 320 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 379 194 77 60 94 5 1 230 569 2 608 Risk result – insurance 157 157 Share of proﬁt of associates 17 17 Other income 61 7 17 23 31 10 345 494 Total income 20 191 5 223 2 208 1 831 3 768 356 5 156 1 603 40 336 Staff costs -3 601 -1 870 -629 -369 -713 -158 -2 466 -2 651 -124 -12 581 Other administrative expenses -1 160 -429 -178 -161 -207 -37 -860 -2 171 -5 203 Internal purchased and sold services -2 578 -455 -279 -247 -370 -84 -103 4 116 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -88 -30 -15 -11 -13 -3 -79 -248 -487 Total expenses -7 427 -2 784 -1 101 -788 -1 303 -282 -3 508 -954 -124 -18 271 Proﬁt before loan losses 12 764 2 439 1 107 1 043 2 465 74 1 648 649 -124 22 065 Net loan losses -763 -224 -299 -83 -222 -2 -4 -1 597 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets -2 -12 8 0 6 0 7 7 Operating proﬁt 11 999 2 203 816 960 2 249 72 1 644 656 -124 20 475 Proﬁt allocation 881 34 72 110 57 0 -1 155 1 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 12 880 2 237 888 1 070 2 306 72 489 657 -124 20 475 Internal income 1 228 -1 481 -295 -367 -2 805 -175 -2 529 7 424 C/I ratio, % 35.2 53.0 48.3 40.6 34.1 79.2 87.7 45.3 Loan loss ratio, % 0.07 0.13 0.37 0.07 0.11 0.01 0.01 0.09 Assets 1 478 475 302 077 94 037 168 403 211 360 24 514 293 544 1 777 015 -1 827 292 2 522 133 Liabilities 1 408 410 291 625 87 818 162 217 198 394 23 663 286 044 1 777 015 -1 841 321 2 393 865 Allocated capital 70 065 10 452 6 219 6 186 12 966 851 7 500 14 029 128 268 Return on allocated capital, % 14.9 16.8 11.2 13.8 13.6 6.4 5.2 13.4 The year’s investments in non-ﬁnancial non-current assets 59 364 3 27 20 17 273 246 1 009 The year’s investments in associated companies 10 10 Average number of employees 4 457 1 794 631 496 676 159 1 777 1 829 11 819 1 Internal income which is included in total income comprises income from transactions with other operating segments. Since interest income and interest expense are reported net as income, this means that internal income includes the net amount of the internal funding cost among segments. The business segments are recognised in comas an independent proﬁt centre. The Capital income and expenses for services performed pliance with IFRS 8, Operating Segments, Markets segment is Handelsbanken’s investinternally are reported net on the separate line which means that the segment information is ment bank, including securities trading and Internal purchased and sold services. Transacpresented in a similar manner to that which is investment advisory services. Its operations also tions among the segments are reported primarapplied internally as part of company governinclude asset management, insurance operaily according to the cost price principle. The ance. Handelsbanken’s operations are pretions and the Bank’s international operations Other and Adjustments and eliminations colsented in the following segments: Sweden, the outside its home markets. umns show items which do not belong to a speUK, Denmark, Finland, Norway, the Netherlands Proﬁt/loss for the segments is reported ciﬁc segment or which are eliminated at Group and Capital Markets. Handelsbanken’s branch before and after internal proﬁt allocation. Internal level. Other includes Treasury and central operations, which provide universal banking proﬁt allocation means that the unit which is departments and also the cost of the allocation services, were divided into 15 regional banks in responsible for the customer is allocated all the to Oktogonen which is SEK 858 million (795). 2015. Six of these are Swedish, and nine are proﬁts deriving from its customers’ transactions The Adjustments and eliminations column located outside Sweden. Each regional bank is with the Bank, regardless of the segment where includes adjustments for staff costs. Adjustled by a head of regional bank, and is monitored the transaction was performed. Furthermore, ments for staff costs contain the difference H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 136 NOTES | GROUP Segment reporting 2014 Home markets Adjustments Capital and Continuing SEK m Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands Markets Other eliminations operations Net interest income 15 734 3 497 1 610 1 389 3 439 283 847 495 -50 27 244 Net fee and commission income 3 908 344 385 440 390 26 3 041 22 8 556 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 400 158 116 76 102 7 1 537 -619 1 777 Risk result – insurance 165 165 Share of proﬁt of associates 18 18 Other income 92 18 21 11 20 17 375 554 Total income 20 134 4 017 2 132 1 916 3 951 316 5 607 291 -50 38 314 Staff costs -3 421 -1 471 -584 -351 -711 -127 -2 542 -2 587 28 -11 766 Other administrative expenses -1 221 -333 -181 -158 -219 -28 -859 -2 100 -5 099 Internal purchased and sold services -2 770 -379 -273 -232 -390 -68 -126 4 188 50 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -85 -18 -19 -8 -11 -1 -79 -241 -462 Total expenses -7 497 -2 201 -1 057 -749 -1 331 -224 -3 606 -740 78 -17 327 Proﬁt before loan losses 12 637 1 816 1 075 1 167 2 620 92 2 001 -449 28 20 987 Net loan losses -657 -203 -529 -277 -141 -1 27 -1 781 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 4 1 0 0 1 6 Operating proﬁt 11 980 1 617 547 890 2 479 91 2 028 -448 28 19 212 Proﬁt allocation 930 35 62 85 66 8 -1 186 0 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 12 910 1 652 609 975 2 545 99 842 -448 28 19 212 Internal income 1 -492 -1 230 -468 -429 -3 430 -154 -1 858 8 061 C/I ratio, % 35.6 54.3 48.2 37.4 33.1 69.1 81.6 45.2 Loan loss ratio, % 0.06 0.15 0.73 0.25 0.07 0.01 -0.05 0.10 Assets 1 402 774 263 459 88 395 177 009 206 536 38 651 423 265 1 919 427 -1 702 840 2 816 676 Liabilities 1 335 671 254 029 82 387 170 464 193 355 37 754 415 817 1 919 427 -1 719 055 2 689 849 Allocated capital 67 103 9 430 6 008 6 545 13 181 897 7 448 16 215 126 827 Return on allocated capital, % 15.7 15.2 8.5 12.4 15.9 9.2 8.1 13.3 The year’s investments in non-ﬁnancial non-current assets 53 41 13 12 14 11 144 186 474 The year’s investments in associated companies 2 2 Average number of employees 4 381 1 567 631 494 672 131 1 885 1 931 11 692 1 Internal income which is included in total income comprises income from transactions with other operating segments. Since interest income and interest expense are reported net as income, this means that internal income includes the net amount of the internal funding cost among segments. between the Group’s pension costs calculated insurance operations. The assets in the Other Income per product area SEK m 2015 2014 in accordance with IAS 19, Employee Beneﬁts, column are mainly internal lending to the various and locally calculated pension costs. segments while the liabilities are mainly external Investment bank 4 722 4 524 Internal income mainly consists of internal borrowings. The allocated capital for the segBank deposits and corporate loans 10 430 11 589 interest and commissions. The segment income ments is the same as the capital allocation Finance company services 2 026 2 001 statements also include internal items in the according to the internal ﬁnancial control model. Bank deposits and loans to private individuals 3 807 4 411 form of payment for internal services rendered. Return on equity is calculated based on average Mortgages 12 069 10 236 Internal debiting is primarily according to the allocated equity and a tax rate of 22 per cent. Pensions and insurance 1 115 1 152 cost price principle. In branch operations, For the Group, return on equity is calculated Capital market 3 090 2 433 assets consist mainly of loans to the public and after reported tax. Trade ﬁnance 462 483 liabilities of deposits from the public and also Other operations 2 615 1 485 internal borrowing. In the Capital Markets segTotal 40 336 38 314 ment, assets mainly consist of securities that are managed within the asset management and H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 137 NOTES | GROUP G46 Geographical information Geographical information 2015 Other SEK m Sweden Denmark Finland Norway UK Netherlands countries Group Income 25 461 2 209 2 111 3 708 5 290 341 1 216 40 336 Operating proﬁt 14 305 600 1 106 2 005 2 089 57 313 20 475 Tax 2 746 169 232 563 479 13 75 4 277 Assets 1 597 179 81 114 125 307 177 143 232 867 18 959 289 564 2 522 133 Other information Investments in non-ﬁnancial assets 565 4 35 23 362 18 2 1 009 Income, expenses and assets presented in the geographical information are composed of internal and external income, expenses and assets in the respective country. The geographical distribution of income and expenses is based on the country where the business transaction has been carried out. Tax includes current and deferred taxes. Additional geographical information is provided in note P16 concerning the domicile of subsidiaries and associates and in note G8 concerning average number of employees. Geographical information 2014 Other SEK m Sweden Denmark Finland Norway UK Netherlands countries Group Income 23 958 2 187 2 243 4 144 4 114 303 1 365 38 314 Operating proﬁt 13 415 369 985 2 466 1 431 73 473 19 212 Tax 2 818 49 209 628 228 19 118 4 069 Assets 1 670 935 89 388 148 176 190 541 216 268 29 986 471 382 2 816 676 Other information Investments in non-ﬁnancial assets 270 13 13 22 17 3 18 356 G47 Assets and liabilities in currencies 2015 Other SEK m SEK EUR NOK DKK GBP USD currencies Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 153 45 633 6 094 99 55 540 94 654 457 202 630 Other loans to central banks 15 998 2 103 15 653 364 0 34 118 Loans to other credit institutions 2 561 8 692 207 115 1 285 33 337 3 459 49 656 Loans to the public 1 190 747 174 047 190 881 78 738 195 097 27 213 9 744 1 866 467 of which corporate 475 424 122 999 110 217 31 446 131 228 27 024 8 758 907 096 of which households 715 323 51 048 80 664 47 292 63 869 189 986 959 371 Interest-bearing securites eligible as collateral with central banks 36 606 6 402 7 30 744 1 018 74 777 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 39 770 2 726 716 2 1 282 17 44 513 Other items not broken down by currency 249 972 249 972 Total assets 1 535 807 237 500 200 001 94 614 253 568 185 965 14 678 2 522 133 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 25 008 53 015 19 818 14 977 13 142 29 439 8 371 163 770 Deposits and borrowing from the public 465 675 64 535 46 741 29 709 109 464 30 587 7 144 753 855 of which corporate 184 145 49 610 28 813 15 870 84 067 28 209 6 709 397 423 of which households 281 530 14 925 17 928 13 839 25 397 2 378 435 356 432 Issued securities 445 875 232 006 18 512 367 91 366 420 752 36 489 1 245 367 Subordinated liabilities 10 519 13 717 9 980 0 34 216 Other items not broken down by currency, incl. equity 324 925 324 925 Total liabilities and equity 1 272 002 363 273 85 071 45 053 213 972 490 758 52 004 2 522 133 Other assets and liabilities broken down by currency, net 125 716 -114 803 -49 492 -39 555 304 831 37 406 Net foreign currency position -57 127 69 41 38 80 298 Note G2 on page 93 describes the Bank’s view of exchange rate risks. H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 138 NOTES | GROUP 2014 Other SEK m SEK EUR NOK DKK GBP USD currencies Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 223 81 932 2 342 97 55 782 312 782 1 374 454 532 Other loans to central banks 6 926 15 758 28 021 342 0 51 047 Loans to other credit institutions 1 719 10 075 275 288 874 54 871 2 237 70 339 Loans to the public 1 164 777 178 002 184 912 72 787 167 719 26 642 12 997 1 807 836 of which corporate 500 444 129 197 101 176 28 326 114 555 26 490 11 750 911 938 of which households 664 333 48 805 83 736 44 461 53 164 152 1 247 895 898 Interest-bearing securites eligible as collateral with central banks 40 967 6 576 1 080 6 28 597 993 78 219 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 54 997 3 976 3 890 828 34 63 725 Other items not broken down by currency 290 978 290 978 Total assets 1 560 587 280 561 208 257 101 199 225 545 422 926 17 601 2 816 676 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 32 440 71 353 10 855 13 728 3 804 56 412 11 482 200 074 Deposits and borrowing from the public 444 033 120 068 61 616 30 218 106 728 249 885 9 719 1 022 267 of which corporate 191 628 105 379 44 311 17 550 87 548 247 678 9 423 703 517 of which households 252 405 14 689 17 305 12 668 19 180 2 207 296 318 750 Issued securities 459 264 236 831 22 625 342 89 923 371 593 32 035 1 212 613 Subordinated liabilities 10 308 18 887 117 977 30 289 Other items not broken down by currency, incl. equity 351 433 351 433 Total liabilities and equity 1 297 478 447 139 95 096 44 288 200 455 678 007 54 213 2 816 676 Other assets and liabilities broken down by currency, net 166 635 -113 117 -56 885 -24 996 254 804 36 690 Net foreign currency position 57 44 26 94 -277 78 22 G48 Related-party disclosures Claims on and liabilities to related parties Associated companies Other related parties SEK m 2015 2014 2015 2014 Loans to credit institutions Loans to the public 815 1 186 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Other assets 64 85 544 565 Total 879 1 271 544 565 Due to credit institutions Deposits and borrowing from the public 222 178 526 281 Issued securities Subordinated liabilities 687 701 Other liabilities 0 56 56 Total 222 178 1 269 1 038 Related parties – income and expense Associated companies Other related parties SEK m 2015 2014 2015 2014 Interest income 10 25 0 0 Interest expense 0 -2 -93 -74 Fee and commission income 4 5 Fee and commission expense -216 -238 -36 -37 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 0 0 1 207 Other income 1 0 19 13 Other expenses -33 -1 -51 -55 Total -234 -211 1 046 -153 A list of associated companies and information about shareholder contributions to associated companies is presented in note G19. The associated companies’ operations comprise various types of services related to the ﬁnancial markets. The following companies comprise the group of related parties: Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse, Svenska Handelsbankens Personalstiftelse and Pensionskassan SHB, Försäkringsförening (pension fund). These companies use Svenska Handelsbanken AB for customary banking and accounting services. On 6 November 2015, Svenska Handelsbanken AB sold 15,145,124 class A shares in Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget, SCA, to Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse. The holding corresponds to 2.1 per cent of the capital and 10.3 per cent of the voting rights. The sale means that the Bank will report a capital gain of approximately SEK 1,207 million, which will have a positive impact on the Bank’s earnings in the fourth quarter of 2015. The sale did not lead to any increase in the Bank’s equity, as the shares were recognised as available for sale assets and are thus reported at market value in the Bank’s accounts. All business transactions with associated companies are made on market terms. The parent company’s Swedish subsidiary has paid pension premiums for deﬁned beneﬁt pensions to the pension fund amounting to SEK 51m (56). The pension fund’s commitments to the employees of subsidiaries are guaranteed by the parent company, so if the pension fund cannot pay its commitments, the parent company is liable to take over and pay the commitment. The pension fund’s obligations are SEK 5,585m (6,140). Svenska Handelsbanken AB has asked for compensation from Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse amounting to SEK 505m (540) regarding pension costs, SEK 480m (428) regarding special supplementary pension and from Svenska Handelsbankens Personalstiftelse amounting to SEK 20m (20) for measures to beneﬁt the employees. Information regarding loans to executive ofﬁcers, and conditions and other remuneration to executive ofﬁcers, is given in note G8. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 139 NOTES | GROUP share capital, retained earnings and other capital. This capital must be perpetual and must be G49 Capital adequacy reserves in the companies that are included in the redeemable after ﬁve years at the earliest, but only with CAPITAL POLICY consolidation. Remaining tier 1 capital consists of the permission of the supervisory authority. It must be The Bank aims to maintain a robust capital level additional tier 1 instruments. The tier 2 capital possible to write down the nominal value or convert it which meets the risk entailed in the Group’s opermainly consists of subordinated loans. Certain to shares to create common equity tier 1 capital at a ations and which exceeds the minimum requiredeductions are subsequently made from own pre-deﬁned level for the common equity ments prescribed by legislation. A healthy capital funds. The deductions are made mainly from the tier 1 capital and it must be possible to unconditionally level is needed to manage situations of ﬁnancial common equity tier 1 capital. For the Bank’s risk suspend interest payments. strain and also for other events such as acquisimanagement, it is important that in risk terms, The Bank’s total additional tier 1 capital amounts to tions and major growth in volumes. both the Group and the regulatory consolidation SEK 12.3 billion. Of these, additional tier 1 capital for can be viewed as one unit. To enable efﬁcient risk SEK 10 billion was issued in 2015 which fulﬁlled the CAPITAL REQUIREMENT REGULATIONS management in the Group, capital may need to requirements of CRR. However, the Bank’s other outAccording to the new capital adequacy regulabe re-allocated among the various companies in standing additional tier 1 capital has been issued with tions, regulation no 575/2013 EU (CRR), which the Group. In general, Handelsbanken is able to permission in accordance with the previous regulacame into force in the EU on 1 January 2014, and re-allocate capital among the Group companies, tions and is therefore included in the transitional rules directive 2013/36/EU (CRD IV), which was impleto the extent that is permitted by legislation, for in CRR. These amount to SEK 2.3 billion and comprise mented in Sweden on 2 August 2014, the Bank example capital adequacy requirements and enhanced capital contributions. For enhanced capital must have common equity tier 1 capital, tier 1 restrictions in corporate law. The Bank sees no contributions, the Bank has the right to convert the capital and total own funds which at least correother material or legal obstacles to a rapid transfer instruments into equity at an earlier stage to avoid spond to the individual requirements relative to of funds from own funds, or repayment of liabilities breaching regulatory requirements. In the case of the total risk-weighted exposure amount for credit between the parent company and its subsidiaries. liquidation, the instruments will be classiﬁed as liabilirisks, market risks and operational risks. In addities, including the part that was previously converted tion to holding capital in accordance with the minTier 1 capital into equity, and which will then have the same residual imum requirement, the Bank must also hold comTier 1 capital consists of common equity tier 1 claim to the assets of the company. This claim is subormon equity tier 1 capital to comply with the capital and additional tier 1 capital. dinate to the claims of all other creditors. Only sharecombined buffer requirement which in Sweden holders have a more subordinated claim to the assets comprises the sum of a capital conservation Common equity tier 1 capital of the company. For enhanced capital contributions, buffer, a countercyclical buffer and a systemic risk Common equity tier 1 capital consists chieﬂy of the Bank has an unconditional right to suspend coubuffer. The Bank must also perform an internal share capital, retained earnings and other pon payments, in other words, payment of interest can capital assessment. Handelsbanken’s capital policy reserves in the companies that are included in the be suspended at any time. If there are no distributable – most recently adopted in 2015 – states the regulatory consolidation. Since the Group’s insurfunds, coupon payments must be suspended for the guidelines for the internal capital adequacy ance companies are not part of the consolidation, instrument. assessment. The Bank must also comply with a retained earnings in these companies are not capital requirement at the ﬁnancial conglomerate included in the common equity tier 1 capital. The Tier 2 capital level in accordance with the Financial Conglomeritems to be excluded from the common equity tier The tier 2 capital consists of subordinated loans with a ates (Special Supervision) Act (2006:531). In 1 capital are mainly goodwill and other intangible maturity of at least ﬁve years. Deductions are made for 2015, the Bank met the statutory minimum and assets, and also capital contributions to the insursubordinated loan contributions to the insurance buffer levels by a comfortable margin. More ance companies in the Group or certain deferred companies within the Group. detailed information about the Bank’s own funds tax assets which exceed ten per cent of the comand capital requirement is available in note G2, mon equity tier 1 capital. The total of capital conCAPITAL REQUIREMENTS Risk and capital management, and in the docutributions and deferred tax assets must not Credit risk ment entitled Handelsbanken’s Risk and Capital exceed 15 per cent of the common equity tier 1 The capital requirement for credit risk is calculated Management – Information according to Pillar 3 capital. Since neither the capital contributions to according to the standardised approach and the IRB (see handelsbanken.se/ireng). the insurance companies in the Group nor the Approach according to CRR. Two different methods deferred tax assets exceed the threshold value, are used in the IRB Approach: the IRB Approach withDESCRIPTION OF CONSOLIDATED these do not reduce the common equity tier 1 out own estimates of LGD and credit conversion factors SITUATION capital. Neutrality adjustments are made for the (CCF), corresponding to the foundation approach in The regulatory consolidation (consolidated situaeffect of cash ﬂow hedges on equity. An addithe previous regulations, and the IRB Approach with tion) consists of the parent company, subsidiaries tional value adjustment must also be calculated own estimates of LGD and CCF, corresponding to the and associated companies that are included in and when necessary, be made for prudent valuaadvanced approach in the previous regulations. the consolidated group accounts, as shown in tion of instruments at fair value. Institutions with In the IRB Approach without own estimates of LGD the table on page 141. The companies that are permission to use internal ratings-based models and CCF, the Bank uses its own method to determine included in the consolidated accounts but are must make a deduction for the difference the probability of the customer defaulting within one excluded from the consolidated situation are between expected loan losses according to the year (PD), while the other parameters are prescribed by shown in the table on page 141. Just as in the IRB Approach and the provisions made for probthe regulations. In the IRB Approach with own estimates consolidated accounts, associated companies able loan losses if the expected loan losses of LGD and CCF, the Bank uses its own methods to are consolidated using the equity method in the exceed the provisions made. A deduction must calculate the loss in the case of default (LGD) and the regulatory consolidated situation. Wholly owned also be made for the net value of recognised surexposure amount. subsidiaries are also consolidated according to plus values in pension assets. However, the Handelsbanken uses the IRB approach without the acquisition method. All subsidiaries which are deduction may be reduced by an amount correown estimates of LGD and CCF for exposures to instisubject to the regulations are included in the sponding to the Bank’s right to reimbursement for tutions and for certain product and collateral types for consolidated situation. Handelsbanken has no pension costs from Handelsbanken’s pension corporate exposures in the whole of the regional subsidiaries where the actual own funds are less foundation. Finally, a deduction must also be banking operations and in the following subsidiaries: than the prescribed own funds. made for permission to hold own shares in its Stadshypotek AB, Handelsbanken Finans AB, capacity as market maker. The deduction must Handelsbanken Finans (Shanghai) Financial Leasing DESCRIPTION OF OWN FUNDS FOR correspond to the highest market value covered Co. Ltd and Rahoitus Oy. CONSOLIDATED SITUATION by the permission. The IRB Approach with own estimates of LGD and Own funds consist of tier 1 capital and tier 2 CCF is applied to the majority of exposures to large capital. The tier 1 capital is divided into common Additional tier 1 capital corporates, medium-sized companies, property equity tier 1 capital and additional tier 1 capital. Additional tier 1 capital consists of instruments companies and housing co-operative associations in Common equity tier 1 capital consists mainly of which fulﬁl the requirements for additional tier 1 regional bank operations (excluding the Netherlands), H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 140 NOTES | GROUP Handelsbanken Capital Markets, Stadshypotek AB Ownership Corporate identity and Handelsbanken Finans AB, and retail exposures Companies included in consolidated situation share, % number Domicile in Sweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark, as well as Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ)1 502007-7862 Stockholm in the subsidiaries Stadshypotek AB, Handelsbanken Finans AB and Rahoitus Oy. SUBSIDIARIES As at the year-end, the IRB Approach covered 80 Handelsbanken Finans AB1 100 556053-0841 Stockholm per cent of the total risk-weighted exposure amount Kredit-Inkasso AB 100 556069-3185 Stockholm in terms of credit risk calculated according to CRR. Handelsbanken Rahoitus Oy 100 0112308-8 Helsinki For the remaining credit risk exposures, the capital Kreditt-Inkasso AS 100 955074203 Fredrikstad requirement is calculated using the standardised Handelsbanken Finans (Shanghai) Financial Leasing Co., Ltd 100 310101717882194 Shanghai approach. Figures reported in this section refer to the Stadshypotek AB 1 100 556459-6715 Stockholm minimum capital requirements under Pillar 1 of the Svenska Intecknings Garanti AB Sigab (inactive) 100 556432-7285 Stockholm Basel III capital adequacy regulations, CRR and CRD IV. In the adjoining tables, “According to CRR” means Handelsbanken Fondbolagsförvaltning AB 100 556070-0683 Stockholm that the ﬁgures are based on the minimum capital Handelsbanken Fonder AB 100 556418-8851 Stockholm requirements after the transitional rules have ceased Handelsinvest Investeringsforvaltning A/S 100 12930879 Copenhagen to apply. The transitional rules apply until further Handelsbanken Fondbolag Ab 100 1105019-3 Helsinki notice. Handelsbanken Kapitalförvaltning AS 100 973194860 Oslo Repos and securities loans are reported separately XACT Kapitalförvaltning AB 100 556997-8140 Stockholm in the table of capital requirement according to the AB Handel och Industri 100 556013-5336 Stockholm IRB Approach, since they give rise to very low capital Heartwood Wealth Management Limited 100 04132340 London requirements, while the volumes vary considerably Heartwood Nominees Limited (inactive) 100 2299877 London over time. The low capital requirement is due to the Heartwood Second Nominees Limited (inactive) 100 3193458 London exposure being reported gross and being secured. Private Ofﬁce Limited (inactive) 100 4332528 London The total average risk weight for the IRB-approved exposures went down by 1.6 percentage points Other during the year. The decrease is mainly due to a Ejendomsselskabet af 1. maj 2009 A/S 100 59173812 Hillerød decrease in the average risk weight for corporate Forva AS 100 945812141 Oslo exposures. This in turn is mainly due to higher credit Handelsbanken Markets Securities, Inc1 100 11-3257438 New York volume during the year to counterparties with relatively Handelsbanken Mezzanine Management AB (inactive) 100 556679-2668 Stockholm lower risk weights combined with a decrease in the Handelsbanken Mezzanine Fond 1 KB (inactive) 100 969710-3126 Stockholm volume to counterparties with relatively higher risk Lokalbolig A/S 67.5 78488018 Hillerød weights. Rådstuplass 4 AS 100 910508423 Bergen For further information about changes during the SIL (Nominees) Limited (inactive) 100 1932320 London year, see the Bank’s interim reports for 2015 and the Svenska Property Nominees Limited (inactive) 100 2308524 London Bank’s disclosures according to the special informaLila stugan i Stockholm AB (inactive) 100 556993-9084 Stockholm tion about capital adequacy stated in Risk and CapiEcster AB (inactive) 100 556993-2311 Stockholm tal Management – Information according to Pillar 3. Blå stugan i Stockholm (inactive) 100 556993-9357 Stockholm Svenska Handelsbanken Representações (Brasil) Ltda 99.9 15.367.073/0001-93 São Paulo Operational risk Subsidaries of Handelsbanken Liv Försäkrings AB Handelsbanken uses the standardised approach Handelsbanken Fastigheter AB 100 556873-0021 Stockholm according to which calculation of the capital requirement is based on the Bank’s income in various busiASSOCIATES ness segments. Bankomatcentralen AB 21.89 556197-2265 Stockholm BDB Bankernas Depå AB 20 556695-3567 Stockholm Market risks BGC Holding AB 25.38 556607-0933 Stockholm The capital requirement for market risks for the conBankgirocentralen BGC AB 100 556047-3521 Stockholm solidated situation is calculated using the standardDevise Business Transactions Sweden AB 100 556564-5404 Stockholm ised approach. The capital requirement for interest Finansiell ID-teknik BID AB 28.3 556630-4928 Stockholm rate risks and equity price risks is, however, only calUC AB 24.48 556137-5113 Stockholm culated for positions in the trading book. ShareholdUC Affärsfakta AB 100 556613-0042 Stockholm ings outside the trading book, which are classiﬁed as UC Marknadsinformation AB 100 556948-5518 Stockholm available for sale, comprise part of the calculation of UC Aktieadministration AB 100 556961-2079 Stockholm the capital requirement for credit risk. UC Bostadsvärdering AB 100 556576-7133 Stockholm UC allabolag AB 100 556730-7367 Stockholm Bankomat AB 20 556817-9716 Stockholm CAPITAL ADEQUACY FOR THE FINANCIAL Getswish AB 20 556913-7382 Stockholm CONGLOMERATE 1 Institutions and insurance companies which are part Credit institution. of the ﬁnancial conglomerate must have own funds Ownership Corporate identity which are adequate in relation to the capital requireCompanies not included in consolidated situation share, % number Domicile ment for the ﬁnancial conglomerate. Own funds for Handelsbanken Liv Försäkring AB the ﬁnancial conglomerate have been calculated by (Group excl. Handelsbanken Fastigheter AB) 100 516401-8284 Stockholm means of a combination of the aggregation and setSvenska Re S.A. 100 RCS Lux B-32053 Luxembourg tlement method and the consolidation method. This Handelsbanken Skadeförsäkrings AB 100 516401-6767 Stockholm means that the own funds for the consolidated situaFlisekompaniet Holding AS 47 992999136 Oslo tion have been combined with the capital base for the Dyson Group plc 44.5 163096 Shefﬁeld Handelsbanken Liv AB insurance group. CorrePlastal Industri AB 100 556532-8845 Gothenburg spondingly, in order to calculate the requirement for EFN Ekonomikanalen AB 100 556930-1608 Stockholm the conglomerate, the solvency requirement for the SHB Liv Försäkringsaktiebolag 100 2478149-7 Helsinki insurance group has been added to the capital Svenska RKA International Insurance Services AB (inactive) 100 556324-2964 Stockholm requirement for the consolidated situation. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 141 NOTES | GROUP G49 Cont. Balance sheet 2015 2014 Consolidated Banking Consolidated Banking SEK m situation group situation group ASSETS Cash and balances with central banks 202 630 202 630 454 532 454 532 Other loans to central banks 34 118 34 118 51 047 51 047 Treasury bills and other eligible securities 71 441 74 777 74 367 78 219 Loans to other credit institutions 50 726 49 656 71 445 70 339 Loans to the public 1 866 717 1 866 467 1 808 036 1 807 836 Value change of interest-hedged item in portfolio hedge 27 27 70 70 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 40 977 44 513 59 652 63 725 of which interest-bearing instruments classiﬁed as available for sale (carrying amount) 3 479 3 479 2 322 2 322 of which interest-bearing instruments classiﬁed as available for sale accumulated, value change -100 -194 -124 -228 Shares and participating interests 29 338 30 387 44 995 46 546 of which shares classiﬁed as available for sale (carrying amount) 6 581 6 581 8 367 8 367 of which shares classiﬁed as available for sale, accumulated value change 2 268 2 268 1 614 1 614 Investments in associates 6 626 245 6 655 286 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 3 422 105 146 3 024 94 763 Derivative instruments 85 347 85 347 116 135 116 124 of which cash ﬂow hedges 4 940 4 940 5 331 5 331 Reinsurance assets 0 10 0 6 Intangible assets 8 179 8 254 8 055 8 132 Property and equipment 2 348 2 348 2 239 2 239 Current tax assets 143 143 115 115 Deferred tax assets 1 489 1 489 389 389 of which related to cash ﬂow hedges 0 0 0 0 of which related to interest-bearing instruments classiﬁed as available for sale 37 37 43 43 Pension assets 0 0 Assets held for sale 1 442 0 1 196 Other assets 8 786 8 887 14 135 14 321 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 6 164 6 247 6 688 6 791 Total assets 2 418 478 2 522 133 2 721 579 2 816 676 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Liabilities to credit institutions 172 957 163 770 208 018 200 074 Deposits and borrowing from the public 744 977 753 855 1 012 258 1 022 267 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 3 501 105 225 3 125 94 864 Issued securities 1 245 367 1 245 367 1 212 613 1 212 613 Derivative instruments 40 596 40 592 62 878 62 878 of which cash ﬂow hedges 0 0 0 0 Short positions 2 416 2 416 20 648 20 648 Insurance liabilities 0 607 0 663 Current tax liabilities 970 996 906 957 Deferred tax liabilities 8 799 8 844 9 164 9 209 of which related to cash ﬂow hedges 1 393 1 393 1 504 1 504 of which related to interest-bearing instruments classiﬁed as available for sale 130 130 155 155 Provisions 101 113 208 68 Pension obligations 5 263 5 314 1 460 1 480 Liabilities related to assets held for sale 759 0 580 Other liabilities 13 854 14 206 14 366 14 578 Accrued expenses and deferred income 17 440 17 585 18 536 18 681 Subordinated liabilities 34 216 34 216 30 289 30 289 of which tier 1 capital loans 12 332 12 332 8 043 8 043 of which loans with remaining time to maturity > 5 yrs 16 706 16 706 17 163 17 163 of which loans with remaining time to maturity < 5 yrs 2 420 2 420 2 323 2 323 of which other loans 2 758 2 758 2 643 2 643 Total liabilities 2 290 457 2 393 865 2 594 469 2 689 849 Minority interest 4 4 3 3 Share capital 2 956 2 956 2 956 2 956 Holdings of own shares 0 0 0 0 Share premium reserve 3 204 3 204 3 203 3 203 of which equity from combined ﬁnancial instruments 1 045 1 045 1 045 1 045 Other reserves 8 557 8 440 12 271 12 220 Retained earnings 97 705 97 322 94 227 93 262 Proﬁt for the year (shareholders’) 15 595 16 342 14 450 15 183 Total equity 128 021 128 268 127 110 126 827 Total liabilities and equity 2 418 478 2 522 133 2 721 579 2 816 676 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 142 NOTES | GROUP Transitional own funds Amounts subject Amounts subject to pre-regulation (EU) to pre-regulation (EU) No 575/2013 treatment or No 575/2013 treatment or prescribed residual amount of prescribed residual amount of SEK m 2015 regulation (EU) No 575/2013 2014 regulation (EU) No 575/2013 Common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital: instruments and reserves Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 5 832 5 741 of which share capital 5 760 5 593 of which convertible securities 72 72 148 148 Retained earnings 97 705 94 227 Accumulated other comprehensive income (and any other reserves, to include unrealised gains and losses according to the applicable accounting standards) 8 556 12 271 Funds for general banking risk Amount of qualifying items referred to in Article 484 (3) and the related share premium accounts subject to phase-out from CET1 Public sector capital injections grandfathered until January 2018 Minority interests (amount allowed in consolidated CET1) Independently reviewed interim proﬁts net of any foreseeable charge or dividend 4 153 3 326 Common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital before regulatory adjustment 116 246 115 565 Common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital: regulatory adjustment Additional value adjustments (negative amount) -553 -1 Intangible assets (net of related tax liability) (negative amount) -8 246 -8 123 [non-relevant in EU regulation] Deferred tax assets that rely on future proﬁtability excluding those arising from temporary differences (net of related tax liability where the conditions in Article 38 (3) are met) (negative amount) Fair value reserves related to gains or losses on cash ﬂow hedges -4 940 -5 331 Negative amounts resulting from the calculation of expected loss amounts -1 395 -2 103 Any increase in equity that results from securitised assets (negative amount) Gains or losses on liabilities valued at fair value resulting from changes in own credit standing Deﬁned-beneﬁt pension fund assets (negative amount) Direct and indirect holdings by an institution of own CET1 instruments (negative amounts) -577 -466 Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the CET1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where those entities have reciprocal cross holdings with the institution designed to inﬂate artiﬁcially the own funds of the institution (negative amount) Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings by the institution of the CET1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution does not have a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount above 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings by the institution of the CET1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution has a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount above 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) [non-relevant in EU regulation] Exposure amounts of the following items which qualify for a RW of 1,250%, where the institution opts for deduction alternative of which qualifying holdings outside the ﬁnancial sector (negative amount) of which securitisation positions (negative amount) of which free deliveries (negative amount) Deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences (amount above 10% threshold, net of related tax liability where the conditions in Article 38 (3) are met) (negative amount) Amount exceeding the 15% threshold (negative amount) of which direct and indirect holdings by the institution of CET1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution has signiﬁcant investments in those entities [non-relevant in EU regulation] of which deferred tax assets arising from temporary difference Losses for the current ﬁnancial year (negative amount) Foreseeable tax charges relating to CET1 items (negative amount) Regulatory adjustments applied to common equity tier 1 in respect of amounts subject to pre-CRR treatment Regulatory adjustments relating to unrealised gains and losses pursuant to Article 467 and 468 -1 457 of which ﬁlter for unrealised loss, shares classiﬁed as available for sale -1 457 Amount to be deducted from or added to common equity tier 1 capital with regard to additional ﬁlters and deductions required pre-CRR Qualifying AT1 deductions that exceed the AT1 of the institution (negative amount) Total regulatory adjustments to common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital -15 711 -17 480 Common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital 100 535 98 084 Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 143 NOTES | GROUP G49 Cont. Transitional own funds Amounts subject Amounts subject to pre-regulation (EU) to pre-regulation (EU) No 575/2013 treatment or No 575/2013 treatment or prescribed residual amount of prescribed residual amount of SEK m 2015 regulation (EU) No 575/2013 2014 regulation (EU) No 575/2013 Additional tier 1 (AT1) capital: instruments Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 9 981 of which classiﬁed as equity under applicable accounting standards of which classiﬁed as liabilities under applicable accounting standards 9 981 Amount of qualifying items referred to in Article 484 (4) and the related share premium accounts subject to phase-out from AT1 2 351 2 351 8 043 8 043 Public sector capital injections grandfathered until 1 January 2018 Qualifying tier 1 capital included in consolidated AT1 capital (including minority interest not included in row 5) issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties of which instruments issued by subsidiaries subject to phase-out Additional tier 1 (AT1) capital before regulatory adjustments 12 332 8 043 Additional tier 1 (AT1) capital: regulatory adjustments Direct and indirect holdings by an institution of own AT1 instruments (negative amount) -399 -399 Holdings of the AT1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where those entities have reciprocal cross holdings with the institution designed to inﬂate artiﬁcially the own funds of the institution (negative amount) Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the AT1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution does not have a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount above 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the AT1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution has a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount above 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) Regulatory adjustments applied to additional tier 1 capital in respect of amounts subject to pre-CRR treatment and transitional treatments subject to phase-out as prescribed in Regulation (EU) No 585/2013 (i.e. CRR residual amounts) Residual amounts deducted from additional tier 1 capital with regard to deduction from common equity tier 1 capital during the transitional period pursuant to Article 472 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of which items to be detailed line by line, e.g. material net interim losses, intangibles, shortfall of provisions to expected losses etc. Residual amounts deducted from additional tier 1 capital with regard to deduction from tier 2 capital during the transitional period pursuant to Article 475 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of which items to be detailed line by line, e.g. reciprocal cross holdings in tier 2 instruments, direct holdings of non-signiﬁcant investments in the capital of other ﬁnancial sector entities etc. Amounts to be deducted from or added to additional tier 1 capital with regard to additional ﬁlters and deductions required pre-CRR Qualifying (T2) deductions that exceed the T2 capital of the institution (negative amount) Total regulatory adjustments to additional tier 1 (AT1) capital -399 0 Additional tier 1 (AT1) capital 11 933 8 043 Tier 1 capital (T1 = CET1 + AT1) 112 468 106 127 Tier 2 (T2) capital: instruments and provisions Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 17 150 444 17 860 697 Amount of qualifying items referred to in Article 484 (5) and the related share premium accounts subject to phase-out from T2 Public sector capital injections grandfathered until 1 January 2018 Qualifying own funds instruments included in consolidated T2 capital (including minority interest and AT1 instruments not included in rows 5 or 34) issued by subsidiaries and held by third party of which instruments issued by subsidiaries subject to phase-out Credit risk adjustments Tier 2 (T2) capital before regulatory adjustment 17 150 17 860 Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 144 NOTES | GROUP Transitional own funds Amounts subject Amounts subject to pre-regulation (EU) to pre-regulation (EU) No 575/2013 treatment or No 575/2013 treatment or prescribed residual amount of prescribed residual amount of SEK m 2015 regulation (EU) No 575/2013 2014 regulation (EU) No 575/2013 Tier 2 (T2) capital: regulatory adjustments Direct and indirect holdings by an institution of own T2 instruments and subordinated loans (negative amount) Holdings of the T2 instruments and subordinated loans of ﬁnancial sector entities where those entities have reciprocal cross holdings with the institutions designed to inﬂate artiﬁcially the own funds of the institution (negative amount) Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the T2 instruments and subordinated loans of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution does not have a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount above 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) of which new holdings not subject to transitional arrangements of which holdings existing before 1 January 2013 and subject to transitional arrangements Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the T2 instruments and subordinated loans of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution has a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (net of eligible short positions) (negative amounts) -1 129 -1 129 Regulatory adjustments applied to tier 2 capital in respect of amounts subject to pre-CRR treatment and transitional treatments subject to phase out as prescribed in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (i.e. CRR residual amounts) Residual amounts deducted from tier 2 capital with regard to deduction from common equity tier 1 capital during the transitional period pursuant to Article 472 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of which items to be detailed line by line, e.g. material net interim losses, intangibles, shortfall of provisions to expected losses etc. Residual amounts deducted from tier 2 capital with regard to deduction from additional tier 1 capital during the transitional period pursuant to Article 475 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of which items to be detailed line by line, e.g. reciprocal cross holdings in tier 2 instrument, direct holdings of non-signiﬁcant investments in the capital of other ﬁnancial sector entities etc. Amounts to be deducted from or added to tier 2 capital with regard to additional ﬁlters and deductions required pre-CRR Total regulatory adjustments to tier 2 (T2) capital -1 129 -1 129 Tier 2 (T2) capital 16 021 16 731 Total capital (TC = T1 + T2) 128 489 122 858 Risk-weighted assets in respect of amounts subject to pre-CRR treatment and transitional treatments subject to phase-out as prescribed in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (i.e. CRR residual amount) 473 132 480 388 of which additional capital to insurance companies in the Group not deducted from common equity tier 1 capital (residual values according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013) 15 633 15 633 of which deferred tax claims not deducted from common equity tier 1 capital (residual values according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013) 3 220 332 Items not deducted from T2 items (Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 residual amounts) (items to be detailed line by line, e.g. indirect holdings of own T2 instruments, indirect holdings of non-signiﬁcant investments in the capital of other ﬁnancial sector entities, indirect holdings of signiﬁcant investments in the capital of other ﬁnancial sector entities etc.) Total risk-weighted assets 473 132 480 388 Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 145 NOTES | GROUP G49 Cont. Transitional own funds Amounts subject Amounts subject to pre-regulation (EU) to pre-regulation (EU) No 575/2013 treatment or No 575/2013 treatment or prescribed residual amount of prescribed residual amount of SEK m 2015 regulation (EU) No 575/2013 2014 regulation (EU) No 575/2013 Capital ratios and buffers Common equity tier 1 (as a percentage of total risk exposure amount) 21.2 20.4 Tier 1 capital (as a percentage of total risk exposure amount) 23.8 22.1 Total capital (as a percentage of total risk exposure amount) 27.2 25.6 Institution-speciﬁc buffer requirement (CET1 requirement in accordance with Article 92 (1) (a) plus capital conservation and countercyclical buffer requirements plus a systemic risk buffer, plus systemically important institution buffer expressed as a percentage of total risk exposure amount) 6.1 2.5 of which capital conservation buffer requirement 2.5 2.5 of which countercyclical buffer requirement 0.6 0.0 of which systemic risk buffer requirement 3.0 0.0 of which Global Systemically Important Institution (G-SII) or Other Systemically Important Institution (O-SII) buffer 0 0.0 Common equity tier 1 available to meet buffers (as a percentage of risk exposure amount) 16.7 15.9 [non-relevant in EU regulation] [non-relevant in EU regulation] [non-relevant in EU regulation] Capital ratios and buffers Direct and indirect holdings of the capital of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution does not have a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount below 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) Direct and indirect holdings of the CET1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution has a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount below 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) 3 72 [non-relevant in EU regulation] Deferred tax assets arising from temporary difference (amount below 10% threshold, net of related tax liability where the conditions in Article 38 (3) are met) -1 288 -133 Applicable caps on the inclusion of provisions tier 2 Credit risk adjustments included in T2 in respect of exposures subject to standardised approach (prior to the application of the cap) Cap on inclusion of credit risk adjustments in T2 under standardised approach Credit risk adjustments included in T2 in respect of exposures subject to internal rating-based approach (prior to the application of the cap) Cap for inclusion of credit risk adjustments in T2 under internal ratings-based approach Capital instruments subject to phase-out arrangements (only applicable between 1 January 2013 and 1 January 2022) Current cap on CET1 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements 203 232 Amount excluded from CET1 due to cap (excess over cap after redemptions and maturities) 0 0 Current cap on AT1 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements 8 558 9 780 Amount excluded from AT1 due to cap (excess over cap after redemptions and maturities) 0 0 Current cap on T2 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements 5 185 5 926 Amount excluded from T2 due to cap (excess over cap after redemptions and maturities) 0 0 Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 146 NOTES | GROUP Capital instruments main features, CET1 SHB A SHB B Issuer Svenska Handelsbanken AB Svenska Handelsbanken AB Unique identiﬁer (e.g. CUSIP, ISIN or Bloomberg identiﬁer for private placement) SE0000193120 SE0000152084 Governing law(s) of the instrument Swedish law Swedish law Regulatory treatment Transitional CRR rules Common equity tier 1 capital Common equity tier 1 capital Post-transitional rules Common equity tier 1 capital Common equity tier 1 capital Eligible at solo/(sub)consolidated/solo & (sub)consolidated Solo & (sub)consolidated Solo & (sub)consolidated Instrument type (types to be speciﬁed by each jurisdiction) Share capital, class A Share capital, class B Amount recognised in regulatory capital (currency in million, at most recent reporting date) SEK 4,456m SEK 84m Nominal amount of instrument SEK 2,901m SEK 55m Issue price SEK 4,456m SEK 84m Redemption price N/A N/A Accounting classiﬁcation Equity Equity Original date of issuance Perpetual or dated Perpetual Perpetual Original maturity date N/A N/A Issuer call subject to prior supervisory approval N/A N/A Optional call date, contingent call dates and redemption amount N/A N/A Subsequent call dates, if applicable N/A N/A Coupons/dividends Fixed or ﬂoating dividend/coupons N/A N/A Coupon rate and any related index N/A N/A Existence of dividend stopper N/A N/A Fully discretionary, partially discretionary or mandatory (in terms of timing) N/A N/A Fully discretionary, partially discretionary or mandatory (in terms of amount) N/A N/A Existence of step-up or other incentive to redeem No No Non-cumulative or cumulative Non-cumulative Non-cumulative Convertible or non-convertible Non-convertible Non-convertible If convertible, conversion trigger(s) N/A N/A If convertible, fully or partially N/A N/A If convertible, conversion rate N/A N/A If convertible, mandatory or optional conversion N/A N/A If convertible, specify instrument type convertible into N/A N/A If convertible, specify issuer of instrument it converts into N/A N/A Write-down features No No If write-down, write-down trigger(s) N/A N/A If write-down, full or partial N/A N/A If write-down, permanent or temporary N/A N/A If temporary write-down, description of write-up mechanism N/A N/A Position in subordination hierarchy in liquidation Lowest, next senior is Lowest, next senior is (specify instrument type immediately senior to instrument) additional tier 1 capital additional tier 1 capital Non-compliant transitioned features No No If yes, specify non-compliant features N/A N/A Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 147 NOTES | GROUP G49 Cont. Capital instruments main features, T1 Issuer Svenska Handelsbanken AB Svenska Handelsbanken AB Svenska Handelsbanken AB Unique identiﬁer (e.g. CUSIP, ISIN or Bloomberg identiﬁer for private placement) SE0002450601 XS0406264092 XS1194054166 Governing law(s) of the instrument Swedish law Mainly English law, Mainly English law, Swedish insolvency law Swedish insolvency law Regulatory treatment Transitional CRR rules Additional tier 1 capital Additional tier 1 capital Additional tier 1 capital Post-transitional rules Non-eligible Tier 2 capital Tier 1 capital Eligible at solo/(sub)consolidated/solo & (sub)consolidated Solo & (sub)consolidated Solo & (sub)consolidated Solo & (sub)consolidated Instrument type (types to be speciﬁed by each jurisdiction) Additional tier 1 capital Additional tier 1 capital Additional tier 1 capital Amount recognised in regulatory capital (currency in million, at most recent reporting date) SEK 4m SEK 2,347m SEK 9,981m Nominal amount of instrument SEK 4m SEK 2,350m USD 1,200m Issue price 100% 100% 100% Redemption price 100% 100% 100% Accounting classiﬁcation Liability – amortised cost Liability – amortised cost Liability – amortised cost Original date of issuance 12 Jun 2008 19 Dec 2008 25 Feb 2015 Perpetual or dated Perpetual Perpetual Perpetual Original maturity date No maturity date No maturity date No maturity date Issuer call subject to prior supervisory approval Yes Yes Yes Optional call date, contingent call dates and redemption amount 21 May 2013 19 Mar 2019 1 Mar 2021 Subsequent call dates, if applicable Callable at any time with 40Callable each subsequent Callable each subsequent day qualiﬁcation period interest payment date after ﬁrst interest payment date after redemption date ﬁrst redemption date Coupons/dividends Fixed or ﬂoating dividend/coupons Floating Fixed Fixed Coupon rate and any related index 0.52% 11% 5.25% Existence of dividend stopper Yes Yes Yes Fully discretionary, partially discretionary or mandatory (in terms of timing) Partially discretionary Partially discretionary Fully discretionary Fully discretionary, partially discretionary or mandatory (in terms of amount) Partially discretionary Partially discretionary Fully discretionary Existence of step-up or other incentive to redeem Yes Yes No Non-cumulative or cumulative Non-cumulative Non-cumulative Non-cumulative Convertible or non-convertible Convertible Non-convertible Non-convertible If convertible, conversion trigger(s) Fully discretionary N/A N/A If convertible, fully or partially Fully or partially N/A N/A If convertible, conversion rate SEK 62.52 per share N/A N/A If convertible, mandatory or optional conversion Optional N/A N/A If convertible, specify instrument type convertible into Share capital, class A N/A N/A If convertible, specify issuer of instrument it converts into Svenska Handelsbanken AB N/A N/A Write-down features Yes Yes Yes If write-down, write-down trigger(s) Expected breach of capital Expected breach of capital Common equity tier 1 ratio 8% requirement requirement consolidated, 5.125% parent company If write-down, full or partial Fully or partially Fully or partially Fully or partially If write-down, permanent or temporary Temporary Temporary Temporary If temporary write-down, description of write-up mechanism Fully discretionary Fully discretionary Fully discretionary Position in subordination hierarchy in liquidation Subordinate to all instruments Subordinate to all instruments Subordinate to all instruments (specify instrument type immediately senior to instrument) except shares, next in priority except shares, next in priority except shares, next in priority are subordinated loans are subordinated loans are subordinated loans Non-compliant transitioned features Yes Yes If yes, specify non-compliant features Step-up and dividend stopper Step-up and dividend stopper N/A Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 148 NOTES | GROUP Capital instruments main features, T2 Issuer Svenska Handelsbanken AB Svenska Handelsbanken AB Svenska Handelsbanken AB Svenska Handelsbanken AB Unique identiﬁer (e.g. CUSIP, ISIN or Bloomberg identiﬁer for XS1014674227 XS0842167719 XS0842167552 SE0003961713 private placement) Governing law(s) of the instrument Mainly English law, Swedish Mainly English law, Swedish Mainly English law, Swedish Swedish law insolvency law insolvency law insolvency law Regulatory treatment Transitional CRR rules Tier 2 capital Tier 2 capital Tier 2 capital Tier 2 capital Post-transitional rules Tier 2 capital Tier 2 capital Tier 2 capital Tier 2 capital Eligible at solo/(sub)consolidated/solo & (sub)consolidated Solo & (sub)consolidated Solo & (sub)consolidated Solo & (sub)consolidated Solo & (sub)consolidated Instrument type (types to be speciﬁed by each jurisdiction) Subordinated loan Subordinated loan Subordinated loan Convertible debenture loan Amount recognised in regulatory capital SEK 13,717m SEK 1,740m SEK 1,250m SEK 444m (currency in million, at most recent reporting date) Nominal amount of instrument EUR 1,500m SEK 1,750m SEK 1,250m SEK 2,513m Issue price 100% 100% 100% 100% Redemption price 100% 100% 100% 100% Accounting classiﬁcation Liability – amortised cost Liability – amortised cost Liability – amortised cost Liability – amortised cost Original date of issuance 15 Jan 2014 12 Oct 2012 12 Oct 2012 1 Jun 2011 Perpetual or dated Dated Dated Dated Perpetual Original maturity date 15 Jan 2024 12 Oct 2022 12 Oct 2022 N/A Issuer call subject to prior supervisory approval Yes Yes Yes No Optional call date, contingent call dates and redemption amount 15 Jan 2019 12 Oct 2012 12 Oct 2012 30 Nov 2016 Subsequent call dates, if applicable Callable each subsequent Callable each subsequent Callable each subsequent Callable at any time with 40interest payment date after interest payment date after interest payment date after day qualiﬁcation period ﬁrst redemption date ﬁrst redemption date ﬁrst redemption date Coupons/dividends Fixed or ﬂoating dividend/coupons Fixed Fixed Floating Floating Coupon rate and any related index 2.66% 4.47% 2.61% 0.37% Existence of dividend stopper No No No No Fully discretionary, partially discretionary or mandatory Mandatory Mandatory Mandatory Partially discretionary (in terms of timing) Fully discretionary, partially discretionary or mandatory Mandatory Mandatory Mandatory Partially discretionary (in terms of amount) Existence of step-up or other incentive to redeem No No No No Non-cumulative or cumulative Non-cumulative Non-cumulative Non-cumulative Non-cumulative Convertible or non-convertible Non-convertible Non-convertible Non-convertible Convertible If convertible, conversion trigger(s) N/A N/A N/A Expected breach of capital requirement If convertible, fully or partially N/A N/A N/A Partially If convertible, conversion rate N/A N/A N/A SEK 71.62 per share If convertible, mandatory or optional conversion N/A N/A N/A Optional If convertible, specify instrument type convertible into N/A N/A N/A SHB A If convertible, specify issuer of instrument it converts into N/A N/A N/A Svenska Handelsbanken AB Write-down features No No No Yes If write-down, write-down trigger(s) N/A N/A N/A Expected breach of capital requirement If write-down, full or partial N/A N/A N/A Partially If write-down, permanent or temporary N/A N/A N/A Temporary If temporary write-down, description of write-up mechanism N/A N/A N/A Fully discretionary Position in subordination hierarchy in liquidation Subordinate to all senior Subordinate to all senior Subordinate to all senior Subordinate to all instruments (specify instrument type immediately senior to instrument) lending lending lending except shares, next in priority are subordinated loans Non-compliant transitioned features No No No No If yes, specify non-compliant features N/A N/A N/A N/A Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 149 NOTES | GROUP G49 Cont. Capital requirement Capital adequacy analysis, SEK m 2015 2014 % 2015 2014 Credit risk according to standardised approach 6 433 5 575 Common equity tier 1 ratio, CRR 21.2 20.4 Credit risk according to IRB approach 25 225 26 944 Tier 1 ratio, CRR 23.8 22.1 Market risk 825 939 Total capital ratio, CRR 27.2 25.6 Credit valuation adjustment risk (CVA) 713 534 Risk exposure amount, CRR, SEK m 473 132 480 388 Operational risk 4 655 4 439 Capital base in relation to capital requirement Total capital requirement 37 851 38 431 according to Basel I ﬂoor 137.0 138.0 Adjustment according to Basel I ﬂoor 56 982 51 975 Institution-speciﬁc buffer requirement 6.1 2.5 Capital requirement, Basel I ﬂoor 94 833 90 406 of which capital conservation buffer requirement 2.5 2.5 Total capital base, Basel I ﬂoor 129 884 124 961 of which countercyclical capital buffer requirement 0.6 of which systemic risk buffer requirement 3.0 Common equity tier 1 capital available for use as a buffer 16.7 15.9 Capital requirement market risks SEK m 2015 2014 Risk exposure amount Position risk in the trading book 819 927 SEK m 2015 2014 Interest rate risk 804 908 Credit risk according to standardised approach 80 406 69 686 of which general risk 512 566 Credit risk according to IRB approach 315 310 336 795 of which speciﬁc risk 290 338 Market risk 10 318 11 739 of which positions in securitisation instruments 0 Credit valuation adjustment risk (CVA) 8 911 6676 of which non-delta risk 2 4 Operational risk 58 187 55 492 Equity price risk 15 19 Total risk exposure amount 473 132 480 388 of which general risk 1 3 of which speciﬁc risk 4 7 of which mutual funds 2 1 Change in own funds SEK m 2015 Q4 2014 Q4 of which non-delta risk 8 8 Exchange rate risk Common equity tier 1 capital – opening amount 98 084 93 039 of which non-delta risk Proﬁt for the period 15 595 14 450 Commodities risk 6 8 Dividend -11 442 -11 124 of which non-delta risk 0 0 Conversions 91 -58 Settlement risk 0 4 Minority interests 0 0 Total capital requirement for market risks 825 939 Deferred tax 1 155 75 Capital contributions outside consolidated situation 0 0 Positions in securitisations 0 491 Leverage ratio Goodwill and other intangible assets -124 174 SEK m 2015 2014 Value adjustments for positions measured at fair value -552 66 Assets on which the leverage ratio is calculated Own shares -110 -466 Balance sheet according to accounting regulations 2 522 133 2 816 676 Special deduction for IRB institutions 708 -117 Deduction for assets not included in the banking group -103 655 -95 097 Items affected via Other comprehensive income Adjustment for differences between carrying amount AFS shares 2 138 -1 460 and leverage ratio exposure – derivatives -37 126 -43 931 AFS shares 21 39 Adjustment for differences between carrying amount and leverage ratio exposure – repos and securities loans 4 786 3 312 Pensions (IAS 19) -3 573 -2 102 Assets reported off the balance sheet, gross Currency effects -1 303 3 341 (before adjustment for conversion factor) 483 859 457 641 Net investment hedging -307 1 995 Deduction from assets off the balance sheet after Other 154 -259 application of conversion factor -303 538 -284 089 Common equity tier 1 capital – closing amount 100 535 98 084 Assets reported off the balance sheet, net 180 321 173 552 Additional adjustment -16 872 -18 489 Additional tier 1 capital – opening amount 8 043 10 602 Total assets 2 549 587 2 836 023 Additional tier 1 instruments Issues 9 981 Capital on which the leverage ratio can be calculated Calls -5 521 -2 897 Common equity tier 1 capital 100 535 98 084 Currency effects -169 341 Tier 1 capital 112 468 106 127 Conversions -2 -3 Regulatory adjustments capital -399 Leverage ratio Additional tier 1 capital – closing amount 11 933 8 043 Leverage ratio calculated on common equity tier 1 capital 3.9% 3.5% Leverage ratio calculated on tier 1 capital 4.4% 3.7% Total tier 1 capital 112 468 106 127 Tier 2 capital – opening amount 16 731 2 753 Capital adequacy ﬁnancial conglomerate SEK m 2015 2014 Tier 2 capital instruments Issues 0 14 174 Own funds after reduction and adjustments 129 660 129 412 Currency effects -457 0 Capital requirement 95 729 91 322 Adjustment for time to maturity -253 -196 Surplus 33 931 38 090 Tier 2 capital – closing amount 16 021 16 731 Total own funds 128 489 122 858 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 150 NOTES | GROUP Credit risk IRB Risk-weighted Exposure amount exposure amount Capital requirement Average risk weight, % SEK m 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Corporate exposures (excl. Housing co-operative associations) 824 013 807 909 204 426 225 120 16 354 18 010 24.8 27.9 of which repos and securities loans 9 324 14 060 260 57 21 5 2.8 0.4 of which other lending, foundation approach 143 430 142 048 42 501 46 601 3 400 3 728 29.6 32.8 of which other lending, advanced approach 671 259 651 801 161 665 178 462 12 933 14 277 24.1 27.4 of which large corporates 137 749 149 446 61 130 72 577 4 890 5 806 44.4 48.6 of which small and medium-sized companies 76 639 74 041 32 888 33 723 2 631 2 698 42.9 45.5 of which property companies 456 871 428 314 67 647 72 162 5 412 5 773 14.8 16.8 Housing co-operative associations1 168 369 150 952 6 003 5 619 480 449 3.6 3.7 Retail exposures 918 324 867 447 66 245 69 012 5 300 5 521 7.2 8 Private individuals 891 487 839 719 58 841 61 380 4 707 4 910 6.6 7.3 of which property loans 810 312 756 225 43 517 42 051 3 481 3 364 5.4 5.6 of which other 81 175 83 494 15 324 19 329 1 226 1 546 18.9 23.2 Small companies 26 837 27 728 7 404 7 632 593 611 27.6 27.5 of which property loans 7 541 7 535 2 016 1 529 161 122 26.7 20.3 of which other 19 296 20 193 5 388 6 103 432 489 27.9 30.2 Institutional exposures 117 263 134 409 20 471 16 671 1 638 1 334 17.5 12.4 of which repos and securities loans 31 143 51 433 424 661 34 53 1.4 1.3 of which other lending 86 120 82 976 20 047 16 010 1 604 1 281 23.3 19.3 Equity exposures 5 229 6 102 15 815 18 110 1 265 1 449 302.4 296.8 of which listed equities 4 418 5 584 12 811 16 195 1 025 1 296 290 290 of which other equities 811 518 3 004 1 915 240 153 370 370 Non credit-obligation asset exposures 2 348 2 239 2 348 2 239 188 179 100 100 Securitisation positions 28 269 2 24 0 2 7.4 8.8 off which traditional securitisation 28 269 2 24 0 2 7.4 8.8 off which synthetic securitisation Total IRB 2 035 574 1 969 327 315 310 336 795 25 225 26 944 15.5 17.1 of which repos and securities loans 40 467 65 493 683 717 55 57 1.7 1.1 of which other lending, foundation approach 237 156 233 633 80 714 82 984 6 457 6 639 34 35.5 of which other lending, advanced approach 1 757 951 1 670 201 233 912 253 094 18 713 20 248 13.3 15.2 1 Refers to housing co-operative associations included in the Corporate exposure class and reported in the advanced approach. Credit risk, standardised approach1 Risk-weighted Exposure value exposure amount Capital requirement Average risk weight, % SEK m 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Sovereign and central banks 270 402 558 624 72 46 6 4 0 0 Municipalities 58 231 64 086 18 20 1 2 0 0 Multilateral development banks 649 762 0 0 0 0 0 0 International organisations 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Institutions 4 162 2 277 603 574 48 46 14.5 25.2 Corporate 12 232 12 771 11 570 10 389 926 831 94.6 81.3 Retail 22 417 19 212 16 774 14 350 1 342 1 147 74.8 74.7 Property mortgages 70 925 57 765 25 367 20 994 2 029 1 680 35.8 36.3 Past due items 229 144 319 186 25 15 139.2 129.9 Equities 7 978 7 110 17 308 16 393 1 385 1 311 216.9 230.6 of which listed equities 249 641 249 641 20 51 100.0 100.0 of which other equities 7 729 6 469 17 059 15 752 1 365 1 260 220.7 243.5 Other items 9 034 7 409 8 375 6 734 671 539 92.7 90.9 Total standardised approach 456 260 730 160 80 406 69 686 6 433 5 575 17.6 9.5 1 Details of capital requirements for exposure classes where there are exposures. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 151 Parent company ADMINISTRATION REPORT | PARENT COMPANY Administration report Parent company Performance in the parent company Recommended appropriation of proﬁts The parent company’s accounts cover parts of The Board proposes a total dividend of SEK 6.00 the operations that, in organisational terms, are per share (5.83), comprising an ordinary diviincluded in branch operations within and outside dend of SEK 4.50 per share (4.17) and an extra Sweden, Capital Markets, and central departdividend of SEK 1.50 per share. The Board’s ments and administrative functions. Although recommended appropriation of proﬁts is shown most of Handelsbanken’s business comes from on page 191. the local branches and is co-ordinated by them, in legal terms a sizeable part of business volumes The Handelsbanken share are outside the parent company in wholly-owned Shares divided into share classes subsidiaries – particularly in the Stadshypotek 31 December 2015 AB mortgage institution. Thus, the performance % of % of of the parent company is not equivalent to the Share class Number capital votes performance of business operations in the Class A 1 871 794 753 98.20 99.80 Group as a whole. To obtain a comprehensive Class B 35 251 329 1.80 0.20 and more representative picture of HandelsTotal 1 907 046 082 100.00 100.00 banken’s position, results and performance, see the Group’s administration report. A 3:1 stock split was carried out in May 2015. The parent company’s operating proﬁt Two shareholders own more than ten per increased during the ﬁnancial year by 14 per cent of the shares: AB Industrivärden and the cent to SEK 19,919 million (17,413). Operating Oktogonen Foundation. Detailed information proﬁt for the year increased by 16 per cent to on the Bank’s largest Swedish shareholders SEK 15,843 million (13,701). Net interest can be found on page 45. income decreased by 5 per cent to SEK 15,250 Handelsbanken’s Articles of Association state million (16,082) and net fee and commission that at shareholders’ meetings, no shareholder income increased by 11 per cent to SEK 6,778 is allowed to exercise voting rights representing million (6,112). Dividends have been received more than ten per cent of the total number of amounting to SEK 11,978 million (9,664). The votes in the Bank. For more information regardparent company’s equity increased to SEK ing shareholders’ rights, see page 52. 107,112 million (102,585). For the parent comAt the AGM in March 2015, the Board pany’s ﬁve-year overview, see pages 159–160. received a mandate to repurchase a maximum of 40 million shares during the period until the Risk management AGM in March 2016. This mandate was not Handelsbanken has a low risk tolerance that is used in 2015. More detailed information on this maintained through a strong risk culture which can be found on page 45. is sustainable in the long term and applies to all areas of the Group. For a more detailed descripOther tion of the Bank’s exposure to risks, and the Handelsbanken works continually with measmanagement of these, see note G2. ures to minimise the Bank’s direct and indirect impact on the environment. For more informaPrinciples for compensation tion regarding the Bank’s environmental activito executive ofﬁcers ties, see page 48. Handelsbanken’s principles for compensation Handelsbanken strives for its decentralised to executive ofﬁcers are set out in note G8 and work method and belief in the individual to in the principles for compensation to executive permeate its operations. For a more detailed ofﬁcers section of the Corporate Governance description of the Bank’s working method and Report (see page 60). staff development, see pages 47–48. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 153 ADMINISTRATION REPORT | PARENT COMPANY Financial report Parent company CONTENTS Income statement 155 P19 Intangible assets 173 Statement of comprehensive income 155 P20 Property and equipment 174 Balance sheet 156 P21 Other assets 174 Statement of changes in equity 157 P22 Prepaid expenses and Cash ﬂow statement 158 accrued income 174 Five-year overview 159 P23 Due to credit institutions 175 Notees Parent company 161 P24 Deposits and borrowing from the public 175 P1 Accounting policies 161 P25 Issued securities 176 P2 Risk and capital 162 management P26 Short positions 176 P3 Net interest income 164 P27 Taxes 177 P4 Dividends received 165 P28 Provisions 177 P5 Net fee and commission 165 P29 Other liabilities 178 income P30 Accrued expenses and P6 Net gains/losses on financial deferred income 178 transactions 165 P31 Subordinated liabilities 178 P7 Other operating income 165 P32 Untaxed reserves 178 P8 Staff costs 166 P33 Classification of financial P9 Other administrative assets and liabilities 179 expenses 166 P34 Fair value measurement P10 Loan losses 167 of financial instruments 180 P11 Appropriations 169 P35 Pledged assets, collateral received and transferred 182 P12 Loans to credit institutions 169 financial assets P13 Loans to the public 170 P36 Contingent liabilities 182 P14 Interest-bearing securities 170 P37 Other commitments 182 P15 Shares 170 P38 Pension obligations 183 P16 Shares in subsidiaries and P39 Assets and liabilities 184 investments in associates 171 in currencies P17 Derivative instruments 172 P40 Related-party disclosures 185 P18 Offsetting of financial P41 Capital adequacy 186 instruments 173 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 154 INCOME STATEMENT AND STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME | PARENT COMPANY Income Statement Parent company SEK m 2015 2014 Interest income Note P3 23 392 27 959 Interest expense Note P3 -8 142 -11 877 Net interest income 15 250 16 082 Dividends received Note P4 11 978 9 664 Fee and commission income Note P5 8 631 8 030 Fee and commission expense Note P5 -1 853 -1 918 Net fee and commission income 6 778 6 112 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions Note P6 2 349 1 117 Other operating income Note P7 1 644 2 188 Total operating income 37 999 35 163 General administrative expenses Staff costs Note P8 -10 904 -10 441 Other administrative expenses Note P9 -5 040 -5 006 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets Note P19, P20 -507 -478 Total expenses before loan losses -16 451 -15 925 Proﬁt before loan losses 21 548 19 238 Net loan losses Note P10 -1 614 -1 825 Impairment loss on ﬁnancial assets -15 Operating proﬁt 19 919 17 413 Appropriations Note P11 100 111 Proﬁt before taxes 20 019 17 524 Taxes Note P27 -4 176 -3 823 Proﬁt for the year 15 843 13 701 Statement of comprehensive income, Parent company SEK m 2015 2014 Proﬁt for the year 15 843 13 701 Other comprehensive income Cash ﬂow hedges 195 3 249 Available-for-sale instruments 694 295 Translation difference for the year -1 155 5 634 of which hedges of net assets in foreign operations -444 2 675 Tax related to other comprehensive income 73 -1 311 of which cash ﬂow hedges -43 -709 of which available-for-sale instruments 18 -14 of which hedges of net assets in foreign operations 98 -588 Total other comprehensive income -193 7 867 Total comprehensive income for the year 15 650 21 568 The period’s reclassiﬁcations to the income statement are presented in Statement of changes in equity. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 155 BALANCE SHEET | PARENT COMPANY Balance sheet Parent company SEK m 2015 2014 ASSETS Cash and balances with central banks 202 630 454 532 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks Note P14 71 436 74 362 Loans to credit institutions Note P12 596 441 568 589 Loans to the public Note P13 733 988 737 483 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Note P14 40 974 59 652 Shares Note P15 29 309 44 949 Shares in subsidiaries and investments in associates Note P16 45 815 45 764 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 3 422 3 024 Derivative instruments Note P17 89 491 120 051 Intangible assets Note P19 1 962 1 805 Property and equipment Note P20 1 150 1 032 Deferred tax assets Note P27 328 361 Other assets Note P21 18 299 19 195 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Note P22 4 813 4 996 Total assets Note P33 1 840 058 2 135 795 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Due to credit institutions Note P23 173 533 210 099 Deposits and borrowing from the public Note P24 755 066 1 020 962 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 3 501 3 125 Issued securities, etc. Note P25 676 950 633 128 Derivative instruments Note P17 61 109 87 718 Short positions Note P26 2 416 20 648 Current tax liabilities 847 829 Deferred tax liabilities Note P27 1 521 1 669 Provisions Note P28 96 87 Other liabilities Note P29 13 751 14 148 Accrued expenses and deferred income Note P30 9 370 9 809 Subordinated liabilities Note P31 34 216 30 289 Total liabilities Note P33 1 732 376 2 032 511 Untaxed reserves Note P32 570 699 Share capital 2 956 2 956 Share premium 3 204 3 203 Other funds 9 585 9 778 Retained earnings 75 524 72 947 Proﬁt for the year 15 843 13 701 Total equity 107 112 102 585 Total liabilities and equity 1 840 058 2 135 795 MEMORANDUM ITEMS Assets pledged for own debt Note P35 30 185 42 225 Other pledged assets Note P35 33 520 35 758 Contingent liabilities Note P36 120 002 80 471 Other commitments Note P37 489 646 487 070 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 156 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY | PARENT COMPANY Statement of changes in equity Parent company Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Statutory Share Hedge Fair value Translation Retained SEK m Share capital reserve premium reserve1 reserve1 reserve1 earnings Total Opening equity 2015 2 956 2 682 3 203 1 197 1 304 4 595 86 648 102 585 Proﬁt for the year 15 843 15 843 Other comprehensive income 152 712 -1 057 -193 Total comprehensive income for the year 152 712 -1 057 15 843 15 650 Dividend -11 124 -11 124 Effects of convertible subordinated loans 0 1 1 Closing equity 2015 2 956 2 682 3 204 1 349 2 016 3 538 91 367 107 112 Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Statutory Share Hedge Fair value Translation Retained SEK m Share capital reserve premium reserve1 reserve1 reserve1 earnings Total Opening equity 2014 2 956 2 682 2 843 -1 343 1 023 -451 83 048 90 758 Proﬁt for the year 13 701 13 701 Other comprehensive income 2 540 281 5 046 7 867 Total comprehensive income for the year 2 540 281 5 046 13 701 21 568 Dividend -10 488 -10 488 Effects of convertible subordinated loans 0 360 49 409 Effect of merger 338 338 Closing equity 2014 2 956 2 682 3 203 1 197 1 304 4 595 86 648 102 585 1 Included in fair value fund. During the period January to December 2015, convertibles for a nominal value of SEK 1m (6) relating to the 2008 subordinated convertible bond had been converted into 18,925 class A shares (89,772). At the end of the ﬁnancial year the number of Handelsbanken shares in the trading book was 0 (0). Speciﬁcation of changes in equity Change in hedge reserve SEK m 2015 2014 Hedge reserve at beginning of year 1 197 -1 343 Unrealised value changes during the year 152 2 620 Reclassiﬁed in the income statement1 -80 Hedge reserve at end of year 1 349 1 197 Change in fair value reserve SEK m 2015 2014 Fair value reserve at beginning of year 1 304 1 023 Unrealised market value change during the year for remaining and new holdings 745 240 Reclassiﬁed in the income statement2 -33 41 Fair value reserve at end of year 2 016 1 304 Change in translation reserve SEK m 2015 2014 Translation reserve at beginning of year 4 595 -451 Change in translation difference pertaining to branches -1 059 5 043 Reclassiﬁed in the income statement3 2 3 Translation reserve at end of year 3 538 4 595 1 Tax that has been reclassiﬁed to the income statement pertaining to this item SEK -m (22). 2 Tax that has been reclassiﬁed to the income statement pertaining to this item SEK 63m (-10). 3 Tax that has been reclassiﬁed to the income statement pertaining to this item SEK 0m (-). H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 157 CASH FLOW STATEMENT | PARENT COMPANY Cash flow statement Parent company SEK m 2015 2014 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Operating proﬁt 19 919 17 413 of which paid-in interest 23 830 28 468 of which paid-out interest -8 688 -12 130 of which paid-in dividends 11 978 9 664 Adjustment for non-cash items in proﬁt/loss Loan losses 1 708 1 957 Unrealised changes in value 1 418 -188 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments 507 478 Group contribution to be received -10 971 -8 727 Paid income tax -4 221 -3 905 Changes in the assets and liabilities of operating activities Loans to credit institutions -27 847 -88 573 Loans to the public 1 722 -51 840 Interest-bearing securities and shares 34 040 -20 317 Due to credit institutions -35 224 -15 651 Deposits and borrowing from the public -267 237 199 449 Issued securities 43 823 100 521 Derivative instruments, net positions 3 875 -30 489 Short-term positions -18 187 -2 197 Claims and liabilities on investment banking settlements 2 094 -441 Other -30 874 -53 136 Cash ﬂow from operating activities -285 455 44 354 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Change in shares 3 618 -1 666 Change in interest-bearing securities 0 3 395 Change in property and equipment -415 -200 Change in intangible assets -447 -248 Cash ﬂow from investing activities 2 756 1 281 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Repayment of subordinated loans -5 690 -2 905 Issued subordinated loans 10 082 16 612 Dividend paid -11 124 -10 488 Dividends received from Group companies 8 727 7 950 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities 1 995 11 169 Cash ﬂow for the year -280 704 56 804 Liquid funds at beginning of year 454 532 334 794 Cash ﬂow from operating activities -285 455 44 354 Cash ﬂow from investing activities 2 756 1 281 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities 1 995 11 169 Exchange rate difference on liquid funds 28 802 62 934 Liquid funds at end of year 202 630 454 532 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 158 FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW | PARENT COMPANY Five-year overview Parent company Income statement SEK m 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Net interest income 15 250 16 082 15 962 16 431 15 684 Dividends received 11 978 9 664 8 995 9 152 5 733 Net fee and commission income 6 778 6 112 5 649 5 724 6 026 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 2 349 1 117 589 3 994 458 Other operating income 1 644 2 188 1 953 758 640 Total operating income 37 999 35 163 33 148 36 059 28 541 General administrative expenses Staff costs -10 904 -10 441 -9 977 -9 808 -9 247 Other administrative expenses -5 040 -5 006 -5 075 -5 157 -4 723 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -507 -478 -498 -518 -538 Total expenses before loan losses -16 451 -15 925 -15 550 -15 483 -14 508 Proﬁt before loan losses 21 548 19 238 17 598 20 576 14 033 Net loan losses -1 614 -1 825 -1 189 -1 154 -1 081 Impairment loss on ﬁnancial assets -15 -29 -820 -375 Operating proﬁt 19 919 17 413 16 380 18 602 12 577 Appropriations 100 111 4 267 -4 065 106 Proﬁt before tax 20 019 17 524 20 647 14 537 12 683 Taxes -4 176 -3 823 -4 619 -2 985 -3 470 Proﬁt for the year 15 843 13 701 16 028 11 552 9 213 Dividend for the year 11 4421 11 124 10 488 6 804 6 085 1 As proposed by the Board. Statement of comprehensive income SEK m 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Proﬁt for the year 15 843 13 701 16 028 11 552 9 213 Other comprehensive income Cash ﬂow hedges 195 3 249 -3 009 2 522 -264 Available-for-sale instruments 694 295 534 983 -1 319 Translation difference for the year -1 155 5 634 879 -10 36 of which hedges of net assets in foreign operations -444 2 675 901 481 Tax related to other comprehensive income 73 -1 311 397 -962 435 of which cash ﬂow hedges -43 -709 656 -608 70 of which available-for-sale instruments 18 -14 -61 -248 365 of which hedges of net assets in foreign operations 98 -588 -198 -106 Total other comprehensive income -193 7 867 -1 199 2 533 -1 112 Total comprehensive income for the year 15 650 21 568 14 829 14 085 8 101 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 159 FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW | PARENT COMPANY Five-year overview Parent company, cont. Balance sheet SEK m 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Assets Loans to the public 733 988 737 483 685 372 731 967 686 827 Loans to credit institutions 596 441 568 589 475 440 422 897 532 713 Interest-bearing securities 112 410 134 014 112 728 108 198 94 237 Other assets 397 219 695 709 533 321 461 704 499 484 Total assets 1 840 058 2 135 795 1 806 861 1 724 766 1 813 261 Liabilities and equity Deposits and borrowing from the public 755 066 1 020 962 814 227 668 683 705 565 Due to credit institutions 173 533 210 099 226 631 243 332 261 806 Issued securities 676 950 633 128 532 607 531 284 543 876 Subordinated liabilities 34 216 30 289 15 965 21 167 35 325 Other liabilities 92 611 138 033 125 900 173 030 193 034 Untaxed reserves 570 699 773 5 038 998 Equity 107 112 102 585 90 758 82 232 72 657 Total liabilities and equity 1 840 058 2 135 795 1 806 861 1 724 766 1 813 261 Memorandum items Assets pledged for own debt 30 185 42 225 25 216 59 195 72 007 Other pledged assets 33 520 35 758 41 679 2 564 5 236 Contingent liabilities 120 002 80 471 121 509 131 586 149 061 Other commitments 489 646 487 070 495 502 475 287 513 217 Key ﬁgures 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Impaired loans reserve ratio, % 54.3 46.6 58.0 56.0 61.0 Proportion of impaired loans, % 0.30 0.36 0.24 0.28 0.24 Common equity tier 1 ratio, % according to CRR 19.9 18.5 Tier 1 ratio, % according to Basel II 20.5 19.0 16.9 Tier 1 ratio, % according to CRR 22.6 20.2 Capital ratio, % according to Basel II 21.4 20.6 20.9 Total capital ratio, % according to CRR 26.1 23.9 Return on capital employed, % 0.74 0.70 0.91 0.64 0.54 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 160 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY Notes Parent company • broker and stock exchange costs are reporvery long, and consequently the useful life of P1 Accounting policies ted in the parent company as commission goodwill on acquisitions. The amortisation expenses period has been set at 20 years. • dividends received are reported on a sepaStatement of compliance rate line in the parent company’s income Dividends The parent company’s annual report is prestatement The item Dividends received comprises all divipared in accordance with the Swedish Annual • the gain/loss arising when divesting property, dends received in the parent company including Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securiequipment and intangible non-current assets dividends from subsidiaries and associated ties Companies (1995:1559) and the regulations in the parent company is reported as other companies, and group contributions received. and general guidelines issued by the Swedish income/expense Anticipated dividend is recognised only if the Financial Supervisory Authority, FFFS 2008:25, • memorandum items are reported in direct parent company has the right to decide the Annual reports in credit institutions and securiconjunction with the parent company’s amount of the dividend and the decision has ties companies. The parent company also balance sheet been taken before the ﬁnancial reports were applies the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s • untaxed reserves that are split into equity published. recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for legal share and tax liability in the Group are reentities and statements. In accordance with the ported as a separate balance sheet item Accounting for pensions Financial Supervisory Authority’s general advice, in the parent company. The parent company does not apply the provithe parent company applies statutory IFRS. This sions of IAS 19 concerning accounting for means that the international accounting standAssets and liabilities in foreign currencies deﬁned beneﬁt plans. Instead, pension costs ards and interpretations of these standards as Loans in the parent company which are hedging are calculated on an actuarial basis in the parent adopted by the EU have been applied to the net investments in foreign operations are meascompany in accordance with the provisions of extent that is possible within the framework of ured at the historical rate of exchange. the Act on Safeguarding Pension Obligations national laws and directives and the link and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authoribetween accounting and taxation. Held-for-sale assets and discontinued ty’s regulations. This mainly means that there operations are differences regarding how the discount rate The relationship between the parent Net proﬁt after tax from discontinued operations is established and that the calculation of the company’s and the Group’s accounting is not recognised separately in the parent comfuture commitment does not take into account policies pany’s income statement. Nor are held-for-sale assumptions of future salary increases. The The parent company’s accounting policies assets presented separately in the balance recognised net cost of pensions is calculated correspond largely to those of the Group. The sheet. as disbursed pensions, pension premiums and following reports only on the areas where the an allocation to the pension foundation, with parent company’s policies differ from those of Shares in subsidiaries and associated a deduction for any compensation from the the Group. In all other respects, reference is companies pension foundation. The net pension cost for made to the accounting policies in note G1. Shares in subsidiaries and associated compathe year is reported under Staff costs in the nies are measured at cost. Dividends on shares parent company’s income statement. Changed accounting policies in subsidiaries and associated companies are Excess amounts as a result of the value of the The parent company’s accounting policies are in recognised as income in proﬁt or loss under plan assets exceeding the estimated pension all material respects the same as those applied Dividends received. obligations are not recognised as an asset in the for the 2014 ﬁnancial year. parent company’s balance sheet. Deﬁcits are Financial guarantees recognised as a liability. Presentation Financial guarantees in the form of guarantees The pension fund’s commitments to the The parent company applies the presentation in favour of subsidiaries and associated comemployees of subsidiaries are guaranteed by models for the income statement and balance panies are recognised in the parent company the parent company so if the pension fund sheet in compliance with the Annual Accounts as a provision in the balance sheet where the cannot pay its commitments, the Bank is liable Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Comparent company has an existing commitment to take over and pay the commitment. panies and the Swedish Financial Supervisory and payment will probably be required to settle Authority’s regulations. This mainly implies the this commitment. Taxes following differences relative to the presentation In the parent company, untaxed reserves are by the Group: Intangible assets recognised as a separate item in the balance • claims on central banks that are immediately In the parent company, acquisition assets and sheet. Untaxed reserves comprise one compoavailable upon demand that are reported in other intangible assets with an indeﬁnite useful nent consisting of deferred tax liabilities and one the consolidated balance sheet under Other life are amortised in compliance with the provicomponent consisting of equity. loans to central banks, are reported as Loans sions of the above-mentioned Annual Accounts to credit institutions in the parent company’s Act. According to experience, the customer balance sheet relations that the acquisitions have led to are H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 161 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P2 Risk and capital management The Handelsbanken Group’s management is described in note G2. Speciﬁc information about the parent company’s risks is presented below. For deﬁnitions, see page 244. Credit risk Credit risk exposure SEK m 2015 2014 Loans to the public1 733 988 737 483 of which repos 7 742 23 858 Loans to credit institutions 562 323 517 542 of which repos 23 632 43 383 Unutilised part of granted overdraft facilities 128 969 102 817 Credit commitments 263 956 267 134 Other commitments 96 721 117 119 Guarantees, credits 48 486 10 336 Guarantees, other 66 860 66 172 Letters of credit 4 656 3 963 Derivatives 89 491 120 051 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 71 436 74 362 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 40 974 59 652 Total 2 107 860 2 076 631 Cash and balances with central banks 202 630 454 532 Other loans to central banks 34 118 51 047 Total 2 344 608 2 582 210 1 SEK 1,619m (2,181) of this amount is loans which upon initial recognition were classiﬁed at fair value in the income statement. Loans to the public, by sector 2015 2014 Loans before Provisions for Loans after Loans before Provisions for Loans after deduction of probable deduction of deduction of probable deduction of SEK m provisions loan losses provisions provisions loan losses provisions Private individuals 164 386 -605 163 781 156 740 -614 156 126 Housing co-operative associations 21 531 -13 21 518 16 310 -12 16 298 Property management 346 029 -690 345 339 321 154 -585 320 569 Manufacturing 30 766 -1 542 29 224 35 873 -724 35 149 Retail 22 127 -267 21 860 25 461 -343 25 118 Hotel and restaurant 8 061 -29 8 032 7 380 -25 7 355 Passenger and goods transport by sea 9 307 -543 8 764 10 974 -405 10 569 Other transport and communication 7 253 -60 7 193 9 892 -39 9 853 Construction 12 780 -92 12 688 12 535 -113 12 422 Electricity, gas and water 16 359 -52 16 307 13 300 -24 13 276 Agriculture, hunting and forestry 5 281 -15 5 266 6 237 -15 6 222 Other services 16 346 -66 16 280 16 780 -42 16 738 Holding, investment, insurance companies, mutual funds etc. 54 707 -282 54 425 57 246 -187 57 059 Sovereigns and municipalities 3 012 0 3 012 18 193 0 18 193 Other corporate lending 20 651 -93 20 558 33 268 -466 32 802 Total 738 596 -4 349 734 247 741 343 -3 594 737 749 Collective provisions -259 -266 Total loans to the public 738 596 733 988 741 343 737 483 Loans to the public, collateral Credit risk exposure on balance, collateral SEK m 2015 2014 SEK m 2015 2014 Residential property1 216 487 194 270 Residential property1 216 487 194 270 of which private individuals 107 846 97 133 of which private individuals 107 846 97 133 Other property 237 558 213 870 Other property 237 558 213 870 Sovereigns, municipalities and county councils2 12 627 13 519 Sovereigns, municipalities and county councils2 256 477 542 282 Guarantees3 8 025 15 435 Guarantees3 8 518 16 006 Financial collateral 16 777 22 032 Financial collateral 40 612 63 490 Collateral in assets 0 0 Collateral in assets 0 0 Other collateral4 21 446 20 864 Other collateral4 21 446 20 864 Unsecured4 221 068 257 493 Unsecured4 738 927 680 773 Total loans to the public 733 988 737 483 Total loans to the public on balance 1 520 025 1 731 555 1 1 Including housing co-operatives. Including housing co-operatives. 2 2 Refers to direct sovereign exposures and government guarantees. Refers to direct sovereign exposures and government guarantees. 3 3 Does not include government guarantees. Does not include government guarantees. 4 4 Comparative numbers are changed due to changed calculation method. Comparative numbers are changed due to changed calculation method. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 162 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY Credit quality Proportion of exposure amount per product Proportion of exposure amount per product Proportion of exposure amount per product type per PD interval excluding defaulted credits type per PD interval excluding defaulted credits type per PD interval excluding defaulted credits – Corporate exposures – Institutional exposures – Retail exposures Proportion of exposure, % Proportion of exposure, % Proportion of exposure, % 50 50 50 40 40 40 30 30 30 20 20 20 10 10 10 0 0 0 –0.05 0.05–0.1 0.1–0.2 0.2–0.3 0.3–0.6 0.6–1.0 1.0– –0.05 0.05–0.1 0.1–0.2 0.2–0.3 0.3–0.6 0.6–1.0 1.0– –0.05 0.05–0.1 0.1–0.2 0.2–0.3 0.3–0.6 0.6–1.0 1.0– PD, % PD, % PD, % Derivatives Loans Derivatives Loans Derivatives Loans Interest-bearing securities Other products Interest-bearing securities Other products Interest-bearing securities Other products Market risk1 SEK m 2015 2014 Interest rate risk 1 192 442 Exchange rate risk2 36 7 1 For information about equity and commodity risk in the parent company, see note G2. 2 Worst outcome in the case of +/5% change in SEK. Maturity analysis for ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, 2015 Unspeciﬁed SEK m Up to 1 mth 1–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–2 yrs 2–5 yrs Over 5 yrs maturity Total Cash and balances with central banks 236 752 236 752 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks1 71 831 71 831 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities2 41 371 41 371 Loans to credit institutions 116 614 181 433 104 419 73 047 58 721 40 277 574 511 of which reverse repos 14 586 8 833 23 419 Loans to the public 47 153 117 959 96 341 115 802 212 769 186 158 776 182 of which reverse repos 7 742 7 742 Other 33 874 160 715 194 589 of which shares and participating interests 29 309 29 309 of which claims on investment banking settlements 4 565 4 565 Total 547 595 299 392 200 760 188 849 271 490 226 435 160 715 1 895 236 Due to credit institutions 70 184 67 827 1 467 744 903 7 765 28 836 177 726 of which repos 290 290 of which central banks 13 066 55 291 5 1 333 69 695 Deposits and borrowing from the public 11 412 44 749 7 666 1 118 716 133 689 421 755 215 of which repos 0 Issued securities3 96 520 305 495 51 161 61 908 139 179 45 241 699 504 of which covered bonds 0 of which certiﬁcates and other securities with original maturity of less than one year 95 126 264 533 7 591 367 250 of which senior bonds and other securities with original maturity of more than one year 1 394 40 962 43 570 61 908 139 179 45 241 332 254 Subordinated liabilities 374 825 2 566 4 226 21 791 10 416 40 198 Other 8 946 191 353 200 299 of which short positions 2 422 2 422 of which investment banking settlement debts 6 524 6 524 Total 187 436 418 896 62 860 67 996 162 589 63 555 909 610 1 872 942 Off-balance-sheet items Financial guarantees and unutilised commitments 489 646 Derivatives 2015 SEK m Up to 1 mth 1–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–2 yrs 2–5 yrs Over 5 yrs Total Total derivatives inﬂow 270 753 408 773 77 344 142 412 343 064 135 278 1 377 624 Total derivatives outﬂow 270 590 406 014 76 564 138 827 330 024 132 591 1 354 610 Net 163 2 759 780 3 585 13 040 2 687 23 014 1 SEK 25,294m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. 2 SEK 6,021m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. 3 SEK 446,340m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. For deposit volumes the column Unspecified maturity refers to deposits payable on demand. The table contains interest flows which means that the balance sheet rows are not reconcilable with the Parent company’s balance sheet. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 163 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P2 Cont. Maturity analysis for ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, 2014 Unspeciﬁed SEK m Up to 1 mth 1–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–2 yrs 2–5 yrs Over 5 yrs maturity Total Cash and balances with central banks 505 579 505 579 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks1 74 729 74 729 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities2 60 267 60 267 Loans to credit institutions 131 372 158 451 99 965 68 424 33 672 34 405 526 289 of which reverse repos 9 576 32 589 42 165 Loans to the public 88 347 107 341 78 845 101 034 218 553 198 366 792 486 of which reverse repos 23 859 23 859 Other 53 044 188 133 241 177 of which shares and participating interests 44 949 44 949 of which claims on investment banking settlements 8 095 8 095 Total 913 338 265 792 178 810 169 458 252 225 232 771 188 133 2 200 527 Due to credit institutions 107 987 58 233 816 314 915 7 787 38 460 214 512 of which repos 88 88 of which central banks 45 647 47 374 116 3 948 97 085 Deposits and borrowing from the public 241 212 57 026 16 245 2 105 1 010 251 703 636 1 021 485 of which repos 168 168 Issued securities3 70 800 242 025 73 552 69 717 141 635 61 193 658 922 of which covered bonds 0 of which certiﬁcates and other securities with original maturity of less than one year 66 137 231 670 46 109 343 916 of which senior bonds and other securities with original maturity of more than one year 4 663 10 355 27 443 69 717 141 635 61 193 315 006 Subordinated liabilities 388 341 4 931 3 245 24 323 955 34 183 Other 28 923 212 709 241 632 of which short positions 20 963 20 963 of which investment banking settlement debts 7 960 7 960 Total 449 310 357 625 95 544 75 381 167 883 70 186 954 805 2 170 734 Off-balance-sheet items Financial guarantees and unutilised commitments 487 070 Derivatives 2014 SEK m Up to 1 mth 1–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–2 yrs 2–5 yrs Over 5 yrs Total Total derivatives inﬂow 369 950 484 637 84 462 155 742 364 527 158 132 1 617 450 Total derivatives outﬂow 363 872 476 643 82 078 153 094 353 974 155 709 1 585 370 Net 6 078 7 994 2 384 2 648 10 553 2 423 32 080 1 SEK 21,127m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. 2 SEK 6,023m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. 3 SEK 380,028m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. For deposit volumes the column Unspecified maturity refers to deposits payable on demand. The table contains interest flows which means that the balance sheet rows are not reconcilable with the Parent company’s balance sheet. P3 Net interest income SEK m 2015 2014 Interest income Loans to credit institutions and central banks 4 425 6 748 Loans to the public 19 376 21 403 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 651 719 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 914 1 015 Derivative instruments -2 387 -2 511 Other interest income 1 237 1 218 Total interest income 24 216 28 592 Of which interest income reported in net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 824 633 Interest income according to income statement 23 392 27 959 Interest expense Due to credit institutions and central banks -941 -1 124 Deposits and borrowing from the public -1 898 -3 741 Issued securities -7 732 -7 528 Derivative instruments 5 188 3 041 Subordinated liabilities -1 695 -1 283 Other interest expense -1 612 -1 508 Total interest expense -8 690 -12 143 Of which interest expense reported in net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions -548 -266 Interest expense according to income statement -8 142 -11 877 Net interest income 15 250 16 082 Includes interest income on impaired loans SEK 106m (88). Total interest income on assets recognised at amortised cost and available-for-sale assets was SEK 25,149m (29,495). Total interest expense on liabilities recognised at amortised cost was SEK 13,330m (14,918). H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 164 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P4 Dividends received SEK m 2015 2014 Dividends on shares 705 929 Dividends from associates 8 8 Dividends from group companies 294 Group contribution received 10 971 8 727 Total 11 978 9 664 P5 Net fee and commission income SEK m 2015 2014 Brokerage and other securities commissions 1 065 1 089 Mutual funds 1 837 1 489 Custody and other asset management fees 386 365 Advisory services 276 209 Payments 3 313 3 075 Loans and deposits 849 878 Guarantees 421 424 Other 484 501 Total fee and commission income 8 631 8 030 Securities -465 -584 Payments -1 331 -1 270 Other -57 -64 Total fee and commission expense -1 853 -1 918 Net fee and commission income 6 778 6 112 P6 Net gains/losses on financial transactions SEK m 2015 2014 Trading, derivatives, FX effect etc. 1 424 -1 839 Other ﬁnancial instruments denominated at fair value in proﬁt/loss -497 2 278 of which interest-bearing securities -401 2 260 of which loans -96 18 Financial instruments at amortised cost 111 262 of which loans 178 305 of which liabilities -67 -43 Financial instruments available for sale 1 203 365 Hedge accounting Fair value hedges 78 39 of which hedging instruments -59 -7 of which hedged items 137 46 Ineffective portion of cash ﬂow hedges 30 12 Total 2 349 1 117 P7 Other operating income SEK m 2015 2014 Rental income 21 21 Other operating income 1 623 2 167 Total 1 644 2 188 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 165 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P8 Staff costs SEK m 2015 2014 Salaries and fees -7 340 -6 942 Social security costs -1 710 -1 687 Pension costs1 -573 -600 Provision to proﬁt-sharing foundation -816 -722 Other staff costs -465 -490 Total -10 904 -10 441 1 Information about pension costs is presented in note P38. Salaries and fees SEK m 2015 2014 Ofﬁcers in an executive position2, 28 persons (30) -112 -103 Others -7 228 -6 839 Total -7 340 -6 942 2 Executive Directors and board members. Gender distribution 2015 2014 % Men Women Men Women Board 67 33 80 20 Executive Directors 79 21 81 19 Average number of employees 2015 Men Women 2014 Men Women Sweden 6 759 3 166 3 593 6 826 3 141 3 685 Norway 744 415 329 752 413 339 Finland 527 219 308 525 217 308 Denmark 673 354 319 682 338 344 UK 1 779 1 060 719 1 554 937 617 Luxembourg 62 36 26 67 39 28 Germany 53 30 23 59 32 27 USA 71 46 25 74 47 27 Netherlands 170 109 61 140 86 54 Singapore 39 12 27 38 9 29 China 70 29 41 67 26 41 Poland 41 15 26 42 15 27 Other countries 73 27 46 71 29 42 Total 11 061 5 518 5 543 10 897 5 329 5 568 Note G8 provides information about the principles for remuneration to executive ofﬁcers in the parent company. P9 Other administrative expenses SEK m 2015 2014 Property and premises -1 374 -1 350 External IT costs -1 549 -1 575 Communication -317 -322 Travel and marketing -289 -297 Purchased services -898 -897 Supplies -168 -194 Other administrative expenses -445 -371 Total -5 040 -5 006 Of which expenses for operating leases Minimum lease fee -671 -738 Variable fee -74 -19 Total -745 -757 Operating leases are mainly related to agreements that are normal for the operations regarding ofﬁce premises and ofﬁce equipment. Rental costs for premises normally have a variable fee related to the inﬂation rate and to property taxes. In 2015, the cost of the largest individual lease contract was approx. SEK 172m (167). None of the major lease contracts has a variable fee. Remuneration to auditors and audit companies KPMG Ernst & Young AB SEK m 2015 2014 2015 2014 Audit assignment -9 -10 -4 -2 Audit operations outside the audit assignment -2 -4 Tax advice -1 Other services H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 166 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P10 Loan losses SEK m 2015 2014 Speciﬁc provision for individually assessed loans The year’s provision -1 798 -1 917 Reversal of previous provisions 321 273 Total -1 477 -1 644 Collective provision The year’s net provision for individually assessed loans 1 75 The year’s net provision for homogeneous loans 1 Total 1 76 Off-balance sheet items Losses on off-balance sheet items -24 -62 Reversal of previous losses on off-balance sheet items 40 13 Change in collective provision for off-balance sheet items -33 16 Total -17 -33 Write-offs Actual loan losses for the year -851 -1 829 Utilised share of previous provisions 633 1 474 Recoveries 97 131 Total -121 -224 Net loan losses -1 614 -1 825 Impaired loans, etc. SEK m 2015 2014 Impaired loans 8 480 8 290 Speciﬁc provisions for individually assessed loans -4 349 -3 594 Provisions for collectively assessed homogeneous groups of loans with limited value Collective provisions for individually assessed loans -259 -266 Net impaired loans 3 872 4 430 Total impaired loans reserve ratio, % 54.3 46.6 Proportion of impaired loans, % 0.30 0.36 Impaired loans reserve ratio excluding collective provisions, % 51.3 43.3 Loans past due > 60 days, which are not impaired 866 1 491 Impaired loans reclassiﬁed as normal loans during the year 167 29 Loans are classiﬁed as impaired if it is probable that the contractual cash ﬂows will not be fulﬁlled. The full amount of each receivable that gives rise to a speciﬁc provision is included in impaired loans even if this amount is partly covered by collateral. Received collateral is thus not taken into account when calculating the reserve ratio. For other deﬁnitions, see page 244. Change in provision for probable loan losses 2015 Provision for Collective collectively Provision for provision for assessed Total provision individually individually homogeneous for probable SEK m assessed loans assessed loans loans loan losses Provision at beginning of year -3 594 -266 -3 860 The year’s provision -1 798 -1 798 Reversal of previous provisions 321 1 322 Utilised for actual loan losses 633 633 Foreign exchange effect, etc. 89 6 95 Provision at end of year -4 349 -259 -4 608 Change in provision for probable loan losses 2014 Provision for Collective collectively Provision for provision for assessed Total provision individually individually homogeneous for probable SEK m assessed loans assessed loans loans loan losses Provision at beginning of year -3 350 -338 -3 688 The year’s provision -1 917 -1 917 Reversal of previous provisions 273 75 348 Utilised for actual loan losses 1 474 1 474 Foreign exchange effect, etc. -74 -3 -77 Provision at end of year -3 594 -266 -3 860 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 167 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P10 Cont. Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, Impaired loans Loans past due by sector 2015 Of which past > 60 days, which 1 SEK m Gross Provisions Net due > 60 days are not impaired Private individuals 1 100 -605 495 330 427 Housing co-operative associations 14 -13 1 1 2 Property management 1 926 -690 1 236 400 127 Manufacturing 2 103 -1 542 561 49 21 Retail 394 -267 127 74 4 Hotel and restaurant 116 -29 87 85 168 Passenger and goods transport by sea 1 734 -543 1 191 0 Other transport and communication 78 -60 18 16 8 Construction 149 -92 57 40 77 Electricity, gas and water 73 -52 21 5 Agriculture, hunting and forestry 34 -15 19 3 0 Other services 101 -66 35 27 15 Holding, investment and insurance companies, mutual funds, etc. 500 -282 218 74 17 Other corporate lending 158 -93 65 39 0 Credit institutions Total 8 480 -4 349 4 131 1 143 866 Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, Impaired loans Loans past due by sector 2014 Of which past > 60 days, which SEK m Gross Provisions Net1 due > 60 days are not impaired Private individuals 1 260 -614 646 423 570 Housing co-operative associations 23 -12 11 10 24 Property management 1 706 -585 1 121 837 337 Manufacturing 1 634 -724 910 70 111 Retail 595 -343 252 168 13 Hotel and restaurant 45 -25 20 11 260 Passenger and goods transport by sea 1 616 -405 1 211 Other transport and communication 49 -39 10 10 41 Construction 187 -113 74 42 56 Electricity, gas and water 32 -24 8 8 0 Agriculture, hunting and forestry 21 -15 6 1 2 Other services 73 -42 31 25 56 Holding, investment and insurance companies, mutual funds, etc. 316 -187 129 34 2 Other corporate lending 733 -466 267 266 19 Credit institutions 0 Total 8 290 -3 594 4 696 1 905 1 491 1 Carrying amount after taking into account speciﬁc provisions for individually assessed loans and provisions for collectively assessed loans, but excluding collective provisions for loans which are individually assessed. Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, Impaired loans Loans past due geographical breakdown 2015 Of which past > 60 days, which 1 SEK m Gross Provisions Net due > 60 days are not impaired Sweden 3 019 -2 014 1 005 376 124 Norway 208 -130 78 46 159 Finland 826 -637 189 96 343 Denmark 2 797 -1 035 1 762 214 17 UK 1 436 -447 989 307 168 Netherlands 2 -1 1 Rest of Europe 192 -85 107 104 53 North America Asia 2 Total 8 480 -4 349 4 131 1 143 866 Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, Impaired loans Loans past due geographical breakdown 2014 Of which past > 60 days, which 1 SEK m Gross Provisions Net due > 60 days are not impaired Sweden 3 212 -1 535 1 677 626 357 Norway 289 -135 154 118 338 Finland 798 -635 163 142 503 Denmark 2 728 -917 1 811 329 25 UK 1 103 -291 812 618 194 Netherlands 21 -8 13 11 Rest of Europe 137 -73 64 61 74 North America Asia 2 0 2 Total 8 290 -3 594 4 696 1 905 1 491 1 Carrying amount after taking into account speciﬁc provisions for individually assessed loans and provisions for collectively assessed loans, but excluding collective provisions for loans which are individually assessed. H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 168 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY Maturity structure for past due loans which are not impaired 2015 Loans to the public Loans to SEK m credit institutions Households Corporate Other Total Past due ≥ 5 days ≤ 1 month 554 447 1 001 Past due > 1 month ≤ 2 months 92 58 150 Past due > 2 months ≤ 3 months 56 18 74 Past due > 3 months ≤ 12 months 184 103 287 Past due > 12 months 269 236 505 Total 1 155 862 2 017 Maturity structure for past due loans which are not impaired 2014 Loans to the public Loans to SEK m credit institutions Households Corporate Other Total Past due ≥ 5 days ≤ 1 month 752 910 1 662 Past due > 1 month ≤ 2 months 140 99 239 Past due > 2 months ≤ 3 months 80 373 453 Past due > 3 months ≤ 12 months 323 203 526 Past due > 12 months 355 157 512 Total 1 650 1 742 3 392 Assets repossessed for protection of claims SEK m 2015 2014 Property 429 465 Movable property Shares 0 0 Carrying amount 429 465 P11 Appropriations SEK m 2015 2014 Change in amortisation of machinery and equipment in excess of plan -12 Change in amortisation of goodwill in excess of plan 112 111 Total 100 111 P12 Loans to credit institutions SEK m 2015 2014 Loans in Swedish kronor Banks 18 007 8 340 Other credit institutions 374 441 308 581 Total 392 448 316 921 Loans in foreign currency Banks 38 630 67 263 Other credit institutions 165 363 184 405 Total 203 993 251 668 Probable loan losses Total loans to credit institutions 596 441 568 589 Of which reverse repos 23 632 43 383 Of which subordinated 20 718 20 718 Average volumes SEK m 2015 2014 Loans to credit institutions in Swedish kronor 402 776 351 308 Loans to credit institutions in foreign currency 223 201 182 945 Total 625 977 534 253 Of which reverse repos 44 394 39 423 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 169 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P13 Loans to the public SEK m 2015 2014 Loans in Swedish kronor Households 45 414 45 120 Companies 169 665 184 336 National Debt Ofﬁce 3 338 19 044 Total 218 417 248 500 Loans in foreign currency Households 139 295 130 142 Companies 380 884 362 701 National Debt Ofﬁce Total 520 179 492 843 Probable loan losses -4 608 -3 860 Total loans to the public 733 988 737 483 Of which reverse repos 7 742 23 858 Of which subordinated 1 129 1 129 Average volumes, excl. National Debt Ofﬁce SEK m 2015 2014 Loans to the public in Swedish kronor 228 526 237 742 Loans to the public in foreign currency 519 176 466 813 Total 747 702 704 555 Of which reverse repos 18 458 16 565 P14 Interest-bearing securities 2015 2014 Nominal Fair Carrying Nominal Fair Carrying SEK m amount value amount amount value amount Government securities eligible as collateral with central banks 56 715 59 135 59 135 62 426 64 155 64 152 Other securities eligible as collateral with central banks 12 326 12 301 12 301 10 137 10 210 10 210 Total interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 69 041 71 436 71 436 72 563 74 365 74 362 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 39 252 40 974 40 974 57 550 59 650 59 652 Total interest-bearing securities 108 293 112 410 112 410 130 113 134 015 134 014 Of which unlisted securities 364 364 4 569 4 569 Interest-bearing securities distributed by issuer 2015 2014 Nominal Fair Carrying Nominal Fair Carrying SEK m amount value amount amount value amount Government 56 715 59 135 59 135 62 426 64 155 64 152 Credit institutions 5 994 7 756 7 756 9 404 9 633 9 635 Mortgage institutions 27 638 29 803 29 803 37 733 39 572 39 572 Other 17 946 15 716 15 716 20 550 20 655 20 655 Total 108 293 112 410 112 410 130 113 134 015 134 014 Average volumes SEK m 2015 2014 Interest-bearing securities 140 304 120 237 P15 Shares SEK m 2015 2014 Holdings at fair value over the income statement Listed 18 964 33 300 Non-listed 3 792 3 328 Total 22 756 36 628 Holdings classiﬁed as available for sale Listed 4 667 6 753 Non-listed 1 886 1 568 Total 6 553 8 321 Total shares 29 309 44 949 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 170 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P16 Shares in subsidiaries and investments in associates Shares in subsidiaries and investments in associates SEK m 2015 2014 Associates, unlisted 104 95 Subsidiaries, unlisted 45 711 45 669 Total 45 815 45 764 Associates Carrying amount SEK m Corporate Ownership identity number Domicile Number of shares share, % 2015 2014 Bankomat AB 556817-9716 Stockholm 150 20.00 55 55 Bankomatcentralen AB 556197-2265 Stockholm 1 100 21.89 0 0 BDB Bankernas Depå AB 556695-3567 Stockholm 13 000 20.00 7 7 BGC Holding AB 556607-0933 Stockholm 25 382 25.38 4 4 Finansiell ID-teknik BID AB 556630-4928 Stockholm 12 735 28.30 24 24 Getswish AB 556913-7382 Stockholm 10 000 20.00 13 4 Upplysningscentralen UC AB 556137-5113 Stockholm 2 448 24.48 1 1 Total 104 95 Subsidiaries Carrying amount SEK m Corporate Ownership identity number Domicile Number of shares share, % 2015 2014 Handelsbanken Finans AB1 556053-0841 Stockholm 1 550 000 100 11 672 11 672 Kredit-Inkasso AB 556069-3185 Stockholm 100 Handelsbanken Rahoitus Oy 0112308-8 Helsinki 100 Kreditt-Inkasso AS 955074203 Oslo 100 Handelsbanken Finans (Shanghai) Financial Leasing Co., Ltd 310101717882194 Shanghai 100 Stadshypotek AB1 556459-6715 Stockholm 162 000 100 26 870 26 870 Handelsbanken Fondbolagsförvaltning AB 556070-0683 Stockholm 10 000 100 1 1 Handelsbanken Fonder AB 556418-8851 Stockholm 100 Handelsinvest Investeringsforvaltning A/S 12930879 Copenhagen 100 Handelsbanken Fondbolag Ab 1105019-3 Helsinki 100 Handelsbanken Kapitalforvaltning AS 973194860 Oslo 100 Xact Kapitalförvaltning AB 556997-8140 Stockholm 100 Handelsbanken Liv Försäkrings AB 516401-8284 Stockholm 100 000 100 6 189 6 189 SHB Liv Försäkringsaktiebolag 2478149-7 Helsinki 100 Handelsbanken Fastigheter AB 556873-0021 Stockholm 100 AB Handel och Industri 556013-5336 Stockholm 100 000 100 104 104 Plastal Industri AB 556532-8845 Gothenburg 100 Heartwood Wealth Management Limited 4132340 London 1 319 206 100 548 533 Other subsidiaries EFN Ekonomikanalen AB 556930-1608 Stockholm 100 100 0 0 Ejendomsselskabet af 1. maj 2009 A/S 59173812 Hillerød 2 700 000 100 200 200 Forva AS 945812141 Oslo 4 000 000 100 1 1 Lejontrappan AB 556481-1551 Gothenburg 0 Handelsbanken Markets Securities, Inc.1 11-3257438 New York 1 000 100 57 29 Handelsbanken Mezzanine Fond 1 KB 969710-3126 Stockholm 0 Handelsbanken Mezzanine Management AB 556679-2668 Stockholm 1 Handelsbanken Skadeförsäkrings AB 516401-6767 Stockholm 1 500 100 31 31 Lokalbolig A/S 78488018 Hillerød 540 000 64.29 1 1 Rådstuplass 4 AS 910508423 Bergen 40 000 100 0 0 SIL (Nominees) Limited 1932320 London 100 100 Svenska Handelsbanken Representações (Brasil) Ltda 15.367.073/001-93 São Paulo 999 99.9 2 2 Svenska Property Nominees Limited 2308524 London 100 100 Svenska Re S.A. RCS Lux B-32053 Luxembourg 20 000 100 35 35 Lila stugan i Stockholm AB 556993-9084 Stockholm 50 100 0 0 Blå stugan i Stockholm AB 556993-9357 Stockholm 50 100 0 0 Ecster AB 556993-2311 Stockholm 50 100 0 0 Total 45 711 45 669 The list of Group companies contains directly owned subsidiaries and large subsidiaries of these companies. 1 Credit institution. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 171 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P17 Derivative instruments Nominal amount/maturity Nominal amount Positive market values Negative market values over 1 yr SEK m up to 1 yr up to 5 yrs Over 5 yrs 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Derivatives held for trading Interest rate-related contracts Options 67 949 57 659 5 001 130 609 299 558 1 378 3 505 1 435 3 699 FRA/futures 593 247 115 655 708 902 2 336 841 476 1 137 510 1 549 Swaps 487 314 1 315 097 389 219 2 191 630 2 437 165 46 427 61 994 47 249 62 865 Other instruments 3 058 50 Currency-related contracts Options 74 687 1 159 33 75 879 62 320 471 663 700 953 Futures 120 383 5 582 237 126 202 115 264 1 669 3 051 1 703 1 710 Swaps 554 714 253 464 51 410 859 588 1 009 241 19 982 28 515 20 973 18 752 Other instruments 0 Equity-related contracts Options 9 250 21 091 270 30 611 35 952 2 032 2 537 2 656 2 371 Futures 2 779 2 779 10 306 1 8 32 36 Swaps 55 762 1 126 56 888 35 861 1 245 736 1 641 1 999 Other instruments 2 362 39 Commodity-related contracts Options 1 852 394 108 2 354 4 530 250 183 537 528 Futures 14 632 2 053 11 16 696 28 668 940 1 002 899 1 079 Swaps 12 8 Credit-related contracts Swaps 762 8 468 679 9 909 9 564 458 620 247 91 Total 1 983 331 1 781 748 446 968 4 212 047 6 390 702 75 329 103 951 78 582 95 729 Derivatives for fair value hedges Interest rate-related contracts Swaps 1 512 1 512 1 Currency-related contracts Swaps 965 63 Total 1 512 1 512 965 63 1 Derivatives for cash ﬂow hedges Interest rate-related contracts Swaps 33 464 184 576 56 715 274 755 242 341 10 114 11 488 1 990 1 661 Currency-related contracts Swaps 35 072 132 286 38 476 205 834 167 951 27 988 17 178 4 177 2 957 Total 68 536 316 862 95 191 480 589 410 292 38 102 28 666 6 167 4 618 Total derivative instruments 2 051 867 2 100 122 542 159 4 694 148 6 801 959 113 431 132 680 84 750 100 347 Of which exchange traded derivatives 233 328 1 314 691 490 676 1 613 1 804 Of which OTC derivatives settled by CCP 1 030 386 716 067 2 106 12 009 1 463 11 140 Of which OTC derivatives not settled by CCP 3 430 434 4 771 201 110 835 119 995 81 674 87 403 Amounts set off -1 414 478 -23 940 -12 629 -23 641 -12 629 Net amount 3 279 670 89 491 120 051 61 109 87 718 Currency breakdown of market values SEK 1 216 -239 436 143 198 -89 043 USD 223 628 403 012 -43 334 126 836 EUR 76 434 109 799 8 840 21 384 Others -187 847 -140 695 -23 954 41 170 Total 113 431 132 680 84 750 100 347 Derivative contracts are presented gross in the table. Offsetted amounts consist of the offsetted market value of contracts for which the Bank has the legal right and intention to settle contractual cash ﬂows net (including cleared contracts). These contracts are presented on a net basis in the balance sheet per counterparty and currency. As of 2015, the notional amounts associated with the offsetted market values are disclosed. The Bank amortises positive differences between the value measured by a valuation model upon initial recognition and the transaction price (day 1 proﬁt), over the life of the derivative. Such not yet recognised day 1 proﬁt amounted to SEK 539m (465) at year-end. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 172 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P18 Offsetting of financial instruments 2015 Repurchase agreements, securities borrowing SEK m Derivatives and similar agreements Total Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial assets 113 431 32 053 145 484 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities set off in the balance sheet -23 940 -23 940 Net amounts of ﬁnancial assets presented in the balance sheet 89 491 32 053 121 544 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -25 660 -25 660 Collateral received -35 678 -31 815 -67 493 Net amount 28 153 238 28 391 Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting agreements and similiar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities 84 750 290 85 040 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial assets set off in the balance sheet -23 641 -23 641 Net amounts of ﬁnancial liabilities presented in the balance sheet 61 109 290 61 399 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -25 660 -25 660 Assets pledged -6 614 -290 -6 904 Net amount 28 835 28 835 2014 Repurchase agreements, securities borrowing SEK m Derivatives and similar agreements Total Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial assets 132 680 68 887 201 567 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities set off in the balance sheet -12 629 -12 629 Net amounts of ﬁnancial assets presented in the balance sheet 120 051 68 887 188 938 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -45 652 -45 652 Collateral received -38 191 -68 857 -107 048 Net amount 36 208 30 36 238 Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting agreements and similiar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities 100 347 256 100 603 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial assets set off in the balance sheet -12 629 -12 629 Net amounts of ﬁnancial liabilities presented in the balance sheet 87 718 256 87 974 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -45 652 -45 652 Assets pledged -9 674 -256 -9 930 Net amount 32 392 32 392 P19 Intangible assets 2015 Internally 2014 Internally Acquisition developed Total Acquisition developed Total SEK m assets software 2015 SEK m assets software 2014 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 2 170 1 460 3 630 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 2 071 1 346 3 417 Cost of acquisition of additional intangible Cost of acquisition of additional intangible assets 447 447 assets 248 248 Disposals and retirements -88 -88 Disposals and retirements -135 -135 Foreign exchange effect -102 -3 -105 Foreign exchange effect 99 1 100 Cost of acquisition at end of year 2 068 1 816 3 884 Cost of acquisition at end of year 2 170 1 460 3 630 Accumulated amortisation and impairments Accumulated amortisation and impairments at beginning of year -1 471 -354 -1 825 at beginning of year -1 298 -369 -1 667 Disposals and retirements 88 88 Disposals and retirements 135 135 Amortisation for the year according to plan -113 -130 -243 Amortisation for the year according to plan -111 -110 -221 Impairments for the year -17 -17 Impairments for the year -9 -9 Foreign exchange effect 74 1 75 Foreign exchange effect -62 -1 -63 Accumulated amortisation and Accumulated amortisation and impairments at end of year -1 510 -412 -1 922 impairments at end of year -1 471 -354 -1 825 Carrying amount 558 1 404 1 962 Carrying amount 699 1 106 1 805 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 173 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P20 Property and equipment Property and equipment SEK m 2015 2014 Equipment 598 452 Property 123 115 Property repossessed for protection of claims 429 465 Total 1 150 1 032 Property repossessed for protection of claims contains properties which are regularly measured at fair value in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies for assets repossessed to protect claims. See note G1. The fair value of properties which are regularly measured at fair value is SEK 429m (465). Unrealised value changes on these properties had an impact of SEK 5m (6) on the year’s proﬁt. The valuation of private housing is essentially based on market observations of comparable property purchases in the location in question. The valuation of commercial properties is based on discounting future cash ﬂows using assumptions such as rents, vacancy levels, operating and maintenance costs, yield requirement and calculation interest rates. The valuation is also based on the condition of the property, its location and alternative areas of use. The Bank’s principle is always to use an independent authorised valuer for valuing commercial and ofﬁce buildings, and industrial properties. Valuations which are only based on market observations (SEK 411m) are classiﬁed as level 2 in the valuation hierarchy described in note G40. Valuations where own assumptions are used to a material extent (SEK 18m) are classiﬁed as level 3 in the valuation hierarchy. Unrealised value changes in level 3 relating to properties which are regularly measured at fair value have affected the year’s proﬁt by SEK 4m (0). The year’s sale of properties which are regularly measured at fair value amounts to SEK 167m (108) of which SEK 8m (80) was classiﬁed as level 3 before the sale. The value of new properties added during the year is SEK 149m (112), with SEK 9m (20) of this classiﬁed as level 3. Equipment SEK m 2015 2014 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 1 332 1 517 Cost of additional acquisition for the year 290 247 Reclassiﬁcation from other balance sheet item 195 Disposals and retirements -218 -472 Foreign exchange effect -37 40 Cost of acquisition at end of year 1 562 1 332 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at beginning of year -880 -1 051 Amortisation for the year according to plan -246 -235 Reclassiﬁcation from other balance sheet item -83 Disposals and retirements 217 434 Foreign exchange effect 28 -28 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at end of year -964 -880 Carrying amount 598 452 Property SEK m 2015 2014 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 190 190 Cost of additional acquisition for the year New construction and rebuilding 14 Disposals and retirements -1 Cost of acquisition at end of year 203 190 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at beginning of year -75 -70 Amortisation for the year according to plan -5 -5 Impairments for the year Disposals and retirements 0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at end of year -80 -75 Carrying amount 123 115 P21 Other assets SEK m 2015 2014 Claims on investment banking settlements 4 565 8 095 Other 13 734 11 100 Total 18 299 19 195 P22 Prepaid expenses and accrued income SEK m 2015 2014 Accrued interest income 2 784 3 230 Other accrued income 1 882 1 477 Prepaid expenses 147 289 Total 4 813 4 996 Of which subordinated 31 36 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 174 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P23 Due to credit institutions SEK m 2015 2014 Due in Swedish kronor Banks 16 705 23 252 Other credit institutions 14 498 15 818 Total 31 203 39 070 Due in foreign currency Banks 138 209 166 465 Other credit institutions 4 121 4 564 Total 142 330 171 029 Total due to credit institutions 173 533 210 099 Of which repos 290 88 Average volumes SEK m 2015 2014 Due to credit institutions in Swedish kronor 119 605 114 981 Due to credit institutions in foreign currency 156 387 149 491 Total 275 992 264 472 Of which repos 2 915 1 625 P24 Deposits and borrowing from the public Deposits from the public SEK m 2015 2014 Deposits in Swedish kronor Households 260 839 224 898 Companies 184 483 185 250 National Debt Ofﬁce Total 445 322 410 148 Deposits in foreign currency Households 74 640 65 758 Companies 179 500 236 431 National Debt Ofﬁce Total 254 140 302 189 Total deposits from the public 699 462 712 337 Borrowing from the public SEK m 2015 2014 Swedish kronor 20 967 31 944 Foreign currency 34 637 276 681 Total 55 604 308 625 Of which repos 168 Total deposits and borrowing from the public 755 066 1 020 962 Average volumes SEK m 2015 2014 Deposits from the public Deposits from the public in Swedish kronor 426 374 372 466 Deposits from the public in foreign currency 294 120 282 252 Total 720 494 654 718 Borrowing from the public Borrowing from the public in Swedish kronor 36 511 47 869 Borrowing from the public in foreign currency 250 208 186 525 Total 286 719 234 394 Of which repos 8 552 8 685 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 175 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P25 Issued securities 2015 2014 Nominal Carrying Nominal Carrying SEK m amount amount amount amount Commercial paper Commercial paper in Swedish kronor 6 371 6 594 9 816 10 621 Of which at amortised cost 400 400 for trading 5 971 6 194 9 816 10 621 Commercial paper in foreign currency 355 748 364 069 300 177 309 993 Of which at amortised cost 354 306 362 373 298 804 308 191 for trading 1 442 1 696 1 373 1 802 Total 362 119 370 663 309 993 320 614 Bonds Bonds in Swedish kronor 18 472 18 234 18 443 18 000 Of which at amortised cost 18 472 18 234 18 443 18 000 for fair value hedges Bonds in foreign currency 288 201 288 053 293 800 294 514 Of which at amortised cost 288 201 288 053 292 830 294 397 for fair value hedges 970 117 Total 306 673 306 287 312 243 312 514 Total issued securities 668 792 676 950 622 236 633 128 SEK m 2015 2014 Issued securities at beginning of year 633 128 532 607 Issued 971 633 708 274 Repurchased -15 839 -15 886 Matured -931 645 -664 066 Foreign exchange effect etc. 19 673 72 199 Issued securities at end of year 676 950 633 128 Average volumes SEK m 2015 2014 Swedish kronor 26 993 29 839 Foreign currency 628 679 521 628 Total 655 672 551 467 P26 Short positions SEK m 2015 2014 Short positions at fair value Equities 1 499 1 273 Interest-bearing securities 917 19 375 Total 2 416 20 648 Average volumes SEK m 2015 2014 Swedish kronor 17 879 18 878 Foreign currency 263 809 Total 18 142 19 687 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 176 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P27 Taxes Deferred tax assets SEK m 2015 2014 Property and equipment 18 30 Hedging instruments 202 257 Other 108 74 Total 328 361 Deferred tax liabilities SEK m 2015 2014 Property and equipment 16 15 Hedging instruments 1 392 1 495 Other 113 159 Total 1 521 1 669 Net deferred taxes 1 193 1 308 Change in deferred taxes 2015 Recognised Recognised in Opening in income other compreClosing SEK m balance statement hensive income balance Property and equipment -15 11 2 -2 Hedging instruments 1238 7 -55 1 190 Other 85 -80 5 Total 1 308 -62 -53 1 193 Change in deferred taxes 2014 Recognised Recognised in Opening in income other compreClosing SEK m balance statement hensive income balance Property and equipment -19 4 -15 Hedging instruments -61 3 1 296 1 238 Other -8 -99 192 85 Total -88 -92 1 488 1 308 Tax expenses recognised in the income statemet SEK m 2015 2014 Current tax Tax expense for the year -4 219 -3 864 Adjustment of tax relating to prior years -19 -51 Deferred tax Changes in temporary differences 62 92 Total -4 176 -3 823 Nominal tax rate in Sweden, % 22.0 22.0 Deviations Non-taxable income/non-deductible expenses -1.2 -0.2 Tax relating to prior years 0.1 0.0 Effective tax rate, % 20.9 21.8 P28 Provisions Provision for guarantee Other Total Total SEK m commitments provisions 2015 2014 Provisions at beginning of year 7 80 87 128 Provisions during the year 33 3 36 62 Utilised -91 Written back -27 -27 -12 Provisions at end of year 40 56 96 87 Provision for guarantee commitments consists of provisions for a number of off-balance sheet items. The Group is the subject of claims in a number of civil actions which are being pursued in general courts of law. The Group’s assessment is that the actions will essentially be settled in favour of the Bank. The assessment is that the amounts in dispute would not have a material effect on the Bank’s ﬁnancial position or proﬁt/loss. The amounts allocated for future settlement of the claims towards the Bank are presented under other provisions. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 177 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P29 Other liabilities SEK m 2015 2014 Liabilities on investment banking settlements 6 524 7 960 Other 7 227 6 188 Total 13 751 14 148 P30 Accrued expenses and deferred income SEK m 2015 2014 Accrued interest expenses 4 884 5 441 Other accrued expenses 3 675 3 589 Deferred income 811 779 Total 9 370 9 809 P31 Subordinated liabilities SEK m 2015 2014 Subordinated loans in Swedish kronor 10 519 10 308 Subordinated loans in foreign currency 23 697 19 981 Total 34 216 30 289 Average volumes SEK m 2015 2014 Subordinated loans in Swedish kronor 10 510 9 831 Subordinated loans in foreign currency 28 144 18 852 Total 38 654 28 683 Speciﬁcation, subordinated loans Original nominal amount in Interest Outstanding Issuance/Maturity Currency each currency rate, % amount IN SWEDISH KRONOR Swedish subordinated liabilities1 13 337 10 519 Total 10 519 IN FOREIGN CURRENCY 2014/ﬁxed-term2 EUR 1 500 2.656 13 717 2015/perpetual3 USD 1 200 5.250 9 980 Total 23 697 Total subordinated liabilitites 34 216 1 Swedish subordinated loans are individually less than 10% of the total subordinated liabilities. The total includes one perpetual subordinated loan at a ﬂoating rate. The loan is a subordinated convertible loan of nominally SEK 3.2bn issued to the Group’s employees on market terms. The loan does not have the status of regulatory capital but can be converted into Handelsbanken shares. The Bank has the right to demand conversion at any time and the holder has the right to demand conversion between 1 May and 30 November 2019, at the adjusted conversion price of SEK 120.96. The initial conversion price has been adjusted for dividends and a split during the term of the loan. If the common equity tier 1 ratio for the Bank or calculated according to the consolidated situation falls below 7%, there will be automatic conversion. For information regarding other Swedish subordinated loans, see note G49. 2 For further information about subordinated loans in EUR, see note G49. 3 For further information about subordinated loans in USD, see note G49. P32 Untaxed reserves SEK m 2015 2014 Accumulated amortisation of machinery and equipment in excess of plan 12 Accumulated amortisation of goodwill in excess of plan 558 699 Total 570 699 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 178 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P33 Classification of financial assets and liabilities 2015 At fair value in income Derivatives Financial statement divided into identiﬁed Investments assets Other Total as hedging held to Loans and available ﬁnancial carrying Fair SEK m Trading Other1 instruments maturity receivables for sale liabilities amount value Assets Cash and balances with central banks 202 630 202 630 202 630 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 33 287 36 382 750 1 017 71 436 71 436 Loans to credit institutions 596 441 596 441 602 507 Loans to the public 1 619 732 369 733 988 733 443 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 7 786 29 459 250 3 479 40 974 40 974 Shares 22 756 6 553 29 309 29 309 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 3 353 69 3 422 3 422 Derivative instruments 55 653 33 838 89 491 89 491 Other assets 10 18 289 18 299 18 299 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 211 581 4 019 2 4 813 4 813 Total ﬁnancial assets 119 703 71 394 33 838 1 000 1 553 817 11 051 1 790 803 1 796 324 Shares in subsidiaries and investments in associates 45 815 Other non-ﬁnancial assets 3 440 Total assets 1 840 058 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 173 533 173 533 175 349 Deposits and borrowing from the public 755 066 755 066 755 046 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 3 432 69 3 501 3 501 Issued securities 7 890 669 060 676 950 689 165 Derivative instruments 56 284 4 825 61 109 61 109 Short positions 2 416 2 416 2 416 Other liabilities 16 13 735 13 751 13 751 Accrued expenses and deferred income 6 9 364 9 370 9 370 Subordinated liabilities 34 216 34 216 37 189 Total ﬁnancial liabilities 66 612 3 432 4 825 1 655 043 1 729 912 1 746 896 Other non-ﬁnancial liabilities 2 464 Total liabilities 1 732 376 2014 At fair value in income Derivatives Financial Other statement divided into identiﬁed Investments assets ﬁnancial Total as hedging held to Loans and available assets/ carrying Fair SEK m Trading Other1 instruments maturity receivables for sale liabilities amount value Assets Cash and balances with central banks 454 040 492 454 532 454 532 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 42 096 30 526 747 993 74 362 74 365 Loans to credit institutions 568 589 568 589 575 487 Loans to the public 2 181 735 302 737 483 738 506 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 26 235 30 842 253 2 322 59 652 59 650 Shares 36 628 8 321 44 949 44 949 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 2 935 89 3 024 3 024 Derivative instruments 91 612 28 439 120 051 120 051 Other assets 35 10 168 8 992 19 195 19 195 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 408 573 1 1 605 2 2 407 4 996 4 996 Total ﬁnancial assets 197 014 67 057 28 439 1 001 1 769 793 11 638 11 891 2 086 833 2 094 755 Shares in subsidiaries and investments in associates 45 764 Other non-ﬁnancial assets 3 198 Total assets 2 135 795 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 210 099 210 099 212 437 Deposits and borrowing from the public 1 020 962 1 020 962 1 021 010 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 3 036 89 3 125 3 125 Issued securities 12 423 620 705 633 128 649 565 Derivative instruments 83 440 4 278 87 718 87 718 Short positions 20 648 20 648 20 648 Other liabilities 16 14 132 14 148 14 148 Accrued expenses and deferred income 315 9 494 9 809 9 809 Subordinated liabilities 30 289 30 289 34 409 Total ﬁnancial liabilities 116 842 3 036 4 278 1 905 770 2 029 926 2 052 869 Other non-ﬁnancial liabilities 2 585 Total liabilities 2 032 511 1 Classiﬁed to be measured at fair value. The principles for measurement at fair value are presented in note G39. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 179 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P33 Cont. Reclassiﬁed ﬁnancial assets 2015 2014 Reclassiﬁed from Reclassiﬁed from Reclassiﬁed from Reclassiﬁed from SEK m held for trading available for sale held for trading available for sale Carrying amount 11 4 092 12 4 469 Fair value 11 4 078 13 4 535 Value change recognised in the income statement 11 209 Value change recognised in other comprehensive income 1 109 2 318 Value change that would have been recognised in income statement if the assets had not been reclassiﬁed -1 11 1 209 Value change that would have been recognised in other comprehensive income if the assets had not been reclassiﬁed 12 54 Interest recognised as income 0 49 0 82 All holdings presented above were reclassiﬁed to loans and receivables on 1 July 2008. P34 Fair value measurement of financial instruments Financial instruments at fair value 2015 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks Held for trading 33 285 2 33 287 Denominated at fair value 36 382 36 382 Available for sale 1 017 1 017 Loans to the public 1 609 10 1 619 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Held for trading 6 025 1 761 7 786 Denominated at fair value 29 459 29 459 Available for sale 3 479 3 479 Shares Held for trading 18 963 3 793 22 756 Denominated at fair value Available for sale 4 666 1 006 881 6 553 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 2 621 732 3 353 Derivative instruments 275 89 216 89 491 Total 136 172 97 387 1 623 235 182 Liabilities Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 2 700 732 3 432 Issued securities 7 890 7 890 Derivative instruments 785 60 324 61 109 Short positions 2 098 318 2 416 Total 5 583 68 532 732 74 847 Financial instruments at fair value 2014 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks Held for trading 42 096 42 096 Denominated at fair value 30 526 30 526 Available for sale 993 993 Loans to the public 2 168 13 2 181 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Held for trading 21 643 4 592 26 235 Denominated at fair value 30 842 30 842 Available for sale 2 091 231 2 322 Shares Held for trading 33 175 3 359 94 36 628 Denominated at fair value Available for sale 6 753 811 757 8 321 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 2 237 698 2 935 Derivative instruments 630 119 421 120 051 Total 170 986 130 582 1 562 303 130 Liabilities Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 2 338 698 3 036 Issued securities 12 329 94 12 423 Derivative instruments 1 566 86 152 87 718 Short positions 20 560 88 20 648 Total 24 464 98 569 792 123 825 The principles applied are described in note G40. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 180 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY Reconciliation of ﬁnancial instruments in level 3 2015 Assets where the Liabilities where the Derivatives, Loans to customer bears the customer bears the Issued SEK m Shares net position the public value change risk value change risk securities Carrying amount at beginning of year 851 13 698 -698 -94 Acquisitions 45 94 Repurchases/sales -94 Matured -5 Unrealised value change in income statement 34 -34 Unrealised value change in other comprehensive income 82 Transfer from level 1 or 2 2 Transfer to level 1 or 2 -3 Carrying amount at end of year 881 10 732 -732 Reconciliation of ﬁnancial instruments in level 3 2014 Assets where the Liabilities where the Derivatives, Loans to customer bears the customer bears the Issued SEK m Shares net position the public value change risk value change risk securities Carrying amount at beginning of year 753 18 -84 Acquisitions 30 490 -490 -10 Repurchases/sales -30 Matured -7 Unrealised value change in income statement 19 208 -208 Unrealised value change in other comprehensive income 79 1 Transfer from level 1 or 2 1 Transfer to level 1 or 2 Carrying amount at end of year 851 13 698 -698 -94 Fair value of ﬁnancial instruments recognised at cost or amortised cost 2015 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 202 630 202 630 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 750 750 Loans to credit institutions 30 414 570 952 1 141 602 507 Loans to the public 6 981 3 256 721 587 731 824 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 250 250 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 69 69 Total 241 025 574 277 722 728 1 538 030 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 68 795 106 554 175 349 Deposits and borrowing from the public 689 618 65 428 755 046 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 69 69 Issued securities 192 257 489 018 681 275 Subordinated liabilities 37 189 37 189 Total 950 670 698 258 1 648 928 Fair value of ﬁnancial instruments recognised at cost or amortised cost 2014 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 454 532 454 532 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 750 750 Loans to credit institutions 49 357 525 638 492 575 487 Loans to the public 6 818 52 511 676 996 736 325 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 251 251 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 89 89 Total 511 708 578 238 677 488 1 767 434 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 75 727 136 710 212 437 Deposits and borrowing from the public 709 555 311 455 1 021 010 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 89 89 Issued securities 160 516 476 626 637 142 Subordinated liabilities 34 409 34 409 Total 945 798 959 289 1 905 087 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 181 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P35 Pledged assets, collateral received and transferred financial assets Assets pledged for own debt SEK m 2015 2014 Cash 10 451 21 048 Government instruments and bonds 19 051 20 629 Loans to the public Shares 220 232 Other 463 316 Total 30 185 42 225 Of which pledged assets that may be freely withdrawn by the Bank 17 672 27 497 Other pledged assets SEK m 2015 2014 Cash 863 2 102 Government instruments and bonds 18 610 25 185 Loans to the public 3 820 3 702 Shares 10 196 4 751 Other 31 18 Total 33 520 35 758 Of which pledged assets that may be freely withdrawn by the Bank 22 345 26 788 Other pledged assets refers to collateral pledged for obligations not reported in the balance sheet. Assets received As a component in reverse repurchase agreements and securities loans, the Group has received assets that can be sold or repledged to a third party. The fair value of received assets of this type was SEK 24,565m (38,562) at the end of the ﬁnancial year, where assets worth SEK 8,933m (5,295) had been sold or repledged to a third party. Transferred ﬁnancial assets recognised in the balance sheet 2015 2014 Carrying amount Carrying amount Carrying associated Carrying associated SEK m amount liability amount liability Shares, securities lending 220 831 1 646 2061 Shares, other 10 196 3 337 Government instruments and bonds, repurchase agreements 290 290 196 201 Government instruments and bonds, other 57 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 1 162 1 162 1 008 1 008 Total 11 868 1 535 6 244 1 415 1 Received cash collateral. P36 Contingent liabilities SEK m 2015 2014 Guarantees, loans 48 486 10 336 Guarantees, other 66 860 66 172 Letters of credit 4 287 3 733 Other 369 230 Total 120 002 80 471 Contingent liabilities mainly consisted of various types of guarantees. The nominal amounts of the guarantees are shown in the table. P37 Other commitments SEK m 2015 2014 Loan commitments 263 956 267 134 Unutilised part of granted overdraft facilities 128 969 102 817 Other 96 721 117 119 Total 489 646 487 070 “Other” includes internal liquidity guarantees to subsidiaries amounting to SEK 71,393m (102,285). Contracted irrevocable future operating lease charges distributed by maturity SEK m 2015 2014 Within 1 year 751 704 Between 1 and 5 years 2 090 1 670 Over 5 years 1 181 456 Total 4 022 2 830 Operating leases are mainly related to agreements that are normal for the operations regarding ofﬁce premises and ofﬁce equipment. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 182 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P38 Pension obligations SEK m 2015 2014 Fair value of plan assets 25 680 25 108 Pension obligations 28 159 25 615 Net pensions1 -2 479 -507 Pension obligations are calculated in accordance with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulations, which for the Swedish obligation means in accordance with the Act on Safeguarding Pension Obligations and for foreign obligations in accordance with their corresponding local regulation. Plan assets are held by Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse, Pensionskasssan SHB, Försäkringsföreningen, and similar legal entities regarding commitments of the bank branches in the UK, Norway and Germany. As neither the assets of Pensionskassan nor the actuarial provisions can be allocated to employers with insurances with Pensionskassan, these are not included in the plan assets nor the obligations in the table above. The surplus in Pensionskassan SHB, Försäkringsförening can be used to cover the deﬁcit in the parent company. The pension obligations are SEK 5,586m (6,140) in the Bank’s pension fund (Pensionskassan SHB, Försäkringsförening) and the market value of the assets is SEK 10,241m (10,089). The surplus value in Pensionskassan SHB, Försäkringsförening is thus SEK 4,655m (3,949). 1 Given that the surplus in Pensionskassan SHB, Försäkringsförening can be used to cover the parent company’s pension obligations, a deﬁcit is not recorded as a liability in the balance sheet for 2015. Pension costs SEK m 2015 2014 Pensions paid -439 -471 Pension premiums -593 -527 Social contributions -13 -11 Compensation from own pension trust 505 540 Payments to own pension trusts -33 -131 Pension cost recognised in the income statement -573 -600 The expected payment for next year for deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans is SEK 679m. The costs for pension premiums include premiums to the BTPK plan (deﬁned-contribution pension) of SEK 85m (86). Plan assets SEK m 2015 2014 Opening balance 25 108 23 972 Return 1 044 1 545 Payments to own pension trusts 33 131 Compensation from own pension trust -505 -540 Closing balance 25 680 25 108 Percentage return on plan assets 4% 6% SEK 12,310m (11,970) of the fair value of the plan assets in Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse consists of the provisions made in the years 1989 – 2004 to a special supplementary pension (SKP). The obligations include a commitment regarding SKP of the same amount as the fair value of the plan assets. A part of the commitment, SEK 9,768m (9,518), is conditional. Pension obligations SEK m 2015 2014 Opening balance 25 615 25 234 Technical fee 646 452 Interest 267 382 Indexation 269 Early retirement 154 208 Pensions paid -439 -471 Changed assumptions2 1 614 0 Value change conditional obligation 249 863 Sub-portfolio movement -1 494 Other change in capital value 53 172 Closing balance 28 159 25 615 2 Refers to the effect of changed discount rate in accordance with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s directives. Allocation of plan assets SEK m 2015 2014 Shares 20 991 20 880 Interest-bearing securities 4 713 4 357 Other plan assets3 -24 -129 Total 25 680 25 108 In Sweden, a retirement pension is paid from the age of 65 in accordance with the pension agreement between the Employers’ Association of the Swedish Banking Institutions (BAO) and the Swedish Financial Sector Union/Swedish Confederation of Professional Associations. The amount is 10% of the annual salary up to 7.5 income base amounts. On the part of the salary between 7.5 and 20 income base amounts, the retirement pension is 65% and in the interval between 20 and 30 income base amounts, it is 32.5% of the annual salary. No retirement pension is paid on the portion of the salary in excess of 30 income base amounts. The value of the pension commitments is calculated annually on the balance sheet date, on actuarial grounds. In Norway, retirement pensions are paid from the age of 67. The amount of the pension is partly dependent on the period of service and the ﬁnal salary up to 12 base amounts. The retirement pension including the statutory pension is expected to be approximately 70% of the ﬁnal salary up to 12 base amounts. In the UK, deﬁned-beneﬁt pensions are paid to employees who were employed before 1 January 2006. For employees who started after this date, deﬁned-contribution pensions are paid. The normal retirement age is 65. The maximum retirement pension is some 67% of the pensionable salary, which is achieved after 40 years of service. The pensionable salary is limited to a maximum amount which is currently GBP 149,400. In Sweden, the most important calculation assumptions are mortality and the discount rate. The mortality and disount rate assumption follows the assumptions in the Act on Safeguarding Pension Obligations. The discount rate is 1.4% (2%) after tax and assumptions for costs. The pension obligations in the foreign branches are calculated in accordance with local accounting requirements. 3 Other plan assets include compensation from pension foundation that has not yet been paid out. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 183 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P39 Assets and liabilities in currencies 2015 Other SEK m SEK EUR NOK DKK GBP USD currencies Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 153 45 633 6 094 99 55 540 94 654 457 202 630 Loans to credit institutions 392 448 64 993 52 441 47 135 2 547 33 275 3 602 596 441 Loans to the public 216 540 114 955 122 702 48 630 194 258 27 201 9 702 733 988 of which corporate 171 366 87 515 93 865 31 036 130 389 27 012 8 716 549 899 of which households 45 174 27 440 28 837 17 594 63 869 189 986 184 089 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 33 270 6 402 0 2 0 30 744 1 018 71 436 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 36 234 2 726 716 0 1 281 17 0 40 974 Other items not broken down by currency 194 589 194 589 Total assets 873 234 234 709 181 953 95 866 253 626 185 891 14 779 1 840 058 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 31 217 53 339 20 647 17 153 13 287 29 436 8 454 173 533 Deposits and borrowing from the public 466 291 64 790 47 004 29 781 109 464 30 592 7 144 755 066 of which corporate 188 268 49 865 29 076 15 942 84 067 28 214 6 710 402 142 of which households 278 023 14 925 17 928 13 839 25 397 2 378 434 352 924 Issued securities 24 828 148 862 2 121 367 81 793 389 107 29 872 676 950 Subordinated liabilities 10 519 13 716 0 0 0 9 981 0 34 216 Other items not broken down by currency, incl. equity 200 293 200 293 Total liabilities and equity 733 148 280 707 69 772 47 301 204 544 459 116 45 470 1 840 058 Other assets and liabilities broken down by currency, net 45 941 -112 051 -48 496 -49 041 273 263 30 771 Net foreign currency position -57 130 69 41 38 80 301 2014 Other SEK m SEK EUR NOK DKK GBP USD currencies Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 223 81 932 2 342 97 55 782 312 782 1 374 454 532 Loans to credit institutions 316 920 72 350 60 444 54 914 6 738 54 849 2 374 568 589 Loans to the public 246 820 117 776 119 338 46 912 167 068 26 628 12 941 737 483 of which corporate 201 700 94 255 86 286 27 907 113 903 26 476 11 694 562 221 of which households 45 120 23 521 33 052 19 005 53 165 152 1 247 175 262 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 37 115 6 576 1 080 1 28 597 993 74 362 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 50 924 3 976 3 890 828 34 59 652 Other items not broken down by currency 241 177 241 177 Total assets 893 179 282 610 187 094 101 924 230 416 422 890 17 682 2 135 795 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 39 071 71 539 12 424 15 187 3 922 56 408 11 548 210 099 Deposits and borrowing from the public 442 092 120 325 61 907 30 277 106 728 249 914 9 719 1 020 962 of which corporate 193 758 105 636 44 602 17 609 87 548 247 707 9 423 706 283 of which households 248 334 14 689 17 305 12 668 19 180 2 207 296 314 679 Issued securities 28 620 150 348 2 067 342 77 212 349 888 24 651 633 128 Subordinated liabilities 10 308 18 887 117 977 30 289 Other items not broken down by currency, incl. equity 241 317 241 317 Total liabilities and equity 761 408 361 099 76 398 45 806 187 862 656 327 46 895 2 135 795 Other assets and liabilities broken down by currency, net 78 545 -110 649 -56 091 -42 460 233 160 29 291 Net foreign currency position 56 47 27 94 -277 78 25 Note G2 on page 93 describes the Bank’s view of exchange rate risks. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 184 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P40 Related-party disclosures Claims on and liabilities to related parties Subsidiaries Associated companies Other related parties SEK m 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Loans to credit institutions 512 863 447 382 Loans to the public 1 202 1 207 815 1 186 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Derivatives 4 145 3 931 Other assets 11 612 9 433 64 85 544 565 Total 529 822 461 953 879 1 271 544 565 Due to credit institutions 15 849 15 418 Deposits and borrowing from the public 9 413 9 072 222 178 526 281 Issued securities Derivatives 20 512 24 430 Subordinated liabilities 687 701 Other liabilities 163 522 0 56 56 Total 45 937 49 442 222 178 1 269 1 038 Contingent liabilities 49 383 53 120 5 585 6 140 Derivatives, nominal amount 405 554 420 219 Related parties – income and expense Subsidiaries Associated companies Other related parties SEK m 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Interest income 3 091 5 144 10 25 0 0 Interest expense -232 -404 0 -2 -93 -74 Fee and commission income 22 25 4 5 Fee and commission expense -210 -231 -37 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 0 0 1 207 Other income 1 499 1 973 0 19 13 Other expenses -297 -405 -31 -2 -55 Total 4 083 6 333 -227 -205 1 133 -153 Note P16 contains a speciﬁcation of subsidiaries and associated companies. The associated companies’ operations comprise various types of services related to the ﬁnancial markets. The following companies are included in the group of other related parties: Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse, Svenska Handelsbankens Personalstiftelse and Pensionskassan SHB, Försäkringsförening (pension fund). These companies use Svenska Handelsbanken AB for normal banking and accounting services. Disclosures concerning shareholders’ contributions to Group and associated companies are provided in note P16. On 6 November 2015, Svenska Handelsbanken AB sold 15,145,124 class A shares in Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget, SCA, to Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse. The holding corresponds to 2.1 per cent of the capital and 10.3 per cent of the voting rights. The sale means that the Bank will report a capital gain of approximately SEK 1,207 million, which will have a positive impact on the Bank’s earnings in the fourth quarter of 2015. The sale did not lead to any increase in the Bank’s equity, as the shares were recognised as available for sale asset and are thus reported at market value in the Bank’s accounts. All business transactions with associated companies are made on market terms. The pension fund’s commitments to the employees of subsidiaries are guaranteed by the parent company, so if the pension fund cannot pay its commitments, the parent company is liable to take over and pay the commitment. The pension fund’s obligations are SEK 5,585m (6,140). Svenska Handelsbanken AB has asked for compensation from Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse amounting to SEK 20m (20). Information regarding loans to executive ofﬁcers, conditions and other remuneration to executive ofﬁcers is given in note G8. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 185 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P41 Capital adequacy Transitional own funds Amounts subject to Amounts subject to pre-regulation (EU) pre-regulation (EU) No 575/2013 treatment or No 575/2013 treatment or prescribed residual amount of prescribed residual amount of SEK m 2015 regulation (EU) No 575/2013 2014 regulation (EU) No 575/2013 Common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital: instruments and reserves Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 5 832 5 741 of which share capital 5 760 5 593 of which convertible securities 72 72 148 148 Retained earnings 78 206 75 629 Accumulated other comprehensive income (and any other reserves, to include unrealised gains and losses according to the applicable accounting standards) 6 904 7 096 Funds for general banking risk Amount of qualifying items referred to in Article 484 (3) and the related share premium accounts subject to phase-out from CET1 Public sector capital injections grandfathered until January 2018 Minority interests (amount allowed in consolidated CET1) Independently reviewed interim proﬁts net of any foreseeable charge or dividend 4 400 2 576 Common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital before regulatory adjustment 95 342 91 043 Common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital: regulatory adjustment Additional value adjustments (negative amount) -364 -1 Intangible assets (net of related tax liability) (negative amount) -1 404 -1 106 [non-relevant in EU regulation] Deferred tax assets that rely on future proﬁtability excluding those arising from temporary differences (net of related tax liability where the conditions in Article 38 (3) are met) (negative amount) Fair value reserves related to gains or losses on cash ﬂow hedges -1 349 -1 197 Negative amounts resulting from the calculation of expected loss amounts -1 024 -1 693 Any increase in equity that results from securitised assets (negative amount) Gains or losses on liabilities valued at fair value resulting from changes in own credit standing Deﬁned-beneﬁt pension fund assets (negative amount) Direct and indirect holdings by an institution of own CET1 instruments (negative amounts) -577 -466 Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the CET1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where those entities have reciprocal cross holdings with the institution designed to inﬂate artiﬁcially the own funds of the institution (negative amount) Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings by the institution of the CET1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution does not have a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount above 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings by the institution of the CET1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution has a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount above 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) [non-relevant in EU regulation] Exposure amounts of the following items which qualify for a RW of 1,250%, where the institution opts for deduction alternative of which qualifying holdings outside the ﬁnancial sector (negative amount) of which securitisation positions (negative amount) of which free deliveries (negative amount) Deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences (amount above 10% threshold, net of related tax liability where the conditions in 38 (3) are met) (negative amount) Amount exceeding the 15% threshold (negative amount) of which direct and indirect holdings by the institution of CET1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution has signiﬁcant investments in those entities [non-relevant in EU regulation] of which deferred tax assets arising from temporary difference Losses for the current ﬁnancial year (negative amount) Foreseeable tax charges relating to CET1 items (negative amount) Regulatory adjustments applied to common equity tier 1 in respect of amounts subject to pre-CRR treatment Regulatory adjustments relating to unrealised gains and losses pursuant to Article 467 and 468 -1 437 of which ﬁlter for unrealised loss, shares classiﬁed as available for sale -1 437 Amounts to be deducted from or added to common equity tier 1 capital with regard to additional ﬁlters and deductions required pre-CRR Qualifying AT1 deductions that exceed the AT1 of the institution (negative amount) Total regulatory adjustments to common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital -4 718 -5 900 Common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital 90 624 85 143 Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 186 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY Transitional own funds Amounts subject to Amounts subject to pre-regulation (EU) pre-regulation (EU) No 575/2013 treatment or No 575/2013 treatment or prescribed residual amount of prescribed residual amount of SEK m 2015 regulation (EU) No 575/2013 2014 regulation (EU) No 575/2013 Additional tier 1 (AT1) capital: instruments Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 9 981 of which classiﬁed as equity under applicable accounting standards of which classiﬁed as liabilities under applicable accounting standards 9 981 Amount of qualifying items referred to in Article 484 (4) and the related share premium accounts subject to phase out from AT1 2 351 2 351 8 043 8 043 Public sector capital injections grandfathered until 1 January 2018 Qualifying tier 1 capital included in consolidated AT1 capital (including minority interest not included in row 5) issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties of which instruments issued by subsidiaries subject to phase-out Additional tier 1 (AT1) capital before regulatory adjustments 12 332 8 043 Additional tier 1 (AT1) capital: regulatory adjustments Direct and indirect holdings by an institution of own AT1 instruments (negative amount) -399 -399 Holdings of the AT1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where those entities have reciprocal cross holdings with the institution designed to inﬂate artiﬁcially the own funds of the institution (negative amount) Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the AT1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution does not have a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount above 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the AT1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution has a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount above 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) Regulatory adjustments applied to additional tier 1 capital in respect of amounts subject to pre-CRR treatment and transitional treatments subject to phase-out as prescribed in Regulation (EU) No 585/2013 (i.e. CRR residual amounts) Residual amounts deducted from additional tier 1 capital with regard to deduction from common equity tier 1 capital during the transitional period pursuant to Article 472 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of which items to be detailed line by line, e.g. material net interim losses, intangibles, shortfall of provisions to expected losses etc. Residual amounts deducted from additional tier 1 capital with regard to deduction from tier 2 capital during the transitional period pursuant to Article 475 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of which items to be detailed line by line, e.g. reciprocal cross holdings in tier 2 instruments, direct holdings of non-signiﬁcant investments in the capital of other ﬁnancial sector entities etc. Amounts to be deducted from or added to additional tier 1 capital with regard to additional ﬁlters and deductions required pre-CRR Qualifying T2 deductions that exceed the T2 capital of the institution (negative amount) Total regulatory adjustments to additional tier 1 (AT1) capital -399 0 Additional tier 1 (AT1) capital 11 933 8 043 Tier 1 capital (T1 = CET1 + AT1) 102 557 93 185 Tier 2 (T2) capital: instruments and provisions Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 17 150 444 17 860 697 Amount of qualifying items referred to in Article 484 (5) and the related share premium accounts subject to phase out from T2 Public sector capital injections grandfathered until 1 January 2018 Qualifying own funds instruments included in consolidated T2 capital (including minority interest and AT1 instruments not included in rows 5 or 34) issued by subsidiaries and held by third party of which instruments issued by subsidiaries subject to phase-out Credit risk adjustments Tier 2 (T2) capital before regulatory adjustment 17 150 17 860 Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 187 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P41 Cont. Transitional own funds Amounts subject to Amounts subject to pre-regulation (EU) pre-regulation (EU) No 575/2013 treatment or No 575/2013 treatment or prescribed residual amount of prescribed residual amount of SEK m 2015 regulation (EU) No 575/2013 2014 regulation (EU) No 575/2013 Tier 2 (T2) capital: regulatory adjustments Direct and indirect holdings by an institution of own T2 instruments and subordinated loans (negative amount) Holdings of the T2 instruments and subordinated loans of ﬁnancial sector entities where those entities have reciprocal cross holdings with the institutions designed to inﬂate artiﬁcially the own funds of the institution (negative amount) Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the T2 instruments and subordinated loans of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution does not have a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount above 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) (negative amount) of which new holdings not subject to transitional arrangements of which holdings existing before 1 January 2013 and subject to transitional arrangements Direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the T2 instruments and subordinated loans of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution has a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (net of eligible short positions) (negative amounts) -1 129 -1 129 Regulatory adjustments applied to tier 2 capital in respect of amounts subject to pre-CRR treatment and transitional treatments subject to phase out as prescribed in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (i.e. CRR residual amounts) Residual amounts deducted from tier 2 capital with regard to deduction from common equity tier 1 capital during the transitional period pursuant to article 472 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of which items to be detailed line by line, e.g. material net interim losses, intangibles, shortfall of provisions to expected losses etc. Residual amounts deducted from tier 2 capital with regard to deduction from additional tier 1 capital during the transitional period pursuant to Article 475 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of which items to be detailed line by line, e.g. reciprocal cross holdings in tier 2 instruments, direct holdings of non-signiﬁcant investments in the capital of other ﬁnancial sector entities etc. Amounts to be deducted from or added to tier 2 capital with regard to additional ﬁlters and deductions required pre-CRR Total regulatory adjustments to tier 2 (T2) capital -1 129 -1 129 Tier 2 (T2) capital 16 021 16 731 Total capital (TC = T1 + T2) 118 578 109 916 Risk-weighted assets in respect of amounts subject to pre-CRR treatment and transitional treatments subject to phase-out as prescribed in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (i.e. CRR residual amount) 454 661 460 401 of which additional capital to insurance companies in the Group not deducted from common equity tier 1 capital (residual values according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013) 15 633 15 633 of which deferred tax claims not deducted from common equity tier 1 capital (residual values according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013) 315 262 Items not deducted from T2 items (Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 residual amounts) (items to be detailed line by line, e.g. indirect holdings of own T2 instruments, indirect holdings of non-signiﬁcant investments in the capital of other ﬁnancial sector entities, indirect holdings of signiﬁcant investments in the capital of other ﬁnancial sector entities etc.) Total risk-weighted assets 454 661 460 401 Capital ratios and buffers Common equity tier 1 capital (as a percentage of total risk exposure amount) 19.9 18.5 Tier 1 capital (as a percentage of total risk exposure amount) 22.6 20.2 Total capital (as a percentage of total risk exposure amount) 26.1 23.9 Institution-speciﬁc buffer requirement (CET1 requirement in accordance with Article 92 (1) (a) plus capital conservation and countercyclical buffer requirements plus a systemic risk buffer, plus systemically important institution buffer expressed as a percentage of total risk exposure amount) 3.1 2.5 of which capital conservation buffer requirement 2.5 2.5 of which countercyclical buffer requirement 0.6 0.0 of which systemic risk buffer requirement 0.0 0.0 of which Global Systemically Important Institution (G-SII) or Other Systemically Important Institution (O-SII) buffer 0.0 0.0 Common equity tier 1 capital available to meet buffers (as a percentage of risk exposure amount) 15.4 14.0 [non-relevant in EU regulation] [non-relevant in EU regulation] [non-relevant in EU regulation] Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 188 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY Transitional own funds Amounts subject to Amounts subject to pre-regulation (EU) pre-regulation (EU) No 575/2013 treatment or No 575/2013 treatment or prescribed residual amount of prescribed residual amount of SEK m 2015 regulation (EU) No 575/2013 2014 regulation (EU) No 575/2013 Capital ratios and buffers Direct and indirect holdings of the capital of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution does not have a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount below 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) Direct and indirect holdings of the CET1 instruments of ﬁnancial sector entities where the institution has a signiﬁcant investment in those entities (amount below 10% threshold and net of eligible short positions) 3 72 [non-relevant in EU regulation] Deferred tax assets arising from temporary difference (amount below 10% threshold, net of related tax liability where the conditions in Article 38 (3) are met) -126 -105 Applicable caps on the inclusion of provisions tier 2 Credit risk adjustments included in T2 in respect of exposures subject to standardised approach (prior to the application of the cap) Cap on inclusion of credit risk adjustments in T2 under standardised approach Credit risk adjustments included in T2 in respect of exposures subject to internal rating-based approach (prior to the application of the cap) Cap for inclusion of credit risk adjustments in T2 under internal ratings-based approach Capital instruments subject to phase-out arrangements (only applicable between 1 January 2013 and 1 January 2022) Current cap on CET1 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements 232 232 Amount excluded from CET1 due to cap (excess over cap after redemptions and maturities) 0 0 Current cap on AT1 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements 8 558 9 780 Amount excluded from AT1 due to cap (excess over cap after redemptions and maturities) 0 0 Current cap on T2 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements 5 185 5 926 Amount excluded from T2 due to cap (excess over cap after redemptions and maturities) 0 0 For reporting of the main features of capital instruments, see note G49 and the publication Risk and Capital Management – Information according to Pillar 3. Presentation in accordance with the requirements of Commission Implementing regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. Capital requirement SEK m 2015 2014 Credit risk according to standardised approach 11 120 10 221 Credit risk according to IRB approach 20 377 21 941 Market risk 825 939 Credit valuation adjustment risk (CVA) 713 534 Operational risk 3 338 3 197 Total capital requirement 36 373 36 832 Adjustment according to Basel I ﬂoor 14 150 12 317 Capital requirement, Basel I ﬂoor 50 523 49 149 Total capital base, Basel I ﬂoor 119 602 111 610 Capital requirement market risks SEK m 2015 2014 Position risk in the trading book 819 927 Interest rate risk 804 908 of which general risk 512 566 of which speciﬁc risk 290 338 of which positions in securitisation instruments 0 of which non-delta risk 2 4 Equity price risk 15 19 of which general risk 1 3 of which speciﬁc risk 4 7 of which mutual funds 2 1 of which non-delta risk 8 8 Exchange rate risk of which non-delta risk Commodities risk 6 8 of which non-delta risk 0 0 Settlement risk 0 4 Total capital requirement for market risks 825 939 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 189 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P41 Cont. Capital adequacy analysis, % 2015 2014 Common equity tier 1 ratio, CRR 19.9 18.5 Tier 1 ratio, CRR 22.6 20.2 Total capital ratio, CRR 26.1 23.9 Risk exposure amount, CRR, SEK m 454 661 460 401 Own funds in relation to capital requirement according to Basel I ﬂoor 237 227.0 Institution-speciﬁc buffer requirement 3.1 2.5 of which capital conservation buffer requirement 2.5 2.5 of which countercyclical capital buffer requirement 0.6 of which systemic risk buffer requirement Common equity tier 1 capital available for use as a buffer 15.4 14.0 Credit risk IRB Risk-weighted Exposure amount exposure amount Capital requirement Average risk weight, % SEK m 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Corporate exposures (excl. housing co-operative associations) 665 688 650 878 187 153 205 407 14 973 16 433 28.1 31.6 of which repos and securities loans 9 324 14 060 260 57 21 5 2.8 0.4 of which other lending, foundation approach 142 267 139 438 42 134 45 794 3 371 3 663 29.6 32.8 of which other lending, advanced approach 514 097 497 380 144 759 159 556 11 581 12 765 28.2 32.1 of which large corporates 137 556 148 769 61 046 72 279 4 884 5 782 44.4 48.6 of which small and medium-sized companies 67 928 66 036 31 135 31 783 2 491 2 543 45.8 48.1 of which property companies 308 613 282 575 52 578 55 494 4 206 4 440 17.0 19.6 Housing co-operative associations1 22 340 16 304 2 366 1 832 189 146 10.6 11.2 Retail exposures 138 235 140 337 19 303 22 126 1 544 1 770 14.0 15.8 of which property loans 75 658 75 321 9 044 8 726 723 698 12.0 11.6 of which other 62 577 65 016 10 260 13 400 821 1 072 16.4 20.6 Small companies 19 910 20 857 6 315 6 502 505 520 31.7 31.2 Institutional exposures 117 261 134 408 20 469 16 670 1 638 1 334 17.5 12.4 of which repos and securities loans 31 143 51 433 424 661 34 53 1.4 1.3 of which other lending 86 118 82 975 20 046 16 009 1 604 1 281 23.3 19.3 Equity exposures 5 807 6 794 17 953 20 670 1 436 1 654 309.1 304.2 of which listed equities 4 418 5 584 12 811 16 195 1 025 1 296 290 290 of which other equities 1 389 1 209 5 141 4 475 411 358 370 370 Non credit-obligation asset exposures 1 150 1 032 1 150 1 032 92 82 100 100 Securitisation positions 28 269 2 24 0 2 7.4 8.8 of which traditional securitisation 28 269 2 24 0 2 7.4 8.8 of which synthetic securitisation Total IRB 970 420 970 879 254 712 274 262 20 377 21 941 26.2 28.2 of which repos and securities loans 40 467 65 493 684 718 55 58 1.7 1.1 of which other lending, foundation approach 235 371 230 508 81 285 83 528 6 503 6 682 34.5 36.2 of which other lending, advanced approach 694 582 674 878 172 743 190 016 13 819 15 201 24.9 28.2 1 Refers to housing co-operative associations included in the Corporate exposure class and reported in the advanced approach. Credit risk, standardised approach1 Risk-weighted Exposure value exposure amount Capital requirement Average risk weight, % SEK m 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Sovereign and central banks 265 818 553 001 72 46 6 4 0 0 Municipalities 28 595 29 965 18 17 1 1 0 0 Multilateral development banks 649 762 0 0 0 0 0 0 International organisations 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Institutions 526 344 454 716 1 010 944 81 76 0.2 0.2 Corporate 11 557 12 355 10 896 9 970 872 798 94.3 80.7 Retail 22 032 18 591 16 487 13 900 1 319 1 112 74.8 74.8 Property mortgages 70 925 58 011 25 367 21 078 2 029 1 686 35.8 36.3 Past due items 226 136 316 178 25 14 139.4 130.3 Equities 67 279 66 571 76 609 75 952 6 129 6 076 113.9 114.1 of which listed equities 249 641 249 641 20 51 100.0 100.0 of which other equities 46 313 45 212 55 642 54 593 4 451 4 367 120.1 120.7 Other items 8 880 6 348 8 221 5 673 658 454 92.6 89.4 Total standardised approach 1 002 308 1 200 456 138 996 127 758 11 120 10 221 13.9 10.6 1 Details of capital requirements for exposure classes where there are exposures. H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 190 RECOMMENDED APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT AND STATEMENT FROM THE BOARD Recommended appropriation of profit and statement from the Board In accordance with the balance sheet for Handelsbanken, proﬁts totalling SEK 101,474 million are at the disposal of the annual general meeting. The Board recommends that the proﬁt be distributed as follows: Dividend per share paid to the shareholders SEK 6.00 of which SEK 4.50 in ordinary dividend (SEK 5.83 for 2014) 11,442 Balance carried forward 90,032 Total allocated 101,474 When assessing the amount of the company’s proposed dividend, totalling SEK 11,442 million (or a higher amount which may result if more shares are added as a result of the conversion of Handelsbanken’s outstanding 2008 convertible loan, but a maximum of SEK 11,443 million), account has been taken of the nature of operations, their scope, consolidation requirement, risk-taking, liquidity, and the general situation in both the Bank and the rest of the Group. The Board’s assessment is that the above appropriation of proﬁts is prudent and well-adapted to the operations as a going concern. Unrealised changes in assets and liabilities at fair value have had a net impact on equity of SEK 9,230 million. The Bank’s total capital according to the consolidated situation at the year-end, minus the proposed dividend based on completed conversions and other material changes since the year-end, exceeded the statutory minimum requirement and the buffer requirement by SEK 35,051 million, common equity tier 1 capital exceeded the minimum requirement and the buffer requirement by SEK 50,394 million, and the tier 1 capital by SEK 55,230 million. For the parent company, the total capital exceeded the statutory minimum requirement by SEK 68,042 million, common equity tier 1 capital exceeded the minimum requirement and the buffer requirement by SEK 56,002 million, and the tier 1 capital by SEK 61,115 million. We hereby declare that the consolidated accounts were prepared in accordance with international ﬁnancial reporting standards as referred to in the Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting standards, that the parent company’s annual accounts were prepared in accordance with sound accounting practices for stock market companies, that the annual accounts and consolidated accounts give a fair presentation of the Group’s and the parent company’s ﬁnancial position and performance, and that the statutory administration report provides a fair view of the parent company’s and Group’s operations, ﬁnancial position and performance and describes material risks and uncertainties to which the parent company and other companies in the Group are exposed. STOCKHOLM, 8 FEBRUARY 2016 Pär Boman Chairman of the Board Fredrik Lundberg Jon Fredrik Baksaas Tommy Bylund Ole Johansson Lise Kaae Bente Rathe Charlotte Skog Frank Vang-Jensen President and Group Chief Executive H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 191 AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s report To the annual meeting of the shareholders of Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Corporate identity number 502007-7862 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS We have audited the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts of Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) for the year 2015, included in the printed version of this document on pages 7–191. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive for the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the annual accounts in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Securities Companies, and for the fair presentation of the consolidated accounts in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Securities Companies, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and the consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts and consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts are free from material misstatements. During the year, the Bank’s internal audit department has continuously examined the internal controls and accounts. We have received the reports that have been prepared. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the company’s preparation and fair presentation of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. Opinions In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Securities Companies and present fairly, in all material respects, the ﬁnancial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2015 and of its ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Securities Companies. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Securities Companies, and present fairly, in all material respects, the ﬁnancial position of the group as of 31 December 2015 and of its ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows for the year then ended in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Securities Companies. A Corporate Governance Report has been prepared. The Board of Directors’ report and the Corporate Governance Report are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts. We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders adopt the income statement and balance sheet of the parent company and the group. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 192 AUDITOR’S REPORT REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts, we have also audited the proposed appropriations of the company’s proﬁt or loss and the administration of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive of Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) for the year 2015. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the company’s proﬁt or loss, and the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive are responsible for administration under the Companies Act and the Banking and Financing Business Act. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance on the proposed appropriations of the company’s proﬁt or loss and on the administration based on our audit. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s proﬁt or loss, we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. As a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in addition to our audit of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts, we examined signiﬁcant decisions, actions taken and circumstances of the company in order to determine whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive is liable to the company. We also examined whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive has, in any other way, acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Banking and Financing Business Act, the Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Securities Companies, or the Articles of Association. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Opinions We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the proﬁt be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the Board of Directors’ report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive be discharged from liability for the ﬁnancial year. Stockholm, 18 February 2016 KPMG AB Ernst & Young AB Anders Bäckström Jesper Nilsson Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 193 Sustainability Report 2015 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 195 Sustainability Report In this Sustainability Report, Handelsbanken has gathered information about the Bank’s sustainability work, in accordance with guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative, GRI. For many years, the Bank has reported relationships with our main stakeholders – customers, employees, owners/investors and the community at large – and also how the Bank’s operations have affected the environment. CONTENTS INTRODUCTION Sustainability at Handelsbanken 197 OVERVIEW Key ﬁgures for our sustainability activities 198 OUR CONCEPT AND ORGANISATION Our concept and organisation 200 Our stakeholders 202 CUSTOMERS Satisﬁed customers 206 EMPLOYEES Skilled staff 208 Remuneration and beneﬁts 210 OWNERS Corporate Governance 211 SOCIETY Corporate social responsibility 212 Responsible lending 213 Responsible investments 214 Our role in the community 216 Economic value creation 218 High ethical standards engender trust 220 Our environmental work 222 INITIATIVES, AWARDS, SURVEYS AND SUSTAINABILITY INDEX 224 GRI – GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE Content and restrictions 227 GRI index 228 ABOUT THIS REPORT This report describes how Handelsbanken works with its EXAMINERS’ REPORT most important sustainability issues, in relation to its main stakeholders. This is Handelsbanken’s sixth sustainability Auditor’s report 231 report prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines for reporting and covers activities and results for the 2015 calendar year in accordance with G4. The information refers to the Group unless otherwise stated. Handelsbanken’s reporting meets the “Core” level, which has also been conﬁrmed by the Bank’s external auditors. See the assurance report on page 231. There is a comprehensive index according to GRI principles on pages 228–230. The report constitutes Handelsbanken’s Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact. Additional information regarding Handelsbanken’s sustainability activities is presented in an expanded GRI supplement, published on Handelsbanken’s website. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 196 INTRODUCTION | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability at Handelsbanken Sustainability at Handelsbanken is about understanding the Bank’s role in the community, and acting responsibly and with a long-term perspective in areas where the Bank can make a difference through its own operations, either directly or indirectly. Through dialogue, commitment and transparency, we build long-term relations with our customers, employees, owners/investors, and the wider community, in a financial, social and environmental perspective. OUR VIEW OF SUSTAINABILITY quences for stakeholders and the wider commuendeavours to contribute to sustainable developIn addition to Handelsbanken’s goal of having nity. Handelsbanken’s operations are characterment in ﬁnancial, social and environmental terms higher proﬁtability than the average of peer banks ised by long-term stable ﬁnances. This means in the companies which the Bank invests in on in its home markets, Handelsbanken also aims to that Handelsbanken has never needed to seek behalf of its customers. act as a responsible institution in the community. support from either the government and taxpayers Handelsbanken also examines its major suppliIt is therefore natural for the Bank to work in an or central banks in modern times. ers’ approach to sustainability. When making purintegrated manner with sustainability. chasing decisions, the Bank investigates working Sustainability is completely integrated in OUR ANALYSIS OF THE IMPACT OF OUR conditions, work environment, corruption, etc. Handelsbanken’s corporate culture and working OPERATIONS Environmental considerations are also taken in methods and encompasses the whole of the The banking system has a vital function in society purchasing decisions. Group’s operations in all markets where the Bank and one of the basic tasks of a bank is to redisoperates. In addition to internal governance doctribute savings to investments, which is a central Financial sustainability uments and guidelines, the Bank is also a memfunction for creating economic growth and For a bank, one of the most fundamental criteria ber of the voluntary UN initiatives Global Compact prosperity. Banks accept savings in the form of for sustainability is survival. Handelsbanken is and Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), deposits, and lend to households and companies – and will continue to be – a bank with stable and follows the OECD guidelines for multinational which have investment requirements. Another ﬁnances; Handelsbanken is convinced that suscompanies. These initiatives and guidelines are task is to make it possible for the public to make tainable long-term growth and shareholder value totally in keeping with the values, principles and payments in an effective and secure manner. can only be achieved if the Bank creates longworking methods that have applied at HandelsIf a bank of Handelsbanken’s size does not term value for its customers at the same time banken for a long time. manage to maintain stable ﬁnances, this will – and for society as a whole. The Bank reports result in major social consequences. In Handelsand pays tax based on national regulations in the LONG TRADITION OF TAKING banken’s opinion, this is the core of our responsicountries where its operations are run. RESPONSIBILITY bility as a company. But we also have a responsiSustainability has long been a well-integrated part bility to design our operations so that they create Social sustainability of the Handelsbanken concept of how successful value for the Bank’s stakeholders. One manifestation of social and ethical responsibanking operations can be run in a responsible During the year, Handelsbanken performed a bility at Handelsbanken is responsible lending and way. Success is not only measured as proﬁtability, materiality analysis, which was part of the proadvice. Our work is permeated by a long-term but also as a strong brand and a high degree of cess of deﬁning the Bank’s most material sustaincommitment with no short term incentive systems. trust from stakeholders. ability questions. This analysis conﬁrms to a high For this reason no performanceor volume-based For a long time, Handelsbanken has had very degree the view that Handelsbanken has had of bonuses are paid, or other forms of variable remugood relations with the union organisations. In the its sustainability work over many years. To make neration, to the Bank’s executive ofﬁcers or to any early 1970s, Handelsbanken was a pioneer in clear the outcome of Handelsbanken’s most other employee who takes decisions on credits or giving seats on the board to representatives of its material sustainability questions, both internally limits. Nor does the Bank make any budgets, or employees, in their capacity as shareholders, and externally, we have grouped them into six have any volume or market share targets. through the staff-owned proﬁt-sharing foundation, sub-areas: the Bank’s business culture, the Bank’s Handelsbanken aims to continue to be a secure, Oktogonen. customer responsibility, the Bank’s role in the attractive employer where all employees are happy For more than 40 years, Handelsbanken has community, the Bank as an employer, the Bank and enjoy good health. The work with gender equalbuilt up a geographical organisational structure as an investment, and the Bank’s indirect impact. ity and diversity is continuing. Traditionally, Handelsthat is strictly decentralised with a strong local The results presented in this Sustainability Report banken has a good relationship with unions, which presence, where operations are based on the are based on the GRI G4 reporting standard. is a valuable component of the Bank’s culture, and customer’s requirements. The results have been the Bank supports the right of all employees to join a consistently high level of customer satisfaction HOW WE WORK WITH SUSTAINABILITY a trade union or employee organisation. and since EPSI Rating/SKI started their customer Handelsbanken aims to continue being a responThrough its business operations, the Bank satisfaction surveys in the late 1980s, Handelssible participant in society by taking responsibility aims to minimise negative impact within human banken has been at the top. for how the Bank directly or indirectly affects rights and working conditions. Traditionally, Handelsbanken has a very low risk stakeholders and the community from a ﬁnancial, tolerance and therefore has low loan losses. In social and environmental perspective. Environmental sustainability times of ﬁnancial turbulence, it becomes even Handelsbanken considers sustainability quesHandelsbanken aims to promote long-term susclearer that banks which have acted responsibly tions to be very important when granting credits. tainable development and to minimise the Bank’s have a competitive edge, for example, regarding The Bank’s credit policy states that the customer’s environmental impact. The Bank monitors, measthe opportunities and terms to obtain funding on approach to principles for human rights, fundaures and takes action to minimise the carbon the international bond market and attracting talmental work conditions, environmental concerns dioxide emissions generated by its operations. In ented staff. Customers also attach great imporand anti-corruption must be taken into account Handelsbanken’s view, an integrated approach to tance to the fact that a bank has acted responsibly. when making credit risk assessments. environmental considerations is also essential to Global ﬁnancial crises have shown that bankSustainability is also a vital component of long-term value creation. The Bank aims to miniing operations can – if they are not run in a responsible asset management. In mutual fund, mise its indirect impact on the environment, for responsible manner – lead to negative conseasset and pension management, Handelsbanken example through lending and investments. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 197 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Key figures for our sustainability activities In order to evaluate Handelsbanken’s sustainability activities we have identified a number of key figures that we consider to be relevant to our operations in terms of sustainability, and have compared some of them with those of peer banks in a similar situation. FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY By being a bank with stable ﬁnances, HandelsCorporate social responsibility at Handelsbanken To promote long-term sustainable development, banken aims to act as a responsible institution and is manifested partly in responsible lending and Handelsbanken works to minimise the Bank’s contribute to the development of the community. advisory services, the aim to have satisﬁed cusdirect and indirect impact on the environment. tomers and also be an attractive employer. • For a bank, the most fundamental criterion for • The proportion of renewable electricity is 100 sustainability is survival – without taxpayer sup• Aggressive selling of credits which leads to an per cent for Nordic operations and 87 per cent port. Handelsbanken has stable ﬁnances, and unhealthy level of household and corporate for all six home markets as a whole. on no occasion during the latest ﬁnancial crisis debt always hits the customer hardest. For • In autumn 2015, CDP presented its annual did it need to ask for liquidity support or capital many years, Handelsbanken has had much report, where 5,500 global companies report contributions, either from a central bank, the lower loan losses than peer players in the their emissions, and how they manage their state or in the form of a new share issue. banking sector. In 2015, Handelsbanken’s loan impact on the climate. CDP also published an • Every year since the early 1970s, Handelslosses were 0.09 per cent (0.10) of lending. equivalent report for Nordic companies. The banken has had higher proﬁtability than the Since 2008, the Bank’s loan loss ratio has result in CDP’s annual survey is based on how average of peer banks in our home markets. averaged 0.10 per cent. This can be compared transparent a company is and how well it • Handelsbanken has paid a dividend to its with the average ﬁgure for the other major Nordic works with climate matters. The result for shareholders for many years in succession, banks over the same period: 0.31 per cent. transparency is based on a scale between including every year during the recent period • In 2015, Handelsbanken had more satisﬁed 0 and 100 and the climate work on a grading of turbulence on the ﬁnancial markets. private and corporate customers than the scale between A and E. In this year’s survey, • By virtue of its proﬁt level over many years, average for the banking sector in all of the the Bank improved its performance in the area Handelsbanken has been one of the largest Bank’s six home markets: Sweden, the UK, of transparency to 95 points (85) out of 100 payers of corporate tax in Sweden and historiDenmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherpossible, while the grading for the Bank’s cally has been the largest payer to the Swedish lands. In this way, Handelsbanken retains its climate work fell to level C (B). The average Stability Fund for the ﬁnancial system. strong and stable position regarding customer value in CDP Nordic was 84 C. • The Bank’s goal is that its common equity tier 1 satisfaction, according to EPSI Rating, which • Handelsbanken constantly strives to minimise ratio under normal circumstances must exceed also includes SKI (Swedish Quality Index). the carbon dioxide emissions generated in by 1–3 percentage points the common equity • Handelsbanken is an attractive employer that its operations. For 2015, total emissions for tier 1 capital requirement communicated to the offers its staff security and good opportunities the operations amounted to 13,231 tonnes. Bank by the Swedish Financial Supervisory for development. External staff turnover was This is a decrease of 15 per cent from the Authority. At the end of the year, the common very low and, excluding retirements and previous year, and is mainly attributable to the equity tier 1 ratio according to CRD IV was deaths, was 3.0 per cent (3.2) in the Group, Bank increasing the proportion of renewable 21.2 per cent (20.4). The Swedish Financial and 2.1 per cent (2.2) in Sweden. electricity that it uses. Supervisory Authority’s assessment was that • Total absence due to sickness for staff in Sweden • Starting in 2015, Handelsbanken Fonder’s Handelsbanken’s common equity tier 1 capital was 3.0 per cent (2.7), of which those on longmutual funds do not invest in companies that requirement at the end of the third quarter of term sick leave represented 1.2 per cent (1.0). have signiﬁcant operations in coal mining or 2015 corresponds to a common equity tier 1 coal combustion. For equity funds, the fund’s ratio of 18.6 per cent, and the Bank is thus carbon footprint is also reported. within the target range. OVERALL GOAL Return on equity 1973–2015 Corporate goal % Handelsbanken’s goal is to have higher profitability than the average of peer 30 banks in its home markets. 25 20 Goal achievement 15 Handelsbanken’s return on equity for total operations was 13.5 per cent (13.4). 10 The corresponding figure for a weighted average of other major Nordic banks was 11.3 per cent (11.3). The corresponding figure for a weighted average of all 5 peer banks in the home markets is estimated at approximately 11 per cent (9.8). 0 -73 -75 -77 -79 -81 -83 -85 -87 -89 -91 -93 -95 -97 -99 -01 -03 -05 -07 -09 -11 -13 -15 This means that for the 44th consecutive year, Handelsbanken has met its -5 corporate goal. -10 Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* * For the period until 2002 inclusive, only Swedish banks are included. H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 198 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LOWER LOAN LOSSES CAPITAL Handelsbanken has a low risk tolerance. This means that the quality of credits Under normal circumstances, the Bank’s common equity tier 1 ratio must be 1 to 3 must never be neglected in favour of achieving higher volume or a higher margin. percentage points above the total common equity tier 1 capital requirement communicated to the Bank by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. The tier 1 ratio and Outcome the total capital ratio must also be at least 1 percentage point above the total capital Loan losses decreased to SEK -1,597 million (-1,781). Loan losses as a proporassessment communicated to the Bank by the Supervisory Authority for the respection of lending were 0.09 per cent (0.10). Since 2008, the Bank’s loan loss ratio tive capital tiers. Additionally, the Bank must fulfil any other capital requirements set by has averaged 0.10 per cent. This can be compared with the average figure for the regulators. the other major Nordic banks over the same period: 0.31 per cent. Outcome The common equity tier 1 ratio according to CRD IV rose to 21.2 per cent (20.4). The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s assessment was that Handelsbanken’s common equity tier 1 capital requirement at the end of Q3 2015 corresponds to a common equity tier 1 ratio of 18.6 per cent, and the Bank is thus within the target range. Loan losses as a percentage of lending 1998–2015 Common equity tier 1 ratio, CRD IV 2013–2015 % % 1.2 25 1.0 20 0.8 0.6 15 0.4 10 0.2 5 0.0 -0.2 0 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2013 2014 2015 Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* * For the period until 2000 inclusive, only Swedish banks are included. MOST SATISFIED CUSTOMERS SICKNESS ABSENCE One way that Handelsbanken aims to achieve its profitability goal is by having more Handelsbanken aims for all its employees to enjoy good health, develop on a persatisfied customers than its competitors. The quality and service must therefore at sonal level and function in an optimal way. This is a long-term goal that includes facleast meet customer expectations, and preferably exceed them. tors such as clear and honest communication, having the skills and competence and the right conditions to perform tasks and deal with work-related situations, having Outcome pride and confidence in one’s work, respecting others, and being respected oneself. Handelsbanken has more satisfied private and corporate customers than the average for the banking sector in all of the Bank’s six home markets. In this way, the Outcome Bank retains its strong and stable position regarding customer satisfaction. SatisAbsence due to sickness for staff in the six home markets was 2.5 per cent, and for fied customers are proof of the viability of Handelsbanken’s method of working. staff in Sweden the figure was 3.0 per cent (2.7) of which those on long-term sick leave represented 1.2 per cent (1.0). Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction – Private customers 2015 – Corporate customers 2015 Sickness absence 2015* Index Index % 90 90 5 80 80 4 3 70 70 2 60 60 1 50 50 0 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway NetherSweden UK Denmark Finland Norway NetherSweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands lands lands Handelsbanken Sector average Source: SKI/EPSI * Sickness absence is stated as a percentage of total normal working hours. LONG-TERM EMPLOYEE RELATIONS CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS The Bank takes a long-term approach to relations with both customers and Handelsbanken reports emissions for all its home markets: Sweden, the UK, employees. It sees each recruitment as important and long term. Employees with Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. These markets correspond to long experience and with broad knowledge from the whole Bank make a vital more than 96 per cent of the Bank’s total number of employees. contribution to the Bank having satisfied customers. Outcome Outcome In 2015, carbon dioxide emissions decreased by 15 per cent compared with the External staff turnover for the six home markets was very low at 2.8 per cent, previous year. and the figure was 2.1 per cent (2.2) in Sweden. CO2 emissions from Staff turnover 2015* Total CO2 emissions energy consumption % Tonnes Kg CO2 /employee Tonnes MWh/employee 6 18 000 1 800 15 000 6 5 15 000 1 500 12 500 5 4 12 000 1 200 10 000 4 3 9 000 900 7 500 3 2 6 000 600 5 000 2 1 3 000 300 2 500 1 0 0 0 0 0 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 * Percentage of the number of employees in each home market. Emissions from energy Emissions from Heating and cooling Electricity Number of employees who leave the Bank (excluding retirements and deaths) as a business travel Other emissions Electricity consumption/employee proportion of all employees. CO2 /employee H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 199 OUR CONCEPT AND ORGANISATION | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our concept and organisation Handelsbanken is a full-service bank with a decentralised working method, a strong local presence due to nationwide branch networks and a long-term approach to customer relations. Handelsbanken primarily grows by opening new branches in locations where the Bank has not previously had operations. Handelsbanken has conducted banking since cialists in the Bank’s business areas and national and cost-effective, with short, clear decision 1871 and its share is the oldest listed share on organisations. Each product owner packages paths. That means that all business decisions that the Stockholm stock exchange. their product, while the branch takes responsibilaffect the individual customer’s relationship with Handelsbanken’s goal is to have higher proﬁtaity for each individual customer being offered the Bank are based on the customer’s requirebility than the average of peer banks in its home services which are adapted to his or her needs ments and are made by the local branch. Every markets. This goal is mainly to be achieved by and circumstances. branch is led by a manager who is responsible having more satisﬁed customers and lower costs for all banking business in his or her local area of than those of competitors. MARKETS operations. Handelsbanken offers ﬁnancial products and serHandelsbanken’s branch managers have a AVAILABILITY, SIMPLICITY AND CARE vices in its six home markets: Sweden, the UK, very high degree of independence, as we are We put a great deal of effort into being available Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. convinced that those who work closest to the for our customers and this is a major component Handelsbanken has nationwide branch networks customer will make the most sensible decisions, in Handelsbanken’s method of banking. In Swein these markets, which are organised into one or from the customer’s and from the Bank’s point of den, Handelsbanken Direkt Personal Service is more regional banks in each country. view. This mandate to take the important busialways open by phone – 24 hours a day, 365 In the UK, the Bank now has 197 branches, ness decisions, in discussions with the customer, days a year. We constantly strive to develop and and our growth there continues. We also opened is a sound basis for successful customer meetimprove our meeting places and to increase the new branches in the Netherlands in 2015, and at ings. Our customers meet the person who will level of availability for our customers. This applies the end of the year had 23 branches there. make the decision, not a messenger. at our branches, online, and at new digital meetHandelsbanken currently has 849 branches The branches’ high degree of independence ing places, such as services in the form of apps in 25 countries, including 836 branches in our six gives them a very strong local presence, with for smartphones and tablets. home markets. long-term customer relationships. No one has When a customer contacts us, the meeting better knowledge of the speciﬁc demands applyshould be simple and unbureaucratic. For examGROWTH MODEL ing in the local market than the local branch. ple, we aim to have the same range of services in For Handelsbanken to retain high proﬁtability in This is why the Bank does not normally use cenour various meeting places. This means that our the long term, growth is also necessary. The Bank tral marketing plans or advertising campaigns. customers can do the same type of business with primarily grows by opening new branches in locaHandelsbanken has consistently and successfully the branch regardless of how they contact us. tions where we have not previously had operaapplied this decentralised working method for In everything it does, the Bank aims to create tions. In this way, Handelsbanken grows cusmany decades. the best possible conditions for successful meettomer by customer, branch by branch. We are the ings with customers. The Bank creates, maintains only bank in a total of 68 locations. This method ORGANISATION FOR SUSTAINABILITY and develops strong, long-term customer relationsof working and of achieving growth has proved Handelsbanken has a committee for sustainability hips through these meetings. successful in an increasing number of locations matters which was formed in 2010. The chairman We always focus on the customer’s needs and and countries. This organic growth model means of the committee is responsible at Group level for our aim is that they should feel that our service is that Handelsbanken can achieve growth, coupled sustainability issues, and is a member of Senior caring. with low risk and good cost control. Management. The chairman of the committee also has overall responsibility for ensuring that PRODUCTS AND SERVICES EFFICIENT GEOGRAPHICAL Handelsbanken identiﬁes and addresses the Handelsbanken is a full-service bank and has a ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE sustainability matters of relevance to the Bank. complete range of products and services to meet FOCUSING ON THE CUSTOMER The committee consists of representatives from all the ﬁnancial needs and wishes of its customHandelsbanken is organised geographically. Our various business operations; it met regularly during ers. Responsible for this range are product spegeographical structure is strictly decentralised the year, a total of nine times. Country Group units and Group organisations Branches CUSTOMER staff functions business areas and regional head ofﬁces This is how we are organised Handelsbanken’s way of working can best be depicted by an arrow where all the operations focus on the customer. The branches are closest to the customer and are responsible for the Bank’s customers in their local market. Each home market has its own national organisation with responsibility for the proﬁtability of the branch operations in that country. For our customer offering to be of the highest quality, we have a number of joint business areas for the Group where product owners design and develop our products and solutions. The central head ofﬁce also has joint units and staff functions with overarching responsibility for various functions at the Bank. H A N D E L SB ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 200 OUR CONCEPT AND ORGANISATION | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our stakeholders Many private individuals, organisations and companies are affected by how Handelsbanken acts in various matters. For Handelsbanken, corporate social responsibility means living up to the reasonable expectations of these stakeholders and acting so that their confidence in the Bank is maintained. Handelsbanken’s principal stakeholders are our direct and indirect impact. Private customers also closely linked to the image of whether the banks customers, employees, shareholders and bond attach great importance to the fact that a bank are acting responsibly. In recent years, a clear investors, as well as the community at large. The acts responsibly. general trend in the banking sector has been to Bank’s four main stakeholder groups have been close down local branches and shift customers identiﬁed based on the fact that they materially over to online services and mobile applications. affect, or are materially affected by, HandelsThis year’s SKI survey clearly showed that this is “ banken’s operations – or both. not what customers ask for and that there is a In addition to these four main stakeholder It is vital that Handelsconsiderable positive link between satisﬁed cusgroups, Handelsbanken also maintains a continutomers and the personal service offered by a local ous dialogue with other stakeholder groups. Here banken keeps itself branch. is a selection of these in alphabetical order: • consumer organisations constantly updated Employees • equity research analysts All of the Bank’s employees participate in their • international organisations regarding the needs and own unit’s business planning every year. This is • municipal and county councils followed by the individual planning dialogues and • non-proﬁt organisations wishes of the Bank’s performance reviews which are the link between ” • potential shareholders and investors in the the goals of the business operations and the Group’s bonds stakeholders. goals of the employee. The result is an individual • press and media action plan which is followed up regularly during • prospective customers the year and then forms the basis of an annual • sector organisations In addition to direct discussions with our customsalary dialogue review between employee and • special interest organisations ers, Handelsbanken also closely monitors the manager. • students, schools and universities customer satisfaction surveys that are carried out • suppliers by independent research companies. The most Shareholders • sustainability analysts comprehensive studies of customer satisfaction Handelsbanken’s shareholders are those who • union organisations. on the Bank’s six home markets are the annual ultimately decide about the Bank’s governance. surveys conducted by the EPSI Rating Group, The shareholders exercise their right to decide on REGULAR DIALOGUE WITH OUR which includes SKI (Swedish Quality Index). matters relating to the company at general meetSTAKEHOLDERS Among other things, SKI surveys in recent years ings of shareholders. Here, individual shareholdIt is vital that Handelsbanken keeps itself constantly have shown that public perception of banks is ers have the opportunity to put questions to the updated regarding the needs and wishes of its Bank’s Board and senior management. stakeholders. Therefore we have, and have long Great interest is shown by shareholders in had, a continuous dialogue with our customers, Stakeholder model Handelsbanken’s annual general meetings. In the staff, shareholders and investors, as well as with past ﬁve years, shareholders representing more the community at large, for example, authorities than 50 per cent of the votes in the Bank have and other public organisations, in the markets CU participated. TY ST where the Bank operates. IE The Bank provides investors, analysts, rating C S SO ER agencies and other capital market players with M Customers O The most important dialogue occurs at the thouAttendance at AGMs 2011–2015 sands of meetings with customers that take place daily, by phone and e-mail, or at visits to our 849 No. % OWN branches around the world. By maintaining close, 2 000 100 long-term relations with our customers, the Bank ES ER YE gains a better understanding of customer expecS/ 1 600 80 N I O VE tations, such as what they expect of the Bank’s ST PL products and services. By being responsive to OR S EM 1 200 60 customers’ requests and questions, we can pro800 40 vide answers and meet customers’ expectations All stakeholders have expectations of Handelsas regards product development, availability and banken. What they have in common is that they 400 20 the like. all wish the Bank to be stable, and responsive to When the Bank’s corporate customers procure their wishes. How well the Bank manages to live 0 0 banking services, it is becoming increasingly up to these expectations has an impact on the 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 common that they wish to discuss our work with continued success of Handelsbanken. No. of shareholders Proportion of votes sustainability, where the focus is on the Bank’s present/represented H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 202 OUR CONCEPT AND ORGANISATION | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT information regarding Handelsbanken’s operabetween union representatives and managers The analysis was based on a broad spectrum tions and ﬁnancial performance. During the year, concerning operations – such as when changes of questions which are particularly relevant to the Bank’s CEO, CFO and Investor Relations are to be made – where valuable information is Handelsbanken – partly based on the Bank’s own Department held over 500 meetings with equity exchanged at the very early stages. In the past experience, partly on questions the Bank receives and ﬁxed income investors. few years, the Bank, together with trade unions in from external stakeholders – but also generally Sweden, has worked to correct unwarranted pay relevant questions for a bank. To clarify the outSociety differentials between women and men. The Bank, come of the most material issues for HandelsHandelsbanken has a continuous dialogue with together with union representatives, has also carbanken, both internally and externally, we have supervisory authorities, central banks, regulatory ried out a separate survey of salaries, to identify grouped these into six sub-areas: bodies, etc. as well as with governments and parand correct any remaining differentials. Managers • the Bank’s business culture liaments, in Sweden, the EU and the rest of the have also received support and training so that • the Bank’s responsibility towards customers world. The sustainability perspective is increasthey can independently decide on salary adjust• the Bank’s role in the community ingly being highlighted in the dialogue between ments. • the Bank as an employer public authorities and the Bank. • the Bank as an investment The Bank also has continuous contact with Sustainability analysts • the Bank’s indirect impact. non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and durThe contact between sustainability research ing the year has had several ongoing discussions analysts and the companies that they analyse In order to decide upon the areas that were with these, including Transparency International. often takes the form of the Bank being asked to deemed to be the most important, there was In 2015, Handelsbanken had discussions and respond to forms containing a number of standa selection process which resulted in a number several meetings with Fair Finance Guide, which ard questions. In the past few years, Handelsof questions for stakeholders to give their is an international initiative to increase transparbanken has taken the initiative to increase conopinion on. ency in terms of how sustainably and responsibly tacts with several research ﬁrms by means of an The stakeholder dialogue was only carried out banks manage investments, lending and funding. ongoing dialogue with each analyst to discuss the with stakeholders in the Bank’s largest market – Fair Finance Guide focuses on the policy docuvarious aspects of the Bank’s sustainability work. Sweden. In 2016, we plan to also carry out more ments published by banks with the purpose of detailed dialogues in the other ﬁve home markets. mapping the requirements of the major banks in Suppliers terms of the sustainability and social responsibility Handelsbanken purchases goods and services in their operations. from many different suppliers. The Group’s pur“ chases can roughly be divided into the following Union organisations categories: property and premises, external IT The detailed stakeholder For a long time, Handelsbanken has had very costs, communications, travel and marketing, good relations with the union organisations, purchased services, procurement of material, dialogue performed which are an important part of the Bank’s busiand other expenses. External IT and communiness culture. There is an ongoing dialogue cations are purchased centrally, while the other during the year concategories are mainly local purchases. Two thirds Distribution of economic value of the purchasing volume in the Swedish operafirms to a high degree tions is procured from more than 70 different SEK bn suppliers. The Bank has an ongoing dialogue the view that Handels40 with these where sustainability is an important 35 aspect. As support for its dialogue with suppliers, banken has had of its the Bank has a check list, and in 2016, the Bank 30 intends to implement a code of conduct for its sustainability work over ” major suppliers. 25 One result of these dialogues is that our envimany years. ronmental work is promoted and improved. For 20 example, we aim to co-ordinate purchases with the purpose of taking account of both cost and Handelsbanken’s view of its sustainability 15 environment effects. work is conﬁrmed by the detailed stakeholder dialogue 10 DETAILED DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS The detailed stakeholder dialogue performed In addition to the dialogues that Handelsbanken during the year conﬁrms to a high degree the view 5 regularly maintains with stakeholders, the Bank that the Bank has had of its sustainability work also carried out during the year a more detailed over many years. The results were very consist0 dialogue with representatives from the Bank’s ent, with no major differences among the various 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 main stakeholder groups. The purpose was partly main stakeholder groups. to conﬁrm that the sustainability matters which In addition to the detailed dialogue with these Reinvested economic value the Bank has identiﬁed as being the most material main stakeholders, Handelsbanken has chosen Dividend Fees for Stability Fund in previous years, correspond to the view of the to carry out, by various methods, dialogues with Tax expenses stakeholders, and also to gain increased underrepresentatives of other stakeholder groups. For Suppliers standing of the expectations which external parexample, we have had discussions with repreSocial security costs ties have on the Bank’s sustainability work. sentatives of the union organisations at HandelsProvision to proﬁt-sharing foundation incl. social security costs The dialogue was an important part of the banken, a number of non-proﬁt organisations, Salaries materiality analysis carried out during the year. and a selection of the Bank’s suppliers. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 203 OUR CONCEPT AND ORGANISATION | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Outcome of in-depth stakeholder dialogue In 2015, an in-depth stakeholder dialogue was performed which was an important part of a materiality analysis, and was carried out with the purpose of deﬁning the sustainability questions which are the most important for Handelsbanken. This analysis conﬁrms to a high degree the view that Handelsbanken has had of its sustainability work over many years. To clarify the outcome of Handelsbanken’s material sustainability questions, both internally and externally, we have grouped them into six sub-areas that show the Bank’s role and responsibilities: the Bank’s business culture, the Bank’s customer responsibility, the Bank’s role in the community, the Bank as an employer, the Bank as an investment, and the Bank’s indirect impact. The different sub-areas indicate where the material questions have the greatest impact – within or outside our own operations. Below we describe what the questions involve and show the opportunities and risks that they entail. In addition to these, we also provide information about other questions in this Sustainability Report, since the Bank is aware that there is general interest in these questions. These questions include how the Bank can minimise its own environmental impact. THE BANK’S BUSINESS CULTURE What does it involve? Handelsbanken aims to conduct its operations with high paid, or other forms of variable remuneration, to HandelsMaterial questions ethical standards. This means, for example, that we must banken’s executive officers or to any other employee who • Business culture have a sound remuneration model for employees and exectakes decisions on credits or limits. Nor does the Bank • Salaries and remuneration utive officers. Our operations are permeated by a long-term make any budgets, or have any volume or market share • Anti-corruption and bribery commitment, with no short-term incentive systems. For targets. The Bank’s employees must never be involved in this reason no performanceor volume-based bonuses are activities that could involve bribery or corruption. THE BANK’S RESPONSIBILITY What does it involve? TOWARDS CUSTOMERS One of Handelsbanken’s most important assets is the conaccepted, even if the customer is prepared to pay a high fidence of customers and the public. Handelsbanken must interest rate. Handelsbanken aims to provide advice and conduct its operations in such a manner that the levels of recommendations based on the customer’s requirements Material questions quality and service at the very least meet, and preferably – not on what would be most profitable for the Bank in • Satisfied customers exceed, the customer’s expectations. This is achieved by the short term. At Handelsbanken, no performanceor • High availability developing services that cater for individual needs and by volume-based bonuses are paid, or other forms of variable • Responsible lending being available, whether at a branch, by phone or digital remuneration, to the Bank’s management or to any other • Responsible sales and services. In lending, the Bank always proceeds from the employee who takes decisions on credits or limits. The advisory services customer’s financial situation; that is to say, the Bank Bank’s customer responsibility also includes protecting • Integrity and confidentiality does not grant credit to customers who lack the capacity customers’ banking business, for example from unauthorto repay their loans. A weak repayment capacity is never ised access, by providing high standards of IT security. THE BANK’S ROLE IN What does it involve? THE COMMUNITY Handelsbanken has a strong presence in the local combe – a bank with stable finances, which manages without munity, with a nationwide branch network in the Bank’s support from the government or central banks; a bank six home markets. The Bank makes a contribution to the which, regardless of the situation in its environment, is Material questions community in the countries where it pursues operations, there for its customers. Handelsbanken’s social respon• Local presence including payment of taxes and charges. The Bank aims sibility also includes taking steps to reduce its direct envi• The Bank as a taxpayer to do whatever it can to prevent criminal activities such ronmental impact from business travel, electronic waste, • Counteracting money laundering as money laundering, the financing of terrorism and other paper consumption, etc. and financing of terrorism financial crime. Handelsbanken is – and will continue to • The Bank should not be a burden on society • Financial stability and profitability THE BANK AS AN EMPLOYER What does it involve? Handelsbanken aims to continue to be a secure, attractive tive employer risks losing valuable skills. For a number of Material questions employer where all employees develop, are happy and years, Handelsbanken has received several awards which • Responsible employer enjoy good health. Among other things, this means that strengthen the view of the Bank as an attractive employer, • Working conditions and union rights all employees have the right to join a union or employee so that Handelsbanken can continue to recruit the most • Employee commitment organisation. The Bank’s aim is that the majority of employskilled employees. When the Bank recruits new employees, • Gender equality and diversity ees are permanently employed and that temporary employit aims to take a broad-based approach to recruitment so • Leadership and development ment only occurs to a limited extent. The Bank aims to that the workforce reflects the society where the Bank con• Work environment and health promote working methods that allow employees to be products its operations. Handelsbanken’s culture aims to be active and influence operations. One condition for successinclusive, and characterised by an open attitude towards ful operations is that Handelsbanken succeeds in recruiting diversity. Managers at Handelsbanken are urged to identify, and retaining skilled employees. If the Bank does not act encourage and develop new managers at the Bank. The in a responsible manner, it may be forced to reduce staff Bank aims to create conditions for a sustainable working numbers which may have major social consequences for life so that employees enjoy good health and have enough those affected. A bank which is not perceived as an attracenergy for their work and also for their leisure time. THE BANK AS AN INVESTMENT What does it involve? Handelsbanken is convinced that sustainable long-term shareholders long-term high growth in value, expressed Material questions growth and shareholder value can only be achieved if in increasing earnings per share over a business cycle. • Creating shareholder value the Bank creates long-term value for its customers at The Bank aims for the ordinary dividend to show longthe same time – and for society as a whole. One of the term, stable growth which reflects the value creation. objectives of Handelsbanken’s corporate goal is to offer THE BANK’S INDIRECT IMPACT What does it involve? Handelsbanken considers sustainability to be very Sustainability is also a vital component of asset manageMaterial questions important when granting credits. The Bank’s credit policy ment. In mutual fund, asset and pension management, • Responsible credits states that when making an assessment of credit risk, Handelsbanken works to promote sustainable develop• Responsible investments the customer’s approach to human rights, fundamental ment in financial, environmental and social terms in the principles regarding work conditions, environmental concompanies in which the Bank invests on behalf of cuscerns and anti-corruption must be taken into account. tomers, as part of the investment process. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 204 CUSTOMERS | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Satisfied customers For Handelsbanken, the starting point is always meeting the individual customers’ requirements. In this way we build a trusting, long-term relationship with every customer. Every year, EPSI Rating, which includes SKI (Swedish Quality Index), carries out independent surveys of customer satisfaction, including in the banking sector. This year’s surveys showed that Handelsbanken has more satisfied customers than the average for the banking sector in all of the Bank’s six home markets. Handelsbanken always aims for all important In addition to personal service, we work all the ers than the average for the banking sector in all business decisions to be taken as close to the time to improve our digital meeting places where of the Bank’s six home markets. In this way, the customer as possible. This contributes to better customers can do most of their banking transacBank retains its strong and stable position regardmeetings with customers, better decisions and tions such as paying bills, transferring money, ing customer satisfaction. more satisﬁed customers. In everything it does, seeing balances and card transactions, applying In Sweden, Handelsbanken has the most satthe Bank aims to create the best possible condifor and changing the terms of loans, buying and isﬁed customers overall, in terms of the banking tions for successful meetings with customers. selling mutual fund units and reviewing their sector as a whole. Among our corporate customBy gaining its customers’ trust, Handelsbanken mutual fund savings directly via a smartphone ers, satisfaction is increasing, in contrast to the becomes their natural choice. or tablet device. But customer responsibility is situation for other banks in the sector. The key to always with the local branch, regardless of the this is Handelsbanken’s local presence and sermeeting place the customer chooses. At Handelsvice – something that our customers appreciate. banken, all contact paths lead to the local branch. “ We believe that customers with knowledge and In everything it does, understanding of their ﬁnancial situation are more “ satisﬁed customers. This is why we work continuthe Bank aims to create ously to give our customers the best possible This year’s surveys conditions to make the best possible ﬁnancial the best possible decisions. EFN.se is an online ﬁnancial news showed that Handelschannel which explains complex subjects, strucconditions for successtures and events by means of news reports, inbanken has more satisdepth programmes and broadcasts. EFN.se gives ful meetings with customers the opportunity to deepen their knowfied private and corpo” ledge of economics and ﬁnance, both their own customers. economy and broader international matters. The rate customers than the service is free of charge and available to everyone via a computer, smartphone or tablet device. average for the banking ALWAYS INCREASE AVAILABILITY An important starting-point for having satisﬁed SATISFIED CUSTOMERS IN OUR sector in all of the Bank’s ” customers is to constantly increase our availability, HOME MARKETS to be there for our customers, whenever and wherHandelsbanken considers customer satisfaction six home markets. ever they need us. When branches are closed, surveys to be very important. Every year, EPSI Handelsbanken Direkt Personal Service in Sweden Rating/SKI (Swedish Quality Index), carries out is always open. This is a service that is staffed by independent surveys of customer satisfaction. In the UK, Handelsbanken continued to have the professional bank ofﬁcers who help customers by This year’s surveys showed that Handelsbanken most satisﬁed private and corporate customers. phone, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. has more satisﬁed private and corporate customThe result also shows that customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction – Private customers 2015 Customer satisfaction – Corporate customers 2015 Index Index 90 90 80 80 70 70 60 60 50 50 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway NetherSweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands lands Handelsbanken Sector average Handelsbanken Sector average Source: SKI/EPSI Source: SKI/EPSI H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 206 CUSTOMERS | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT is considerably higher than the average for the success in working consistently and continuously The survey shows that Handelsbanken is persector. with building up long-term customer relationceived to have an important role in the community In Denmark, too, Handelsbanken had the most ships. and to be a good workplace; these are important satisﬁed private and corporate customers, and It is just as important to have loyal customers factors inﬂuencing Handelsbanken’s reputation in thus retains its No.1 position for another year. as satisﬁed customers. This offers many advanterms of sustainability. In Finland, Handelsbanken is top-ranked, as tages. For example, it is less likely that customers it has been in previous years, in terms of most are dissatisﬁed and change banks. This leads to HANDLING CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS satisﬁed private customers; in addition, the Bank lower costs for the Bank, which in turn creates For Handelsbanken, it is important that customhas the most satisﬁed corporate customers. the right conditions for more competitive prices to ers who make complaints are satisﬁed. The results in Norway showed that customer customers. The Bank takes customer complaints very serisatisfaction for Handelsbanken’s private and corIn EPSI’s and SKI’s annual surveys, loyalty, ously and has well-established procedures for porate customers increased, and that the Bank too is a key result linked to customer satisfaction. handling these cases. We attach great imporhas more satisﬁed customers than the average There is a positive connection between customer tance to handling opinions and complaints that for the Norwegian banking sector. satisfaction and loyalty. Loyalty reﬂects whether come in to the Bank in a manner which inspires customers intend to remain with their bank, in conﬁdence. The results from the EPSI and SKI what terms they talk about their bank, and surveys show that the proportion of complaints at whether they would recommend their bank to Handelsbanken, for all home markets combined, “ other people. is below the average for the sector. For Handelsbanken, In addition to the fact that Handelsbanken’s Complaints must be dealt with in the ﬁrst place customers are very satisﬁed, the results for 2015 by the responsible branch, with the attention that it is important that show that they are also very loyal. In all home each case requires. If the customer wishes to markets, it can be seen that loyalty is considerapursue the matter, there is a designated comcustomers who bly higher than for the average of the sector. This plaints ofﬁcer in each regional bank. In addition, also applies to markets where Handelsbanken is there are complaints ofﬁcers at Group level who make complaints are regarded as a major player, which must be conregularly report to Senior Management, regional ” sidered unique. banks and product owners. satisfied. Information about complaints management at HIGH REPUTATION the Bank is easily available at handelsbanken.com. According to the TNS Sifo Reputation Index for In the Netherlands, surveys showed that the Bank’s 2015, based on public opinion, Handelsbanken is customers are considerably more satisﬁed than one of the ten companies in Sweden with the best the average for the sector. This applies to both reputation, regardless of the sector surveyed. private and corporate customers. The Bank’s index score of 61 can be compared To sum up, these independent surveys of cuswith those of the other three major Swedish banks, tomer satisfaction are proof of Handelsbanken’s which are between 32 and 42. Loyalty – Private customers 2015 Loyalty – Corporate customers 2015 Index Index 90 90 80 80 70 70 60 60 50 50 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway NetherSweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands lands Handelsbanken Sector average Handelsbanken Sector average Source: SKI/EPSI Source: SKI/EPSI H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 207 EMPLOYEES | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Skilled staff At Handelsbanken, we constantly strive for our corporate culture, with its decentralised work method and belief in the individual, to permeate our operations. This applies no matter where in the world Handelsbanken opens new branches. In 2015, Handelsbanken had 11,819 employees, working in 25 countries, nearly 40 per cent of whom were employed outside Sweden. WE RECRUIT PEOPLE WHO SHARE a structured, continual relationship between the internal recruitment and long-term employment THE BANK’S BASIC VALUES Bank’s operations and the employee’s developare important for the Bank. To retain an employee, Handelsbanken’s concept of how to run a sucment. All employees participate in drawing up the right conditions must exist for development in cessful full-service bank is based on trust and their own unit’s business plan. This forms the their work and consideration must also be taken respect for the individual – both customers and basis of the planned PLUS performance dialogue, of the stage of life that they are. Employees who employees. which every employee has with their line manager are secure and happy, with long and broad expeAbove all, working at Handelsbanken is about at least once a year. After this, each employee rience of the whole Bank, give good service and relationships with other people. Without the right puts together an individual action plan setting out create long-term customer relationships. This staff, it does not matter how good the products the goals to be attained and the conditions necmakes a vital contribution to the Bank having sator services are. When we recruit new employees, essary for this. The employee has a salary diaisﬁed customers. The Handelsbanken Group we seek people who share the Bank’s basic vallogue review with the line manager, based on a continues to have very low external staff turnover. ues. For us, it is very important that our employfollow-up of the action plan carried out. In addition In 2015, the ﬁgure was 3.0 per cent (3.2) for the ees are driven by putting the customer ﬁrst, enjoy to this, all the Bank’s managers and employees Group and 2.1 per cent (2.2) in Sweden. taking a large amount of individual responsibility, carried out a separate competency mapping durManagers at Handelsbanken must be exemand want to take their own initiatives. ing the year; from now on, this will be carried out plary ambassadors for the Bank’s corporate culHandelsbanken’s joint Group guidelines for its every year. The results are documented and comture, which explains why most managers are employees are based on the Bank’s corporate plement the Bank’s working methods regarding recruited internally. In 2015, 100 per cent (100) of culture, working methods and fundamental view performance reviews, action plans and follow-up. all managers in Sweden were recruited internally. of people. For the Group as a whole, the corresponding ﬁgure INTERNAL LABOUR MARKET AND is 93 per cent (93), including those markets where CONSTANT DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT SUCCESSION the Bank established operations relatively recently. The Bank’s strength is derived from the combined Handelsbanken’s strong corporate culture and One of the most vital tasks for managers at the expertise of its employees. When employees values are vital to the Bank’s success. Due to the Bank is to identify, encourage and develop new develop, the Bank develops. The most important Bank’s decentralised working methods, employmanagers in operations. source of increased professionalism is learning in ees take a large amount of personal responsibilour daily work, where all the Bank’s employees ity, are given a mandate to take their own deciHANDELSBANKEN’S STUDENT are responsible for constant development – their sions and are driven by putting the customer in PROGRAMME own and that of the operations. Learning on a focus. During their period of employment, Handelsbanken Sweden has a student prodaily basis is supplemented by various training employees are given the opportunity to develop gramme aimed at young people who are about to activities, including training in the ﬁeld of investwithin different professional roles, to work in difstart studying at a university. The students particiment advice and measures against money launferent areas of operations and also to work outpate in the Bank’s programme in parallel with their dering and ﬁnancing of terrorism. These courses side their home country. Internal mobility contribstudies. The aim of the programme is to attract are organised by both the Bank’s HR departutes to both the working method and culture and recruit young employees as part of Handelsments and central units. It is important that being spread to all parts of the Bank, through banken’s future management succession, and to employees have the skills they need to comply transfer of the skills and experience gained to the promote gender equality and diversity. The prowith the current policies and regulations. There is employee’s new work tasks. This means that gramme includes the student working at the Bank New employees Staff turnover* Employees per Men, Women, The Wheel – the relationship between the Bank’s by home market, by home market, form of employment Number % % % operations and the employee’s development age group and age group and gender gender Regular employment Full-time 6 442 78 51 49 Number %** Number %** Part-time 1 178 14 15 85 Sweden 284 4.0 151 2.1 Temporary Business plan UK 338 16.5 74 3.6 employment 673 8 42 58 process Denmark 55 7.6 38 5.3 Total Sweden 8 293 Finland 30 4.4 31 4.5 Business planning Norway 15 1.9 16 2.1 Salary The Netherlands 55 25.8 11 5.2 dialogue Average number Men, Women, PLUS Total number 777 6.7 321 2.8 review CUSTOMER of employees Number % % % men <30 years old 156 32 of whom 30–50 yrs 213 91 Sweden 7 263 62 47 53 >50 yrs 54 46 UK 1 904 16 59 41 women <30 years old 137 27 Denmark 690 6 52 48 Individual Action of whom 30–50 yrs 172 79 Finland 614 5 42 58 follow-up planning >50 yrs 45 46 Norway 766 6 55 45 * Staff turnover is the number of employees who leave the The Netherlands 170 1 64 36 Bank (excluding retirements and deaths) as a proportion of all employees. Other countries 412 4 47 53 ** Percentage of the number of employees in each home market. Group total 11 819 49.9 50.1 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 208 EMPLOYEES | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT during their student years, having their own action AN EVEN MORE EQUAL HANDELSBANKEN and deal with work-related situations, having plan and receiving the relevant training to be able Handelsbanken’s gender equality goal is to be a pride and conﬁdence in one’s work, respecting to develop at Handelsbanken. Some 140 of the company where men and women have the same others, and being respected oneself. Bank’s employees are participating, or have paropportunities and conditions to shape the Bank All employees are responsible for their own ticipated, in the Student Programme since its and their own career. In all countries where health and for contributing to the creation of a inception in 2011. Handelsbanken operates, a gender equality positive work environment at Handelsbanken. In plan must be produced to support the Group’s co-operation with staff and employee representaLOCAL ACCEPTANCE equality goals. The plan must be based on tives, managers must develop a healthy and safe In the Bank’s home markets – with few excepHandelsbanken’s fundamental values, and take workplace for a sustainable working life. tions – managers and employees work and live in into account the laws and guidelines applying in Each manager is responsible for performing their local community. It is important that those the country. The purpose is to create as even a regular work environment reviews together with who work at branches have natural links to, and gender distribution as possible within different their employees. This includes matters relating to good knowledge of, the town and local market. professional roles, working groups and units at the physical and psychosocial work environment, At the year-end, the proportion of managers in the Bank. gender equality, diversity, and an inclusive corpothe respective home market’s management team In the Group as a whole, 39 per cent (37) rate culture. In a dialogue with their staff, they who had been recruited locally was 86 per cent. of managers were women. The proportion of identify what works well and what could be better. women among the total number of employees in This results in a work environment plan with activFOR GENDER EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY the Group was 50 per cent (51). At the year-end, ities to maintain and develop a good work enviWorking with gender equality, diversity and an 47 per cent (45) of the Bank’s managers in ronment. The plan is then integrated with the inclusive corporate culture is a fundamental part Sweden were women. The proportion of women unit’s business plan and in this way becomes a of Handelsbanken’s values and should also be among the total number of employees in Sweden natural part of how the operation develops. a natural and integral part of our daily work. It is was 53 per cent (54). The work environment plans are regularly folabout making the most of the employees’ comThe Bank’s work with gender equality is lowed up in order to evaluate and continuously bined potential, and of broadening the recruitcontinuing, with various measures aimed at improve the Bank’s work with the work environment base, to become, to an even greater extent, making Handelsbanken an even more genderment and health. Handelsbanken also follows up a bank that reﬂects the community in which it equal company. Training is carried out within the the ﬁgures for healthy attendance (the opposite of operates. Diversity encompasses various individorganisation in order to increase awareness of sickness ﬁgures) and also reported incidents. uals’ different skills and work experience, different how social and cultural norms affect attitudes In connection with crisis situations, Handelsways of thinking and solving problems. and behaviour in everyday life. banken has well-developed procedures, includInitiatives are being taken in several parts of the In the past few years in Sweden, the Bank, ing a support programme with the help of external Group to further increase knowledge and awaretogether with trade unions, has worked to rectify partners. ness of diversity. unwarranted pay differentials between women As support for the health of its individual In 2015, Handelsbanken in Sweden produced and men. In 2015, the work with gender-equal employees, Handelsbanken also offers a large a training ﬁlm on the subject of diversity. It is salaries changed from being a project to becomnumber of subsidised health-related and health aimed at all managers and employees with the ing an integral part of the normal operations. The promotion activities. The Bank has had a sports purpose of increasing knowledge and awareness Bank and the union organisations work together and leisure association since 1919; it currently of diversity and an inclusive culture. to reinforce the results of the work in recent years, has 4,300 members and is one of the largest of In order for the Bank’s strong corporate culture and they closely monitor the trend for genderits kind in Sweden. Finland and Denmark also to continue developing, an ongoing dialogue is equal salaries within the Bank. Managers at the have associations. necessary and as a condition for this, we promote Bank have a mandate and the tools to correct any To stimulate interest in art and crafts the Bank a good working atmosphere and an inclusive differentials that are identiﬁed and every year, all also has an Art Association with just over 3,700 culture where differences are valued and benesalaries are mapped by the Bank to act on any members. It is one of the largest art associations ﬁted from. In light of this, all types of discriminadifferentials that have arisen. in Sweden. tion and harassment are totally unacceptable, which is also stated in the Group guidelines for WORK ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH STAFF MAGAZINE employees. Handelsbanken’s overall goal with its work enviThe staff magazine, Remissan, started in 1948 Incidents of discrimination concerning the ronment work focuses on employees enjoying and is a publication which is for, about and by the Bank’s employees are normally managed through good health, developing on a personal level and employees of Handelsbanken. Remissan’s task is the Bank’s HR units, but cases reported to the functioning in an optimal way. This is a long-term to create a sense of community, belonging and national discrimination ombudsman or corregoal that includes factors such as clear and honcommitment among the employees, and to reﬂect sponding ofﬁcial body are followed up at Group est communication, having the skills and compeHandelsbanken’s culture throughout the Group. level. No such cases were reported in 2015. tence and the right conditions to perform tasks The magazine is published in Swedish and English. Age and gender distribution 2015 Sickness absence by home market 2015 Age % Men Women Total 65– Sweden 1.9 3.9 3.0 60–64 UK 1.0 1.3 1.1 55–59 Denmark 0.8 1.8 1.3 50–54 Finland 0.9 1.7 1.4 45–49 Norway 2.0 5.1 3.6 40–44 The Netherlands* 1.8 35–39 Total sickness absence 1.6 3.3 2.5 30–34 of which long-term 25–29 absence 0.5 1.4 1.0 20–24 * According to national legislation, it is not permitted to report –19 sickness absence broken down by gender. 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 Sickness absence is stated as a percentage of total normal working hours. Long-term absence is a period of absence of Number of employees Women Men 60 days or more. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 209 EMPLOYEES | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Remuneration and benefits Handelsbanken aims to be an attractive employer. In addition to the laws, regulations and agreements which the Bank follows, we also offer various types of competitive benefits, for both permanent and temporary employees of the Group. AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER conditions and in some countries, the conditions term, as payments cannot be made until an Collective bargaining agreements are the foundaare a taxable beneﬁt. Other examples of beneﬁts employee has reached the age of 60. tion of the conditions the Bank offers to both temare insurance, staff or company cars and various One of the fundamental concepts in managing porary and permanent employees. At Handelshealth promotion beneﬁts. the foundation is that the funds are invested in banken, we have individual salaries which are shares in Handelsbanken. decided in the salary dialogue review between CONVERTIBLES AIMED AT EMPLOYEES For many years, the proﬁt-sharing foundation managers and employees. Handelsbanken On several occasions, Handelsbanken has has been one of the Bank’s largest shareholders, wishes to be an attractive employer which meets offered its employees the opportunity to suband Oktogonen has two representatives on the its employees’ need for beneﬁts at various phases scribe for convertible bonds. The convertible Handelsbanken Board. Thus, the employees are of their life in a ﬂexible way. Conditions and benebond programmes offer new employees, as well also able to inﬂuence the Bank at Board level. ﬁts differ within the Group and are adapted to the as those who have been with the Bank a long market where the Bank operates and the collectime, a further opportunity to beneﬁt from the RELATIONS WITH UNIONS tive agreements which have been entered into. value created jointly by the staff and to participate Handelsbanken’s traditionally good relationship The Bank’s Board resolves on the remunerain the Bank’s future development. Subscription with unions is a valuable component of the Bank’s tion policy, is responsible for this being applied, for convertibles is entirely on market terms with culture. The Bank supports the right of all employand takes decisions regarding follow-up action. no subsidy; the rate of participation in the Bank’s ees to join a trade union or employee organisaThe Bank’s remuneration committee must make convertible programmes has been uniquely high tion. All employees in Denmark, Finland, France, an assessment of the policy and the remuneration compared with other companies where subscripLuxembourg, Norway, Sweden and Austria, system, and report it to the Board once a year. tion is on similar terms. comprising 80 per cent of the Bank’s employees, are covered by collective bargaining agreements. PENSIONS AND OTHER BENEFITS In these countries, employees who are not memHandelsbanken offers various types of competibers of a union are also covered by the terms of “ tive beneﬁts, for both permanent and temporary the collective agreement. The number of employemployees of the Group; these differ between the Handelsbanken’s tradiees has increased in countries which traditionally countries. In 2015, the proportion of permanent have a low rate of membership of collective baremployees was 96 per cent (96). tional good relationship gaining agreements. For this reason, the proporPensions are part of the total remuneration to tion of employees who are covered by a collective employees of Handelsbanken. The pension terms with unions is a valuable bargaining agreement has fallen slightly. in the countries where the Bank pursues its operVarious matters in Sweden, such as organisaations must be competitive and adapted to legiscomponent of Handelstional changes, are regulated in Handelsbanken’s ” lation and regulations, in accordance with the co-determination agreement with the Financial conditions prevailing in each country. banken’s culture. Sector Union of Sweden’s local bodies and in the An occupational pension plan can include a collective agreement between the Employers’ retirement pension, disability pension and surAssociation of the Swedish Banking Institutions viving family member protection. The pension OKTOGONEN – THE BANK’S (BAO) and the Swedish Association of Graduates solutions which can be offered to employees PROFIT-SHARING SCHEME in Business Administration and Economics and of Handelsbanken are deﬁned-beneﬁt, deﬁnedA condition for achieving the Bank’s corporate the Swedish Association of Graduate Engineers, contribution, or a combination of the two. goal of better proﬁtability than the average of peer which are afﬁliated to the Swedish Confederation Handelsbanken also aims to make it easier for banks in its home markets is that employees outof Professional Associations (SACO). both women and men to combine employment perform their peers in the rest of the sector. The There is an ongoing, close dialogue between with parenthood. The Bank subsidises home and Board thus considers it reasonable that employunion representatives and managers concerning family services for employees in Sweden who ees should receive a share of any extra proﬁts. operations – such as when changes and new serhave children under the age of 12. In addition to Every year but two since 1973, the Board has vices are to be launched – where valuable inforcurrent social insurance regulations for parental decided to allocate part of the Bank’s proﬁts to a mation is exchanged at the very early stages. In leave, in most of its home markets, Handelsproﬁt-sharing scheme for its employees. The funds 2015, the Bank updated the process for major banken provides remuneration in accordance are managed by the Oktogonen Foundation. operational and organisational changes in the with local regulations. Taken together, this means Allocations are subject to Handelsbanken Group. that parents receive 80 to 100 per cent of their achieving its corporate goal. If this is satisﬁed, As well as matters which are dealt with in a diasalaries over a limited period. Employees who one third of the extra proﬁts can be allocated to logue with the union organisations in each countake parental leave have the same right to salary the employees. The amount allocated is limited to try, Handelsbanken’s European Work Council development as other staff. Of those who have ten per cent of the ordinary dividend to the share(EWC) functions as a forum for joint and crosstaken parental leave in 2015 in the Bank’s home holders. If the Bank reduces the dividend paid to border questions within the Handelsbanken markets, 66 per cent were women and 34 per its shareholders, no allocation can be made to the Group. The EWC consists of representatives from cent men. Almost all of these employees returned foundation. All employees receive an equal part of nine countries: Denmark, Finland, Germany to work. the allocated amount, regardless of their position Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, In the Bank’s home markets, employees are and work tasks. The scheme includes all employSweden and the UK. offered credits on special terms. These credits are ees in the Bank’s home markets. Some 98 per mainly granted for housing purposes. The terms cent of the Group’s employees are now covered differ between countries depending on the local by Oktogonen. The proﬁt-sharing scheme is longH A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 210 OWNERS | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Corporate Governance Corporate governance concerns how the owners directly or indirectly control the Bank, and how rights and obligations are allocated among the Bank’s bodies, in accordance with prevailing laws and regulations. Handelsbanken’s Corporate Governance Report RECRUITMENT AND DIVERSITY-RELATED is based on a shareholder perspective. There are, WORK BY THE BOARD however, also other stakeholders with an interest in Handelsbanken’s corporate governance, upon whose conﬁdence the Bank is dependent. These include customers, employees and bond inves“ The Bank’s work with sustainability is also Handelsbanken’s Board has adopted a policy to promote diversity in the Board. The policy states that to promote independent opinions and critical questioning, it is desirable that the Board should tors, as well as the community at large. part of the corporate be characterised by sufﬁcient diversity in terms of age, gender, geographical origin, and educational PRINCIPLES FOR CORPORATE governance since and professional background. The proportion of GOVERNANCE AT HANDELSBANKEN women on the Board of the Bank is 33 per cent Handelsbanken’s shareholders elect the Board it is part of managerial and the proportion of members of another nationand the Board appoints the CEO. One way in ality than where Handelsbanken is domiciled is 56 which the Board exercises its governance of the responsibility at all levels per cent. Bank is by issuing policies and instructions. It is partly through the issued policies that the Board takes decisions regarding Handelsbanken’s overall risk tolerance, and ensures the Bank’s ﬁnancial stability. Through these, the Board also decides of the organisation. ” INTERNAL CONTROL The responsibility for internal control and the Bank’s compliance is an integral part of managers’ responsibility at all levels in the Bank. on the Bank’s approach in a number of central However, the foundation of functioning corporate This responsibility means that ﬁt-for-purpose sustainability issues regarding measures against governance is not only formal documents but instructions and procedures for the operation money laundering and ﬁnancing of terrorism, the also the Bank’s corporate culture, corporate goal, must be in place, and compliance with these environment, remuneration and corruption. The working methods, and remuneration system. It procedures is monitored regularly. CEO also exercises governance by issuing varipermeates and works in parallel with the princiThe compliance department has the function ous governance documents. The CEO issues ples, strategies, limits and target ﬁgures stated in responsibility for compliance, and provides advice instructions for the managers who report directly policy documents and instructions. The Bank’s and support in regulatory matters. Internal control to him, and issues guidelines, some of which work with sustainability is also part of the corpoand compliance work are subject to internal and provide more detailed directions to complement rate governance since it is part of managerial external risk-based auditing. and clarify the Board’s policies. These documents responsibility at all levels of the organisation. Handelsbanken has an established system are revised every year but can be adjusted more for whistleblowing, which means that employees often when necessary. who suspect irregularities can report these to a unit outside their own unit. Anonymous reports are also acted upon. SELECTION OF POLICY DOCUMENTS SELECTION OF GUIDELINES ESTABLISHED ESTABLISHED BY THE BOARD APPLYING BY THE BANK’S GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE: AT THE TIME THIS SUSTAINABILITY • Environmental policy REPORT IS PUBLISHED: • Guidelines for business relations with the • Credit policy armaments and defence industry • Policy for operational risks • Guidelines for information security in the • Capital policy Handelsbanken Group • Financial policy • Policy for financial risks POLICY DOCUMENTS THAT THE BOARDS • Information policy OF HANDELSBANKEN’S SUBSIDIARIES • Sustainability policy HAVE DECIDED ON: • Policy on ethical standards • Corporate governance policy and policy for More information • Policy against corruption responsible investments for Handelsbanken For more information, please see the • Policy for managing conflicts of interest Fonder Bank’s full Corporate Governance Report, • Policy for remuneration and suitability assessment • Policy for responsible investments at • Policy for independent risk control which can be found on pages 49–65 of the Handelsbanken Liv Annual Report. • Policy for compliance • Policy on measures against money laundering More information about Handelsbanken’s and financing of terrorism and the observance SELECTION OF CODES OF CONDUCT corporate governance is available at handelsof international sanctions IN THE HR AREA: banken.se/ireng. The site includes the follow• Policy for handling customer complaints • Guidelines for employees ing information: • Guidelines for alcoholand drug-related matters • previous corporate governance reports A summary of these policies is available in • Guidelines for handling suspected addiction to from 2007 onwards the Bank’s Corporate Governance Report, and gambling • Guidelines for the prevention of victimisation at work • Articles of Association at handelsbanken.se/ireng. • Guidelines for the prevention of sexual harassment • information about the nomination committee • Guidelines regarding bribery and improper influence • minutes of shareholders’ meetings from • Guidelines on presence on social media 2008 onwards. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 211 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility at Handelsbanken is manifested in responsible lending and advisory services, as well as our efforts to have satisfied customers and be an attractive employer. The actual words “corporate social responsibility” RESPONSIBLE ADVISORY SERVICES believe that the individual’s will and ability is the well reﬂect the strong social aspects of a responWhen providing ﬁnancial advisory services and foundation of the Bank’s corporate culture. Since sibly run banking operation. While the Bank’s insurance mediation, the Bank always considers people have different needs and capacity during environmental impact is relatively limited, the the customer’s overall situation and ﬁnancial cirtheir professional life, we as an employer aim to Bank can make a major difference in terms of cumstances. Based on this, we can provide guidprovide the right conditions for our employees to social responsibility towards customers, employance on ﬁnancing, payments or investments that develop and contribute to the Bank’s success. ees and taxpayers. The most recent ﬁnancial criis adapted to each customer’s individual requireHandelsbanken collaborates with various edusis showed that unless a bank acts in a responsiments. cational institutions and organisations where we ble manner, it is not only the bank’s shareholders When providing investment advice, the prooffer internships so that students have the opporthat run the risk of being adversely affected, but posal is adapted to the customer’s goals, intertunity to gain experience and contact with workcustomers, employees and taxpayers too. ests, savings horizon and attitude to risk. The places. Every summer, many students work at the Bank attaches particular importance to the cusBank as temporary staff, which contributes to LOW LOAN LOSSES tomer understanding the risk that is associated Handelsbanken’s development and that of the Aggressive selling of credits which leads to an with each type of ﬁnancial instrument, and having students. Student degree thesis projects are unhealthy level of household and corporate debt the knowledge and experience required to make another valuable way of exchanging knowledge always hits the customer hardest. For those who an investment in the product concerned. between students and the Bank. Several of our wish to evaluate a bank in terms of sustainability, The regulations for ﬁnancial advisory services managers and employees are active in various one method is to study the bank’s risk tolerance. and insurance mediation require that all employexternal mentor programmes and networks in At Handelsbanken we have a very low risk tolerees who provide customers with advice concernorder to contribute to work with integration and ance. The Bank’s strict approach to risk means ing investments and insurance have relevant, diversity. that we deliberately avoid high-risk transactions, up-to-date competency. In Sweden, the Bank Handelsbanken in Sweden also works with even if the customer is willing to pay a high interhas nearly 3,850 employees who are permitted Samhall. Samhall’s task is to create meaningful est rate. This low risk tolerance is maintained to provide investment advice. All of these are work with development opportunities for people through a strong risk culture that is sustainable in SwedSec-licensed for advisory services concernwith various functional disabilities. the long term and applies to all areas of the ing ﬁnancial instruments and insurance, and they Handelsbanken has very low external staff Group. take an knowledge update test every year. During turnover. In 2015, the ﬁgure for the Group was The loan loss ratio is a key ﬁgure which can be the year broad training programmes have been 3.0 per cent (3.2) and 2.1 per cent (2.2) in Sweden. studied by anyone wishing to form an opinion of carried out, to further strengthen the staff’s comhow responsibly a bank runs its operations. When petency in this area. INITIATIVES TO COMBAT COMMERCIAL banks have a negative impact on their environThe Bank’s advice always prioritises the cusSEXUAL EXPLOITATION OF CHILDREN ment, the problems are often due to high loan tomer’s interests and is professional, observes As part of Handelsbanken’s work with corporate losses, or an expectation that the loan losses will high ethical standards and is executed in accordsocial responsibility, we integrate a preventative rise signiﬁcantly. Most stakeholders are affected ance with the current laws and regulations. work method into our operations, in order to connegatively if a bank suffers high loan losses. Handelsbanken applies no performanceor tribute to our stance against commercial sexual For many years, Handelsbanken has had volume-based bonuses or other forms of variable exploitation of children. much lower loan losses than peer banks. During remuneration to the Bank’s management or to Since 2009, Handelsbanken, together with the the 1998–2015 period, the average loan loss ratio any other employee who takes decisions on credSwedish Bankers’ Association, has been part of at Handelsbanken was 0.05 per cent, as comits or limits. Nor do we have volume or market a collaboration with Ecpat Sweden, and has been pared to 0.20 per cent for the average of the share goals. a member of the Financial Coalition Against Comother ﬁve other major banks in the Nordic region: Our customer information must be clear, facmercial Sexual Exploitation of Children. Danske Bank, DnB, Nordea, SEB and Swedbank. tual and easy to understand, and the terms and During the year, we increased our collaboration conditions for the Bank’s services must be clear with Ecpat Sweden. The overall objective is to and not arbitrarily changed. help prevent the exploitation of children by obstructing and making monetary transactions Loan losses as a percentage of lending 1998–2015 HUMAN RIGHTS that are linked to sexual exploitation of children % Handelsbanken endorses the principles set out more difﬁcult. 1.2 in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of For a number of years, Handelsbanken has 1.0 Human Rights. Since 2009, Handelsbanken has also had the NetClean IT application installed on 0.8 adhered to UN’s Global Compact, cementing the the Bank’s computers in Sweden. This application Bank’s expressed support for universal human identiﬁes and blocks images and videos of child 0.6 rights. This means that the Bank supports and pornography. 0.4 respects the protection of human rights within the areas which the Bank can inﬂuence, directly or 0.2 indirectly through our operations. It also means 0.0 that the Bank ensures that it is not involved in any -0.2 breach of human rights. 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 THE BANK AS AN EMPLOYER Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* At Handelsbanken, we have a long-term view * For the period until 2000 inclusive, only Swedish banks are included. of our relationship with our employees, and we H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 212 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Responsible lending Credits to households and companies are Handelsbanken’s core operations. The Bank considers it very important that its lending is based on an assessment of the individual customer’s repayment capacity, so that the Bank does not grant credit to customers who cannot repay their loans. A weak repayment capacity can never be accepted with arguments that the customer is prepared to pay a high interest rate or can offer the Bank good collateral. THE CUSTOMER IN FOCUS GEOGRAPHICAL ORGANISATIONAL STRUCHandelsbanken have business relations with Financial advice in conjunction with lending must TURE WITH INDEPENDENT BRANCHES companies which manufacture or trade in nuclear always be based on the customer’s overall situaDecision-making at Handelsbanken is strictly weapons. tion and ﬁnancial position. Using this knowledge, decentralised to the local branch. Each local the Bank can give guidance based on the individbranch has its own area of operations which is ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENTS ual needs of each customer. In this way, the cusgeographically delimited and constitutes the WHEN LENDING tomer is in focus – not individual products or serbranch’s local market. Handelsbanken’s geoIn its credit assessments, Handelsbanken takes vices. The aim of short-term proﬁts for the Bank graphical structure means that it has a distinct into account how environmental risks affect the must take second place to what can be considlocal presence in all the markets where the Bank customer’s repayment capacity. This is particuered sustainable in the long term. This protects operates. Taking the important business decilarly important for customers engaged in environthe individual customer from running into ﬁnancial sions on the spot, in discussion with the cusmentally hazardous activities or selling products difﬁculties due to excessive indebtedness – tomer, is a sound basis for successful customer that involve environmental or health risks. One something that also beneﬁts the Bank and society meetings. This creates close, long-term relations example may be the risk that the customer’s at large. with our customers. product cannot be sold, or that more stringent Handelsbanken does not apply performanceenvironmental requirements for the customer’s or volume-based bonuses, or other forms of varimanufacturing process will cause the company’s able remuneration for employees who make decirepayment capacity to deteriorate. “ sions on credits or limits. Nor does the Bank have For property-related lending, it is important to volume or market share goals. Decision-making at take into account whether environmentally harmful activities are or have been conducted in the RULES AND PRINCIPLES WHEN Handelsbanken is property. GRANTING CREDITS The branch which is responsible for the cusIn accordance with the Bank’s credit policy, lendstrictly decentralised tomer carries out the credit risk assessment. Thus, ” ing must be responsible, meeting high demands the branch also assesses how environmental risks for sound ethical standards. In 2009, Handelsto the local branch. will affect the customer’s repayment capacity. All banken became a signatory to the UN Global this is part of the business assessment which is Compact, which summarises principles for the Bank’s method of evaluating a customer. human rights, basic working conditions, antiGUIDELINES FOR BUSINESS RELATIONS The business assessment is a useful tool for corruption and environmental considerations. WITH THE ARMAMENTS AND DEFENCE the branches when it comes to identifying and This means that in its lending, Handelsbanken INDUSTRY assessing risks. It is also good documentation for must work to ensure that these principles are During the year, Handelsbanken introduced higher levels in the Bank when credit risk is to be complied with. Ultimately, this can mean Handelsguidelines for business relations with the armaevaluated, and when monitoring that branches banken declining to grant credits to companies ments and defence industry. Among other things, take into account environmental issues in their that do not apply these principles. these state that Handelsbanken must not have credit risk assessment. business relations with companies which manuFor a long time, the Bank has taken a restrictive facture or trade in weapons that are prohibited approach to risk in its lending – including environunder international conventions. This includes mental risk. This culture and expertise on the part GREEN BONDS biological weapons, chemical weapons, antiof the staff is best maintained and developed in In 2015, the market for green bonds continued to grow, both in Sweden personnel mines and cluster munitions. Nor may day-to-day work and learning at the branches. and globally. Green bonds enable investors to participate in the ﬁnancing of sustainable, environmentally correct projects. Interest from investors has continued to grow, and on the ﬁxed income market there is clearly an increasing focus on environmental and sustainability issues. In 2015, Handelsbanken organised a wellattended seminar in Stockholm for borrowers and investors, on the theme of green bonds and a Loans to the public, geographical distribution sustainable capital market. When a borrower issues a green bond, an external veriﬁcation agency examines the area Sweden 65.1% of use, and investigates and conﬁrms the environNorway 11.2% mental beneﬁts in the investments concerned. UK 10.4% Handelsbanken welcomes this trend, and the Finland 6.2% opportunity it provides to assist our customers in Denmark 4.4% ﬁnancing green and sustainable projects. During Netherlands 1.2% the year, Handelsbanken arranged green bonds Other countries 1.5% for four issuers. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 213 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Responsible investments As an asset manager, Handelsbanken has been entrusted by our customers to manage their savings in the optimum way. Our goal is to generate strong long-term returns for our customers, which assumes that we invest in a sustainable, responsible manner. We achieve this by working in an integrated manner, where sustainability is an important part of the investment process, and also by offering a wide range of mutual funds and other savings products that meet our customers’ requirements. Our work is based on a clear, common value that we excluded from our mutual funds during A signal of sustainability risks can therefore come base. A long-term approach is an important part the year. from several directions – from our own or external of Handelsbanken’s corporate culture and investDuring the year, Handelsbanken signed the analysis. Handelsbanken Fonder’s Committee for ment philosophy. In mutual fund and asset manMontréal Pledge, a UN initiative where owners of Responsible Investments takes a decision on agement, as well as pension management, we capital and asset managers worldwide have comaction when we receive such a signal. Dialogue is endeavour to contribute to sustainable developmitted to measuring and reporting the carbon our main long-term method for contributing to susment in ﬁnancial, social and environmental terms footprint in their portfolios. As a ﬁrst step, we have tainable development. If we receive indications that in the companies in which we invest, on behalf of measured and reported the carbon footprint of the companies we invest in are not complying with our customers. We base this on the joint standHandelsbanken’s equity funds. A summary of the international standards and conventions that ards set out in international conventions and these is published at handelsbanken.se/csreng. we respect, we contact these companies – indeguidelines; for example, Handelsbanken stands Handelsbanken also supports the Carbon pendently or together with other investors. In 2015, behind the UN Global Compact. Handelsbanken Disclosure Project (CDP), an independent interwe had discussions regarding speciﬁc sustainabilalso adheres to the UN Principles of Responsible national non-proﬁt organisation which works for ity matters with almost 50 companies. These disInvestment (PRI). transparency and a dialogue concerning comcussions have included matters such as corruppanies’ carbon dioxide emissions and climate tion, environmental destruction and labour laws. SUSTAINABILITY – AN IMPORTANT PART strategies. A list of these companies is published at OF ACTIVE FUND MANAGEMENT handelsbanken.se/csreng. Our active asset management is based on fundaPatience and persistence are vital in these promental research into markets and companies. cesses – but up to a ﬁnite limit. Divestment or “ Sustainability research takes place on a regular exclusion of companies from our investments are basis and is an integral part of our investment We have a long-term a last resort if all other alternatives have failed. process. The research is carried out by our fund All of Handelsbanken’s actively managed funds managers. In our view, an integrated working perspective on the exclude companies that are involved in the promethod has the greatest impact in an already duction of weapons that are banned under interrobust investment process and, in the long term, investments we national law, and companies that are involved in this creates value in the portfolios. The people nuclear weapons. This is in accordance with the who make our investment decisions pay heed to make on behalf of Bank’s guidelines for business relations with the ” sustainability issues in their daily work, both from armaments and defence industry. A list of the a risk perspective and as a way of identifying our customers. companies that have been excluded from investment ideas. Handelsbanken’s mutual funds is published at In our view, sustainability risks are also ﬁnancial handelsbanken.se/csreng. risks; thus the assessment of these is a vital part DIALOGUE AND ANALYSIS of our long-term research when we select comWe have a long-term perspective on the investpanies to invest in. As we have a long-term investments we make on behalf of our customers. A ment horizon, we have no interest in investing in natural part of a fund manager’s work is to assess companies which take short-term shortcuts. the ﬁnancial risks and potential in an investment. One of the investment processes we work with Our assessments of how companies manage 1. Incorporate environmental, social and corpoin active management is thematic investments, their sustainability risks are an important part of rate governance (ESG) issues into investment which is a method of identifying external changes this overall assessment. analysis and decision-making processes. with a long-term impact on a company’s proﬁtaIn 2015, our asset managers had meetings 2. Be active owners and incorporate ESG issues bility. It is very natural that many of these changes with almost 1,700 companies, in order to monitor into our ownership policies and practices. are linked to sustainability. Global water supply their performance, their business methods and 3. Seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by the entities in which we invest. and energy efﬁciency are two themes we have their opportunities. 4. Promote acceptance and application of the worked with in our portfolios during the year, In addition to our regular investment research, principles within the investment industry. where we have identiﬁed companies which cona twice-yearly analysis of all our holdings of listed 5. Work together to enhance our effectiveness in tribute efﬁcient solutions to global problems with equities and corporate bonds is carried out, to implementing the principles. water shortages and energy consumption. identify any companies that do not comply with 6. Report on our activities and progress towards international standards or conventions – a “normimplementing the principles. WORK TO REDUCE CLIMATE IMPACT based screening”. It is based on Global Compact’s In 2015, we also worked with a climate theme. ten principles, as well as the International Labour In the annual PRI survey of the players that are One way of reducing the funds’ carbon footprint Organization’s core conventions on labour laws, signatories to the principles, Handelsbanken is to exclude a number of stocks from our the OECD guidelines for multinational companies, receives high scores. Parts of our reporting, on which the evaluation was based, are available actively managed funds. These are companies and other internationally accepted standards. at unpri.org. operating in coal mining and combustion of coal The analysis is carried out by an external party. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 214 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE FOR panies or markets. Our index funds own many RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS of the largest international companies as part of More information Matters of principle relating to sustainability in their goal to provide return in line with the index, For more information, please see asset management are also the responsibility of and it is therefore important for us to take responhandelsbanken.se/csreng. There are the Handelsbanken’s Responsible Investments Comsibility in the area of sustainability via a well-develfollowing policies and documents among mittee. The committee actively monitors developoped inﬂuence process. others: ments in this area, to contribute to the continuing All holdings in the funds are regularly examined • Corporate governance policy and policy evolution of Handelsbanken’s work with responsiby means of norm-based screening, where, with for responsible investments for Handelsbanken Fonder ble investments. It also sets up and monitors relethe assistance of independent external expertise, • Handelsbanken Liv’s Policy for Responsible vant objectives for operations. The chair of the we identify companies which do not meet up to Investments committee is the Chief Executive of HandelsHandelsbanken’s fundamental values – which are • Examples of companies with which we are banken Fonder, and the other members include based on international standards and convenhaving discussions heads of asset management. tions. In cases where companies systematically • Examples of companies that we exclude violate these standards, Xact Kapitalförvaltning • Information brochure about Responsible CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN takes action with the goal of achieving an Investments HANDELSBANKEN’S FUNDS improvement, principally by means of a dialogue • List of carbon footprints for HandelsThe Bank’s fund management company, with the purpose of inﬂuencing the company. The banken’s equity funds Handelsbanken Fonder, exercises its ownership dialogue is undertaken together with other invesrole in the companies in which its mutual funds tors and with the assistance of an independent own shares, on behalf of the unit-holders. The external supplier. Where possible, index funds limit global warming, these funds have combined goal is that the companies show optimal value exclude companies which are involved in controassets of SEK 65 billion, corresponding to 17 per performance in the long term, beneﬁtting our fund versial operations such as prohibited weapons, cent of total fund volumes. savers. Work in the ownership role follows the nuclear weapons or mining and burning of coal. principles for governance set out in the Swedish A decision to exclude a company is determined RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS AT Code of Corporate Governance. This occurs, for on the basis of whether it jeopardises the fund’s HANDELSBANKEN LIV example, in matters concerning the composition ability to comply with the current fund regulations. Handelsbanken offers pension solutions and of the companies’ boards and the procedure prior The decision to undertake a dialogue to inﬂuence other insurance solutions for private and corpoto and at shareholders’ meetings. Ahead of a company or exclude it is made by the Chief rate customers via the Handelsbanken Liv subAGMs in 2015, Handelsbanken Fonder particiExecutive of Xact Kapitalförvaltning. sidiary. pated in the work of 12 nomination committees, On behalf of its fund unit holders, Xact KapitalHandelsbanken Liv has a policy for responsible and ahead of the 2016 AGMs, we have particiförvaltning exercises its ownership role in the investment based on Global Compact and PRI. pated in 26 nomination committees. In the nomicompanies in which its mutual funds own shares. Handelsbanken Liv does not have its own asset nation work, we consider it particularly important The goal is that the companies show optimal managers. When selecting asset managers, to have a more even gender distribution on the value performance in the long term, beneﬁtting mutual funds and fund management companies, boards of Swedish companies. The proportion of our fund savers. This means that Xact KapitalHandelsbanken Liv factors in how well they live women on the boards of listed Swedish compaförvaltning can participate in, and vote at, annual up to their sustainability requirements. nies has increased in the past few years and was general meetings. Handelsbanken Liv has decided to manage 28 per cent on average in 2015. In the boards most of its customers’ pension capital with where Handelsbanken Fonder has been involved FUNDS WITH SPECIAL CRITERIA Handelsbanken Fonder, which was thus the largin the nomination committee, the proportion of Handelsbanken also offers funds which observe est supplier of Handelsbanken Liv’s traditional women was on average 38 per cent. In addition, special criteria in their investment strategy, for pension management and unit-linked manageHandelsbanken Fonder voted at 82 annual genexample, excluding investments in controversial ment in 2015. eral meetings in 2015, 55 of these in Swedish operations, such as alcohol, tobacco and fossil companies. fuels. In 2015, we further increased the range of STRUCTURED PRODUCTS WITH such funds: we now offer a total of eleven funds A SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS SUSTAINABILITY IN INDEX FUNDS with special criteria. The range now consists of In 2015, Handelsbanken issued four equity-linked Through its subsidiary, Xact Kapitalförvaltning, index funds, actively managed equity funds and bonds with a sustainability focus. These are capiHandelsbanken is the leading manager for index ﬁxed income funds with a special investment tal-protected investments which give exposure funds and exchange-traded funds in the Nordic focus with the general name Criteria. Together to European companies with a strong focus on countries. Management of index funds is a paswith the Handelsbanken Hållbar Energi (sustainasustainability, or to European companies with low sive, rule-based form of asset management and ble energy) fund, which invests in companies that climate impact. The total value of these products is thus based on a fundamental analysis of comdevelop or use technologies and techniques to was SEK 193 million. CO-OPERATION AND INITIATIVES FOR SUSTAINABILITY WITHIN ASSET MANAGEMENT PRI CDP Since 2015, most of Handelsbanken’s funds have this PRI (the United Nations-backed Principles for CDP is an independent international non-proﬁt organtype of sustainability proﬁle. More information about Responsible Investment Initiative) is a network of isation which works for transparency and a dialogue this can be found at hallbarhetsproﬁlen.se (Swedishinvestors that work together with the UN to impleconcerning companies’ carbon dioxide emissions only site). ment principles for responsible investment. During and climate strategies. Handelsbanken supports this the year, Handelsbanken Fonder participated in the initiative and reports annually to CDP. Sustainable Value Creation following PRI-related initiatives: Since 2009, Handelsbanken Asset Management, • G20 Energy Efﬁciency Investor Statement. This SWESIF together with other major Swedish investors, has initiative is about paying heed to energy efﬁciency Handelsbanken is a member of SWESIF, an indetaken part in the Sustainable Value Creation project. within our work with responsible investments. pendent network forum for organisations working for The aim of the project is to highlight the importance • Sustainable Stock Exchanges – an initiative to or with sustainable investments in Sweden. SWESIF of Swedish companies working with sustainability persuade the stock exchanges of the world to aims to increase knowledge of and interest in sustainissues in a structured manner. During the year, Susdemand greater transparency from listed comable investments on the part of institutional asset tainable Value Creation highlighted the need for companies in sustainability issues. owners and managers. To make it easier for savers panies to carry out human rights-related manage• Montréal Pledge – an initiative whereby asset to compare funds and how sustainability is integrated ment and reporting. managers undertake to measure and report their in mutual fund management, SWESIF has developed funds’ carbon footprints. a sectorwide sustainability proﬁle for mutual funds. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 215 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our role in the community Handelsbanken acts in a socially responsible manner and contributes to economic development in the community by running stable, long-term banking operations that focus on customer needs. HANDELSBANKEN IN THE COMMUNITY of direction. Most of the Bank’s 463 branches tion and services that we provide, regardless of Handelsbanken is a bank with long-term stability in Sweden meet these requirements. In cases the customer’s ability. – a bank which, regardless of the situation in the where these requirements are not met, it is usually We constantly strive to develop and improve world around us, is there for our customers. By due to restrictions regarding alterations to the our meeting places and to increase the level of being a bank with stable ﬁnances and a stable exterior of the building or the street environment. accessibility for our customers. We also work presence, Handelsbanken aims to fulﬁl its role as a Our large number of branches means that if necconstantly to identify and remove obstacles in responsible institution. Handelsbanken also takes essary we can offer customers a nearby branch our digital services. responsibility in this role by managing risks so that which is adapted to their needs. as few customers as possible have payment difﬁculties. The Bank can thus continue to be a bank SERVICES FOR THE PUBLIC GOOD “ with stable ﬁnances, making a positive contribution A bank’s fundamental tasks are, on the one hand, to customers, shareholders, and the community. to manage the money of those who wish to postHandelsbanken puts a pone their spending and save their money, and on the other to lend money to companies and great deal of effort into households that wish to spend and invest today. being available for our “ Together, banks must also maintain an efﬁcient, Handelsbanken can thus ” functioning payment system, as well as managing risk. The payment systems which Handelsbanken customers. continue to be a bank and other banks have developed together are technically advanced and are characterised by a with stable finances, high degree of efﬁciency and security. Payments When we build new services or renew our existing are effected quickly, securely and at low cost. ones, we do this based on market standards. making a positive conIncreased use of digital payment solutions such We have also drawn up our own guidelines that as card payments and mobile payments make go further than these standards, with the aim of tribution to customers, customers’ everyday life easier and also reduces being accessible to our customers. The aspect of our direct environmental impact. accessibility is one of the cornerstones of all our shareholders, and the Swish is an example of a service for the public development work, and we use external parties ” good that Handelsbanken helped to develop in to check the quality of accessibility in our digital community. collaboration with other Swedish banks. By using meeting places. Swish, all the Bank’s customers can quickly and Our customers in Sweden can also use a large simply make payments to individuals, companies, number of ATMs operated by Bankomat AB, in HANDELSBANKEN IN THE LOCAL associations and organisations that are linked to which Handelsbanken is a shareholder. The ATMs COMMUNITY the service. are available in around 500 towns around SweHandelsbanken is convinced of the need for a local BankID is e-identiﬁcation which allows public den. Most of them are accessible to people in presence. The basic concept of the Bank’s way of authorities, organisations, companies and banks wheelchairs and also have a sound function for operating is that business decisions are made as to identify and enter into agreements with private the visually impaired. The ATM display supports close to the customer as possible, based on local individuals online. Using this, the person can then Swedish and seven other languages. information. This is why Handelsbanken offers a prove their identity in contacts with various public nationwide branch network in the six countries the authorities. This is another example of services HANDELSBANKEN AS A TAXPAYER Bank categorises as its home markets. Our decenjointly developed by the major Swedish banks for Handelsbanken makes a contribution to the comtralised organisation, where the local branch manthe public good. munity in the countries where the Bank operates, ager is responsible for all the Bank’s business in its partly by paying taxes and charges, and also by local operating area, means that Handelsbanken is Availability – on the customer’s terms employing staff. For many years, Handelsbanken ﬁrmly established in the local community. Handelsbanken puts a great deal of effort into has been one of the largest payers of corporate tax In the past few decades, many banks have being available for our customers and this is a in Sweden. In addition to corporate tax, Handelssigniﬁcantly reduced their number of branches. major component of our method of banking. In banken pays substantial amounts in social security Handelsbanken has instead elected to retain its addition to our local branches, we are also availacosts and other taxes. Historically, it has been the local branches and thus continues to ﬁll an imporble on our digital meeting places, such as Online largest payer to the Swedish Stability Fund for the tant function in the local community. Banking, and in our apps. In Sweden, Handelsﬁnancial system and one of the largest payers to In 2015, Handelsbanken opened 22 new banken Direkt Personal Service is open 24 hours the state deposit guarantee scheme. For 2015, branches in its home markets: 19 of them in the a day, and is staffed by professional bankers who it is estimated that Handelsbanken’s total taxes UK and 3 in the Netherlands. We are currently the help customers by phone. Via our personal teleand state fees amount to SEK 8 billion (8). In only bank in 68 locations. phone service we can also meet our customers in addition, VAT represents a substantial cost for a number of different languages. Handelsbanken, since the Bank cannot deduct ACCESSIBLE LOCAL BRANCHES Good accessibility in our digital meeting places input VAT which it pays when buying external The Bank’s local branches must also be accessiis about the Bank striving to give the opportunity services and products. This is because the ble to customers with reduced mobility or sense to everyone who wishes to access the informaBank’s business is largely not subject to VAT, H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 216 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT i.e. the Bank’s customers do not pay VAT on be observed, as regulated in policy documents GRANTS FOR RESEARCH AND EDUCATION ﬁnancial services. from the Board. The Bank must not participate Since the early 1960s, Handelsbanken has on Handelsbanken pays and reports tax based in transactions or provide products that may be a number of occasions awarded grants for ecoon local regulations in the countries where it opercalled into question in the light of prevailing tax nomic research, mainly through allocations to ates. The table below shows that 98.6 per cent legislation. If there is doubt, Handelsbanken must two independent research foundations: the Tore of the Group’s tax costs derive from the Bank’s six not participate. Browaldh Foundation and the Jan Wallander and home markets, which corresponds well with the Tom Hedelius Foundation. fact that these countries account for 98.5 per Together, these foundations are some of the cent of the Group’s proﬁts. The Bank strives to most important sources of funding for economic maintain an open dialogue with the tax authorities in the countries where the Bank operates. In the UK, Handelsbanken has adopted the British tax authorities’ code of conduct for banks. “ For many years, Handelsbanken has research in Sweden. In 2015, 169 grants (152) were awarded for a total of SEK 180 million (151). At the end of 2015, the foundations’ combined capital totalled some SEK 6,051 million. In addition to taxes relating to the Bank’s own been one of the largest Handelsbanken has also funded a professorial operations, the Bank withholds, reports and pays chair in accounting at the Stockholm School of in substantial amounts on behalf of its customers payers of corporate tax Economics and has contributed to the Institute and employees to the tax authorities in the counfor Financial Research (SIFR) and Swedish House tries where the Bank operates. Handelsbanken’s actions regarding taxes aim to be responsible, correct and transparent. The Bank has co-ordinated management, governin Sweden. ” of Finance (SHoF). For several years, Handelsbanken has supported a project to improve young people’s knowledge of personal ﬁnance though ﬁnancial ance and follow-up of tax-related issues. It continPOLITICALLY INDEPENDENT support for information campaigns and contributually monitors developments in the area of taxaHandelsbanken is not allied to any political paring the Bank’s expertise. tion in Sweden and internationally, particularly ties. In modern times, the Bank has not provided with reference to transparency and tax ethics. any ﬁnancial support to any political party, nor has At Handelsbanken, high ethical standards must it made any other type of political donations. Corporate tax and charges, per country Corporate tax and charges SEK m 6 000 5 000 Corporate tax 60% Social security costs 26% 4 000 Stability fee 14% 3 000 2 000 1 000 0 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway NetherOthers lands Corporate tax (actual tax) Social security costs (including calculated payroll tax on allocation to proﬁt-sharing foundation) Fees to the Stability Fund, deposit guarantee, etc. Taxes and government fees, per country SEK m Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands Other Group Corporate tax (actual tax) 3 318 485 170 232 563 13 76 4 857 Social security costs (including calculated payroll tax on allocation to proﬁt-sharing foundation) 1 568 214 87 21 108 15 35 2 048 Fees to the Stability Fund, deposit guarantee, etc. 1 037 17 24 13 25 1 1 1 118 Total taxes and government fees 5 923 716 281 266 696 30 113 8 025 Income 25 461 5 290 2 209 2 111 3 708 341 1 216 40 336 Operating proﬁt 14 305 2 089 600 1 106 2 005 57 313 20 475 Assets 1 597 179 232 867 81 114 125 307 177 143 18 959 289 564 2 522 133 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 217 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Economic value creation Handelsbanken’s profitability benefits society at large, as well as the Bank’s shareholders. Handelsbanken is one of the few Nordic banks that has not sought financial support from central banks, taxpayers or its shareholders in modern times. THE FOUNDATION OF A BANK’S Capital OPERATIONS To ensure that banks have sufﬁcient resistance The foundation of a bank’s operations is money. This consists of capital which initially comprises the share capital which the owners pay in when a bank is founded and proﬁts generated over time, “ A condition for customers putting money to the risks arising in their operations, but also to protect customers’ assets and interests, the public authorities have established capital requirements – rules for the minimum amount of capital together with other funding such as deposits and in a bank is that they a bank must have in order to run its operations. borrowing from the public and funding in the capiA bank must have sufﬁcient capital for its current tal markets. When studying a bank in a sustainahave confidence in the business volumes, but in order to meet custombility perspective, it may therefore be of interest to ers’ future loan requirements, it must also have also look at how that bank manages its capital and its view of funding. bank. ” capital to allow growth in lending and other business operations. From the customer’s point of The table, which is laid out according to GRI’s principles, shows how the income generated by the Bank’s operations is allocated over various groups of stakeholders. The data comes from the Group’s income statement and balance sheet. Direct economic value generated and distributed (according to GRI) Economic ﬂows to and from various groups of stakeholders SEK bn 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED Customers Income after loan losses and before fees to Stability Fund, deposit guarantee, etc. 39.8 37.7 36.2 34.9 33.1 Value created by serving customers 39.8 37.7 36.2 34.9 33.1 ALLOCATED ECONOMIC VALUE Employees Salaries 8.0 7.6 7.1 6.9 6.7 Provision to proﬁt-sharing foundation (incl. social security costs) 0.9 0.8 1.1 1.0 0.9 Social security costs and other staff costs 3.7 3.4 3.2 3.3 2.3 Cost of employees 12.6 11.8 11.4 11.2 9.9 Public authorities and society at large Suppliers* 5.7 5.6 5.7 5.5 5.5 Tax costs** 4.3 4.1 3.9 3.0 4.4 Fees to Stability Fund, deposit guarantee, etc. 1.1 1.2 1.1 1.1 1.1 Government bank support received Participation in government guarantee programmes To society 11.1 10.9 10.7 9.6 11.0 Shareholders Dividends (refers to the year dividends were paid) 11.1 10.5 6.8 6.1 5.6 New share issue Transactions with the shareholders 11.1 10.5 6.8 6.1 5.6 Reinvested economic value (“remaining in the Bank”) 5.0 4.5 7.3 8.0 6.6 * Refers to Other administrative expenses and depreciation. ** Refers to Tax costs according to the income statement. The table of created and delivered direct economic value shows how the income generated by Handelsbanken’s operations during the year was allocated over various stakeholders. The calculation is based on the figures in the income statement and in accordance with the GRI guidelines. The items allocated in the table are based on broader value created where salaries and other administrative costs (suppliers) are added to the operating profit. The purpose is to show in a basic way how Handelsbanken creates value for its stakeholders and in the economic system in which the organisation works. The table provides an overview of the direct measurable monetary value contributed by Handelsbanken to its stakeholders, and thus to social development. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 218 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT view, it is particularly important that the bank Funding long-term lending with short-term is available in times of ﬁnancial turmoil, such as deposits creates liquidity risks which may create in the early 1990s or since the ﬁnancial crisis of 2008. If a bank makes substantial losses, its shareholders may be compelled to contribute more serious problems in the ﬁnancial system. Handelsbanken’s view of funding is based on a well-balanced balance sheet where long-term loans to the Bank’s customers are ﬁnanced with “ A well-run bank, which acts sustainably and share capital in the form of a new share issue, stable funding. For this reason, mortgage loans responsibly, has a subwhich may be difﬁcult at that point in time. are ﬁnanced by Handelsbanken’s wholly owned A condition for customers putting money in mortgage institution – Stadshypotek – issuing stantial positive impact a bank is that they have conﬁdence in the bank. covered bonds with a long maturity. By always A bank which does not meet its customers’ having a balance sheet which is structured so on the economy in expectations, risks seeing outﬂows of deposits that the Bank’s commitments to customers and when the crisis is at its peak. If these outﬂows are large, the bank’s survival is in jeopardy. Outﬂows of savings which customers have placed in mutual funds, life insurance and other types of investors can be secured, Handelsbanken takes responsibility in its capacity as a bank which is important to the ﬁnancial system. It is vital that banks have a good long-term general. ” saving, which are not used for the operations’ funding strategy so that they avoid running into DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE own ﬁnancing, are not as serious, but nevera liquidity shortage where they cannot fully meet During the most recent business cycle, Handelstheless result in a signiﬁcant deterioration of the the agreements they have entered into with cusbanken has paid dividends to its shareholders earnings capacity, which may lead to problems. tomers who have deposits, and other lenders. every year, while remaining one of the largest payers of corporate tax in Sweden. VALUE CREATION DURING 2015 It is also vital that a bank makes a proﬁt. This is INDIRECT ECONOMIC EFFECTS “ By always having a balance sheet which is because the surplus in a bank’s operations beneﬁts both society and the shareholders. A large proportion of the proﬁt is reinvested in the operations so that the Bank can meet customers’ Handelsbanken is the largest ﬁnancer of companies in Sweden, and thus it ﬁnances growth and increased employment throughout the country. The Bank enables households to fund property structured so that the future loan requirements. purchases and thus move to a new town where Handelsbanken’s proﬁt before taxes and govthe employment situation is better, for example. Bank’s commitments to ernment fees was just over SEK 24 billion in 2015. The Handelsbanken Group ﬁnances almost one The created value was distributed as follows: quarter of households’ mortgage loans in Sweden. customers and invesSEK 8 billion in taxes and government fees, just over SEK 11 billion in proposed dividends, to be tors can be secured, paid to the shareholders in the spring of 2016, and the remaining SEK 5 billion, which is reinvested in Handelsbanken takes the operations. responsibility in its STABLE THROUGHOUT THE FINANCIAL CRISIS capacity as a bank During the ﬁnancial crisis, Handelsbanken has not used the Swedish government’s capital support which is important to or guarantee programme and is the only listed Swedish bank that has not needed to ask its the financial system. ” shareholders for fresh capital. When the ﬁnancial crisis was at its height in Sweden in 2009, Handelsbanken lent around SEK 100 billion to the Riksbank, which was at Funding on the capital markets their disposal. For a large part of the deposits, customers can A well-run bank, which acts sustainably and withdraw money from their account at any time responsibly, has a substantial positive impact on so it is not desirable to fund all lending with the economy in general. This applies not only to deposits. At the same time, much of bank lending direct economic effects such as paying corporate has a long maturity, for example, mortgage loans. tax, but also to the indirect economic effects. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 219 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT High ethical standards engender trust To retain the confidence of the business world, it is important that the Bank acts ethically. Guidelines for this are formulated in a policy document, established by the Bank’s Board. POLICY FOR ETHICAL STANDARDS AT Information security covers administrative In 2015, Handelsbanken was the ﬁrst Nordic HANDELSBANKEN solutions such as rules and instructions, as well bank to become a member of FIRST (Forum Handelsbanken’s policy documents on ethical as technical security solutions. It is important that of Incident Response and Security Teams). standards is adopted by the Bank’s Board the Bank’s IT security is very high in order to meet Handelsbanken also participates in FIDI Finans and formulate the basic guidelines for every possible risks and that there are procedures for which is a forum for sharing information between employee’s actions. managing changes in the IT environment so that the government, the business community and Employees who are in doubt when applying no shortcomings occur. other relevant organisations regarding information the Bank’s rules and dealing with related issues Nine complaints were managed in 2015 relatsecurity in the ﬁnancial sector. The forum is led by must contact their immediate superior to ﬁnd out ing to customer integrity or identiﬁed leaks of cusMSB – the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency. what is ethically acceptable. tomer data, in all cases in collaboration with the Banks’ operations are regulated by legislation parties involved. In one of the cases, this has led MEASURES AGAINST MONEY LAUNDERING and are governed by extensive laws and regulato a change in internal procedures. AND FINANCING OF TERRORISM tions. If a bank does not comply with the laws and The Group Chief Executive establishes guideOne of the starting-points for the regulations regulations, the responsible supervisory authority lines for information security at Handelsbanken. against money laundering and the ﬁnancing of can issue ﬁnes and in the worst case revoke the All employees are responsible for compliance terrorism is that banks must have good knowbanking licence. with the rules for protection of information and all ledge of their customers, and that Know Your A self-evident rule is that Handelsbanken and the managers are responsible for compliance with the Customer information must be documented. Bank’s employees must comply with the laws and rules within their own area of responsibility. InforHandelsbanken’s decentralised work methods regulations that govern the Bank’s operations. If mation security work is pursued in accordance and strong local presence in the community crethe individual has poorer protection from local laws with the ISO 27001 international standard. This ate a good basis for close, long-term customer and regulations than Swedish laws, regulations and means that any risks are identiﬁed on a regular relations. This means that our staff know their principles, Handelsbanken applies the latter. basis and that internal rules are produced so that customers and understand their business and The policy document is reviewed every year the information is protected over time. requirements. Thousands of customer meetings by the Board. The starting point here is any The Bank’s management of sensitive informatake place every day at the Bank’s 849 branches changes to the relevant legislation, but also tion is also governed by international and national in 25 countries. changes in external expectations, the Bank’s legislation. The processing of personal data is Almost all our customer relations begin at the experience of regular internal work and observasubject to the provisions of the Swedish Personal customer’s branch. Our customers subsequently tions from the Bank’s comprehensive internal Data Act and corresponding international legislameet Handelsbanken via our digital meeting control. tion. The rules mean that private individuals are places, such as online banking and mobile bankprotected against their personal integrity being ing. This means that we need several methods of INFORMATION SECURITY violated due to the processing of personal data. keeping informed of how the Bank’s customers Sensitive information is processed in the Bank’s The regulations regarding bank conﬁdentiality are using our products and services. We need operations, particularly regarding the Bank’s cuswhereby information about individuals’ relations these to understand customer needs, and also tomers and customer relations. Handelsbanken’s with the Bank must not be disclosed are stated in to work effectively with measures against money work with information and IT security focuses on the Swedish Banking and Financing Business Act laundering and ﬁnancing of terrorism. availability, correctness, conﬁdentiality and traceand corresponding international legislation. The responsibility for working with measures ability. The information and the Bank’s business The Bank’s information security regulations are against money laundering and ﬁnancing of terrorsystems must be available based on the business based on the Standard of Good Practice develism is held by a central department which must requirements of the operations. The information oped by Information Security Forum (ISF), an ensure that there is competency in and awaremust also be reliable, correct and complete. Nor organisation where most of the largest compashould it be distributed to unauthorised persons nies in the world are members. The work with and it may only be used to the extent required by information and IT security is pursued systematiHANDELSBANKEN’S POLICY ON the work assignment. It must be possible to cally and we apply a process where risk analysis ETHICAL STANDARDS COVER THE determine afterwards who has read or changed plays a central role. The risk analyses are perFOLLOWING AREAS: • High ethical standards the information, when this happened and which formed using the IRAM method (ISF’s Information • Laws, regulations and guiding principles changes were made. Risk Analysis Methodology). • The UN Global Compact The work with the Bank’s information security The conditions for IT security change all the • Counteracting ﬁnancial crime involves protecting customers’ information and time. Handelsbanken therefore needs to continu• Customer relations transactions and also the Bank’s IT environment. ously evaluate and take a stand on possible new • Counteracting conﬂicts of interest If shortcomings in the processing were to arise or risks in this area. By continuously following up • Conduct of employees • Reporting by employees who suspect internal the information was incorrectly distributed, this events which occur both within and outside the fraud or other irregularities could lead to serious consequences, including Bank’s operations, it is easier to take the right • Conﬁdentiality loss of or deteriorated conﬁdence in the Bank or action at the right time. To this end, the Bank par• External contractors ﬁnancial losses. ticipates and collaborates in international forums. H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 220 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ness of these areas throughout the Group. In that the Bank’s employees comply with laws • are not permitted to process transactions in addition, there are regional ofﬁcers for this area in and the Bank’s regulations regarding bribery which they, or persons closely related to them, the countries where the Bank conducts its bankand improper inﬂuence so that they avoid being have a personal interest. This also applies ing operations. dependent on a customer or supplier, or have to companies to which these employees In spring 2013, the Swedish Financial Superviimproper inﬂuence on a customer. The Bank’s or persons closely related to them have a sory Authority began an investigation into how the employees must not participate in actions that commitment four major Swedish banks comply with the antimay involve bribery or any other improper inﬂu• must notify their manager, local compliance money laundering regulations. The investigation ence, either within the Bank’s operations, or when or Central Audit if they suspect irregularities at was concluded in the spring of 2015. they perform other assignments outside the the Bank. Handelsbanken’s special system In May 2015, Handelsbanken received a Bank. All unit heads must annually go through the for whistleblowing is used to complement remark and an administrative ﬁne of SEK 35 milregulations applying to bribery and improper inﬂuthese reporting channels. The report is made lion from the Supervisory Authority. The remark ence with their employees. There are also proceon a special form and is sent to the Head of related to shortcomings in how Handelsbanken dures for how employees are to report a susCentral Audit Sweden complies with the anti-money laundering pected breach of these regulations. • must notify the Bank of assignments outside regulations. The Bank takes very seriously the The regulations must be followed in all conthe Bank and obtain approval. These rules also shortcomings pointed out by the Supervisory texts, such as gifts, entertainment and other apply to secondary occupations and certain Authority in its investigation of the Bank’s Swedevents. In addition, employees’ business travel posts in clubs, societies and the like. ish operations. Neither Handelsbanken nor the must always be paid for by the Bank. Supervisory Authority has discovered any type of During the year, Handelsbanken has worked to THE BANK AS A CUSTOMER AND crime in this investigation. Even before the remark further reinforce and guarantee the quality of its OUR SUPPLIERS was received, an extensive programme of action work to counteract conﬂicts of interest, corrupEthical considerations are just as important for had begun, to improve the Bank’s work in this tion, bribery and improper inﬂuence. For example, the Bank in its role as customer as when it suparea. This means that Handelsbanken has cora special analysis was made of the risk of bribery, plies products and services. One example is that rected, or is in the process of correcting, the corruption and improper inﬂuence within the the Bank has rules for receiving and giving pershortcomings that were highlighted. To ensure Handelsbanken Group and this was documented sonal gifts and for corporate entertaining in order effective work, Handelsbanken will continue to in preparation for revision of the Bank’s policy. to avoid incurring obligations to suppliers. We have invest in both competency and technology. In The analysis identiﬁed the areas where the Bank is a regular dialogue with suppliers and when makthis area, high competency and awareness are at greatest risk of being exposed to, or complicit ing purchasing decisions, we investigate that they required from all employees, as well as ﬁt-forin, bribery, corruption and improper inﬂuence. have collective bargaining agreements, a work purpose processes and customised IT solutions. In addition to this analysis, operational risk environment policy and a policy against giving The action programme therefore contains major analyses are performed each year which include and accepting bribes. Environmental consideraefforts to improve risk assessments, ensure gaththe area of corruption. Security reviews are also tions are also taken in purchasing decisions. ering of customer due diligence, carry out major performed every year and these contain a training A check list exists to support quality assurance training efforts and comprehensive development and information section on corruption. of the Bank’s purchases. of the Bank’s IT systems. No veriﬁed corruption incidents were reported In 2016, Handelsbanken intends to gradually Through the current action programme and in 2015. implement a code of conduct for major suppliers measures that have already been carried out, Handelsbanken’s Board has revised the Bank’s in Sweden. It is intended to implement the code in the Bank has reduced the risk of participating in anti-corruption policy, which states that all new all the Bank’s home markets. transactions which may be suspected of being employees of the Bank must complete a course It is intended that the code of conduct will deﬁne linked to criminal activities. At the same time, we on corruption, bribery and improper inﬂuence. the requirements we make of our suppliers and are creating an effective basis for compliance. Completion of the course must be documented. their sub-contractors. Most of the requirements All employees must also update their knowledge are based on internationally accepted standards WORK TO COUNTERACT CONFLICTS OF annually. The policy also applies to all Board with the UN Global Compact as the starting point. INTEREST, CORRUPTION, BRIBERY AND members throughout the Group who must comThis means that the Bank requires that suppliers IMPROPER INFLUENCE plete applicable parts of the course. Service and their sub-contractors comply with the code of Conﬂicts of interest occur daily in society and the providers and representatives of the Bank must conduct or corresponding standards which may ﬁnancial sector is no exception. All employees of also be informed of the Bank’s rules on bribery, imply stricter requirements than the current legislaHandelsbanken, regardless of where they work in improper inﬂuence and corruption, and they are tion. The supplier is also obliged to ensure that the Group, are obliged to follow the Bank’s regusubject to these rules when they perform assigntheir employees and sub-contractors in their turn lations concerning conﬂicts of interest and to ments on behalf of the Bank. The revision of the meet the requirements of the code. identify these on a regular basis, and as far as policy applies at the time that this Sustainability possible ensure that they are avoided. Report is published. Handelsbanken has established procedures for managing conﬂicts of interest with the purCONDUCT OF EMPLOYEES pose of preventing customers’ interests from Handelsbanken’s employees: being negatively affected. The Bank’s regulations • must not be in a position where they may be contain requirements for transparency, whereby suspected of taking improper advantage of the customer must be informed when a conﬂict of knowledge about the ﬁnancial markets which interest has been identiﬁed which might affect the they obtain in the course of their work customer. Handelsbanken’s Board has revised • must be familiar with legislation concerning the Bank’s policy for managing conﬂicts of intertrading in ﬁnancial instruments and observe the est where it states how the work of identifying Bank’s rules for employees’ private securities and managing conﬂicts of interest is conducted. and currency transactions The revision applies at the time this Sustainability • must, in their work at the Bank and private More information Report is published. affairs, refrain from business transactions that The Bank’s sustainability policy, policy In banking operations there is a risk that staff violate the Bank’s rules or current legislation on ethical standards, policy against corruption will be exposed to a situation that can be linked • must refrain from transactions or other comand policy for managing conﬂicts of interest to attempts at bribery, which in turn may lead to mitments that could seriously jeopardise their are available at handelsbanken.se/csreng. a position of dependence. It is therefore important personal ﬁnancial position H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 221 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our environmental work To promote long-term sustainable development, Handelsbanken works to minimise the Bank’s direct and indirect impact on the environment. HANDELSBANKEN’S ENVIRONMENTAL direct impact derives mainly from consumption of comparability, the results for 2012–2014 have POLICY energy, business travel and transport, and also been recalculated in accordance with the new Environmental work at Handelsbanken is based use of resources such as paper. We measure our climate calculations. on the Bank’s environmental policy. As far as is material environmental impact in our six home CDP is an independent, international non-proﬁt technically and ﬁnancially possible, and to the markets. These markets represent more than 96 organisation that works to promote openness extent that is compatible with its undertakings, per cent of the Bank’s total number of employees. and dialogue concerning companies’ carbon the Bank aims to promote long-term sustainable dioxide emissions, and how companies should development. We therefore continually strive to manage their impact on climate, in order to pass minimise our negative environmental impact. this knowledge on to investors. Over 5,500 “ We will achieve this by: organisations in more than 80 countries world• taking long-term sustainable business deciWe are working to miniwide measure and report their emissions of sions in which environmental factors are taken greenhouse gases and climate impact via CDP. into consideration mise the carbon dioxide The result in CDP’s annual survey is based on • setting environmental requirements in all cenhow transparent a company is and how well it tral procurements, and ensuring that these are emissions generated in works with climate matters. The result for trans” complied with parency is based on a scale between 0 and 100 • encouraging environmental awareness and our operations. and the climate work on a grading scale between environmental competence among employees A and E. In this year’s survey, the Bank improved • constantly developing our environmental activiits performance in the area of transparency to 95 ties, so that the Bank’s environmental impact is We are working to minimise the carbon dioxide points (85) out of 100 possible, while the grading continuously minimised emissions generated in our operations. In 2015, for the Bank’s climate work fell to level C (B). The • monitoring and measuring the Bank’s impact carbon dioxide emissions for the operations average value in CDP Nordic was 84 C. The Bank on the environment. totalled 13,231 tonnes. This is a decrease of will continue the work of improving management 15 per cent from the previous year, and is mainly of our climate impact in an open, transparent Handelsbanken has signed and complies with a attributable to the Bank increasing the proportion manner and our clear goal is thus to improve our number of voluntary agreements, such as the ICC of renewable electricity. result in CDP’s next survey. Guidelines for Sustainable Development, the UN’s In 2015, the Bank’s electricity consumption CDP acts on behalf of more than 800 instituBanks and the Environment programme (UNEP FI), decreased by 6 per cent compared with 2014. tional investors, and starting from 2015, Handelsthe UN’s Global Compact, and the UN Principles The proportion of renewable electricity is 100 per banken is one of them. of Responsible Investment (PRI). cent for Nordic operations and 87 per cent for all home markets. CLIMATE COMPENSATION HANDELSBANKEN’S DIRECT For 2015, Handelsbanken has corrected its Handelsbanken compensates for carbon dioxide ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT climate calculations, in order to reﬂect the Bank’s emissions currently related to business travel in A bank’s direct environmental impact is fairly limdirect environmental impact more clearly. These the Bank’s six home markets. The Bank compenited. We always strive for our negative impact on corrections have led to higher emission ﬁgures sates through CDM projects (Clean Development the environment to be as small as possible. Our than the Bank previously reported. To improve Mechanism), which are UN-registered projects Total CO2 emissions CO2 emissions from energy consumption Centrally distributed information, Group Tonnes Kg CO2 /employee Tonnes MWh/employee No. million No. of customers thous. 18 000 1 800 15 000 6 60 1 500 15 000 1 500 12 500 5 50 1 250 12 000 1 200 10 000 4 40 1 000 9 000 900 7 500 3 30 750 6 000 600 5 000 2 20 500 3 000 300 2 500 1 10 250 0 0 0 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 Emissions from energy Emissions from Heating and cooling Electricity Sheets Envelopes Other emissions business travel Electricity consumption/employee Active online customers, in Sweden* CO2 /employee * Private and corporate customers who have been active in Handelsbanken Online Banking at least once during the last six months of 2015. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 222 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT with veriﬁed climate beneﬁt. The projects are • Handelsbanken has supplemented its selecMore information certiﬁed according to the Gold Standard, which tion of leasing vehicles for employees in SweFor more information regarding is endorsed by more than 80 NGOs and which den with plug-in hybrid cars that can be the Bank’s environmental activities, see ensures that the projects contribute to long-term charged from the electricity mains. handelsbanken.se/csreng. The site includes sustainable development. • The Bank’s internal printing unit was certiﬁed the following information: according to the Nordic environmental certiﬁ• The Bank’s environmental policy MORE EFFICIENT EQUIPMENT AND cation Svanen, and the Bank therefore fulﬁls • Supplementary GRI Appendix UTILISATION OF RESOURCES the requirements for climate-efﬁcient mail. This Throughout the Bank, changes are constantly means that as of 2016, climate compensation being made which, together, are reducing enviapplies to the majority of all Handelsbanken’s ronmental and climatic impact. transport with Postnord in Sweden. • A green collaboration agreement with the Bank’s landlords means that one of the Bank’s MEASURES TO REDUCE THE BANK’S largest ofﬁce buildings has now been certiﬁed ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT according to the European Green Building To reduce the Bank’s environmental impact, the standard. An application for environmental following initiatives are planned over the next few classiﬁcation of the building according to the years: Swedish Green Building Silver standard has • Further increase the level of awareness interbeen submitted and we expect a response in nally by means of information and training 2016. regarding measures to reduce the Bank’s • The Bank is developing a code of conduct for direct climatic impact. The aim of this is that our suppliers which will be gradually impleall parts of the organisation should be able to mented during 2016. This states that suppliers contribute effectively to reducing energy conto Handelsbanken must support preventative sumption, for example. action to counteract environmental problems, • Increased proportion of green electricity purtake initiatives to increase environmental chased in 2016 in the home markets outside awareness and encourage development of Sweden. environmentally friendly technology. • Increase the amount of recycled refuse. • Deep water source cooling is used from • Reduce the amount of business travel by faciliDecember to May for the head ofﬁce propertating the use of video conferences. ties as a complement to the use of cooling • Further develop the Group’s digital services for machines and district cooling solutions. Deep customers via computers, smartphones and water source cooling involves taking water tablet devices, and for branches and internal from the Baltic Sea using heat exchangers to units in order to reduce paper consumption. cool the Bank’s premises and computer • Continued system development to more rooms. exactly be able to measure our use of • In 2015, the number of video conferences that resources and direct environmental impact. can replace business trips was up by 34 per cent from 2014. HANDELSBANKEN’S INDIRECT • Electronic processing of supplier invoices is ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT gradually being increased, which reduces the By joining the UN’s Global Compact, Handelsuse of paper and transport. The Bank continbanken has undertaken to describe how it works ues to develop digital services for customers, with environmental matters, etc. In addition to branches and internal units, so as to further the Bank’s own consumption of resources, this reduce paper consumption. mainly concerns the indirect environmental • Old printers, fax machines and scanners are impact via lending, asset management and being replaced by multi-function machines agreements with suppliers. See the respective which use less energy, are environmentally sections on pages 213, 214 and 221. certiﬁed and have environmentally friendly toner, and in the long term also reduce paper consumption. • When old equipment is to be scrapped, the Bank ensures that it is recycled in an environmentally friendly manner. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 223 INITIATIVES, AWARDS, SURVEYS AND SUSTAINABILITY INDEX | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Initiatives, awards, surveys and sustainability index Handelsbanken works both within and outside the financial industry in various initiatives which are intended to increase the level of awareness relating to sustainability and corporate social responsibility. INITIATIVES CDP Sustainable Value Creation Global Compact CDP is an independent, Since 2009, HandelsIn 2009, Handelsbanken signed international non-proﬁt banken Asset Manthe UN’s Global Compact, organisation that works agement, together cementing the support the Bank to promote openness and dialogue concerning with other major Swedish investors, has taken has expressed for universal human companies’ carbon dioxide emissions, and how part in the Sustainable Value Creation project. rights and corporate social responcompanies should manage their climate impact, For the participants, the aim of the project has sibility. Global Compact is an initiative aimed at in order to pass this knowledge on to investors. been to highlight the importance of Swedish companies and advocates ten principles based Over 5,500 organisations in more than 80 councompanies working with sustainability issues in on international conventions. These principles, tries all over the world measure and report their a structured manner. which were established in 2000, include human greenhouse gas emissions and their climate perIn its capacity as one of the 100 largest listed rights, labour laws, the environment and antiformance through CDP. Swedish companies, Handelsbanken has itself corruption. CDP acts on behalf of more than 800 instituresponded to the surveys on its work. tional investors, and starting from 2015, HandelsICC banken is one of them. Economic research The International Since the early 1960s, Handelsbanken has on Chamber of ComEcpat a number of occasions awarded grants for ecomerce (ICC) has develIn 2009, Handelsbanken, together nomic research, mainly through allocations to oped guidelines for sustainable development. The with the Swedish Bankers’ Associatwo independent research foundations: the Tore purpose is to provide companies worldwide with tion, started co-operating with Browaldh Foundation and the Jan Wallander and a framework and tools to develop their sustainaEcpat Sweden. During the year, Tom Hedelius Foundation. bility work. The guidelines are based on national we increased our collaboration with Together, these foundations are some of the and international sustainability standards. Ecpat. The overall objective is to prevent exploimost important sources of funding for economic Handelsbanken has complied with the ICC guidetation of children by obstructing and making research in Sweden. In 2015, 169 grants (152) lines since the 1990s. monetary transactions that are linked to commerwere awarded for a total of SEK 180 million (151). cial sexual exploitation of children more difﬁcult. At the end of 2015, the foundations’ combined PRI As part of Handelsbanken’s work with corporate capital totalled some SEK 6,051 million. UN PRI (United social responsibility, we integrate a preventative Handelsbanken has also funded a professorial Nations-backed Prinwork method into our operations, in order to conchair in accounting at the Stockholm School of ciples for Responsible tribute to our stance against commercial sexual Economics and has contributed to the Institute Investment Initiatives) was launched in 2006. It is exploitation of children. for Financial Research (SIFR) and Swedish House a network of investors that work together with the Ecpat Sweden is a part of Ecpat International, of Finance (SHoF). UN to implement principles for responsible investwhich has member organisations in more than 70 Handelsbanken also supports a research proment. Its aim is to promote responsible actions countries. Ecpat is working to prevent and stop all ject at the Stockholm School of Economics where among institutional investors and to work for forms of commercial sexual exploitation of children: studies and analyses are performed on the most increased openness and awareness of environchild pornography, child sex tourism and trafﬁcking important factors in terms of creating customer mental, social and corporate governance issues in under-age human beings for sexual purposes. satisfaction, and also in following the link between in the companies in which these players invest. loyalty and proﬁtability. Handelsbanken became a signatory to the princiFinancial Coalition Against Commercial ples in 2009. In total, some 1,450 capital owners, Sexual Exploitation of Children Personal ﬁnances for young people asset managers and other stakeholders have Handelsbanken has been become signatories. a member of the Swedish Handelsbanken supports initiatives that improve Financial Coalition Against young people’s knowledge of personal ﬁnance by UNEP FI Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children (the supporting information campaigns and contributThe UN Environmental Programme Financial Coalition) since 2009. The Financial ing know-how. Ung Privatekonomi (“Young Perhas a special organisation that Coalition works to obstruct and prevent trade sonal Finances”) is a schools information project works with how the capital markets with images of sexual abuse of children, based on that teaches Swedish upper secondary school can promote the adoption of best the overall crime-prevention goal of stopping child students and teachers about personal ﬁnances environmental and sustainability sexual abuse. With the intention of preventing this and savings. practice. Some 200 ﬁnancial institutrade from being conducted through the ﬁnancial tions which support the initiative contribute to systems, a unique cooperation has been develresearch into and knowledge of how sustainability oped between public authorities, the private secissues can be integrated into ﬁnancial decisions. tor and the non-proﬁt sector. The fact that the Handelsbanken has been a member of UNEP FI Financial Coalition’s members impede the opporsince the mid-1990s. tunity of using the ﬁnancial systems for this kind of crime, helps to make it more complicated and limit its distribution. 224 HA NDE L SB ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2015 INITIATIVES, AWARDS, SURVEYS AND SUSTAINABILITY INDEX | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Collaboration with universities and colleges Best reporting on value creation Sweden’s Small Enterprise Bank 2015 Handelsbanken has a number of collaborations Handelsbanken came in joint For the fourth consecuwith universities and colleges, and these are an second place when PwC for the tive year, Handelsimportant part of its long-term employer branding second year decided the best banken has been acclaimed Small Enterprise work. Through this, Handelsbanken establishes reporting on value creation. Some Bank of the Year in Sweden by companies with contact with target groups that are important in 70 companies from the Nasdaq Stockholm Large between one and nine employees in Finansterms of recruitment and contributes expertise Cap list have been assessed in terms of the inforbarometern’s annual survey. Service and conand experience to the courses. This is based on mation contained in their full annual reports, tacts, and the quality of electronic services are the co-operation with and commitment from HR including the corporate governance report and factors considered most important when small departments, as well as employees and managsustainability report. The jury has mainly looked at enterprises choose their bank. The Bank’s local ers from branches and internal units. the reports’ value creation, credibility, intelligibility presence and its ability to create close ties with and completeness. According to the citation, its customers are important to many small enterHandelsbanken’s student programme Handelsbanken has presented its annual report prises. Handelsbanken has the highest customer Handelsbanken in Sweden offers students from in a clear, structured way and it is perceived as loyalty of all banks in the survey. upper secondary school who plan to study at unibeing totally transparent. It also bears witness versity the opportunity to participate in the Bank’s to a corporate culture where social responsibility World Finance Student Programme alongside their studies. The is a cornerstone. Handelsbanken has programme comprises working at the Bank durbeen named the ”Best ing their studies, their own action plan and releInvestors Chronicle and Financial Times Nordic Banking Group vant studies for development at Handelsbanken. Investment and Wealth Management 2015” and the ”Best The purpose is to attract, recruit and develop Awards 2015 Nordic Retail Bank young employees as part of the Bank’s future Handelsbanken was acclaimed “Best Private 2015” by the international magazine World management succession, and to promote gender bank 2015” in the UK by the international periodiFinance. ”By understanding that the challenges equality and diversity. cals Financial Times and Investors Chronicle. This should not be seen as obstacles but opportuniis the third occasion in four years that Handelsties, and by focusing on customers and not prodThe Technology Leap banken has received this award where readers ucts, Handelsbanken has succeeded where Since the nominate banks and ﬁnancial institutions. The many have not,” writes World Finance. The publiautumn of 2013, award is decided by a jury which mainly looks at cation is widely distributed throughout the world, Handelsbanken in Sweden institutions which provide the best service, the mainly targeting decision-makers, company leadhas taken part in the Technology best value for money and quality which is sustainers, economists, politicians and institutions, as Leap (Tekniksprånget). The Technology Leap is able over time. well as private and public investors. With the help run by the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineerof a jury and nominations from its readers, World ing Sciences (IVA), on behalf of the Swedish International Banker Finance has given awards for achievements and National Agency for Education. The Technology The periodical International innovations since 2007. Leap is an initiative, the aim of which is to give Banker has acclaimed young people who have graduated from natural Handelsbanken “Best Business Bank of the Year 2015 sciences and technology programmes in upper innovation in retail banking For the ﬁfth consecutive secondary school an insight into the engineering Sweden 2015” and “Best year, Handelsbanken profession. Over a four-month period, the young customer service provider was voted Business Bank of the Year by Swepeople are offered work experience aimed at Western Europe 2015”. den’s nearly 1,000 largest companies in Finansinspiring them to apply for technology degree International Banker wrote “Handelsbanken’s barometern’s annual survey. Service and concourses in the future. business model and commitment to customer tacts, the quality of advice, and understanding service make the bank unique” in its citation. of the companies’ needs are some of the factors AWARDS International Banker is one of the most renowned that are considered most important when comBoldness in Business Awards international periodicals in the ﬁelds of econompanies choose a bank. Handelsbanken received ics, banking and ﬁnance. International Banker one of the world’s most presents its awards to banks all over the world, prestigious awards for that are at the very forefront of the sector and not social responsibility: FT only do a good job, but excel in their ﬁeld. ArcelorMittal Boldness in Business. The award is given to the organisation that takes responsibility for its impact on stakeholders and the community, while contributing to improvements in society in general. In their citation, the judges particularly emphasised the Bank’s ethical principles and the fact that the Bank is based on customers’ requirements. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2 015 225 INITIATIVES, AWARDS, SURVEYS AND SUSTAINABILITY INDEX | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SURVEYS Business students OMX GES Sustainability Customer satisfaction According to Universum research Together with the GES In 2015, Handelsbanken company’s survey – Corporate Investment Services had more satisﬁed private Barometer 2015 – Handelsbanken research company, the and corporate customers was second bank and ﬁfth of a total Nasdaq Stockholm stock than the average for the of 204 companies. The survey’s exchange has launched banking sector in all of the participants – business students a number of sustainability indices that provide Bank’s six home markets. In this way, the Bank in Sweden – responded to questions on ideal investors with a universe of companies that fulﬁl retains its strong and stable position regarding employers, and graded these according to the sustainability requirements. Handelsbanken has customer satisfaction. SKI (Swedish Quality following criteria: reputation and image; job charqualiﬁed for the OMX GES Sustainability Sweden Index) is a system for compiling, analysing and acteristics; people and corporate culture; remuindex, as well as the OMX GES Sustainability distributing information about customers’ expecneration and opportunities to advance. Nordic index. tations, perceived quality and evaluation of goods and services. SKI is related to the Swedish InstiYoung professionals SIX Sweden SRI Index tute for Quality (SIQ) and the international organiIn Universum’s 2015 Career SIX Sweden SRI Index is a collaboration between sation EPSI Rating Group (European PerforBarometer survey, Sweden’s SIX Financial Information and ISS-Ethix and conmance Satisfaction Index), which conducts “young professionals” named their sists of companies listed on the Stockholm stock comparable surveys in Europe. Research and ideal employers. “Young profesexchange which meet ISS-Ethix’s sustainability development related to EPSI’s quality surveys is sionals” refers to people under 40 criteria comprising a modern standard for social, conducted together with SIQ and the Stockholm with an academic background and environmental and ethical criteria, where the conSchool of Economics. one to eight years’ experience of working life. cepts of sustainability and responsibility are in Among professionals working in ﬁnance, focus. SRI screening is also applied to other indiSustainable Brand Index Handelsbanken was the number two bank and ces such as the SIX30 SRI Index and SIX60 SRI The 2015 results of in ﬁfteenth place out of a total of 201 companies. Index and the Handelsbanken share is also Scandinavia’s largest Among professional IT graduates, Handelsincluded in these. SIX Financial Information is annual brand study banken was best of the banks and in 42nd place the third largest supplier of ﬁnancial information focusing on sustainability – Sustainable Brand out of a total of 125 companies. in Europe and a leading index calculator on the Index™ – shows that Handelsbanken has a top In this survey, too, participants answered Nordic market. ISS-Ethix is an analysis-based position in the top echelon of banks in Sweden. questions about what is a good employer based advisor for institutional investors in Sweden, other In this study, 27,000 consumers assess the suson the following criteria: reputation and image; job Nordic countries, Europe and the US. tainability of a brand. characteristics; people and corporate culture; Based on the setting, the human and the remuneration and opportunities to advance. STOXX Global ESG Leaders brand, the study seeks to understand why Handelsbanken is a brand is perceived in a certain way. SUSTAINABILITY INDEX included in the STOXX Handelsbanken is scrutinised and assessed by Global ESG Leaders’ TNS Sifo Reputation Index 2015 both customers and ﬁnancial market players. The index. The companies Handelsbanken is outcome, and the assessment of the Bank that included in the index were selected in an analysis among the ten comparesults from this, shows how well Handelsbanken process based on environmental factors, social nies in Sweden with the is living up to their expectations. responsibility and corporate governance issues. best reputation according to the 2015 survey by The Index consists of three underlying indices: TNS Sifo which every year asks the Swedish Ethibel Sustainability Index STOXX Global ESG Environmental Leaders, public how much conﬁdence they have in various The Brussels-based STOXX Global ESG Social Leaders and STOXX companies. Around 4,000 people aged 18–79 organisation Ethibel proGlobal ESG Governance Leaders. Handelstook part in the survey. They answered questions vides the ﬁnancial market banken is included in all three of these indices. about their expectations of various companies with information on variand how well the companies meet these. ous companies and their sustainability work. Its analyses are carried out by the Vigeo research Universum company, and based on these results, Ethibel Employees creates a universe that forms a platform for susDuring the year, the tainability products and responsible investments. research company The Svenska Handelsbanken class A share has Universum performed been included in the Ethibel Excellence Investthree different surveys ment Register since 2004, and is also included in in which Handelsbanken received very high the ESI Excellence index, which is based on this ratings. When Universum ranked Sweden’s Ideal universe. Employer 2015, Handelsbanken came in 24th place of a total of 102 companies, which is best FTSE4Good in the banking sector. This result was based on Handelsbanken has been factors such as “internal identity” (i.e. employees’ selected to be included in the views of their employers’ reputation and image), international FTSE4Good Index job characteristics, people and corporate culture, 2015. The index is independent as well as remuneration and opportunities to and is based on analyses of companies’ work advance. Employees also graded their “satisfacwith environmental, social and governance praction” in overall terms, and their “loyalty” – how tices (ESG). Handelsbanken has been part of the inclined they were to remain with their employer. index since 2001. 226 H AN DE L SB ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2015 GRI – GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Content and restrictions Since 2009, Handelsbanken has reported its relevant work with sustainability in accordance with guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). We do this as part of the Bank’s Annual Report. The aim of the report is that our stakeholders should be able to find out about our work in a simple manner, gaining a good understanding of the Bank’s performance. DATA COLLECTION AND LIMITATIONS detailed dialogue with representatives from the The Sustainability Report contains information Bank’s main stakeholder groups. The purpose relating to the Group unless otherwise stated. was partly to conﬁrm that the sustainability matThe information presented in the report covers ters which the Bank has identiﬁed as being the the largest and most important parts of the opermost material in previous years, correspond to ations, with focus on banking operations. the view of the stakeholders, and also to gain The Report has certain limitations regarding increased understanding of the expectations labour practices and environmental data (LA and which external parties have on the Bank’s susEN). Some HR information refers to the Swedish tainability work. operations only or the Bank’s home markets, The analysis was based on a broad spectrum while other information is for the Group as a of questions which are particularly relevant to whole. Environmental data refers to operations Handelsbanken – partly based on the Bank’s own in the Bank’s home markets. Any limitations are experience, partly on questions the Bank receives shown in the report. For 2015, Handelsbanken from external stakeholders – but also generally has corrected its climate calculations, in order to relevant questions for a bank. reﬂect the Bank’s direct environmental impact The stakeholder dialogue was only carried even more clearly. These corrections have led to out with stakeholders on the Bank’s largest higher emission ﬁgures than the Bank previously market – Sweden. In 2016, we plan to also carry reported. To improve comparability, the results for out more detailed dialogues on the other ﬁve 2012–2014 have been recalculated in accordhome markets. ance with the new climate calculations. The questions which the groups considered most important comprise Handelsbanken’s mateTHE WORK OF DEFINING CONTENT rial sustainability questions which we describe in In 2015, Handelsbanken performed a materiality detail in this report. To be able to report what is analysis, which was part of the process of deﬁnrelevant and material, Handelsbanken applies ing the Bank’s most material sustainability questhe GRI Financial Services Sector Supplement tions. This conﬁrms to a high degree the view that (FSSS). In this Sustainability Report, we also Handelsbanken has had of its sustainability work provide information about other questions since over many years. the Bank is aware that there is general interest In addition to the dialogues that Handelsin these questions. banken constantly maintains with stakeholders, Read more about the materiality analysis on the Bank also carried out during the year a more pages 203–204. Standard disclosures Gorvernance and indicators: Gorvernance and indicators: Gorvernance and indicators: Economic performance Environmental performance Social performance (EC) (EN) (LA, HR, SO, PR) Sector supplement: FINANCIAL SERVICE SECTOR SUPPLEMENT (FSSS) H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 227 GRI – GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INDEX ACCORDING TO THE GLOBAL sixth in accordance with GRI, and relates to the an expanded GRI supplement, published on REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) 2015 calendar year. The previous report was subHandelsbanken’s website. Handelsbanken reports its sustainability in mitted in February 2015, and related to the 2014 accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative calendar year. The table below contains the CONTACT (GRI) guidelines G4. The Sustainability Report indicators which are assessed to be relevant to For questions or comments on this report, meets the information requirements of the “Core” Handelsbanken’s operations including indicators or on the Bank’s sustainability work, please level and this has been conﬁrmed by the Bank’s from the GRI Financial Services Sector Supplee-mail Handelsbanken’s sustainability ofﬁcer external auditors. Handelsbanken reports the ment (FSSS). at csr@handelsbanken.se. Group’s sustainability activities annually. This Additional information regarding Handelsyear’s Sustainability Report is Handelsbanken’s banken’s sustainability activities is presented in EXTERNAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE SR1 PAGE AR2/WWW3 ASSURANCE Strategy and analysis G4–1 Comments from the Group Chief Executive 4–5 y Organizational proﬁle G4–3 Name of the organisation 3 y G4–4 Primary brands, products and services Inside cover y G4–5 Location of headquarter 234 y G4–6 Countries of operation 236–243 y G4–7 Ownership and legal form 44–45 y G4–8 Markets served 28–43 y G4–9 Scale of the organisation 24 y G4–10 Total number of employees 208 108 y Percentage of total employees covered by G4–11 collective bargaining agreements 210 y G4–12 Supply chain 203 166 y G4–13 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period 227 y G4–14 Implementation of the precautionary principle Handelsbanken applies the precautionary principle in accordance with Global Compact and Swedish legislation y G4–15 External charters, principles or initiatives 212, 214–215, 220, 222, 224–225 y G4–16 Membership of associations 215, 217, 220, 224 y Identiﬁed material aspects and boundaries G4–17 Entities included or alternatively excluded 227 141 y G4–18 Process for deﬁning report content 203–205, 227 y G4–19 Identiﬁed material aspects 204–205 y G4–20 Aspect boundary within the organisation 205 y G4–21 Aspect boundary outside the organisation 205 y Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information G4–22 provided in earlier reports 222 y G4–23 Signiﬁcant changes of scope or boundaries compared with previous annual reports 222 y Stakeholder engagement G4–24 Stakeholder groups 202 y G4–25 Identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders 202, 204 y G4–26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 202–204 y G4–27 Key topics raised through stakeholder dialogue and how the organisation has responded 202–204 y Report proﬁle G4–28 Reporting period 228 y G4–29 Most recent previous report 228 y G4–30 Reporting cycle 228 y G4–31 Contact point for the report 228 y G4–32 Report the ’in accordance’ option, GRI Content Index, External Assurance Report 228–231 y G4–33 Policy and practice for external assurance 228, 231 y Governance G4–34 Governance structure 211 50–51 y Ethics and integrity G4–56 Values, principles, standards, codes of conduct or ethics 211, 220 57–59 y 1 SR Refers to Sustainability Report 2015 2 AR Refers to Annual Report 2015 3 www Refers to GRI Appendix at handelsbanken.se/csreng H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 228 GRI – GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DISCLOSURE OF MANAGEMENT OMISSIONS/ EXTERNAL MATERIAL ASPECTS APPROACH AND INDICATORS PAGE SR1 PAGE AR2/WWW3 COMMENT ASSURANCE Economic ECONOMIC RESULTS G4–DMA Management of material aspects 198–199, 205, 211, 213, 217–218 10–11 y Handelsbanken’s material questions: G4–EC1 Direct economic value generated • Stable ﬁnances and distributed 203, 217–218 y • Create shareholder value G4–EC3 Coverage of the deﬁned beneﬁt • Independent of support plan obligations 218 183 y • Salaries and remuneration • Responsible taxpayer G4–EC4 Financial assistance received from government 218 y MARKET PRESENCE G4–DMA Management of material aspects 205, 208–209, 211 y G4–EC6 Proportion of senior management hired Handelsbanken’s material questions: from the local community 208–209 y • Local presence INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4–DMA Management of material aspects 205, 211–212 y G4–EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure Handelsbanken’s material questions: investments and services supported 216 y • Local presence G4–EC8 Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 212, 219 y Environment EMISSIONS* G4–DMA Management of material aspects 205, 211, 222–223 www y G4–EN3 Direct and indirect energy consumption per primary energy source 222 www y G4–EN15 Total amount of direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) 222 www y G4–EN16 Total amount of indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) 222 www y G4–EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) 222 www y Social Labour practices and decent work EMPLOYMENT G4–DMA Management of material aspects 205, 208–210, 211 y G4–LA1 New employees and employee turnover, Handelsbanken’s material questions: by age group, gender and region 208 y • Salaries and remuneration • Responsible employer G4–LA2 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees Handelsbanken does not that are not provided to temporary or consider it relevant to part-time employees 210 report the situation in the y different countries since only 4 per cent of the Bank’s employees are temporarily employed. LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS G4–DMA Management of material aspects 205, 210–211 y G4–LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding Handelsbanken’s material questions: operational changes and whether these y 210 • Work conditions and union rights are speciﬁed in collective agreements • Employee commitment OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4–DMA Management of material aspects 205, 209, 211 y G4–LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented Handelsbanken’s material questions: in formal joint management-worker health • Work environment and health and safety committees 209 y G4–LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 209 y TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4–DMA Management of material aspects 202, 205, 208, 211 y G4–LA10 Programmes for skills management and Handelsbanken’s material questions: lifelong learning that support the continued • Responsible employer employability of employees and assist • Leadership and development them in managing career endings 208 y • Employee commitment G4–LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 208 y NON-DISCRIMINATION G4–DMA Management of material aspects 205, 208–209, 211 y G4–LA12 Composition of governance bodies and Handelsbanken’s material questions: break-down of employees per employee • Gender equality and diversity category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other y indicators of diversity 211 62–65 * The materiality analysis did not identify environmental impact among Handelsbanken’s most material sustainability questions but with regard to the importance of climate issues both locally and globally we have opted to include in the GRI Index a selected number of indicators showing our performance within this area. 1 SR Refers to Sustainability Report 2015 2 AR Refers to Annual Report 2015 3 www Refers to GRI Appendix at handelsbanken.se/csreng H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 229 GRI – GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DISCLOSURE OF MANAGEMENT OMISSIONS/ EXTERNAL MATERIAL ASPECTS APPROACH AND INDICATORS PAGE SR1 PAGE AR2/WWW3 COMMENT ASSURANCE Human rights INVESTMENT G4–DMA Management of material aspects 205, 211, 213–215, 221 y G4–HR1 Number and percentage of signiﬁcant investment Handelsbanken’s material questions: agreements that include human rights clauses or • Responsible credits that underwent human rights screening 213–214, 221 y NON-DISCRIMINATION G4–DMA Sustainability management of material aspects 205, 209, 211 y G4–HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Handelsbanken’s material questions: actions taken 209 y • Satisﬁed customers • Gender equality and diversity Society LOCAL COMMUNITY G4–DMA Management of material aspects 205, 211, 216–217 y G4–SO1 Operations with implemented local Handelsbanken’s material questions: community engagement, impact assessment y • High availability and development programmes 216–217 • Local presence FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas 216 y FS14 Initiatives to improve access to ﬁnancial services for disadvantaged people 216–217 y CORRUPTION G4–DMA Management of material aspects 205, 211, 221 y G4–SO3 Number and percentage of operations assessed for Handelsbanken’s material questions: risks related to corruption 221 y • Business culture • Anti-corruption and bribery G4–SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption • Counteract crime policies and procedures 221 y G4–SO5 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 221 y COMPLIANCE G4–DMA Management of material aspects 205, 211, 220–221 y G4–SO8 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number Handelsbanken’s material questions: of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with • Counteract crime laws and regulations concerning the provisions and y use of products and services 220–221 Product responsibility PRODUCT AND SERVICE G4–DMA Management of material aspects 205, 211–212 y LABELLING G4–PR3 Type of product information required by procedures for product and service information and Handelsbanken’s material questions: labelling, and percentage of products subject to • Satisﬁed customers such information requirements 212 y • Responsible lending G4–PR4 Total numbers of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service No major information and labelling incidents in 2015 y G4–PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 197–199, 202, 206–207, 226 y CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4–DMA Management of material aspects 205, 211, 220 y G4–PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Handelsbanken’s material questions: breaches of customer privacy and losses of • Integrity and conﬁdentiality customer data 220 y COMPLIANCE G4–DMA Sustainability management of material aspects 205, 211–212, 220–221 y Handelsbanken’s material questions: G4–PR9 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of • Integrity and conﬁdentiality non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provisions and use of products and services 220 y PRODUCT PORTFOLIO G4–DMA Management of material aspects 205, 211, 213–215 y FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by Handelsbanken’s material questions: speciﬁc region, size and by sector 213 y • Responsible credits FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a speciﬁc environmental beneﬁt 213, 215 y MONITORING CREDITS AND G4–DMA Management of material aspects 205, 211, 213–215 y INVESTMENTS (FS) (FS) Handelsbanken’s material questions: • Responsible credits • Responsible investments ACTIVE OWNERSHIP G4–DMA Management of material aspects 205, 211, 214–215 y FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in Handelsbanken’s material questions: the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting y • Responsible investments organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues 214 FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening 214–215 y 1 SR Refers to Sustainability Report 2015 2 AR Refers to Annual Report 2015 3 www Refers to GRI Appendix at handelsbanken.se/csreng H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 230 EXAMINERS' REPORT | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Sustainability Report To Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) INTRODUCTION We conducted our limited assurance engageCONCLUSION We have been engaged by the executive manment in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Based on the limited assurance procedures we agement of Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. A limited have performed, nothing has come to our attention to undertake a limited assurance engagement of assurance engagement consists of making that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Handelsbanken’s Sustainability Report for the inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in year 2015. The Sustainability Report also includes preparation of the Sustainability Report, and accordance with the criteria deﬁned by the Board a separate GRI Appendix, Handelsbanken’s GRI applying analytical and other limited assurance of Directors and Executive Management. Appendix 2015 at handelsbanken.se/csreng. procedures. The procedures performed in a limHandelsbanken has deﬁned the scope of the ited assurance engagement vary in nature from, Sustainability Report on page 196 in the Annual and are less in scope than for, a reasonable Report 2015. assurance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD other generally accepted auditing standards. OF DIRECTORS AND THE EXECUTIVE The ﬁrm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard MANAGEMENT FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY on Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a REPORT comprehensive system of quality control includThe Board of Directors and the Executive Manageing documented policies and procedures regardStockholm, 18 February 2016 ment are responsible for the preparation of the ing compliance with ethical requirements, profesSustainability Report in accordance with the applisional standards and applicable legal and KPMG AB cable criteria, as explained on page 196 in the regulatory requirements. Consequently, the proAnnual Report 2015, that are the parts of the Suscedures performed do not enable us to obtain Anders Bäckström Torbjörn Westman tainability Reporting Guidelines (published by The assurance that we would become aware of all Authorised Public Expert Member of FAR Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)) that are applicable signiﬁcant matters that might be identiﬁed in a Accountant to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accountreasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, ing and calculation principles that the Company we do not express a reasonable assurance has developed. This responsibility also includes conclusion. the internal control relevant to the preparation of Our procedures are based on the criteria a Sustainability Report that is free from material deﬁned by the Board of Directors and the Execumisstatements, whether due to fraud or error. tive Management as described above. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDITOR the Sustainability Report. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on We believe that the evidence we have obtained the Sustainability Report based on the limited is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for assurance procedures we have performed. our conclusion below. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 231 Contact information CONTENTS CENTRAL HEAD OFFICE 234 HEAD OFFICES HOME MARKETS AND REGIONAL BANKS UNITS AND CENTRAL DEPARTMENTS Head Ofﬁce Sweden 235 AT THE CENTRAL HEAD OFFICE Northern Sweden 235 Compliance 234 Central Sweden 235 Group Finance 234 Stockholm 235 Infrastructure 234 Eastern Sweden 235 IT 234 Western Sweden 235 IT Operations and Development 234 Southern Sweden 235 Legal Affairs 234 Head Ofﬁce UK 235 Communications 234 Northern Great Britain 235 Credits 234 North East Great Britain 235 HR 234 Central Great Britain 235 Audit 234 South West Great Britain 235 Risk Control 234 Southern Great Britain 235 BUSINESS AREAS Denmark 235 Retail & E-services 234 Finland 235 Handelsbanken International 234 Norway 235 Markets & Asset Management 234 The Netherlands 235 Pension & Life 234 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS SUBSIDIARIES Sweden 236 EFN 234 Great Britain 239 Handel & Industri 234 Denmark 241 Handelsbanken Finans 234 Finland 241 Handelsbanken Fonder 234 Norway 242 Handelsbanken Liv 234 The Netherlands 242 Heartwood 234 Outside the Nordic countries, Stadshypotek 234 Great Britain and the Netherlands 243 Representative ofﬁces 243 Boards of subsidiaries 243 233 CONTACT US Contact information Website: handelsbanken.com unless otherwise stated. CENTRAL HEAD OFFICE CREDITS SUBSIDIARIES Per Beckman, Head Frank Vang-Jensen, Group Chief Executive EFN Yonnie Bergqvist, Central Head Office Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 Carl Bjurling, Head Katarina Berner Frösdal, Sustainability SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Blasieholmstorg 12 Anders H Johansson, Central Head Office +46 (0)8 701 10 00 SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Claes Norlén, Central Head Office +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 HR efn.se SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Anders Öhman, Head Corporate identity no.: 556930-1608 +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 handelsbanken.se SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden HANDEL & INDUSTRI Corporate identity no.: 502007-7862 +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Magnus Sternbrink, Head Nybrokajen 15 AUDIT SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden UNITS AND CENTRAL DEPARTMENTS Tord Jonerot, Head AT THE CENTRAL HEAD OFFICE +46 (0)8 701 41 10 Blasieholmstorg 12 Corporate identity no.: 556013-5336 COMPLIANCE SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Rolf Marquardt, Head +46 (0)8 701 10 00 HANDELSBANKEN FINANS Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 Maria Lidström Andersson, Head SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden RISK CONTROL Torsgatan 12–14 Maria Hedin, CRO +46 (0)8 701 10 00 SE-106 35 Stockholm, Sweden Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 +46 (0)8 701 46 00 GROUP FINANCE SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Corporate identity no.: 556053-0841 Ulf Riese, CFO +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 HANDELSBANKEN FONDER SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Carl Cederschiöld, Head BUSINESS AREAS +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Blasieholmstorg 12 RETAIL & E-SERVICES SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden INFRASTRUCTURE Anders Karlsson, Head +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Klas Bornälv, Head Torsgatan 12 Corporate identity no.: 556418-8851 Torsgatan 14 SE-106 35 Stockholm, Sweden SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden +46 (0)8 701 10 00 HANDELSBANKEN LIV +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Louise Sander, Head HANDELSBANKEN INTERNATIONAL Blasieholmstorg 12 IT Kent Johansson, Acting Head Box 1325 Agneta Lilja, CIO Blasieholmstorg 11 SE-111 83 Stockholm, Sweden Torsgatan 14 SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden +46 (0)8 701 71 00 SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Corporate identity no.: 516401-8284 +46 (0)8 701 10 00 MARKETS & ASSET MANAGEMENT HEARTWOOD IT OPERATIONS AND DEVELOPMENT Per Elcar, Head Tracey Davidson, Head Juha Rantamaa, Head Jan Häggström, Head of Economic Research No.1 Kingsway Tegeluddsvägen 10 Blasieholmstorg 11 London WC2B 6AN, UK SE-115 82 Stockholm, Sweden SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden +44 (0)20 704 513 20 +46 (0)8 701 10 00 +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Corporate identity no.: 4132340 LEGAL AFFAIRS PENSION & LIFE STADSHYPOTEK Martin Wasteson, Head Louise Sander, Head Ulrica Stolt Kirkegaard, Head Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 Blasieholmstorg 12 Torsgatan 12 SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Box 1325 SE-103 70 Stockholm, Sweden +46 (0)8 701 10 00 SE-111 83 Stockholm, Sweden +46 (0)8 701 54 00 +46 (0)8 701 71 00 Corporate identity no.: 556459-6715 COMMUNICATIONS Johan Lagerström, Head Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden +46 (0)8 701 10 00 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 234 CONTACT US HEAD OFFICES HOME MARKETS AND REGIONAL BANKS HEAD OFFICE SWEDEN HEAD OFFICE UK DENMARK Michael Green, Head Anders Bouvin, Head Lars Moesgaard, Head Nybrokajen 13 3 Thomas More Square Havneholmen 29 SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden London E1W 1WY, UK DK-1561 Copenhagen V, Denmark +46 (0)8 701 10 00 +44 (0)20 757 880 00 +45 (0)46 79 12 00 handelsbanken.co.uk handelsbanken.dk NORTHERN SWEDEN Magnus Ericson, Head NORTHERN GREAT BRITAIN FINLAND John Parker, Head Nina Arkilahti, Head Storgatan 48 Box 1002 4M Building Alexandersgatan 11 SE-901 20 Umeå, Sweden Malaga Avenue FI-00100 Helsinki, Finland +46 (0)90 15 45 60 Manchester Airport +358 (0)10 444 11 Manchester M90 3RR, UK handelsbanken.fi CENTRAL SWEDEN +44 (0)16 160 202 00 Pontus Åhlund, Head handelsbanken.co.uk NORWAY Dag Tjernsmo, Head Nygatan 20 NORTH EAST GREAT BRITAIN Tjuvholmen Allé 11 Box 196 Simon Lodge, Head Postboks 1342 Vika SE-801 03 Gävle, Sweden +46 (0)26 17 20 60 No 1 Whitehall Riverside, 4th Floor NO-0113 Oslo, Norway Leeds LS1 4BN, UK +47 (0)22 39 70 00 STOCKHOLM +44 (0)11 338 601 00 handelsbanken.no Carina Åkerström, Head handelsbanken.co.uk THE NETHERLANDS Arsenalsgatan 9 CENTRAL GREAT BRITAIN Mikael Sørensen, Head SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Nick Lowe, Head WTC Schiphol Airport +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Two Colmore Square Schiphol Boulevard 135 EASTERN SWEDEN 38 Colmore Circus, 3rd floor NL-1118 BG Schiphol, The Netherlands Stefan Nilsson, Head Queensway +31 (0)204 127 600 Birmingham B4 6BN, UK handelsbanken.nl Ågatan 7 +44 (0)12 121 291 74 Box 421 handelsbanken.co.uk SE-581 04 Linköping, Sweden +46 (0)13 28 91 00 SOUTH WEST GREAT BRITAIN Michael Broom, Head WESTERN SWEDEN Katarina Ljungqvist, Head 1100 Parkway North Stoke Gifford Östra Hamngatan 23 A Bristol BS34 8YU, UK SE-405 40 Gothenburg, Sweden +44 (0)11 793 110 08 +46 (0)31 774 80 00 handelsbanken.co.uk SOUTHERN SWEDEN SOUTHERN GREAT BRITAIN Göran Stille, Head John Hodson, Head Södergatan 10 3 Thomas More Square SE-205 40 Malmö, Sweden London E1W 1WY, UK +46 (0)40 24 50 00 +44 (0)20 757 880 00 handelsbanken.co.uk H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 235 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS Branches and branch managers REGIONAL BANK NORTHERN SWEDEN REGIONAL BANK CENTRAL SWEDEN Board Board Bob Persson Frösön, Chairman Ulf Bergkvist Insjön, Chairman Richard Bergfors Stockholm Torsten Engwall Gävle Annika Högström Luleå Peter Larson Gävle Hans Jonsson Umeå Ulf Larsson Sundsvall Agneta Marell Umeå Monica Oldenstedt Västerås Magnus Ericson Umeå Arne Skoglund Uppsala Anna Mattsson Luleå, (E)* Pontus Åhlund Gävle Monica Morén Hedemora, (E)* Head Magnus Ericson Umeå Head Pontus Åhlund Gävle Branch/branch manager Branch/branch manager Arvidsjaur Ann-Louise Högberg Lövånger Kjell-Ove Lövgren Alfta Anna Ekström Mora Jürgen Smolle Backe Linnea Olsson Malå Ewa Lundqvist Arboga Larry Andersson Norberg Håkan Bjurling Bjurholm Linda Öhrman Mörsil Jessica Forssén Arbrå Pär Lindh Norrtälje Bo Schotte Bjästa Patrise Halsius Nordingrå Kathrin Nordenberg Avesta Andreas Borgefors Ockelbo Fredrik Nordkvist Björna Robert Svedberg Nordmaling Mats Ågren Bergby Carola Johansson Orsa Anette Skoglund Boden Ann-Christin Söderberg Rånman Norsjö Greger Holmström Bergsjö Rose-Marie Hildingsson Rimbo Helena Kolström Bredbyn Anna Englund Näsåker Sofia Bodin Bjursås Anders Rapp Rättvik Maria Holmberg Bureå Helen Sundström Offerdal Jörgen Nordqvist Björbo Jenny Åkerström Sala Helén Emnerud Wilhelmsson Burträsk Joakim Löfbom Pajala Martin Hedberg Bollnäs Thomas Frykberg Sandviken Johan Lindahl Byske Sören Markström Piteå Stefan Uddström Borlänge Caroline Cedergren Skinnskatteberg Emelie Strandh Domsjö Patrise Halsius Ramsele Jan-Åke Sjömäling Bräcke Per Stålhandske Skultuna Johan Gustavsson Dorotea Thomas Rönnberg Robertsfors Anton Olofsson Delsbo Örjan Källman Skutskär Magnus Sjökvist Föllinge Bodil Edfeldt Olsson Råneå Katarina Rutberg Edsbyn Dan Silvroth Skärplinge Sören Herbertsson Gällivare Björn Nyström Skellefteå Hans Albert Lindgren Enköping Lars Olsson Skönsberg Urban Strömbom Hammarstrand Lars-Göran Fahlén Sollefteå Sofia Bodin Fagersta Mikael Johansson Holst Stora Tuna Henrik Bergenström Hammerdal Lars Erik Olsén Sorsele Fredrik Karlsson Falun Henrik Ragnarsson Storvik Helene Hedin Haparanda Tomas Björnfot Storuman Fredrik Karlsson Fellingsbro Larry Andersson Sundsvall Owe Sundin Holmsund Anna Kelly Strömsund Lars-Erik Olsén Fränsta Per Röstlund Sveg Jörgen Andersson Hoting Thomas Rönnberg Sävar Andreas Fors Frövi Mikael Jansson Svenstavik Bengt Nilzén Husum Veronica Egnor Trehörningsjö Gunilla Näslund Furudal Maria Holmberg Säter Patrik Nylén Härnösand Åsa Starfelt Nilsson Ullånger Kathrin Nordenberg Gagnef Anders Rehn Söderhamn Joakim Frithiof Jokkmokk Ulrica Kvickström Umeå Gnarp Linda Brännström Sörberge Ulrica Bolt Junsele Marie Tarander Jakobsson City Anders Sundström Grangärde Andreas Abraham Tierp Anders Estman Järpen Pär Jakobsson Teg Petter Eriksson Grängesberg Magnus Johansson Timrå Amanda Eriksson Kalix Maria Mörk Västra Henrik Lundström Gällö Karin Evertsson Torsåker Toni Soppela Kiruna Andreas Karlsson Vilhelmina Karin Svensson Gävle City Svante Larsson Uppsala Kramfors Susanne Moström Vindeln Anna Johansson Hallstavik Catarina Lyshag City Johanna Lundberg Krokom Henrik Lindqvist Vännäs Alexander Bagrov Heby Marco Pajuvirta Eriksberg Kristina Carlsson Liden Maria Jakobsson Ånäset Anton Olofsson Hede Mattias Sundt Industriområde Micael Lindström Lit Magnus Noren Åre Jenny Strand Hedemora Sara Runeberg Luthagen Birger Kristiansson Lugnvik Helena Edlund Åsele Anna Andersson Hedesunda Markus Strömberg Vansbro Fredrik Hallqvist Luleå Älvsbyn Eva Berggren Hudiksvall Thony Nylund Västanfors Andreas Byrén Gammelstad Susanne Rudeklint Örnsköldsvik Lars Norlinder Insjön Oskar Ahlzén Västerås Storgatan Jörgen Ericsson Östersund Petter Dahlin Järvsö Mikael Stridh City Therese Massaro Örnäset Lisbeth Aidanpää Överkalix Maria Fältmark Kilafors Pernilla Flink Westh Emausgatan Johanna Landin Lycksele Anna Karin Öhnerud Övertorneå Maria Grym Knivsta Agneta Sturesson Köpingsvägen Mats Söderlund Kolbäck Terése Ahl Lejderud Stora Gatan Håkan Janson Kopparberg Lena Ragnarsson Vöks Ånge Michaela Morén Kungsör Ann-Charlotte Edin Österbybruk Ann Robertsson Kvissleby Per Pettersson Östervåla Pernilla Strömberg Köping Peter Fällman Östhammar Anna Lydell Bjälmén Leksand Anders Ekström Lima Lena Eggens Meeting places Lindesberg Maria Ekdahl Knivsta Ljusdal Tommy Bylund Alsike Agneta Sturesson Ljusne Joakim Frithiof Lima Ludvika Andreas Abraham Sälen Lena Eggens Malung Martin Sellberg Mora Matfors Caroline Jungell Älvdalen Jürgen Smolle Mockfjärd Bengt Korning (E)*= employee representative H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 236 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS REGIONAL BANK STOCKHOLM REGIONAL BANK EASTERN SWEDEN Board Board Stefan Wigren Stockholm, Chairman Jan Cedwall Nyköping, Chairman Ingalill Berglund Solna Santhe Dahl Växjö Carl-Olof By Saltsjöbaden Jan-Eric Nilsson Djursholm Jörgen Centerman Stockholm Sten Peterson Katrineholm Ulf Lundahl Lidingö Kenneth Synnersten Västerås Carina Åkerström Stockholm Kristina Alsér Växjö Anne Reis Stockholm, (E)* Gunilla Åberg Linköping Stefan Nilsson Linköping Head Helena Håkansson Färjestaden, (E)* Carina Åkerström Stockholm Head Stefan Nilsson Linköping Branch/branch manager Branch/branch manager Alviks Torg Johan Lurén Salem Niclas Landbergsson Alvesta Maj-Lis Pettersson Norrköping Arlanda Sky City Carl-Fredrik Boija Saltsjö-Boo Malin Meijer Anderstorp Per Risberg Drottninggatan Hans Widmark Birger Jarlsgatan Daniel Spangenberg Sigtuna Mattias Nordin Bankeryd Åsa A Olsson Eneby Marie Kellgren Brommaplan Charlotta Hallqvist Lindström Skanstull Johan Hilmersson Borensberg Malin Svanberg Fjärilsgatan Terese Klöver Bålsta Ann-Sofie Sivander Skärholmen Rickard Svallfors Borgholm Conny Johansson Nybro Thomas Svensson Dalarö Sofia Tärnfors Sköndal Jessica Nirvin Eksjö Karin Jönsson Nyköping Jens Fransson Djursholm Sune Werkell Sollentuna Fredrik Andersson Emmaboda Torbjörn Danielsson Nässjö Cecilia Antonsson Ekerö Mathias Lindmark Solna Eskilstuna Oskarshamn Jonas Petersson Farsta Camilla Sandgren Esgård Frösunda Ulf Eliasson Fristadstorget Katarina Rülcker Pålsboda Anna Klerne Fleminggatan Tomas Wistedt Solna Lisa Spangenberg Östermalm Bo Vallin Rörvik Christina Blomstrand Fridhemsplan Ann Lilja Solna Strand Lena Schaumburger Finspång Ingela Nyrén Slite Per Karlsson Frihamnen Johanna Lagerbäck Spånga Ola Arvidsson Fjugesta Anders Hedvall Strängnäs Katharina Schramm Hellmark Gamla Stan Fredrik Andersson, Acting Stockholm Sergel Maria Hellberg Flen Johan Hallkvist Sävsjö Cecilia Tahlin Globen Lena Stenmark Strandvägen Mats Ernborg Fårösund Britt Nordstöm Söderköping Marika Ronnerheim Gustav Adolfs Torg Anders Lindegren Stureplan Peter Sturesson Färjestaden Ida Petersson Tingsryd Peter Andersson Götgatsbacken Cecilia Hallqvist Stuvsta Kristin Elofsson Gislaved Per Risberg Torsås Jeanette Karlström Hallunda Ritva Martonen Sundbyberg Per Anders Tranberg Gnesta Asta Beyerl Tranås Mattias König Hammarby Marcus Axelson Sveavägen Malin Bergström Hallsberg Mats Kagerup Trosa Anna-Karin Borg Haninge Maria Sjöstedt Södertälje Bengt Bohman Hemse Lars Cramér Vadstena Christine Wallstén Hornsberg Kajsen Hansson Tessinparken Lars Eberson Hultsfred Monica Carlenskog Vaggeryd Inger Ågren Hornsgatan Lars Holm Torsgatan Vacant Huskvarna Mats Andersson Vetlanda Jörgen Asp Huddinge Jenny Lööw Borsos Trångsund Sanja Raspudic Högsby Jonas Petersson Vimmerby Hans Will Humlegården AnneMarie Dahlstedt Tullinge Kristina Jansenberger Jönköping Cicki Törnell Virserum Monica Johansson Hägersten Eva Kallur Tyresö Susanne Norman-Taube Kalmar Visby Hässelby Gård Anders Stenberg Täby Centrum Johan Grahn Kalmar Hansa Christin Abrahamsson Adelsgatan Linda Ewald Högalid Mårten Larsson Ulvsunda Tina Nylén Kvarnholmen Johan Lorentzon Öster Carl Oscar Sjöström Högdalen Vacant Upplands Väsby Urban Wolters Katrineholm Mattias Jönsson Vislanda Maj-Lis Pettersson Jakobsberg Anna Andersson Vallentuna Fredrik Enander Klintehamn Linda Ewald Värnamo Jonas Flink Järna Ellinor Lindblom Vanadisplan Johan Palm Kumla Michael Johnsson Västervik Michael Skännestig Karlaplan Cecilia Carlberg Vasagatan Christer Örtegren Lammhult Christina Blomstrand Växjö Jonas Ahlqvist Karlavägen Nahir Oussi Vaxholm Maria Lindberg Landsbro Jörgen Asp Ålem Helena Edström Kista Hans Lundin Vällingby Åsa Eriksson-Hedensiö Linköping Åseda Marie-Louise Mobelius Kungsholmstorg Anders Friman Värmdö Ulrika Kallur City Michael Sterne Åtvidaberg Lars Blomqvist Kungsträdgården Peter Einarsson Värtavägen Carl-Gustav Moberg, Acting Tornby Anders Spång Örebro Kungsängen Stina Marklund Västerhaninge Mats Nordling Mjölby Karl Gustafsson Ekersgatan Kristina Dahl Kärrtorp Katarina Eriksson Västermalm Ulrika Staffas Nordqvist Motala Anders Hättström Stortorget Kenneth Vallin Lidingö Åkersberga Christer Lövholm Mönsterås Helena Edström Våghustorget Anders Forsgren Centrum Elisabeth Hiljebäck Årsta Anna Karlsson Mörbylånga Beatrice Granlöf Larsberg Mikael Gustafson Älvsjö Jesper Hellström Mörlunda Marie Jonsson Meeting places Näset Magnus Blomqvist Ängby Blackeberg Camilla Juhlin Norrköping Drottninggatan Marieberg Lotta Adestam Ösmo Anders Hagman Östra Husby Hans Widmark Marievik Anna Blomstergren Östermalmstorg Jan Larsson Strängnäs Märsta Magnus Hedlund Östra Station Elisabeth Croon Mariefred Katharina Schramm Hellmark Mörby Centrum Kjell Andersson, Acting Nacka Forum Anki Lenksjö Meeting places Norrmalmstorg Johan Nordström Alviks Torg Norrtull Mats Waldhagen Äppelviken Johan Lurén Nynäshamn Anders Hagman Högdalen Näsby Park Cecilia Sonntag Stureby Maria Sjöstedt Odengatan Catarina Thunstedt Solna Odenplan Susanne Signell Arenastaden Lisa Spangenberg Renstiernas Gata Vacant Värtavägen Rotebro Katarina Fridén Norra Djurgårdsstaden Carl-Gustav Moberg, Acting S:t Eriksplan Marika Hedblom (E)*= employee representative H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 237 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS REGIONAL BANK WESTERN SWEDEN REGIONAL BANK SOUTHERN SWEDEN Board Board Lennart Mankert Gothenburg, Chairman Charlotta Falvin Genarp, Chair Stig-Arne Blom Ulricehamn Bengt Kjell Helsingborg Peter Claesson Gothenburg Claes Lindqvist Viken Carin Kindbom Västra Frölunda Johan Mattsson Tomelilla Claes Larsson Gothenburg Anders Ohlner Malmö Håkan Larsson Gothenburg Mikael Roos Malmö Vilhelm Schottenius Varberg Göran Stille Falsterbo M Johan Widerberg Gothenburg Pia Håkansson Ystad, (E)* Katarina Ljungqvist Västra Frölunda Lena Lindén Karlstad, (E)* Head Göran Stille Falsterbo Head Katarina Ljungqvist Västra Frölunda Branch/branch manager Branch/branch manager Ale Torg Anna-Lisa Jansson Hjo Thomas Waller Arlöv Magnus Björk Markaryd Maria Larsson Alingsås Staffan Svantesson Karlskoga Per Forsman Bara Cecilia Leijgård Olofström Catharina Lydell Arvika Stefan Lindberg Karlstad Broby Catharina Munkberg Osby Henrica Lorentsson Bollebygd Camilla Weihart Stora Torget Fredrik Ekenberg Båstad Lars-Olof Ottosson Ronneby Magnus Jurvin Borås Våxnäs Sara Brask Eslöv Mats Jonsson Simrishamn Andreas Jeppsson Hulta Kenneth Källerman Kristinehamn Cecilia Blom Halmstad Magnus Landbring Sjöbo Thomas Hansson Stora Torget Joakim Antonsson Kungsbacka Mats Rollof Helsingborg Skanör Maria Hägerström Viared Thomas Bogsjö Kungälv Lena Gillholm Norr Olof Enander Skurup Louise Pedersen Falkenberg Kristian Gårdenfelt Landvetter Anja Börve Stortorget Göran Pelvén Staffanstorp Susanne Linné Nilsson Falköping Magnus Kvarnmarker Lerum Anna Green Söderport Martin Berg Svedala Cecilia Leijgård Filipstad Cecilia Blom Lidköping Nina Ahlén Hässleholm Rebecca Thörnqvist Sölvesborg Magnus Gardell Finnerödja Torbjörn Läth, Acting Lilla Edet Ellinor Fagerberg Höganäs Gunilla Voss Sösdala Rebecca Thörnqvist Fristad Anders Roos Mariestad Torbjörn Läth Höllviken Ebba Olsson Tomelilla Pål Andersson Färgelanda Mats Brändén Mellerud Claes Hernvall Höör Marie Lärka Stjernström Trelleborg Marianne Nilsson Gothenburg Mölndal Ulrika Jivefors Karlshamn Catharina Lydell Tyringe Rebecca Thörnqvist Almedal Jan Gottberg Mölnlycke Ann Sundvisson Karlskrona Hedvig Stache Veberöd Hans-Åke Mårtensson Avenyn Håkan Jarbeck Partille Sara Larsson Kivik Andreas Jeppsson Vellinge Eric Elmlid Backa-Ringön Deborah Moberg Skara Anna-Lena Andersson Klippan Jonas Olsson Vittsjö Henrica Lorentsson City Martin Henriksson Skövde Martin Drebin Knislinge Catharina Munkberg Vollsjö Thomas Hansson Eriksberg Kent Larsson Sollebrunn Staffan Svantesson Kristianstad Thomas Johansson Ystad Mia Kristell Frölunda Camilla Sjöberg Stenungsund Anette Pettersson Kävlinge Dag Olsson Åhus Daniel N Högstedt Första Långgatan Anders Olausson Strömstad Johan Rosengren Laholm Fredrik Johnson Älmhult Fredrik Roghner Gårda Jens Persson Sunne Maria Hannebo Landskrona Per-Ove Kamlund Ängelholm Irene Andersson Hisings Kärra Peter Kornesjö Surte Marie Erlandson Ljungby Thomas Eldh Hjällbo Börje Ström Svenljunga Patrik Hedemyr Ljungbyhed Jonas Olsson Högsbo Sophia von Sydow Witte Säffle Dennis Göransson Lomma Erik Hultgren Kortedala Per Stolpe Tibro Hanna Rosing Lund Landala Louise Martinsson Tidaholm Magnus Kvarnmarker City Peter Andersson Lilla Bommen Marie Kaptein Torsby Pär Olsson Ideon Nils Möllerberg Lindholmen Tobias Johansson Tranemo Christina Ljung Väster Peter Andersson Majorna Niklas Häggström Trollhättan Ingela Karlsson Malmö Odinsgatan Annika Löfberg Uddevalla Peter Johansson Amiralsgatan Göran Camitz Sisjön Christian Pennert Ulricehamn Janne Pehrsson City Erik Bredberg Torslanda Fredrik Karlberg Vara Maj Rudell Fosie Anders Persson Volvo Christian Sjöberg Varberg Jonas Lagerqvist Fridhem Marie Brunstam Örgryte Patrik Niklasson Vårgårda Lars-Göran Pettersson, Acting Hyllie Anna Harrison Barthold Övre Husargatan Christian Nielsen Vänersborg Jan-Olof Strand Köpenhamnsvägen Marie Brunstam Gällstad Janne Pehrsson Åmål Magdalena Gunnarsson Limhamn Roger Håkansson Hagfors Anna Bengtsson Årjäng Dennis Göransson, Acting Lundavägen Magnus Björk Herrljunga Susanne Bender Älvängen Marie Wall Triangeln Annila Hansson Värnhem Annika Bäckström Meeting places Västra Hamnen Alexander Lindeskog Göteborg Frölunda Långedrag Camilla Sjöberg Kungsbacka Kungsporten Mats Rollof (E)*= employee representative H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 238 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS REGIONAL BANK NORTHERN GREAT BRITAIN REGIONAL BANK NORTH EAST GREAT BRITAIN The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, London branch. anch. The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, London branch. anch. Board Board Anders Bouvin London, Anders Bouvin London, CEO of Handelsbanken UK, Chairman CEO of Handelsbanken UK, Chairman Olof Lindstrand Lidingö Olof Lindstrand Lidingö Håkan Sandberg Stockholm Håkan Sandberg Stockholm John Parker Manchester Simon Lodge Leeds Head Head John Parker Manchester Simon Lodge Leeds Branch/branch manager Branch/branch manager Aberdeen Neil Clark Lancaster Kevin Sanderson Barnsley Peter Gray Middlesbrough John Martinson Altrincham Ian Noke Liverpool Keith Lowe Beverley Anna Adcock Morpeth David Elliot Blackburn Philip Skupski Lytham Christopher Strahan Bradford Andrew Lowther Newcastle Bolton Sean Greenhalgh Manchester Castleford Ian Jackson Grey Street Granville Kelly Burnley Alan Jolliffe Spinningfields Joe McGrath Chesterfield Phil Walker Saville Row Mike Brunskill Bury David Bowen Trinity Way John Burke Darlington Mike Airey Rotherham Mike Harrison Carlisle Jason Smith Oldham Scott Parkinson Doncaster Neil Ebden Scarborough Nick Sharples Chester David Barker Penrith Richard Lancaster Durham Rory Gibson Scunthorpe Sarah Smith Chorley Andrew Pearson Perth Michael Mullins Grimsby David Mountain, Acting Sheffield Dundee Vic Bicocchi Preston David Warbrick Halifax Ian Mason Riverside Stephen Tweedle Edinburgh Southport Steve Peck Harrogate Richard Lally Tudor Square Clare Ibbotson Charlotte Square Michael Mullins Stirling David Beggs Hexham David Wilson Stockton-on-Tees David Filby West End Iain Henderson Stockport David Kovacs Huddersfield Tony Jones Sunderland David Allenson Glasgow George Shanks Warrington Matthew Martin Hull Wakefield Paul Drysdale Heswall Richard Malley Wigan Alan Bowers Hesslewood Neil Harrison Wetherby Adam von Emloh Inverness Hamish Boag Wilmslow Anthony Flynn Marina Court Ian Gatenby York Christopher Ibbotson Kendal Mike Fell Ilkley Sue Toulson Leeds The Embankment David Brady Headingley Stephen Hill Wellington Street James Cornell REGIONAL BANK CENTRAL GREAT BRITAIN The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, London branch. Board Anders Bouvin London, CEO of Handelsbanken UK, Chairman Olof Lindstrand Lidingö Håkan Sandberg Stockholm Nick Lowe Birmingham Head Nick Lowe Birmingham Branch/branch manager Banbury Paul Graham Lincoln David Thompson Bedford Mick Valerio Loughborough Simon Grant Birmingham Luton Brett Alligan Newhall St David Hastings Mansfield Darryn Evans Temple Row Pat Hanlon Milton Keynes Derek Bell Bromsgrove Stephen Ellis Northampton Mark Charteress Burton-on-Trent Ian Morris Norwich Ian Hall Bury St Edmunds Nigel Foyster Nottingham Cambridge City Gate Larick Walker Milton Road Richard Waters West Bridgford Ian Davys Hills Road David Rundle Peterborough Julian Turner Colwyn Bay Gareth Jones Rugby Andy McCabe Coventry Paul Belfield Shrewsbury Lindsay Pearson Crewe Adrian Smith Solihull Richard Baker Derby Shaun Hill Stafford Mike Smith Edgbaston Tony Hall Stratford-upon-Avon Andrew Smith Hitchin Paul Drummond Stoke-on-Trent Shaun Hill, Acting Ipswich Andrew Pike Tamworth Andrew Mair, Acting Leamington Spa Paul Brooksbank Walsall Stephen Breen Leicester Wolverhampton Chris Hyde New Walk John Clay Worcester Philip Dutton Grey Friars Simon Whitaker Wrexham Vicky Davies H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 239 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS REGIONAL BANK SOUTH WEST GREAT BRITAIN REGIONAL BANK SOUTHERN GREAT BRITAIN The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, London branch. anch. The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, London branch. anch. Board Board Anders Bouvin London, Anders Bouvin London, CEO of Handelsbanken UK, Chairman CEO of Handelsbanken UK, Chairman Olof Lindstrand Lidingö Olof Lindstrand Lidingö Håkan Sandberg Stockholm Håkan Sandberg Stockholm Michael Broom Bristol John Hodson London Head Head Michael Broom Bristol John Hodson London Branch/branch manager Branch/branch manager Abingdon David Cook Hereford Andy Williams Ashford David Kiernan Greenwich David Boaden, Acting Ascot Richard Payton High Wycombe Jack Miller Bishop's Stortford Steve Cooper Hampstead Denis McCarthy Aylesbury Derek Beards Newbury Geoff Dann Brighton Simon Howe Holborn Toni Virtanen Barnstaple Peter Larcombe Newport Craig Wyer Bromley Chris Pye Kensington Tom Fuller Basingstoke Julie Hurst Oxford Canterbury Andy Davies London Bridge David Boaden Bath Chris Johnson West Way Graham Beith Chatham Gavin Coleman Marylebone Andrew Rowlands Bodmin Phil Kerkin Parkway Bob Wood Chelmsford Mark Earlam Moorgate Paul Chapman Bournemouth Jeremy Tollworthy Petersfield Sean Kanavan Colchester Alan Barnard Queen’s Park Steve MacDonald Bridgend Mark Standley Plymouth Phill Harvey Crawley Simon Briggs Stratford Paul Andrews Bristol Poole Dave Shering Croydon Keith Yeoman West End Roy Budgett Clifton Martin Bidgood Portishead Adrian Connock Dartford Trevor Adams Maidstone Jeremy Brett Parkway Roger Bell Portsmouth Phil Dedman Ealing Chris Ttouli Redhill Clive Martin Queen Square Jo Norton Reading Mike Booth Eastbourne Neil Hooper Richmond Kim Lowe Cardiff Neil Humphreys Salisbury Graham Renshaw Enfield Adrian Bennett Romford David Roe Cheltenham Di Pitts Slough Mark Bradbury Epsom Phil Hunt Sevenoaks Nick Brooker Chichester Chris Golding Southampton Craig Ward Harrow Paul Jarman Southend-on-Sea John Brooks Dorchester Andrew Denning Swansea Steve Smith Haywards Heath David Barden Staines-upon-Thames Geoff Harrison Exeter Darren Galliford Swindon Shaun Bradshaw Hertford Debbie Chilton St Albans Bill Whittemore Farnham Glenn Gough Taunton Peter Kirby Hove Simon Nicholson Tunbridge Wells Nick Green Frimley Mark Clinkskel Truro Denise Major Islington Paul Cooledge Uxbridge Steve Howarth Gloucester Emma Gray Weston-super-Mare Steve Carter Kingston Peter Wylde Watford Andrew Samarasinghe Guildford Richard James Winchester John Gornall London Weybridge Tim Tostevin Henley-on-Thames Sarah Dean Yeovil Jim Durrant Belgravia Julian Reynolds Wimbledon Barry Sexton Chelsea Kieran Costello Chiswick Dermot Jordan Meeting places Clapham Neil Higgs London Moorgate Finchley Steve Smith Canary Wharf Paul Chapman H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 240 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS REGIONAL BANK DENMARK REGIONAL BANK FINLAND The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken,, Copenhagen branch. The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, Helsinki elsinki branch. Board Board Claes Norlén Stockholm, Chairman Matti Vuoria Helsinki, Chairman Ulrik Kolding Hartvig Roskilde Claes Norlén Stockholm, Vice Chairman John Vestergaard Ikast Bjarne Mitts Helsinki Lise Westphal Copenhagen Leena Niemistö Helsinki Steen Winther-Petersen Copenhagen Elmar Paananen Helsinki Lars Moesgaard Hellerup Andreas Tallberg Kirkkonummi Helle Rank Aalborg, (E)* Nina Arkilahti Espoo Tiina Pöyhönen Kuopio, (E)* Head Lars Moesgaard Copenhagen Head Nina Arkilahti Helsinki Branch/branch manager Branch/branch manager Aalborg Helsingør Henrik Bengtsson Espoo Lappeenranta Arto Valjakka City Ole Dahl Nielsen Herlev Lars Hoffmann Matinkylä Arja Luoto Mikkeli Jouko Kervinen Syd Morten O. Hedemann Herning Tapiola Jussi Nikkanen Oulu Timo Väisänen Aarhus City Niels Viggo Malle Helsinki Pietarsaari Jörgen Blomqvist Aarhus City Esben Kjeldsen Fredhøj Bruno Hansen Aleksi Tuija Nuutinen Pori Tero Järvistö Aarhus Nord Lars Graugaard Hillerød Dianapuisto Johannes Lehtinen Porvoo Annika Ekroos Aarhus Syd Arne Vestergaard Knudsen Hillerød Steen Hirschsprung Hakaniemi Mona von Weissenberg Raisio Maaria Rahikainen Allerød Mads Christian Heidemann Vest Jeanett Schultz Brix Herttoniemi Outi Vainikka Rauma Janne Saarinen Amager Dorte Jellestad Holstebro Henrik Kristiansen Kamppi Ari Turunen Rovaniemi Merja Majanen Aulum Gerda Kviesgaard Horsens John Jørgensen Large Corporates Riitta Hallila Salo Teemu Alanko Ballerup Steen Hansen Ikast Arnth Stougaard Munkkivuori Nora Kari Seinäjoki Jaana Holkkola Birkerød Jesper Borglykke Karup Vibeke Hestbek Pasila Jari Murtoperä Tammisaari Anders Sandbacka Brande Henrik Overgaard Kgs. Lyngby Preben Bjerrekær Ruoholahti Outi Vesanto Tampere Charlottenlund Allan Kandrup Kibæk Preben Staal Hyvinkää Risto Mäkeläinen Kauppakatu Tarja Suvisalmi Copenhagen Kolding Carsten Johansen Hämeenlinna Jarkko Pöysti Kyttälä Ilari Tyrkkö City Gorm Ejmefors-Bjørkmann Køge Maj-Britt Nielsen Imatra Pekka Lankinen Tornio Jari Itkonen Østerbro Bjarne Albrechtsen Lemvig Peter Tornbo Joensuu Mauri Kujanen Turku Large Corporates Knud Jacobsen Lynge Hatice Bakke Jyväskylä Jarkko Käki Hämeenkatu Risto Vihula Vest Jan Arup Odense Klaus Rydal Järvenpää Ilkka Arenius Kauppatori Josefiina Vornanen Esbjerg Morten Andersen Roskilde Jakob Nordahl Weber Kauniainen Nina Lukka Vaasa Frej Björses Farum Jens Karlsson Sdr. Felding Kristian Hansen Kerava Aku Dunderfelt Vantaa Fredensborg Kjeld Aunstrup Silkeborg Stefan Brochmann Kirkkonummi Päivi Toppari Aviapolis Tero Juotasniemi Fredericia Brian Sørensen Slagelse Jens Mølby Kokkola Esa Alkio Tikkurila Pauli Ranta Frederiksberg Slangerup Jørgen Torm Kotka Hannu Huostila Frederiksberg Jan Rasmussen Stenløse Dennis Grouleff Kouvola Auli Lehtomäki Frederiksberg Vest Jesper Christensen Struer Poul Bakkegaard Kuopio Simo Sarkkinen Frederikssund Michael Tøgersen Sunds Allan Eg Lahti Frederiksværk Alan Nielsen Vejle Carsten Hjortflod Askonkatu Henri Lilja Give Martin Skovgaard Larsen Viborg Henrik Toft Mathiasen Vapaudenkatu Matti Nieminen Grindsted Dorthe Vestergaard Videbæk Anja Lyhne Hammerum Jakob Rousing Sloth Vildbjerg Frank Jensen Helsinge Steen Malmqvist (E)*= employee representative H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 241 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS REGIONAL BANK NORWAY REGIONAL BANK THE NETHERLANDS The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, Oslo lo branch. The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken AB, the Netherlands branch. Board Board Bjørn Flatgård Kolbotn, Chairman Håkan Sandberg Stockholm, Chairman Claes Norlén Stockholm, Vice Chairman Anders Bouvin London Linda Bernander Silseth Nesøya Olof Lindstrand Lidingö Ivar Rusdal Egersund Mikael Sørensen Haarlem Dag Tangevald-Jensen Oslo Dag Tjernsmo Oslo Head Christer Enersen Slemmestad, (E)* Mikael Sørensen Haarlem Head Dag Tjernsmo Oslo Branch/branch manager Branch/branch manager Arendal Trond Røisland Moss Willy Fossum Alphen aan den Rijn Edwin Boonk Haarlem Nicole Broersma Asker Kirsti Jensås Oslo Amersfoort Yvonne van den Berg Het Gooi Lars Vissers Bergen Grev Wedels plass Thomas B. Tresselt Amsterdam Leeuwarden Tammo Oosterhof Fana Monica Vågen Large Corporates Sven Ove Oksvik Centrum Jasper Klok Maastricht Tim Neu Fyllingsdalen Gottlieb Gullaksen Majorstuen Bjørn Erik Øverland Zuid Daniël van Til Rotterdam Peter Bot Kokstad Jarle Hundven Nydalen Eirik Arnesen Apeldoorn Jeroen Altena Schiphol Kristiaan Buter Minde Åse Fluge Nordgreen Olav Vs gate Harald Søreide Arnhem Patricia Schwalbach Tilburg Marco van Tongeren Sentrum Geir Flaa Bryn Christian Doksrød Barendrecht Wim Tieleman Twente Martijn Peters Vest Kristian Hartvedt Knudsen Skøyen Thomas Stousland Bergen op Zoom Jeroen Wiertz Utrecht Robert van der Kolk Åsane Mette Skauge Økern Ronny Myreng Breda Ton Schröder Zwolle Peter Hulsbergen Bodø Tore Halvorsen Sandefjord Hans Jørgen Ormar Den Haag Roderick Mastenbroek Drammen Hege Kristiansen Sandnes Sindre Bergsagel Eindhoven Pieter van de Koolwijk Meeting places Fredrikstad Tove Anita R Torp Sandvika Cecilie Tvedt Emmen Marc Bruin Het Gooi Halden Espen Lerkerød Sarpsborg Tormod Sørum Groningen Erwin van der Steur Laren Lars Vissers Hamar Hans Skjelbreid Ski Geir Anders Sundnes Haugesund Knut Børge Lunde Skien Jon Are Skarholt Jæren Rolf Inge Knutsen Sotra Erik Nygård, Acting Jessheim Inger Kyhen Stavanger Kolbotn Terje Andersen Sentrum Lynn Sperb Kongsberg Turid Williksen Straen Ole Henry Slette Kristiansand Vidar Akselsen Tromsø Yngve Haldorsen Larvik Bodil Hansen Trondheim Lillehammer Thomas Næstad Moe Heimdal Fredrik Lillemyr Lillestrøm Paal Tollefsen Leangen Ole-Martin Smedseng Lysaker Glenn Steinbø Søndregate Ola Grøtte Mo i Rana Svenn Harald Johannesen Tønsberg Per Skustad Molde Jørund Alme Ålesund Steinar Krøvel (E)*= employee representative H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 242 BOARDS OF SUBSIDIARIES OFFICES OUTSIDE THE NORDIC COUNTRIES, GREAT BRITAIN AND THE NETHERLANDS Operations are conducted in Svenska Handelsbanken with branches in each country. Austria France Luxembourg General Manager Christian Prinz zu Solms-Lich General Manager Björn Torsteinsrud General Manager Jörgen Oldensand Nice Anna Jansson-Clauzier China Paris Martijn van Dongen Poland General Manager Mikael Westerback General Manager Harri Tuohimaa Hong Kong Johan Andrén Germany Shanghai Mikael Westerback General Manager Tomas Ejnar Singapore General Manager Jan B Djerf Estonia Latvia General Manager Annika Nordström General Manager Annika Nordström USA Tallinn Jan Nurminen Riga Martins Freibergs General Manager Mark Cleary, Acting Lithuania General Manager Annika Nordström Vilnius Paulius Zagurskis REPRESENTATIVE OFFICES Beijing Moscow Sydney Representative Jason Wang Representative Viktor Tsoy Representative Robert Karlsson Jakarta Mumbai Taipei Representative Erik Milfors Representative Ashish Gupta Representative Amy Chen Kuala Lumpur São Paolo Zürich Representative Abhinash Murukesvan Representative Per Magnus Egeberg-Pedersen Representative Olof Svalborn Marbella Representative Vibeke Toustrup Bonne BOARDS OF SUBSIDIARIES EFN** HANDELSBANKEN FONDER** HEARTWOOD** Board Board Board Johan Lagerström Täby, Chairman Katja Bergqvist Stockholm, Chair Ian White Stockport, Chairman Magnus Berglund Saltsjöbaden Helen Fast Gillstedt Lidingö Tracey Davidson London Michael Green Västra Frölunda Malin Hedman Björkmo Djursholm Nolan Carter Oxfordshire Ulf Köping-Höggård Lidingö Lars Seiz Antibes, France Simon Dixon Battle Joakim Jansson Sundbyberg Robert Lundin Stockholm, (E)* Chief Executive Chief Executive STADSHYPOTEK** Carl Bjurling Enskede Carl Cederschiöld Värmdö Board Yonnie Bergqvist Täby, Chairman HANDEL & INDUSTRI** HANDELSBANKEN LIV** Michael Bertorp Stockholm Board Board Olof Lindstrand Lidingö M. Johan Widerberg Gothenburg, Chairman Thommy Mossinger Malmö, Chairman Michael Green Västra Frölunda Olof Lindstrand Lidingö Katarina Berner Frösdal Bromma Monica Morén Hedemora, (E)* Bo Annvik Hovås Michael Green Västra Frölunda Chief Executive Joakim Jansson Sundbyberg Ulrica Stolt Kirkegaard Stocksund Chief Executive Magnus Sternbrink Bromma Anders Ohlner Malmö Lennart Söderberg Täby Anna Hjelmberg Järfälla, (E)* HANDELSBANKEN FINANS** Chief Executive Board Louise Sander Danderyd Yonnie Bergqvist Täby, Chairman Annika Brunnéd Lidingö Anders Fagerdahl Linköping Peter Gustafsson Farsta, (E)* Chief Executive Maria Lidström Andersson Örebro (E)*= employee representative ** For the complete name of the company, see note P16. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2015 243 DEFINITIONS AND EXPLANATIONS Definitions and explanations ADDITIONAL TIER 1 CAPITAL ITRAXX RISK-WEIGHTED ASSETS Additional tier 1 capital comprises perpetual ITRAXX Financials is an index of CDS spreads Total risk exposure amount. The statutory capital subordinated loans which meet the requirements for the 25 largest bond issuers in the European requirement is based on this. stated in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and can bank and insurance sector. It describes the therefore be included in the tier 1 capital. average premium that an investor requires in SOCIAL SECURITY COSTS order to accept credit risk on the companies. Fees for ﬁnancing the social security systems. ADJUSTED EQUITY PER SHARE This comprises employers’ contributions and Equity at the end of the year reduced by the LOAN LOSS RATIO special payroll tax, and the equivalent taxes and equity effect of cash ﬂow hedges and the minorLoan losses and changes in value of repossescharges outside Sweden. ity share of equity. Adjusted equity is then sed property in relation to loans to the public divided by the number of ordinary shares at the and credit institutions (excluding banks) at the SOLVENCY RATIO year-end reduced by buybacks. Where applicabeginning of the year, and also repossessed A concept used in the Bank’s insurance operable, the dilution effect is taken into account. property and credit guarantees. tions. The solvency ratio is the available solvency margin divided by the required solvency margin C/I RATIO OWN FUNDS/TOTAL CAPITAL and is a measure of the margin the company Total expenses in relation to total income. Own funds are the sum of tier 1 and tier 2 capital. has to meet its commitments. The ratio for a For a more detailed description of own funds, demutualised, proﬁt-distributing life insurance COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 CAPITAL see note G49. company cannot be compared with the ratio for Common equity tier 1 capital is one of the coma mutual life insurance company. ponents of own funds and mainly comprises P/E RATIO equity. Deductions are made for, inter alia, diviThe share price at year-end divided by earnings TIER 1 CAPITAL dends generated, goodwill and other intangible per share. Common equity tier 1 capital including addiassets, and also the difference between an tional tier 1 capital. For a more detailed descripexpected loss and provisions made for probable PREMIUMS WRITTEN tion of own funds, see note G49. loan losses. A concept used within the Bank’s insurance operations denoting mainly the total of insurTIER 1 RATIO COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 RATIO ance premiums paid in during the year. Tier 1 capital in relation to risk-weighted assets. Common equity tier 1 capital in relation to riskweighted assets. PROPORTION OF IMPAIRED LOANS TIER 2 CAPITAL Net impaired loans in relation to total loans to Tier 2 capital is one of the components of own COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 RATIO the public and credit institutions (excluding funds, and mainly consists of perpetual subordiAVAILABLE TO COVER BUFFER banks). Impaired loans are reported without nated loans which fulﬁl the requirements stated REQUIREMENTS deduction for the collateral that is security for in Regulation (EU) No 575/2103 to be included The common equity tier 1 ratio after a deducthe claim. as tier 2 capital. For a more detailed description tion for the part of common equity tier 1 capiof own funds, see note G49. tal required to comply with all formal capital RETURN ON EQUITY requirements. The year’s proﬁt in relation to average equity. TOTAL CAPITAL RATIO Average equity is adjusted for value changes Total own funds for capital adequacy purposes DIVIDEND YIELD on ﬁnancial assets classiﬁed as available for in relation to risk-weighted assets. Dividend per share divided by the share price at sale, derivatives in cash ﬂow hedges, revaluayear-end. tion effects from deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans TOTAL RETURN and a weighted average of new share issues, The total of the year’s change in share price and EARNINGS PER SHARE dividends and repurchase of own shares. paid dividend per share divided by the share The proﬁt for the year attributable to holders of price at the end of the previous year. ordinary shares divided by the average number RETURN ON TOTAL ASSETS of outstanding shares. Where applicable, the The year’s proﬁt in relation to average total YIELD SPLIT dilution effect is taken into account. assets. When the total yield exceeds the guaranteed return for insurance with a guaranteed return, IMPAIRED LOANS RISK RESULT the insurance company will receive ten per cent Loans are classiﬁed as impaired loans if conA concept used in the Bank’s insurance operaof the total yield as its share in the yield split. tracted cash ﬂows are not likely to be fulﬁlled. tions. The year’s risk result is the difference The full amount of all claims which give rise to between the fees the company charges to a speciﬁc provision are included in impaired cover the insurance risks (mortality, life expecloans even if parts are covered by collateral. tancy, disability and accident) and the actual cost of the insurance events. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 5 244 handelsbanken.com | +46 (0)8 701 10 00 | SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden
