Sustainability Performance Report 2015 Resilient World Contents Introduction from Jon Lewis People About Amec Foster Wheeler Resourcing for tomorrow Our approach to sustainability Oil & Gas education partnership Sustainability planning Surviving a zombie apocalypse Materiality A partnership for success Embedding behaviours Foundation of excellence We embrace diversity and inclusion We put safety first Recruiting for diversity Health, Safety and Security – HSS management Innovation and delivery Health, Safety and Security – HSS performance Safety by design Sadara Packaging Centre Supply chain management Copper Mountain SONARA refinery upgrade project Projects Safer driving campaign Heathrow Airport expansion project Health, Safety and Security – Security in focus WA Route Overhead Lines Project Environmental management and performance Kuwait environmental remediation Minimising resource use programmme (KERP) Americas water pilot Our reporting An island’s beginning of a circular economy Carbon management Redesign reduces resource use and carbon 5 star office efficiency programme We act ethically and with integrity Managing ethics Human rights We care about our communities Community investment Support for mobile eye surgery unit Partnering with SOS Children’s Villages Highlighting STEM 2015 community round-up Sustainability Performance Report 2015 Resilient World Introduction Sustainability Performance Report 2015 Resilient World Fact sheet CEO introduction to our Sustainability Programme Dr Jonathan (Jon) Lewis, chief executive officer, with effect from 1 June 2016. Sixteen years on from launching our Sustainability Programme it is more important than ever to our way of corporate life. Sustainability is much abused in to natural disasters or events, efficient projects for our clients by corporate terms and seems to political or volatile environments or reducing emissions of their assets be thrown around like the word markets, in what we deliver to our and our own internal impacts, we ‘strategic’ by people who wish to add customers, or how we interact with also see these agreements as a key gravitas to something. communities or the partners we to enable us to continue to build engage with. our clean energy portfolio. Our For us it is hugely meaningful and renewables business continues to not something to trifle with. Yes, it The world needs to be able to grow and in 2015 we completed is at the very heart of our values. withstand changes and must be able the 250MW Copper Mountain III And yes, we are continuing to build to recover from, or adjust to, such solar project for Sempra US Gas on a heritage which can trace its developments. Our partnership with and Power. We are now working origins back to the first half of the Resilient Cities is just one way that on multiple significant new solar nineteenth century. But it isn’t just we actively support that requirement, projects for Sempra and other key about us and what we do 2015 encouraging and supporting decision clients. also saw two historically important makers to think differently and look global agreements, the launch of the to the future. Being acknowledged The international sustainable sustainable development goals in as leading the way in sustainable development goals were endorsed September, followed by the climate business practices and behaviours by [193/196] nations in September change agreement at the Conference is important to us, it provides us with 2015. These provide us with the of Parties (COP21) in Paris in the opportunity to win business by opportunity to become part of the December, both of which endorse our being able to embed and implement solution. By working with others to thinking and approach. Throughout resilience and innovative solutions support the delivery of the goals set our sustainability site you will find into what and how we deliver to our against these key global challenges reference to these and how we are customers. In the same way we we can jointly drive change towards a approaching them. recognise the risk of getting it wrong more resilient world. in terms of damage to our reputation, What does sustainability and social licence to operate and Which ties in to our Resilient World more importantly the impact to those sustainability strategy, launched really mean for us? we affect. in 2015, in which we stated our It’s about ensuring that the concept overarching aim of solving the natural of resilience has been incorporated Our approach benefits from the resource challenges of tomorrow in all we do, ensuring that we can delivery of a new agreement for in partnership with our customers, withstand, survive and grow in climate change, ratified at COP21 colleagues and suppliers. ever challenging situations and in Paris. Critically important to our environments – be that in response business, in terms of delivering more Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / CEO introduction amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet CEO introduction to our Sustainability Programme Our world needs cleaner and more These reviews help us to ensure more immediate stakeholder efficient solutions that are built to that we are not only meeting our engagement – so we view this as last and, in Amec Foster Wheeler, commitments and the supporting further endorsement of our microsite we have the problem-solvers. Driven requirements, but also identify approach. people who find answers to the opportunities where we can achieve world’s toughest resource challenges higher levels of sustainability and it is our passion for solving those performance tying in with our challenges that connects us as a Resilient World approach within the business. references in the Global Compact. In partnership with our customers, By connecting excellence in we’ll find the right answers through and around us, our Resilient Resilient World the innovation, ingenuity and World approach is becoming expertise of our people and together, embedded within the fabric of Our sustainability we will build a more Resilient World. our business, driving positive strategy for solving change across our value chain. tomorrow’s natural We continue to review our policies, resource challenges procedures and processes to ensure I am proud that by doing the together alignment with our continued right things, developing our full commitment to the principles of the potential and delivering on our UN Global Compact. We are in the promises we are creating a more process of reviewing the processes resilient world and business for relating to human rights and supply tomorrow. chain management and due diligence following the introduction of the UK This is now our second year of only Modern Slavery Act this year. We aim reporting our progress online – from to publish our statement mid-2016, which we have won many more well ahead of our legal requirement followers and gained to do so. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / CEO introduction amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet About Amec Foster Wheeler Our locations Amec Foster Wheeler operates across the whole of the oil and gas Split of revenue 6 value chain – from production to % 19 Americas refining, processing and distribution NECIS of derivative products – in mining, AMEASE clean energy and the environment & Global Power Group infrastructure markets, employing around 40,000 people in more than 27 55 countries. Total revenue 2015 Details of incorporation Amec Foster Wheeler plc is a public limited company that is incorporated in England and Wales with the registered £5.5bn 48 number 01675285. The Company’s registered office is Split of employees 6 situated at Booths Park, Chelford Road, 21 % Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, UK. Americas NECIS The Company operates under English AMEASE law. Global Power Group The Company’s agent in the US is CT Corporation, whose contact address is 32 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York Employees 2015 40k 10011, US. 41 Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / About Amec Foster Wheeler amecfw.com Page 1 of 4 Fact sheet About Amec Foster Wheeler Our operations Our operations are structured into Delivering ground four business units – three with geographic remits and one with a breaking energyglobal remit (see overviews below). related projects This structure has been designed around the to further enable collaboration and promote growth opportunities. world Americas Northern Europe & CIS (NECIS) The largest of our business units, with around 16,000 Northern Europe & the Commonwealth of Independent employees and approximately 150 offices in 10 countries, States has around 12,500 employees operating in more across North and South America. than 120 locations across 20 countries, with its expertise extending into many more. The business is balanced across our markets. In oil & gas, we are delivering world scale projects across The unit has broad-based customer reach across three a portfolio of upstream, midstream and downstream of our markets: business, with leadership position in the oil sands • Environment & Infrastructure of Canada, a strong US position onshore and in the Gulf of Mexico and a growing presence in Mexico. We • Clean Energy – notably in the nuclear industry, provide a full-service solution in the mining market including asset support, decommissioning and newfrom our leading position in consulting, project delivery build programmes and remediation. In clean energy, we have a strong • Oil & Gas – across the value chain and lifecycle renewables business supporting the development of for projects onshore and offshore, from presolar and wind projects, a robust nuclear position and feasibility consulting to late-life management and a growing development of gas power. Throughout our decommissioning geographies we are a leading environmental consultant. Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe Global Power Group (AMEASE) Operating three manufacturing facilities, two The Asia, Middle East, Africa & Southern Europe cogeneration plants, 10 engineering and service centres (AMEASE) unit has over 8,000 employees, spread in seven countries and employing around 2,500 people, across more than 40 locations with strong capabilities this business unit designs, supplies and erects steam and customer reach across each of our oil & gas, generating, auxiliary and air pollution control equipment, environment & infrastructure and mining markets. as well as a wide range of aftermarket products and In addition to our regional locations, we also have our E&I services. and clean energy group which works across all markets and is focused on delivering major construction projects Delivering projects and services virtually anywhere in the and specialty consulting services across key geographies world, we enable utilities, independent power producers throughout AMEASE and beyond. and industrial customers to achieve their power, process steam and environmental goals. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / About Amec Foster Wheeler amecfw.com Page 2 of 4 Fact sheet About Amec Foster Wheeler Our customers include Our four markets BP KOC Our diversified approach with ConocoPhilips Kuwait National Petroleum Co operations across four markets Duke Energy Louisville Gas & Electric Co balances risk and maximises EDF Newmont opportunity over the long term. Enterprise Products Operating LLC Owens Corning We provide similar services across our markets, winning work through Equistar Chemicals LP PEMEX strong customer relationships and ExxonMobil Sempra our proven ability to deliver projects Georgia Pacific Shell successfully. Many of the skills and Georgia Power Talisman Sinopec services we provide to our customers K&S Potash Canada Zadco are transferable across markets. Oil & Gas Order book 6 We are involved in every part of % 27 the project delivery phase across Americas the oil and gas value chain, but we NECIS AMEASE specifically do not operate in early Global Power Group cycle exploration or drilling. 31 Clean Energy Order book In renewables we provide a full £6.6bn 36 service engineering, procurement and construction solution on wind, solar, biomass and biofuels projects. We also support the full lifecycle of nuclear energy and are a respected leader in the design and supply of combustion and steam generation equipment. Mining We offer mining consultancy (including ore resource estimation, mine planning and feasibility A diversified customer studies), design, project and construction management services. proposition in four distinct, yet complementary Environment & Infrastructure (E&I) We are a leading consulting, markets. engineering and project management firm with strong market positions, especially in the water, transportation and infrastructure, government services and industrial sectors. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / About Amec Foster Wheeler amecfw.com Page 3 of 4 Fact sheet About Amec Foster Wheeler Our sectors Upstream Midstream Full lifecycle for the Providing transportation upstream oil & gas industry for the midstream oil & – offshore and onshore gas industry Downstream Mining Executing downstream Expertise and delivery projects in refining, from concept to closure chemicals and petrochemicals Nuclear Renewables/Bioprocess Expertise spanning the A century of experience entire lifecycle of complex supporting today’s nuclear assets renewable energy Conventional Power Transmission & High-value services, Distribution equipment and technology Innovative and high-value for power plants added solutions Water Government Global expertise in every Comprehensive aspect of water, from environmental, engineering source to ocean services and design Industrial/Pharmaceutical Transportation & Offering a whole world of Infrastructure technical expertise and full Innovative solutions for lifecycle services complex transportation needs Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / About Amec Foster Wheeler amecfw.com Page 4 of 4 Fact sheet Our approach to sustainability For us, sustainability is about integrating social, environmental and economic conditions into our values and operations in a transparent and accountable manner. Our aim challenges together. The strategy Our strategy provides a Our aim is to be acknowledged as was informed by a detailed balance between managing a leader in sustainable business materiality assessment led by an risk and unlocking practice, continually validating our independent third party to identify opportunities that deliver social license to operate by ensuring which sustainability issues are most long-term value to our employees and actions are in line relevant to the company by engaging business, our employees and with our values. a number of industry groups, key ultimately our customers. customers and investors, as well Resilient World is our global as our employees in sustainability strategy to provide the process. us with a clear focus for achieving People our sustainability vision to solve Investing for tomorrow by tomorrow’s natural resource developing a diverse, inclusive and talented workforce which exhibits our values and behaviours to drive sustainability Resilient World Ensuring a Innovation Our sustainability foundation of Delivering innovative technologies, strategy for solving excellence in solutions and services that add tomorrow’s natural responsible business value for our customers resource challenges business whilst minimising environmental together practices impacts Delivery Being a trusted partner by embedding a consistent sustainability standard across our projects Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Our approach to sustainability amecfw.com Page 1 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Our approach to sustainability Resilient World focuses on three core Innovation Delivery pillars: Delivering innovative technologies, Being a trusted partner by solutions and services that add embedding a consistent People business value for our customers sustainability standard across our Investing for tomorrow by developing while minimising environmental projects. a diverse, inclusive and talented impacts. • Our customers demand high workforce which exhibits our values • We will drive long-term growth standards, and sustainability is and behaviours to drive sustainability. for Amec Foster Wheeler by a fundamental part of this. We • We will resource for a diverse and developing and encouraging a will ensure a consistent approach inclusive workforce, introducing growing portfolio of innovative to embedding sustainability new people (both experienced environmental technologies, inherently into the core of our and new entrants) to the resource solutions and services which add projects, and implementing a pools in order to create a business value to our customers and our value-add sustainability framework with genuine diversity of thought. business. to be used for those clients with advanced sustainability objectives. Human & Anti-bribery & Doing the right thing Environment Community Labour Rights Corruption Environmental Code of Business Educational Diversity & Inclusion management Conduct & Ethics partnerships Anti-bribery Human rights Carbon management Strategic partnerships & corruption Health & Safety Resource efficiency Supply chain Community investment Global KPIs, Functional targets Underpinning these three pillars is Our Foundation of Excellence functional thematic working groups our Foundation of Excellence, which framework ensures policies, convened for this purpose. We plan operationalises our commitment to processes and standards are in place to publish those targets and actions the UN Global Compact and our core globally to help embed our values plans during 2016. See the Resilient value to ‘do the right thing’ across consistently wherever we work. World section of our website for the three key areas: most up-to-date information and Launched in 2015, we continue progress in this area. • We act ethically and with to build on the content of our integrity sustainability strategy, and to • We put safety first develop targets and action plans to • We care about our communities support its delivery through crossSustainability / Date: 04/16 / Our approach to sustainability amecfw.com Page 2 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Our approach to sustainability Sustainability impacts, Sustainability related issues are part The top five principal business of our business. We have to ensure and strategic risks relating to the risks and opportunities we concentrate on those which have sustainability of our business are As an international business our the greatest impact on our ability described in the table below. sustainability impacts are diverse to manage our operations. We use and inextricably linked to the regions a number of techniques to do this in which we operate. We believe that including: sustainability impact management • Risk management must be integral to the way in which we manage our business and must • Stakeholder engagement be integrated throughout the entire • Sustainability surveys management system. • Global standards, principles and frameworks More Risk Description How we manage the risk information Health, safety, Amec Foster Wheeler is involved in We are focused on achieving the highest For more information security and activities that have the potential to standards of health, safety and security see: environment cause serious injury to personnel management through effective policy and clear or damage to property or the standards which underpin our management • Safety environment and damage to our systems. reputation. We have processes to ensure our systems These activities may involve work effectively, and regularly review operations such as design, our performance to facilitate continual construction, commissioning improvement. and decommissioning, which have potential to cause serious We employ environmental and engineering environmental damage, pollution specialists to support projects in implementing and habitat destruction. comprehensive project management planning at all stages of a project. Staff An inability to attract and retain This risk is mitigated with a clear HR strategy, For more information recruitment sufficient high-calibre employees which is aligned with the business strategy and see: and retention could become a barrier to the focused on attracting, developing and retaining continued success and growth of the best people for the group. It is underpinned • People Amec Foster Wheeler. by an employee framework which describes how we manage our people consistently. Amec Foster Wheeler Academy delivers development activities to enhance delivery and prepare employees for more advanced roles Ethical breach A substantive ethical breach and/ Amec Foster Wheeler has a number of For more information or non-compliance with laws or measures in place to mitigate the risk of see: regulations could potentially lead to a substantive ethical breach and/or nondamage to Amec Foster Wheeler’s compliance with laws or regulations, including; • Ethics reputation, fines, litigation and • Embedded policies and procedures claims for compensation. • Code of Business Conduct • Management oversight • Financial and operational controls • Independent whistle-blowing mechanism • Appointment of ethics and compliance officers • Anti-fraud and other internal audits • Legal team advice • Training programmes support the Code of Business Conduct and Anti-bribery and Corruption • Oversight Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Our approach to sustainability amecfw.com Page 3 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Our approach to sustainability More Risk Description How we manage the risk information Project delivery Failing to maintain discipline and The project delivery function provides For more information meeting customer expectations assurance, drives project execution and see: on project delivery could result in supports the development, training and damage to reputation, loss of repeat mobilisation of personnel to enhance execution • Delivery business and potentially lead to competencies. litigation and/or claims against Amec Foster Wheeler. In addition, the system of globally applied policies and procedures, combined with comprehensive management oversight, the risk management process, project reviews, internal audit, peer reviews and customer feedback, mitigate the risk to successful project delivery. Environmental Amec Foster Wheeler’s build/own/ Environmental management systems are in For more information licences operate facilities and fabrication/ place to monitor and mitigate this risk. see: manufacturing sites rely on maintaining environmental licences • Foundation of to operate, which include protecting excellence the environment and achieving legally enforceable operating parameters. Failure to maintain these standards may result in the revocation of all or part of the licence and the suspension of operation, resulting in criminal or civil action and/or financial risk to the business. In addition to the principle business An emerging risk area we are Information relating to our principle risks, Amec Foster Wheeler reviewing are the risks relating to risks and uncertainties and how they recognises the risk posed by climate human rights and modern slavery, are managed can be found within the change. We take measures to particularly within our supply chain. 2015 annual report and accounts address this both internally by our To ensure that we understand and pages 20-23. carbon management programme mitigate the potential risks in these and externally by ensuring areas to our business and to those compliance with local, national and affected, we have set up a cross international legal requirements. We functional working group. More believe our biggest impact in this information can be found within area is the manner in which we can the human rights and supply chain positively support our customers to sections of the website reporting address their energy and water use area. in the services we provide. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Our approach to sustainability amecfw.com Page 4 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Our approach to sustainability Governance Our commitments Amec Foster Wheeler’s board is A global policies document works Amec Foster Wheeler is committed collectively responsible for delivering in conjunction with the Code to the ten principles of the UN Global sustainable long-term shareholder of Business Conduct providing Compact. value in line with its obligations to further detail and elaboration on and the expectations of the Group’s matters affecting all of Amec Foster The vision is for the principles of the stakeholders. Wheeler’s businesses. The global Global Compact to be enshrined policies document describes the key within the Amec Foster Wheeler The board is responsible for setting policies for directing and managing policies and procedures and to be the Company’s strategic aims the Group’s business consistently embedded within our behaviours and and providing the leadership and in accordance with our vision and our culture across the organisation. resources to achieve its objectives. values. These global policies are We are working to ensure that our High quality corporate governance supported by a set of mandatory business units work with our supply helps to underpin long-term procedures which further explain chains, clients, business partners company performances, and the how the policies are to be applied. and peers to disseminate the board is responsible for maintaining The board approves the group-wide requirements along the value chain. strong governance practices and policy framework. On a day-toregularly reviewing the company day basis the board has delegated governance structure as illustrated responsibility for implementation below. of the global policies and ownership of the procedures to the Group During the year, to take account of Leadership Team. The board Amec Foster Wheeler’s new values considers the global policies to be and expected working behaviours, part of the risk-based approach the board launched new versions to corporate governance and the of fundamental documents in the maintenance of sound internal Company’s governance framework controls. including a new Code of Business Conduct. The Code of Business The board is supported by four board Conduct is the cornerstone of the committees: audit, remuneration, Company’s approach to governance nominations and HSSEE (health, and is applicable to all employees. safety, security, environment The Code of Business Conduct is and ethics), chaired by either the responsibility of and is upheld by the Chairman or another nonthe board; it acts as a guide for our executive director, and a number day-to-day working life, providing a of management committees and practical application of Amec Foster groups, chaired by the executive Wheeler’s values and ensuring directors (or other senior individuals) all those who work for or under to which specific responsibilities Amec Foster Wheeler’s direction have been formally delegated. More understand the behaviour that is information can be found on our expected of them. website. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Our approach to sustainability amecfw.com Page 5 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Our approach to sustainability Amec Foster Wheeler governance structure Board The board has ownership of the global policies Board committees Support the board in its work with specific review and oversight Audit Nominations Health, Safety, Security, Remuneration Provides independent Identifies and makes Environmental and Ethics Aims to attract and retain scrutiny of the company’s recommendations Assists in upholding ou good management and to financial and non-financial concerning the core value of integrity and incentivise them to create performance, risks and composition of the board maintaining our HSSEE shareholder value audit functions and that of its committees commitments for a safe and secure working environment Group Leadership Team Responsible for implementation of the global policies Chief Executive Behaviours, Vision, Values, Primarily responsible for running Amec Foster Wheeler’s businesses with the objective of creating shareholder value Global Management committees Deal generally with more operational matters Code of Business Conduct, Global policies Share allotment Pensions and Risk HSSE review mandatory procedures retirement benefits Corporate transactions Tender review Disclosure Project review Business Unit leaders Functional leaders Local jurisdictional policies and procedures Business Unit teams Functional teams Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Our approach to sustainability amecfw.com Page 6 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Sustainability planning Our goal is to be acknowledged as a leader in sustainability business practice, continually validating our social licence to operate by ensuring employees’ behaviours and actions are in line with our values. In order to meet that goal we have to strive to continually improve in key areas relating to sustainability, and demonstrating actions in line with our values. In 2015 we rolled out a new The sustainability promises are scoring from external benchmarks, framework – our sustainability developed annually in conjunction commitments and partnerships, UN promises – to support the with key functions including general Global Compact principles, etc and implementation of local sustainability counsel, HSSE, HR, and project are approved by the sustainability action plans. The promises are a delivery to drive improvements and committee prior to roll out in Q1 of tool for offices and business units capture strategic targets/activities each year. to utilise in order to develop and in these areas. The global promises align their sustainability goals and take into account feedback from action plans with the global Resilient assurance/auditing activities, new/ World sustainability strategy and its upcoming legal requirements, supporting goals. new global trends, feedback/ Supporting • Resilient World strategy Global • Carbon strategy and reduction goals • External commitments such as UN Global Compact Promises • Global promises Business Unit • Business Unit carbon reduction goals • Business Unit specific challenges/risks and opportunities • Business Unit promises Office/location • Carbon reduction and efficiencies • Community investment activities Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Sustainability planning amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Sustainability planning Annually each business unit sets its How did we do in 2015? own sustainability promises focused Achieved on supporting delivery of the global targets, but also addressing key Roll out and embed new values and behaviours areas for improvement in its own geographies and operating units. Roll out the new Code of Business Conduct to For 2015 the focus for our offices was all employees to complete an office 5 star efficiency profile and to develop a plan for Continued support for community investment future improvement in this area, and engagement, including continued support and to undertake a minimum of one for SOS Children Promises charity or community event. More information on the progress with Roll out Anti-bribery and Corruption training our 5 star programme can be found within the 5 star factsheet. Develop and roll out new sustainability We achieved the majority of our 2015 strategy global promises. Details of these can be found throughout our factsheets Develop and pilot a project sustainability within the site. The one area we didn’t framework fully achieve was to develop and pilot a project sustainability framework, this goal is ongoing and remains a Continue focus for STEM activities focus for the business into 2016. 2016 promises The focus for our 2016 promises The 2016 promises are detailed • Publish and implement the centres around three key themes, below, and we will update the site as framework in support of the further development and we progress throughout the year. Resilient World foundation of implementation of our Resilient • Develop a road map for how we excellence with clear aims and World strategy and the setting understand and manage human goals to 2020. of suitable goals associated with rights for the business, with focus • Embed sustainability into the that, review and publication of for 2016 on awareness raising Identify, Acquire and Delivery a new carbon management and and delivering a modern slavery process of the Amec Foster reduction strategy and goals, and statement. Wheeler Operating Model. the development of a road map for managing human rights risks in the • Reaffirm our carbon strategy and • Define the Resilient World business. goals in light of COP21 outcomes; innovation criteria and targets to working to the existing 2020 2020, with the aim to test at least corporate goal in the interim one innovation portfolio in 2016. (15% reduction from 2015 level by 2020). Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Sustainability planning amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Materiality Determining our priority areas through materiality assessment and engagement Stakeholder engagement Media Employees/future Understanding the views of our • Interest in employees numerous stakeholders helps us • Attraction and retention information for to make better and more informed • Engagement target audience decisions. Although we understand • Safety that we will not always meet every • Diversity and inclusion Customers stakeholder expectation, their views • Learning, development, • Customer satisfaction lead us to strengthen our policies mobility • Trusted partner • Well-being and practices, understand the • Innovation and solutions challenges we all face and how we Communities can better communicate how we • Capacity building Investors contribute to solving them. • Education support • Sustainable growth of • Relationship our company building • Risk and opportunities We have continued to engage our • Trust key stakeholders, with a number of events taking place throughout the Peers Suppliers • Collaboration year, aiming to consider views across • Lasting commercial • Shared the various geographies and sectors. relationship challenges These opportunities have once • Fair treatment • Impartial selection again helped to shape this year’s • Capacity building Government and Regulators performance report in both style • Policy and content. The diagram outlines NGOs • Global challenges i.e. climate some of the key areas for discussion • Collaboration and/or change, energy security during these engagement sessions. challenge on common • National challenges ie skills issues shortage/education In light of the development of the new • 56 senior managers within the • Investors (Threadneedle and company, and the new geographies, organisation Universities Superannuation markets and organisational culture Scheme, Jupiter Asset • 742 employees that brought us, we undertook a full Management, Walden Asset and detailed review of our material • Industry groups (International Management and Fidelity Asset issues. We engaged with a wide Petroleum Industry Environmental Management) variety of our key stakeholders to Conservation Association IPIECA, • Customers (BP, Dow Chemicals, ensure we were concentrating on the National Skills Academy for Rio Tinto and EDF) sustainability issues most relevant Nuclear, Global Compact Network to them. This extensive engagement UK and the Nuclear Industry programme consisted of specific Association, Confederation of conversations around sustainability British industry and Oil and with: Gas UK) Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Materiality amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Materiality Determining our priority areas through materiality assessment and engagement More detail of this process is set Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 out below. Identify Prioritise Focus areas Materiality assessment issues Step 1 Identification and categorisation of material issues* Step 2 An initial list of 45 issues were Prioritisation of material identified relating to Amec Foster issues Wheeler which were categorised into 13 broad areas, then three umbrella The next step was to present these Step 3 themes: Business, Environment issues to a range of internal and Materiality matrix and and Society. The list was compiled external stakeholders in order to priority areas from previous AMEC and Foster rank the thirteen issues identified Wheeler reports, reporting and in order of importance in terms of From these engagement sessions communications from peers, risks, reputation or opportunities we were able to obtain a ranking of Corporate Citizenship’s database for Amec Foster Wheeler. Over a six importance to provide a clear view of of macro-trends and reviews of week period a series of roundtable which issues are priorities for both external standards, media, thought discussions were held with various internal and external parties. leadership and campaign groups. external stakeholder groups The results identified five broad including industry bodies, investors themes with highest sustainability and customers, all chosen to considerations for the business: provide a viewpoint from the various sectors and geographies in which • People we operate. Participants were also • Project excellence and innovation given the opportunity to discuss any issues that they felt were important • Health, Safety and Security but were not covered by the shortlist • Environmental management of the 13 broad areas. • Ethical business practices For our internal stakeholders, our employees, we issued online surveys to 2,000 randomly selected employees across the two legacy organisations, and to the 100 most senior managers, again to obtain a ranking of those issues they felt were most important for the business. In total we received 742 employee and 56 senior management responses. *Material issues are those which exert significant risk or opportunity for the business Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Materiality amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Materiality Determining our priority areas through materiality assessment and engagement Lower priority Medium priority High priority issues issues People issues Project excellence & Health, Safety innovation & Security Importance to stakeholders Responsible Environmental sourcing management Local job creation / Ethical capacity business building practices Impact on sensitive Climate change Financial habitats adaption & accountability mitigation Human rights Political concerns & other instability Community investment Importance to the business The results of the process were The second half of 2015 saw Engagement around carbon reduction used to inform the development increased levels of engagement and climate change in the lead up to of our new sustainability opportunities with four significant COP21 in Paris was high, we expect strategy Resilient World events, the launch of the new to see more emphasis on the role of and the way in which we have sustainable development goals, the business in support of the delivery of structured our sustainability UK Modern Slavery Act, and the agreed plans. report communications around agreements signed at COP21. sustainability. We continue to review the materiality We have seen considerably more assessment results to ensure that engagement on human rights, and they remain relevant for the business. Throughout the stakeholder in particular the UK Modern Slavery engagement process all the Act, and we see this as an area which issues identified were seen to be will grow in importance and focus of importance to at least some over the coming year in terms of stakeholders and to Amec Foster importance to both the business and Wheeler as a business. We will to our stakeholders. We have been therefore continue to consider involved in a number of peer-to-peer them in terms of initiatives and roundtables, as well as the IPIECA reporting even though they may not workshops focussed at looking be considered to be a high priority at human rights in the oil and gas issue overall. industry supply chain. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Materiality amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Foundation of excellence Sustainability Performance Report 2015 Resilient World Fact sheet Health, Safety and Security HSS management or rect ppe ny change ntervene ake care the rules essment ti st w ss ar the manage a a risk a alwa you mus follo we y c do Everyday around the world our employees and those who work with us are working on behalf of our clients. It is a fundamental right of every individual who works with us to undertake that work in a healthy, safe and secure way. Even though we work in some of the harshest environments undertaking difficult and dangerous work it is our duty to make sure that work is managed properly and risks are effectively mitigated. More than just looking after our Policy and framework people and those who work under Our policy sets out our fundamental our control, we have an obligation to pledges to our people, it outlines take a leadership role wherever we what we believe are the things work. According to the International we must do to make our working Labour Organisation (ILO) every environment a healthy, safe and year an estimated two million people secure place to work. die from work related accident and disease. We can lead by example This is an important statement and, through education and because it underpins the mentoring those with whom we work, development of our health, safety we can play our role in reducing and management approach. It workplace incidents. is regularly both reviewed and approved by our Board. We make a healthy, safe and secure working environment, it does not See the HSSE policy. happen by itself, it is a living and learning process which evolves with us and it is fundamental to the operation of our business. We recognise this through our company values. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / HSS management amecfw.com Page 1 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Health, Safety and Security HSS management The policy is supported by our health, safety, security and Amec Foster Wheeler HSSE Policy environmental (HSSE) framework (Global) Policy document. This framework sets out Amec Foster Wheeler’s expectations and minimum HSSE standards for HSSE Strategy Delivery (Global) our global operations. It provides Strategies the guiding hand on what we believe should be our absolute HSSE Framework & core standard wherever we operate in Common expectations the world. We know that standards Processes (Global) of health, safety and security are different across the world and we Project Management Plan are committed to upholding our agement Security & Emergency Project Man legal obligations. However, where Preparadness Plans Plans the statutory duty of care to an individual falls short of our own tions, standards, we are committed to s, Instruc Procedure ) and supporting ensuring that we operate to our IFs’ Forms (P ts framework and standards. documen Global applies to all Amec Foster Wheeler business and operations Amec Foster Wheeler operates an integrated health, safety, security Assurance and environmental management Effective mitigation of health, safety and security risks relies on system which is based on the implementing practices and processes that eliminates or effectively controls elements of international standards exposure to hazards to an acceptable level. We have to assure ourselves and best practice (ISO 14001, that measures are implemented properly, we do this through our assurance OHSAS 18001, HSG65*). strategy. Our assurance process covers a broad spectrum of risk issues from strategic through to operational on-site covering four levels (see below). Mandatory procedures Our business is far reaching and As our business and portfolio of operations grows, our profile of HSSE risk diverse, it is therefore important evolves with the nature of our acquisition and organic growth into different that our approach to health, safety regions, countries and industries. and security management is flexible enough to recognise industrial Entity Assurance objective Assurance tools to use norms, processes and best practice. However, for some things, such as Level Group Provide assurance to the Board • Validation assessment/review how we measure and categorise 4 that there is a robust HSSE • Statistical monitoring management system in place • Peer review process and report incidents we have to do this consistently throughout the Level Business To validate that Operational • Validation assessment/review 3 unit Assurance Plans are effective • Statistical monitoring business, where this is the case we and learning is captured in the • Peer review process have a mandatory procedure which management system • Performance standard assessment review sets out what is required. Level Ops Develop and implement an • Integrated risk based 2 unit assurance process to give assurance plan confidence to operational • Statistical monitoring management that robust HSSE • Management review management systems are in place to protect people and the environment Level Project To undertake assurance processes • Agree risk based audit schedule 1 which seek to confirm that the • Management review HSSE management system is • Recording & reporting to in place and working effectively operating unit in managing HSSE risks on the • Inspections project • Investigations • Integrated focused audits • Recording & reporting incidents * Note: HSG65 is the UK Health and Safety Executive, guide and approach to managing health and safety. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / HSS management amecfw.com Page 2 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Health, Safety and Security HSS management “Occupational health Leadership for safety and safety measures can Our leaders are imperative in shaping at board meetings. The Amec Foster the culture and climate of the Wheeler board raised the required only deliver to their full working environment as they provide level of engagement in this area, and potential if they have the direction and vision to in 2015 formed and implemented a unequivocal commitment the company. new committee (HSSEE Committee) of an organisation’s board which considers HSSE matters more We have a management team level fully. and senior management. HSSE Review Committee chaired by High-level management, the Chief Executive. The committee Looking forward not just line management supports the Board in its corporate During 2016 we have to put or specialists, must governance role and is responsible significant effort into addressing for setting policy, examining HSSE the underlying causes of our be directly involved risk, setting performance targets performance, we need to address in implementing OSH and reviewing performance. This our group safety culture and policies” committee meets twice a year. implement our refreshed Beyond Zero programme. Leadership and occupational Overview of HSSE at board level safety and health, EU-OSHA 2012 is provided regularly by the Chief Executive and is regularly discussed Lagging indicators 2016 HSSE objectives Zero LTIR It may seem an aspirational target to Lagging Indicator Leading Indicator Leadership Actions achieve zero lost time incidents, but as last year’s results demonstrated, a number of our Operating Units did achieve a full year with no lost Lost Time Injury Corrective action close-out IRP attendance GLTs to Rate (LTIR) = 0.00 (IRPs and assurance) attend IRPs from other BUs time injuries, this reinforces that it • Target 0% overdue is achievable. Therefore, we have adopted the target once again this Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) Safety Essentials / Question green performance equal or less than 0.20 Global Safety Rules roll out ask for supporting evidence year and our aim will be that more of • Target 100% completion against plan our Operating Units will achieve this GLT to participate in at least stretch target. HEART training one HSSE review of a project • Target 100% completion against plan outside of their BU 10% reduction in TRIR In line with previous years we HEART observations • Target 100% completion against plan have chosen to continue our 10% reduction based on best performance. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / HSS management amecfw.com Page 3 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Health, Safety and Security HSS management Leading Indicator Group objectives performance Justification Corrective action close-out Assure corrective actions from IRP incidents and assurance findings are closed out in (IRPs and assurance) a timely manner and learnings shared across the company to prevent reoccurrence. • Target 0% overdue Evidence suggests that BUs are not hitting the target close-out time and sharing the learning seeing repeats of similar incidents. Safety Essentials / Global Safety Rules roll out We have integrated and updated the Beyond Zero programme, we need all employees • Measure planned; against completed to be aware of these key behavioural and risk-based rules. Behaviour is key to • Target 100% completion against plan developing a generative safety culture across the organisation our statistics suggest we have much more to do to develop robustness in this area. It begins with telling people the expectation and then holding them to it. HEART training This indicator addresses a fundamental root cause of incidents identified in • Measure planned; against completed investigations. It suggests an inherent weakness in our frontline supervision • Target 100% completion against plan to identify hazard and communicate safe working practice effectively with the workforce. We must seek to upskill supervision in frontline positions where their intervention can have most impact in reducing injury and incidents. HEART observations In parallel with the HEART training and personal accountability for upholding our • Measure planned; against completed Essentials and Rules we need to promote pre-emptive action in HSSE, seeking to • Target 100% completion against plan identify where the next incident may occur before it happens and take steps to remediate. This can only happen if we generate an environment where our people consistently report safety concerns and practice. Proposing that businesses target at a minimum two observations per employee. Leading indicators Our leading indicators have been conversations, analyse situations We must also invest time in rolling designed to address frontline hazard and introduces them to the HEART out key elements of our behavioural awareness and risk management observational recording programme. safety programme, Beyond Zero. and the implementation of our new We initiated this process with a Safe Beyond Zero behavioural safety As an organisation we have invested Start programme at the beginning of programme. in developing our incident recording 2016 and will challenge our business system to include HSSE observations. to focus on the implementation of HEART (Hazard Elimination and We believe, in time, that this will our behavioural safety tools, Safety Recognition Training) is a workshop give us greater intelligence about Essentials and our new Global Safety event designed to upskill delegates on the nature of incidents to help us to Rules. hazard identification and mitigation. invest resources where they have It prepares delegates the greatest potential to add value to have successful intervention by assisting us in recognising events before they become incidents. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / HSS management amecfw.com Page 4 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Health, Safety and Security HSS performance 2015 was our first year working together as Amec Foster Wheeler, this was a transition year for health, safety and security. A year which was spent reviewing processes, rules and tools from across the combined organisation. Health, safety and security performance Amec Foster Wheeler put in place a number of indicators to measure performance, our 2015 performance was impacted by the coming together of the two organisations’ health, safety and security management systems. However, the headline data remains in line with OSHA definitions. Detailed performance summary for Amec Foster Wheeler BU Total hours worked Fatality Lost time Total recordable LTIR per 200,000 TRIR per 200,000 injuries cases hours worked hours worked 31,635,981 0 3 42 0.019 0.27 Americas 40,901,297 0 7 70 0.034 0.34 9,265,316 0 4 28 0.086 0.60 36,471,190 0 4 35 0.022 0.19 NECIS 41,668,244 0 5 43 0.024 0.21 5,197,054 0 1 8 0.038 0.31 18,963,716 0 1 7 0.011 0.07 AMEASE 53,082,729 0 13 65 0.049 0.24 34,119,013 0 12 58 0.070 0.34 5,290,817 0 4 11 0.151 0.42 GPG 6,536,977 0 8 17 0.245 0.52 1,246,160 0 4 6 0.642 0.96 93,062,061 0 12 95 0.026 0.20 Total 142,889,604 0 33 195 0.046 0.27 49,827,543 0 21 100 0.084 0.40 Amec Foster Wheeler Subcontractors Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / HSS performance amecfw.com Page 1 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Health, Safety and Security HSS performance Lost Time Injuries Monthly cases Rolling frequency A lost time injury is described in our 9 0.06 reporting procedure as any non-fatal 8 traumatic injury that causes any loss 0.05 of time from work beyond the day or 7 shift it occured in; or a non-fatal non6 0.04 traumatic illness/disease that causes 5 disability at any time. 0.03 4 3 0.02 In total 33 people suffered a lost time injury (LTI) compared to the 2 0.01 same number for the two entities 1 combined in 2014. Contractors 0 0.00 made up 64% of this number and Jan-14 Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul had a much larger LTI rate at 0.084 Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan-15 Feb Mar Apr May Jun LTI’s per 200,000 manhours worked Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec compared to a rate of 0.026 LTI’s Monthly cases Rolling frequency per 200,000 manhours worked for 2014/2015 tracking of LTIR and incidents per month Amec Foster Wheeler employees. This is because the majority of subcontractor hours are site based Root Cause Lost Time Injuries where there is a greater exposure to hazards. Risk management 2% Behaviour As an organisation we missed 3%2% 5% our LTIR target of zero for 2015, 23% Physical condition although eight of our business units 5% Communication worked a combined total of over 31 Standards & processes million manhours without an LTI 7% Skill level (representing 21% of our total hours). Work equipment A breakdown of lost time incident root 7% Planning causes is given in the chart to Materials the right. 16% Safety leadership 7% Investigation of incidents suggest Monitor & review that hazard identification and risk 7% 9% Engineering/Design/Commissioning management is a key weakness 7% Mental stress leading to incidents; behaviours contribute significantly to this. We will address frontline skills in these areas over the course of 2016 through HEART training. Refer to our management factsheet for more information. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / HSS performance amecfw.com Page 2 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Health, Safety and Security HSS performance Total recordable incidents Monthly cases Rollingfrequency Recordable cases include all injuries 35 0.30 excluding minor first aid cases. So an injury resulting in medical treatment, 30 0.25 restricted duties, lost time or a fatality 25 would be included in this group. Our 0.20 target for TRI was to achieve a rate of 20 0.2 per 200,000 manhours worked, 0.15 however, our actual performance 15 was 0.27 per 200,000 hours worked. 0.10 10 Again subcontractors recorded a rate of 0.4 which is double the rate 5 0.05 of Amec Foster Wheeler employees, likely for the same reason as outlined 0 Jan-14 0.00 Feb for LTIs. From the data we have from Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan-15 the combined organisation last year Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov there has been a deterioration in Dec Monthly cases Rolling frequency performance in this area with the rate increasing from 0.23 in 2014 to 0.27 2014/2015 tracking of TRIR and incidents per month in 2015. Although we missed the target Root Cause Total Recordable Incidents overall, our NECIS business did Risk management achieve the improvement target Behaviour and in total eight operating units met their TRIR improvement target, Standards & processes representing over 57 million hours of Work equipment work. A breakdown of total recordable Communication incident root causes is given in the Planning chart to the right. Safety leadership Skill level Both risk awareness and behaviour Materials are identified as key root causes Physical condition in total recordable incident Learning from experience investigations, these mirror the Competence/Training/Knowledge transfer pattern of root cause in lost time Monitor & review incidents. Addressing these issues Engineering/Design/Commissioning will be key in improving our global Mental stress performance. Physical capabiltiy Contractor selection and engagement Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / HSS performance amecfw.com Page 3 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Health, Safety and Security HSS performance Benchmarking Each year we benchmark ourselves against our peers and the industry as a whole using both lost time incident and total recordable incident rates. The table below shows the latest OSHA statistics available along with Amec Foster Wheeler’s 2015 performance. We continue to compare well in both areas against this group. OSHA Benchmarks Professional & Amec Foster Wheeler Construction All industry 2014 Business Services 2015 TRIR 1.5 3.6 3.4 0.27 LTIR 0.5 1.3 1.1 0.046 During 2015 we have also used the Oil and Gas producers’ benchmark, this is a mix of clients as well as service organisations. Against this benchmark we continue to perform better than average but not within the top quartile. OGP industry average 2014 Top quartile 2014 Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 TRIR 0.30 0.15 0.27 LTIR 0.070 0.030 0.046 * OGP 2015 will not be available until mid-2016 Occupational health We continue to track our occupational health performance across the group as well as monitoring and responding to global occupational health threats across the world. Occupation-related ill health is recorded and investigated in the same way as any other incident which has the potential to cause harm. An occupational health case is described in our reporting procedure as one which causes physiological harm or loss of capacity produced by systematic infection; continued or repeated stress or strain; exposure to toxins, poisons, fumes, etc or other continued and repeated exposures to conditions of the work environment over a period of time. During 2015 we had seven occupational health related incidents which consisted of two Tuberculosis exposures, three hand-arm vibration diagnosis, one De Quervains* case and one case relating to a bee sting. Our OH rate remained the same as the previous year at 0.01 incidents per 200,000 hours worked. All reported cases were recorded in the NECIS business. The NECIS business has also instigated the reporting of late surveillance monitoring as an occupational incident and subjecting these incidents to an investigation. This recognises the importance of surveillance to the business. During the year occupational health management plans and monitoring were put in place for projects affected by the Ebola outbreak, MERS and a number of location-specific issues including malaria, dengue and latterly zika virus. We have now added ISOS, a third party specialist, skills to our own to improve our strategic health threat monitoring. * Note: De Quervains is a condition affecting the tendons on the thumb side of the wrist. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / HSS performance amecfw.com Page 4 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Health, Safety and Security HSS performance High potential incidents Monthly cases Rolling frequency As a business we also track incidents 9 0.14 by potential, paying particular attention to those incidents regarded 8 0.12 as high potential, these are incidents 7 which could have resulted in serious 0.10 6 injury or fatality. We look for trends in 0.08 5 these incidents to enable us to focus on interventions before a full potential 4 0.06 is realised. The potential matrix below 3 0.04 contains the number of incidents by 2 potential. 0.02 1 0 Jan-14 0.00 Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan-15 Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Monthly cases Rolling frequency 2014/2015 tracking of HiPo rate and incidents per month Incident type High Potential Incidents Injury near miss miss Asset damage Damage Lost time Timeincident Incident Restricted work Workcase Case Security Occupational Occupational illness Illness near nearmiss miss Medical treatment Treatmentcase Case First aid Aid YTD Potential Rating As per HSE-PRO-100001 No. of people 0 1 1-2 3-10 10+ Consequences Consequences range from 1 (no injury/harm) to 1 397 810 68 23 1 5 (fatality) and the A to E relate to the number 2 105 484 44 10 2 of people exposed to the incident. 3 13 142 21 6 4 2 14 1 2 2 Potential matrix key 5 32 10 9 1 Low Medium High A B C D E Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / HSS performance amecfw.com Page 5 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Health, Safety and Security HSS performance 2015 Leading indicator performance Our leading indicators are used to track group level objectives which are designed to improve our safety performance. We chose four areas for development: 1. Beyond Zero refresh This relates to the integration of the processes, procedures, rules and tools which support the whole business. We reviewed all HSSE contracts and management system elements from across the Foster Wheeler and AMEC businesses to develop a new Amec Foster Wheeler group HSSE approach. This included retendering security contracts, the development of a new incident management and analysis tool called oneAIM, as well as the update of the behavioural safety programmes throughout the business. Key elements were completed during 2015 ready to begin implementation and roll out in 2016. 2. Performance standard implementation This is an assurance activity which aimed to measure compliance with the new Amec Foster Wheeler HSSE core expectations. The objective was to identify any compliance threats and to identify any operational tools which may be valuable to consider as a strategic tool. No major threats were identified and the exercise proved useful as a learning and development tool for HSSE professionals unfamiliar with the company’s core expectations. 3. HSSE accountabilities Business Units were requested to put in place plans to promote good HSSE leadership across their scope of influence. Activities were drawn from existing leadership tools such as Beyond Zero Leaders Plans, First Step courses and bespoke training and mentoring. 4. Risk management This objective was designed to improve the discipline and transparency of identifying HSSE risks at both operational and strategic levels by developing and maintaining HSSE risk registers. Risk registers are useful in identifying where risks occur and focusing assurance activities around critical risk issues. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / HSS performance amecfw.com Page 6 of 6 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study Sadara Packaging Centre HSSE excellence 3,800 0 workers onsite recordable incidents 20 nationalities 11m+ safe man-hours 0 medical treatment cases In 2015 the Sadara Packaging Centre Project was awarded the HSSE Safety Excellence CEO award for delivering the project safely, on time and on budget with an excellent safety record. Background HSSE performance The packaging centre forms part of procurement and construction Throughout 2014, the packaging the Sadara complex in Jubail, Saudi management services for the worldcentre had no recordable incidents/ Arabia, and is part of a world-scale, scale packaging centre. We were accidents, this is normally classified fully integrated chemicals complex. previously awarded the front end as without Lost Time Injury (LTI), It is one of the largest of its kind in engineering design (FEED) contract but this achievement was further the world and the world’s largest for the complex in 2008 followed by surpassed by achieving these worldintegrated chemical complex ever the propylene oxide unit in 2011. class figures without a single Medical built in a single phase, with 26 stateTreatment Case (MTC). For 2014, the of-the-art manufacturing units, over The centre, once complete, will handle project recorded over 10 million safe three million tons of capacity per solid and liquid products ranging man-hours for the year and in 2015 annum and an investment of about from polyethylene and elastomer the project surpassed 11 million safe US$20 billion. pellets, through a wide range of liquid manhours without a recordable products, including amines, glycols, injury. These figures are impressive Amec Foster Wheeler was responsible isocyanates and polyols. considering: for the provision of the design, • All three contractors on site were familiar with working as sub-contractors only and not as ‘contractors’ individually. • The project commenced early 2013, however the main contractor had to be replaced delaying the project by approximately six months. • Total onsite workforce reached almost 3,800 in 2014 consisting of 20 different nationalities, and cultures, some with no previous experience of working on a ‘mega’ construction project prior to Sadara. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Sadara amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study Copper Mountain HSSE best practice In 2015 the Copper Mountain project was awarded the HSSE best practice CEO award for implementing best practice techniques and working practices to protect workers in the project’s unique and challenging working environment. The Copper Mountain 3 Solar Project plan was developed, which included • Due to the repetitive nature of (CMS3) is a 255 MWac solar farm staggered work times and portable solar panel installation, soft tissue built outside of Boulder City, Nevada, open-air cooling trailers with injuries were also a concern. An constructed for Sempra Energy. misting fans to provide cool-down ergonomic professional visited The project is considered one of the areas. the site to evaluate the different largest of its kind in the US and the • Presence of indigenous snakes types of labour jobs and the largest solar farm project undertaken and venomous insects, as well associated movements. As a result, to date by Amec Foster Wheeler. as protected species such as the a stretch and flex programme was desert tortoise required training and developed and implemented for all workers on the site, with stretches Unique conditions awareness for workers. Designated recommended specific to individual employees were trained on how A number of unique conditions work-tasks. to safely relocate species away contributed to specific health from work areas, with a biologist • To reduce the risk of injury and safety precautions being remaining onsite to oversee associated with installing over 290 implemented to protect the workers relocation of the desert tortoises in miles of cable (which equates to including: the work area. Workers were trained 290 miles of trenching, excavation, • Due to temperatures ranging from on how to identify some of the more and backfilling), cable was laid using low 40s to 120+ (degrees F), a sitedangerous insects. wire spools on trucks, instead of the specific weather exposure control usual manual method. Backfilling utilised trucks and a conveyor belt to deposit dirt into the trenches. • To prevent strain while connecting the 1.1 million solar panels, wheeled creepers were used to enable the workers to easily access the undersides of the panels and racks. Despite the unique challenges faced by the CMS3 project team, the work was completed under budget and ahead of schedule. The collaborative safety solutions to these challenges laid the ground-work for additional solar project work, and the lessons learned are influencing best practices at other project sites solar and otherwise. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Copper Mountain amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study SONARA refinery upgrade project More than nine million man hours LTI free SONARA is a refinery upgrade project in Cameroon being delivered in an area with traditionally poor safety culture or expectations, challenging location and weather, limited resources and high levels of poverty. Despite these challenges the project has achieved a world-class safety performance since project start in 2011, achieving over 9.4 million hours without a Lost Time Incident, and providing local employment. Challenges A number of challenges were faced used to challenge any unsafe project, with every one completing by the project team, these included situations or acts, and positive the HSSE Safety Passport training a traditionally poor safety culture behaviours were praised. The project programme outlining life critical amongst the local workforce and captured and analysed all HEART activities and house rules, safety low expectations in terms of safety observations enabling the project leadership and coaching, HEART and performance from the client. For HSSE team to target any specific behaviour based observations and example, local workers have the areas using tools such as toolbox roles and responsibilities. habit of working with little PPE and talks, coaching, practical and in class respecting the very basics of HSE training as well as in-depth audits and With the focus and attention and standards came as a culture shock inspections. daily reinforcement of messages, for most workers. the project was able to achieve a Communication with the workforce world class safety performance, Key improvements was key to ensuring success for the providing employment and raising Amec Foster Wheeler supervised project, this began with an Amec the safety standards, behaviours and location contractors and workers Foster Wheeler HSSE induction for expectations of local workers. and utilised a suite of safety tools to every project worker, daily work improve worker safety culture and safety coordination meetings, behaviour, as well as raise safety and supervised morning toolbox talks by reduce risk tolerance by all parties. every contractor with their workers One of the key tools utilised and and pre-task talks before each shift, embraced by the project was Amec all reinforcing the importance of Foster Wheeler’s HEART (Harm safety in the delivery. Elimination and Recognition Training) behaviour based safety programme Specific attention was paid to where HEART conversations were supporting supervisors on the Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Sonara amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study Safer driving campaign United Arab Emirates ntervene ti you mus Driving is one the biggest risks in the UAE, with the country having one of the highest per-capita road fatality rates, and only a quarter of the population driving. In total, road traffic related accidents represent two thirds of all fatal accidents in the UAE. The Ministry of Interior has recognised the poor culture and set a KPI to halve the fatality rate per capita by 2020. As Amec Foster Wheeler personnel working in the UAE relying on Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 Safe Driving Charter transport, whether it be for work or personal engagements, is YES to EVERYONE wearing seatbelts unavoidable we wanted to play our part in changing the safety YES to indicators EVERY TIME we change lane or change course culture on UAE roads. In order to ensure maximum engagement, we recognised the need to engage with YES to obeying traffic light signals both internal stakeholders and the wider community. YES to intervening when those driving us take risks At the start of 2015 a Charter was NO to speeding produced to encourage a culture of road safety behaviour outlining NO to tailgating commitments to safer driving. All employees were encouraged to sign up in order to acknowledge the NO to mobile phones, including Bluetooth connectivity key messages and demonstrate commitment to the programme. The Charter outlined simple safety behaviours employees should adopt to lead to better road safety. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Safer driving campaign amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study Safer driving campaign United Arab Emirates Safe Drive UAE Campaign The Safe Drive Campaign was January February March launched in 2015 with the aim of raising awareness and helping employees focus on safer driving practices and behaviours whilst Parked cars Give way Reduce speed driving to and from work, on company business or for personal activities. The campaign was rolled out throughout the year with key themes April May June introduced monthly to highlight key messages from the campaign. Each month’s theme provided a focus Congested Adjusting side for employees. For example the March Safe distance roads/routes mirror for blind spots theme was about Reducing Speed with a focus on: • Improving road safety by encouraging slower driving speed July August September • Reduction in travel speed saves lives and prevents injury Avoid blocking • Lowering speed can reduce the Intersections Avoid rush vehicles severity of all crash types • Reduced speed will also reduce the likelihood of many crash types occurring October November December • Speed must be lowered if road visibility conditions deteriorate • The wider benefit of reducing Be patient – How to be a General and recap speeds include improved fuel be observant defensive driver consumption, lower greenhouse gas emissions and less traffic noise Desktop calendars and monthly By actively promoting the campaign The competition to design the 2016 safety bulletins were issued to all both internally and on projects, Amec Safe Drive calendar was sponsored employees to stress these messages Foster Wheeler aims to improve by Road Safety UAE with prizes and to provide a constant reminder driving habits and awareness and donated by VOX Cinemas and Ferrari of the key messages to abide by reduce the number of road/traffic World. The finalised calendars shall whilst driving. Amec Foster Wheeler related accidents to personnel in the be distributed to all Amec Foster employees presented some of the wider community. Wheeler employees as well as monthly themes at monthly safety customers in the new year. Working meetings, cascading the important Safe Drive going forward with Brighton College has provided messages to the project team as well To ensure that the positive messages a great opportunity to work with as erecting banners at project office from the 2015 Safe Drive Campaign the wider community and raise locations around Abu Dhabi. are built upon and continued awareness of road safety in some of Amec Foster Wheeler has created for years to come Amec Foster the local schools. a sustainable Safe Drive Campaign Wheeler launched the UAE Safe which is applicable and accessible Drive 2016 Calendar Competition to all demographics within the UAE. with Brighton College, Abu Dhabi. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Safer driving campaign amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Health, Safety and Security Security in focus The past two years has seen the ongoing development of Amec Foster Wheeler’s Group Security department, with the new operating model and business structure, the Group Security function has recalibrated its existing systems and processes to reflect the new business entity and the new global risk environment. Spotlight on security instability, potential terrorist activity, • Travel security – are we fulfilling The business has in place a network and organised crime dominate our our duty of care to our employees of regional security advisors, coupled watch list as the main threats Amec as they travel on behalf of the with embedded business security Foster Wheeler must assess and company? Growing awareness of managers and a spread of what mitigate. Protest activities against our Travel Security Programme we call security focal points. This nuclear energy or fracking, potential and ongoing best practice for our structure and system was designed to flashpoints about land ownership travellers ensure that we approach security risk and access to natural resources, and management from both strategic/ resource based conflict are the kinds In 2015, Group Security continued its developmental and grass-roots/ of new threats that group security strategic level risk mapping to assess tactical levels. With the advent of the will also address as part of the risk what kinds of risks the company faces new company, we developed the new assessment and management we and how they are being managed. In Emergency Preparedness Framework carry out for Amec Foster Wheeler. 2016 we will continue to expand the and Standard which came online in We will continue to work hard to risk mapping capability, and in line with late 2015. This underpins the key protect our people as they travel the HSSE Roadmap, work to assist requirements that we must meet and work on behalf of the company each business unit, operational unit at every level across the business and to assist our operating units and and project to complete a unique risk to support our duty of care for our businesses in navigating the risks register which accurately reflects the people, our assets and our reputation inherent in doing business around the risks of their operating environment. in the event of emergencies as well globe. This gives Amec Foster Wheeler four as business interruptions. Linking levels of risk register – Group plc, in to the Emergency Preparedness Looking forward business unit, operating unit and Framework we continue to develop In 2016 Group Security will focus on: project – resulting in a comprehensive our Travel Security programme • Roll out of security reporting across profile of our risk environment. With globally. the whole organisation this deeper understanding of the risks • Core expectations – The ongoing and how the company is responding Current risk focus development and awareness of our at different levels, Group Security Geographically, we will continue to minimum operating standards for will calibrate security provision and focus on events in the Middle East and security preparedness to meet the challenges Gulf States, South America and the • Emergency preparedness – Do all ahead and to keep Amec Foster Asia Pacific Rim, where Amec Foster of our locations have awareness Wheeler resilient and adaptable Wheeler is conducting business of our Emergency Preparedness regardless of how the global security in complex, dynamic security Framework? environment evolves in the future. environments. Political violence and Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Security amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Health, Safety and Security Security in focus Performance To ensure that we monitor our performance in this area and are able to look for trends we track the number of security incidents across our business. We define a security incident as any incident which occurs resulting in physical, criminal or intellectual security breaches. In 2015 Amec Foster Wheeler reported 36 security incidents. Number of security incidents Americas NECIS AMEASE GPG Amec Foster Wheeler plc Employee 13 13 4 1 0 Contractor 2 1 2 0 0 Total 15 14 6 1 0 *Incidents reported are legacy AMEC only for 2015. We also use data to calculate a security incident rate which is calculated by the sum of all security incident cases multiplied by 200,000 and divided by the number of hours worked over a rolling 12 month period. Frequency rates Americas NECIS AMEASE GPG Amec Foster Wheeler plc Employee 0.08 0.07 0.04 0.58 0.00 Contractor 0.04 0.04 0.01 0.00 0.00 Total 0.07 0.07 0.02 0.03 0.00 *Incidents reported are legacy AMEC only for 2015. Our average rate for security incidents in 2015 has remained the same at 0.05 incidents per 200,000 hour worked. * High risk country Conditions present a serious and persistent challenge to business and personnel. High risk rated countries require full security approval for all forms of business travel, full commercial review board processes, and close interaction with Group Security during business planning or assessment. ** Split risk country Aspects of the country present risk and security challenges similar to that of extreme or high risk countries but these are contained and do not extend throughout the whole country. Challenges to business and operations may vary. Split risk rated countries require full or partial travel approvals for business travel, and interaction with Group Security during business planning or assessment. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Security amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Environmental management and performance “Companies with innovative business models that have integrated sustainability into their core strategies are growing fast, on average, at a rate of “Environmental 15 per cent a year, at a time when their respective management markets have remained flat.” matters to Amec UNEP Deputy Executive Director at the 1st Dubai International Forum Foster Wheeler.” on Sustainable Lifestyles Our business and many like it Much of our work we do for clients Managing our help to shape the world around us has the potential for significant through the services we offer. We environmental consequences. environmental have an ever increasing portfolio of services which focus on the markets Ensuring that we manage our environmental aspects is imperative aspects of tomorrow – but the services to the sustainability of our business. Amec Foster Wheeler has adopted are only useful to us when they are Every client demands that we an integrated Health, Safety, procured by our clients. When oil carefully manage environmental Security and Environmental (HSSE) prices are low, securing investment risks associated with executing our management approach which draws in renewable technologies is projects and doing more with less on the elements of ISO 14001 with challenging, however we continue to enables us to minimise wastage. the European part of the business invest in our clean energy business benefiting from ISO certification. because we believe that we need to Meeting statutory minimums is Compliance with the standard is provide the world with post-carbon not the answer, although it may required as a part of our mandatory solutions now. form part of our basic fundamental framework although third party principles. Being a business that certification is not, unless there is Adding to the business case contributes to global sustainability a business need to do so. for excellence in environmental by offering services which seek management is the fact that to protect and enhance our environmental & infrastructure environment is, by far, a key services is a significant part of aspiration. Amec Foster Wheeler’s business, representing 10% of our total global turnover. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Environmental mgt and performance amecfw.com Page 1 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Environmental management and performance Policy and framework Our HSSE policy sets out our key Amec Foster Wheeler HSSE Policy environmental aims and objectives (Global) Policy as a responsible business, many of our aims and objectives are combined health, safety and security HSSE Strategy Delivery (Global) as well as environmental. See our Strategies HSSE policy. HSSE Framework & core Our policy is an important Common expectations document because it underpins the Processes (Global) development of our environmental management approach. It is such an Project Management Plan important policy that our Board of agem ent Security & Emergency Project Man Directors regularly review and must Preparadness Plans Plans approve it. tions, The policy is supported by our s, Instruc Procedure ) and supporting IFs’ health, safety, security and Forms (P ts environmental (HSSE) framework documen Global applies to all Amec Foster Wheeler document. This sets out Amec business and operations Foster Wheeler’s expectations and minimum environmental standards for our global operations. It The Environmental provides the guiding hand on what Standards is a live and we believe should be our absolute evolving document, standard wherever we operate in containing learning and the world. We know that standards best practice from across of environmental management are our group of companies. different across the world and we The objective of the are committed to upholding our standards is to provide legal obligations. However, where consistency across our the statutory duty of care to the operations which protects environment falls short of our own and enhances our standards, we are committed to reputation and minimises ensuring that we operate to our environmental risks. framework and standards. The standards form Environmental core part of our Beyond Zero expectation roadmap and tool kit, The HSSE framework established you can find out more 15 core expectations of our HSSE about this, mandatory management systems, and contains procedures and our environmental expectations for environmental assurance the business. This core expectation in “Managing Health, references compliance with the Safety and Security” company Environmental Standards. section. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Environmental mgt and performance amecfw.com Page 2 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Environmental management and performance As part of our mandatory procedure, ‘Incident reporting, recording and investigation’, environmental incidents are captured in Amec Foster Wheeler’s incident management and analysis tool oneAIM. Incidents are assigned an environmental potential based on the table below: Consequence level Consequence description Potential rating 1 Minimal reversible environmental impact A1 2 Minor pollution with short term impact (1 month) A2 3 Moderate pollution with medium term localised pollution (1 year) A3 4 Severe pollution with long term localised pollution (+1 year) A4 5 Major pollution with long term environmental change A5 Title High level consequences are notified to the management team through a first alert process and all high potential consequence incidents subject to an 15% in-depth investigation. Only 7% of the environmental incidents were rated level 2, the rest were identified as potential 1 Employee which indicates localised spillages with little or no Managed contractor Sub-contractor environmental impact. 63% 19% Sub-contractors were responsible for 63% of all the recorded environmental incidents, with managed contractors accounting for 19% and Amec Foster Wheeler employees accounting for 15%. However, the largest spills were attributed to Amec Foster Wheeler. Environmental spills 18% 32% Fuel 9% Grey water Hydraulic oil Other Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Environmental mgt and performance amecfw.com Page 3 of 4 41% © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Title Environmental management and performance Employee Managed contractor Sub-contractor 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 EIFR* 0.11 0.13 0.23 0.23 0.47 0.46 No. of recorded incidents 81 51 87 99 179 160 Of which were spills 77 50 71 78 175 Volume of spill (litres) 2,375,494** 301,922 3,314 4,529 7,150 * Environmental Incident Frequency Rate per 200,000 hours worked **Excluding volumes recorded in legacy FW system which did not capture this information Historical data for 2014 and earlier are based on AMEC Environmental spills figures only, as data from Foster Wheeler was not captured to allow us to combine years before integration. The volume of spillage was highly impacted by two incidents recorded on projects in the Americas: 18% 1. On 7 January discharged groundwater from the work site 32% was found to be impacted by a leak in a brine pond and was outside of permitted water quality objectives. The site Fuel recorded that 1,152 cubic metres of groundwater had been 9% Grey water Hydraulic oil discharged into a wetland with the potential to cause short Other term localised environmental impact (A2). 2. The same site recorded a further breach of water quality objectives on 29 January involving the discharge of 1,217 cubic metres of groundwater impacted by a leak in the oil 41% pond, resulting in the potential for a short-term localised environmental impact (A2). Of all the incidents reported 41% involved the spillage of hydraulic fluid from plant and 18% from fuel spillages. There were zero prosecutions levied against Title Amec Foster Wheeler in 2015 Environmental regulatory record However an Americas project site was issued with an order on 15 June 2015 relating to the unauthorised removalI-Physical of capability trees in a protected area, a fine is yet to be determined. The same project was also issued with an order relating J-toPhysical the condition installation of underground utilities in a protected area. Order has been closed with no fine or prosecution issuedL-Mental to stress M-Behaviour Amec Foster Wheeler. O-Competence/T P-Safety leadership R-Engineering/Design/ 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 S-Planning U-Work equipment Prosecutions 0 0 0 0 2 0V-Standards & processe W-Communicatio X-Risk management Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Environmental mgt and performance amecfw.com Page 4 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Minimising resource use The world is experiencing growing energy demand, climate change and, increasing resource scarcity. The global agreement signed at the end of 2015 at COP21 and the increasing environmental regulations in this area mean that this is an area of increasing focus for ourselves and our clients, ensuring that we operate in the most efficient and effective manner and that we offer the same to our clients in the delivery of projects. Energy and heating management Our direct energy and heating Looking at efficiency criteria across In 2015 we rolled out our efficiency consumption is associated mainly five key areas: programme by introducing office with our office and site locations profile questionnaires aligned to the building utility and includes • Building infrastructure 5 star efficiency programme within the consumption of electricity, • Building operation our carbon reporting software. natural gas, heating oil, steam and • Energy management and Completion of an office 5 star performance improvement profile, and the development of an generator fuel. We manage energy • Efficient occupancy and heating at a local level with the improvement plan based on the • Water efficiency. office/site using our environmental result of this were the requirements management systems, our global We have rated our existing of the 2015 office sustainability environmental standards and also offices using the office efficiency promises programme. We have our office sustainability programmes. programme, awarding them a star analysed the results of this profiling rating should the criteria for each exercise, to find out more please Our office efficiency 5 star go to the case study of our five star bet met. The intention is to programme supports the decision star efficiency programme. 2016 improve the efficiency star ratings of making process when we procure will see the continued roll out of our office portfolio as we progress new office space, and also within our the programme, with the focus through the programme, which existing office environments as we being to implement improvement in turn should reduce our utility look to improve the efficiency of our plans, to improve both star rating consumption and costs in this area. activities. and to be more efficient both in the consumption of utilities and in the utilisation of our office space. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Minimising resource use amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Minimising resource use Energy performance and intensity Our absolute usage has increased considerably following the acquisition of Global annual fuel and energy the Foster Wheeler business. 2015 is the baseline year from which all future consumption (MWh) reduction targets and goals will be set. We are unable to report historical data because this information is not available for the Foster Wheeler business prior Emission (MWh) 2015 to 2015 to enable any historical trending of usage. The emissions associated with the power generation sites of the Global Power Group business unit will Heating oil 1,793 be reported separately due to the vast difference in emissions and activity Natural gas 60,945 associated with this part of the business. Total heating energy 62,738 In line with the 5 star efficiency programme and office sustainability promises Electricity 143,996 plans, we continue to work across the business units to identify potential areas for improvements and put in place any reduction plans. The impact of Onsite fuel 11,445 these reduction plans will be reported in future reports and updates to this factsheet. Steam 503 Total energy 155,944 The majority of our energy usage continues to come from electricity consumption associated with our offices and in the manufacturing plants Overall total 218,683 of our GPG business. This accounts for roughly 89% of our total energy consumption. The majority of our natural gas consumption continues to come from our Americas offices who are now able to report actual usage and implement any reduction plans for the region. We also measure our energy intensity by employee (average full time equivalent employee), and also by turnover (per £million), so that we can monitor this as the company grows. Breakdown of global annual fuel and energy consumption by business unit (MWh) 5.6 260,000 240,000 MWh per 220,000 250000 employee 200,000 180,000 Heating oil Mwh (’000) 160,000 Steam 200000 140,000 Electricity 120,000 On site fuel 100,000 Natural gas 40.1 80,000 150000 60,000 MWh per £m 40,000 turnover 20,000 100000 0 50000 Americas NECIS AMEASE GPG Total 0 Americas NE&CIS AMEASE GPG Total Heating Oil Natural Gas Electricity On-site Fuel Steam Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Minimising resource use amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Minimising resource use Water management We began to review our water risk We continue to calculate water and usage in 2012 by reviewing data based on country-specific our permanent locations and benchmark water consumption assessed their exposure, assigning figures, a dataset of office locations priority levels to each of our offices and size, and actual water usage based on water stress risk and data where available. We continue usage. Using this priority listing we to work on increasing the amount launched a pilot water consumption of actual water usage data where it improvement programme in our is available, this will be an ongoing top priority sites in the Americas to improvement area, with focus for better quantify water usage so that 2016 being around awareness raising best management practices would and engagement. Specific action be identified. See case study for areas for 2016 include; detailed information relating to this pilot and the progress to date. • Setting water reduction targets in 2016 for the NECIS business • Introduction of a water awareness week in AMEASE in March 2016 • Roll out of water awareness brochures in the Americas Externally, we will continue to support our clients to assess and manage business water risks, this is where Amec Foster Wheeler can make the biggest positive impact with our water experts within the business. Specific information on our water services and projects can be found at amecfw.com/water. 3 467,915m Direct water consumption Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Minimising resource use amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study Americas water pilot We launched a pilot water consumption program within our top priority sites in the Americas to better quantify water usage so that best practices could be identified and implemented. The western US was chosen for this purpose based on the global water risk assessment that was undertaken. Data was collected using an online Calculating water An economic analysis was completed survey from 22 offices and included by comparing the water and energy information on building use (single, consumption savings with the installation cost for multi-tenant or laboratory), current Guidance and methodology for each type of fixture. types of water uses (irrigation, calculating water usage across vehicle washing, evaporative the offices was adapted from the Some of the water conservation cooling), and detailed information on WATERGY programme, developed fixtures evaluated include: fixtures. Fixture data was gathered by the US Department of Energy’s Federal Emergency Management • High efficiency toilets (HETs). Also for faucets, toilets, and urinals, and programme. Utility rates were taken known as ultra low-flow toilets, included the number and flow rate of such as dual flush and pressure each fixture. from bills provided where available or estimated from service providers in assist toilets use 1.28 gallons per flush, 20% less than a standard each office location. Domestic water usage 1.6 gallon per flush toilet Projected domestic water savings m³ The pie chart shown summarises • Ultra low-flow urinals. Use 0.125 the estimated breakdown 6,000 of current 5,346 3,045 4,523 gallons per flush which is 87% less 21% domestic water use5,000 across all offices water than standard urinals. included in the water 4,000 pilot. As shown in the chart, toilets 3,000 account for 62% • Faucet aerators. Low-flow Toilets Urinals of the domestic usage, followed by faucet aerators are inexpensive 2,000 17% Lavatory faucets lavatory faucets and urinals at 21% attachments to water faucets that 62% and 17%, respectively.1,000 limit the flow rate to 0.5 gallons 0 per minute which is 75% less than Most existing fixtures within offices the two gallons per minute faucet Current usage Savings Savings surveyed were conventional fixtures, fixtures typically have in place. (All conservation (Only faucet opportunities) aerators) and potential water conservation opportunities were evaluated by calculating the potential savings to be achieved if current fixtures were replaced with low–flow fixtures. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Americas water pilot amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study Americas water pilot Potential Domestic water usage savings Implementation of all of the above would result in a reduction Projected domestic water savings m³ of approximately 43% of water use, or 3,046 m³, across the pilot offices. Replacement of toilets and urinals typically 6,000 5,346 3,045 4,523 did not provide a favourable economic payback, due to the 5,000 21% relatively high cost of these fixtures. However, replacement of faucet aerators would return the initial investment in just 4,000 over one year, on average, and would result in savings of approximately 15% of the total domestic water use. 3,000 Toilets Urinals Lavatory faucets 2,000 Implementation In the fall of 2015, we began implementing the water pilot 1,000 findings by 62% working with office managers to replace faucet 0 aerators. Letters outlining the potential cost savings and water conservation benefits were provided to landlords to gain approval for upgrading faucet aerators at Amec Foster Current usage Savings Savings (All conservation (Only faucet Wheeler’s cost. opportunities) aerators) To date, offices in Los Angeles, Phoenix, Dallas, and El Paso have successfully upgraded their fixtures and are expected to save a total of nearly 80,000 gallons of water annually. We look forward to continuing implementation at additional offices in 2016. Next steps We will look at expanding the water pilot outside of the Western US, and also look at irrigation use across our locations. Offices with irrigation usage account for a large proportion of water use in certain offices, often exceeding domestic usage by five times or more. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Americas water pilot amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study An island’s beginning of a circular economy Amec Foster Wheeler currently has three projects in Guam, a United States Territory located in the Marianas, including the construction of two aircraft hangars and the laying of new utility lines for Andersen Airforce Base’s North Ramp. Throughout these projects our team has focused on the creation of a circular economy for the island’s limited resources. As part of this focus the local team have implemented reuse strategies/practices, utilised existing available materials and created value and use from ‘business as usual waste’. To date the project teams identified and implemented four positive impact points. 1 2 3 4 Construction of the project Utilisation of approximately Value creation of the Removal of 120,000 cubic management office from 60 acres of green waste 600,000 cubic yards of yards of soil and coral 11 reclaimed shipping which was cleared for soil and coral sub-grade material to be used for fill in containers. installation for slope materials which had Airforce runway low spots stabilisation, erosion control originally planned to be and a training location and erosion sock fill. removed for disposal. for airdrops. This project This material is now being is currently ongoing in crushed and utilised for conjunction with the US quality fill material on other Government. local projects. The diversity of employees within the local office from around the world to local Chamorro hires has allowed the team to collectively generate innovative solutions for creating the circular economy on the island. This positive social impact has led to new strategy and construction practices for a cleaner and more resilient environment for the people of Guam. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Guam circular economy amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study An island’s beginning of a circular economy Social benefits By developing a diverse team of employees, our office has created a global network of communication, best practices, awareness and education of a circular economy to be spread amongst peers. Business benefits Business benefits to reusing: £ • Large cost savings from green waste and soil material disposal • Cost savings from container reuse and not purchasing imported material for structure • Cost savings from the nonpurchasing of fill material • The creation of best practices Environmental benefits By reusing, not disposing, we have; • Lowered emissions from reduced numbers of waste disposal transits and material imports • Preserved jungle habitats which would have been used for disposal or excavation site for fill Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Guam circular economy amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Carbon management We have been working to reduce the carbon emissions associated with our business operations for a number of years. Following the development of the Amec Foster Wheeler business late in 2014 there was a requirement to calculate the carbon footprint for the new business. The Foster Wheeler business had not previously recorded its carbon footprint globally, therefore it was not possible to simply combine the separate companies’ emissions. 2015 was therefore the first year that the whole business had recorded its carbon emissions, and will be the baseline year for Amec Foster Wheeler, from which all future reduction targets will be set. In developing the reporting system For 2015 we will report two separate Due to the considerable difference for Amec Foster Wheeler, it was sets of numbers; in emissions, we will report decided to mirror the previous the emissions from the power approach and methodologies used 1. The emissions for the Amec Foster generation sites separately, so as by the AMEC business historically. Wheeler business for the 2015 to not distort the reporting and We report our scope 1, 2 and 3 carbon year – taking into account reduction efforts of the rest of the emissions within our organisational that the Foster Wheeler business business. boundary using an operational joined partway through the 2015 control approach. carbon reporting year. Foster Wheeler locations and data are reported from Q2 onwards. 2. Reflecting a full year of data as it would have been should Amec 2020 target Foster Wheeler have existed for the whole period – this data set 15% reduction from 2015 will be considered our baseline baseline by 2020 data set. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Carbon management amecfw.com Page 1 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Carbon management Scope 1 emissions The majority of the scope 1 emissions for the business come from direct emissions from the two 1 power generation facilities in Chile and Martinez, US, together these make up 97% of the scope 1 emissions of the baseline data set. The remainder is made up of company car, natural gas of our offices and onsite fuel to power generators and other site equipment. Scope 2 emissions 2 Scope 2 emissions are associated with the electricity purchased and utilised for our office space and for the manufacturing plants of our GPG business. Scope 3 emissions from business travel 3 We continue to record the emissions from our business travel, including air, rail and personal vehicles miles. A new travel policy was introduced for the Amec Foster Wheeler business, challenging the need for travel and also class of travel. Skype was also rolled out to the whole business and has become a widely utilised tool for conferencing and meetings by employees, replacing the number of face-toface meetings – we are currently looking into ways of monitoring its use to ascertain whether this has correlation to reduction in travel moving forward. Recording detailed travel information has been a challenge in 2015 for parts of the business and we continue to work with our travel providers to build the reporting requirements. 2016 will see a consolidation of the number of travel providers globally, which will simplify the reporting process moving forward. 2015 baseline Scope Centre Americas NECIS AMEASE GPG Power Generation Total 1 121 15,583 9,825 2,403 4,040 1,085,148 1,117,120 2 153 29,138 9,034 8,632 21,582 68,540 3 1,763 26,783 10,013 17,428 6,896 62,882 Total 2,037 71,503 28,873 28,464 32,518 1,085,148 1,248,542 2015 reporting year (inclusive of Foster Wheeler data from Q2 onwards) Scope Centre Americas NECIS AMEASE GPG Power Generation Total 1 121 14,876 9,596 2,842 2,779 807,859 838,073 2 153 27,937 8,194 7,426 15,973 59,682 3 1,763 25,595 9,944 16,605 5,241 59,147 Total 2,050 68,408 28,423 26,872 23,993 807,859 956,902 Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Carbon management amecfw.com Page 2 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Carbon management Total carbon footprint by reporting type 2015 Carbon footprint Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 baseline CO2e excluding power generation Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 baseline CO Direct GHG2e Emissions Transmission & Distribution losses 1,400,000.00 Steam 1,200,000.00 Train and bus Non-company car 1,000,000.00 Air travel (long haul) CO2 emisions by type by business unit 800,000.00 CO2 emissions by type by business unit Air travel (short haul) 600,000.00 80,000.00 Electrcity (grid averae electricity) 400,000.00 On site fuel 70,000.00 200,000.00 LPG 60,000.00 Natural Gas 0.00 Heating Oil -200,000.00 50,000.00 Generator Fuel Company Car 40,000.00 30,000.00 20,000.00 10,000.00 0.00 Americas NE&CIS Amec Foster Wheeler 2015 baseline AMEASE CO2e GPG Centre Emission by scope Company Car Emission by scope Generator Fuel Heating DirectOilGHGassociated Emissions Emissionswith powerNatural generation Gas (including power generation) LPG (minus power On sitegeneration) fuel Electrcity (grid average electricity) Air travel (short haul) Air travel (long haul) Non-company car Transmission Train and bus Distribution losses & distribution losses Steam 5% 1,400,000.00 Transmission & Distribution losses 6% Steam 20% Scope 3 1,200,000.00 Scope 2 Train and bus Scope 1 38% 1,000,000.00 Non-company car Scope 3 Air travel (long haul) 800,000.00 Air travel (short haul) 600,000.00 Electrcity (grid Electricity (grid averae averageelectricity) electricity) Scope 2 Scope 1 400,000.00 On site fuel 42% 89% 200,000.00 LPG 0.00 Natural Gas Heating Oil -200,000.00 Generator Fuel Company Car Note: Our carbon reporting year runs from 1 October to 30 September to ensure we are able to report a full 12 months actual data within our annual report and accounts. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Carbon management amecfw.com Page 3 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 El Tonnes CO2e N Tr Scope 1 G Scope 2 Ai Scope 3 Tr Fact sheet H O Carbon management Ai 31,972 St Americas NECIS AMEASE GPG Centre Carbon disclosure project 2015 AMEC CDP results CDP disclosure score averages Title We continue to report externally on our performance in both legal and voluntary carbon reporting requirements. 93 83 84 This year we achieved our highest disclosure score of 93 which measures the level of transparency the company has shared through its response, with a performance band C which measures how I-Physical effectively we are capability addressing climate risk. JPhysical condition L-Mental stress Our score M-Behaviour Industry group average O-Competence/T CDP programme average P-Safety leadership R-Engineering/Design/Commissioning S-Planning U-Work equipment V-Standards & processes W-Communicatio X-Risk management Disclosure averages Legislative energy requirements affecting Amec Foster Wheeler in the UK ESOS CRC 5th December 2015 was the deadline A total of 16 sites were included in The CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme within the UK for large organisations the audit programme. Amec Foster is a mandatory carbon emissions to meet the requirements of the Wheeler notified the regulators reporting and pricing scheme to Energy Savings Opportunities of the scheme in the UK of our cover large public and private sector Title Scheme (ESOS). The scheme was compliance ahead of the deadline. organisations in the UK that use established to implement Article 8 We are currently working on more than 6,000MWh per year of of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive implementing the opportunities electricity and have at least one (2012/27/EU). Amec Foster Wheeler identified in line with our global half-hourly meter settled on the halfmet the eligibility criteria therefore carbon reduction strategy and hourly electricity market. was required to comply withcapability I-Physical the sharing the lessons learnt from the In 2015 Amec Foster Wheeler requirements of ESOS. JPhysical condition process from our operations in the purchased 9,674 allowances to L-Mental stress UK across the globe. cover the carbon emissions from the Amec Foster Wheeler selected the M-Behaviour O-Competence/T qualifying energy (electricity and use of energy auditsP-Safety as theleadership most The second phase of ESOS began gas) purchased, costing £158,653. appropriate, and given the extensive on 6 December 2015, as part of R-Engineering/Design/Commissioning number of offices within which Amec S-Planning this phase all UK locations within It was recently announced by the Foster Wheeler staffU-Work operate, a equipment Amec Foster Wheeler where we use UK Chancellor of the Exchequer that sampling approach to auditing V-Standards was & processes energy will be assessed for energy CRC will be scrapped at the end of taken based on a mixW-Communicatio of: saving opportunities as well as any its current phase in 2019. The UK X-Risk management transport under the control of Amec Government plans to introduce a • Building size Foster Wheeler. new, simplified energy and carbon • Scale of energy consumption reporting framework by April 2019. • Geographic locations In our UK NECIS offices, The income generation element • Primary end use assessments under the ESOS from CRC will be transferred into the legislation were undertaken. climate change levy (CCL) however it is not yet known how the reporting element of CRC will be replaced. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Carbon management amecfw.com Page 4 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Carbon management 2015 initiatives and programmes The key activity for 2015 was to ascertain the baseline carbon footprint for the new Amec Foster Wheeler business, this was undertaken throughout the year with the roll out of reporting requirements and templates to aid the business ensuring a consistency of approach globally. Due to the different emission types of the GPG business in comparison to the rest of the business, a separate assessment was undertaken of this business to ensure that the emissions associated were accurately captured and reported. In addition to the baseline, the office efficiency 5 star programme was rolled out globally, requesting that all offices complete an assessment which would provide their rating score against the 5 star criteria, which would be used as the basis of office improvement plans moving forward. Read more about the 5 star office efficiency programme. In our UK NECIS offices, assessments under the ESOS legislation were undertaken, and an overview of this can be found within the adjacent highlighted box. Looking forward to 2016 • Assessment of our long term • Continue to develop and improve reduction targets utilising a carbon reporting systems and Focus for our carbon reporting science based approach to data quality, particularly for those and management in 2016 will be ensure they remain appropriate locations that had not previously centered around four key areas; for the business and that they reported carbon data prior to are consistent with the level of 2015. decarbonisation required by science to limit global warming to • Reporting of scope 2 emissions less than 2 degrees compared to in line with new requirements pre-industrial temperatures. set out in the greenhouse gas protocol. • Development of office improvement plans in line with the 5 star office efficiency programme, with particular focus on increasing the star rating of those offices where this is possible and in doing so reducing the energy consumption associated. Benchmark indicators Scope 2015 emissions * 2015 full baseline ** Tonnes CO2 per person per year 24.33 31.75 Tonnes CO2 per £m turnover 175.42 228.88 Note: * data includes full 12 month data set for AMEC, and 9 month data for Foster Wheeler as per make up of business for the 2015 carbon year. ** Full carbon year data set for both AMEC and Foster Wheeler. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Carbon management amecfw.com Page 5 of 5 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study Redesign reduces resource use and carbon Amec Foster Wheeler’s waste heat boilers downstream of proprietary CO incinerators recovers waste heat from an incinerator that burns carbon monoxide (CO) gas from a refining process. The process of CO incineration and recovery of waste heat from the flue gas, incinerates harmful CO. In 2015 the business undertook dioxide is to the tune of 480,000 kg a study to reduce the size of the and that of energy consumption is to equipment without affecting the the tune of around 8400 GJ, against performance, in an attempt to saving of 600 tons of material. reduce the carbon footprint of the equipment. Each part of the existing This lead to boiler design was put under test. Goals: • Reduction in the carbon foot • Is it required at all? print by 480,000 kg and energy • Optimise space consumption by 8400 GJ utilisation • Can it be supported in a different manner? • Reduced plant layout requirement • Reduce overall weight by 32% • Can it be fitted differently? • No compromise • Reduced inspection and on performance or • Why the down-comer is inside flue maintenance time due to more structural stability gas path when it can be outside? open space around the boiler The exercise resulted in savings • Faster access to critical areas of of around 600 tons (reduced from the waste heat boiler the earlier weight of 1,640 tons • Reduced fatigue to operating and to the new weight 1,040 tons) of maintenance teams material which would otherwise be superfluous and was actually not • Quicker evacuation in case of serving any purpose. The amount emergency due to more open of energy and resources on the space around the boiler. unwanted additional material is saved thus reducing the ‘carbon foot print’. As per norms, the reduction in production of carbon Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Reducing resource use and carbon amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study 5 star office efficiency programme The sustainability team, in conjunction with real estate, developed an office efficiency programme which we call 5 star, which aims to improve our office stock in terms of operating cost and the emissions associated. The 5 star office efficiency Northern Europe and CIS programme sets out criteria with which to assess offices prior to lease, helping us to make more Global NECIS informed decisions on the impact the Develop a road map for how we understand and manage Set carbon, waste and water offices would make on our carbon human rights for the business, with focus for 2016 on awareness raising and for carbon, waste, water up to aspirations. The 5 star programme 2020 delivering a modern slavery statement Update legacy AMEC STEM tracker to Amec Foster Wheeler is equally applicable to our current Reaffirm our carbon strategy and goals in light of COP21 outcomes; working to the Ensure sustainability awareness offices where we can assess the training is successful the interim Raise awareness of what human rights and the Modern efficiency against the 5 star criteria, Publish and implement the framework in support of the Slavery Act are and what they mean to NECIS assign star ratings against the office excellence with clear aims and goals to 2020 Embed sustainability into the based on meeting the criteria for each process of the Amec Foster star and then setting in place plans to Define the Resilient World make improvements. to 2020, with the aim to test at in 2016 The five stars were developed from key areas that we believed would have Our Promises the most impact in terms of cost and Improve 5 star office efficiency rating by 1 star Complete annual office profile review carbon efficiency: Undertake at least one community / charity event Participate in community sustainability initiatives knowledge box • Building infrastructure, systems and equipment • Building operation • Energy management and performance improvement • Efficient occupancy • Water efficiency Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / 5 star office efficiency programme amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study 5 star office efficiency programme 2015 office profile efficiency of our offices, and put in profile and the star rating achieved. In 2014 our America’s business place improvement plans with the Each Business Unit is working with worked on the roll out of the 5 aim of increasing the number of stars its offices to implement improvement star programme by building the for each location, and therefore the plans and has outlined efforts to assessment criteria for each star into overall efficiency of these offices. review and improve the 5 star office a sustainability profile questionnaire efficiency within their sustainability for every office location to complete In 2015, 70% of our offices completed promises for 2016. More information on an annual basis. Throughout 2015, a profile to assess their star rating on our sustainability promises can be the office profile questionnaire was based on the programme criteria. found on our sustainability planning rolled out globally so that we could The graph below shows the number factsheet. begin to build a global view of the of offices who have completed a 5 star programme: number of offices by star count We will continue to engage with those Throughout 2016, we will expand on offices that have not yet completed the reporting and analysis related to their profile, and throughout 2016 and the impact that improvements to star beyond we will work with the offices ratings are having in relation to energy to support their planning to improve used. their star rating. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / 5 star office efficiency programme amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Managing ethics Amec Foster Wheeler is a relatively new company, but we have over 150 years of proud heritage, in which we have carefully built a reputation for consistently delivering excellence. Our values encapsulate the behaviours which must be second nature to us as we focus on delivering on promises, developing full potential and doing the right thing. We must be 100% committed to acting ethically and with integrity at all times. Amec Foster Wheeler, and those us, or under our direction, to adopt Ethics structure who act on our behalf, must act with the highest ethical standards. The The combination of AMEC and the highest ethical standards in all combined company also seeks to Foster Wheeler led to a need to relationships, and never accept, foster a culture where any suspected adopt a new ethics organisational or excuse, behaviour which is or actual breach is reported with structure, which is appropriate for inconsistent with our values. Legacy confidence in the Group Leadership the enlarged organisation. As in AMEC and legacy Foster Wheeler Team’s commitment to support previous years, the tone from the had very similar ethics programmes anyone making such reports. top is critical to ensuring that the in place. Post the merger, the correct culture is instilled across requirement for ethical conduct has the company. The new structure not changed. Carrying out business sees ethics issues discussed in an ethical manner continues to with the Health, Safety, Security, be viewed as paramount across Environmental and Ethics (HSSEE) Amec Foster Wheeler. In 2015, the Committee of the Amec Foster ethics programmes of the legacy Wheeler plc board. The Committee companies were replaced by a new oversees and has responsibility programme which was appropriate “The time is always right for the Code of Business Conduct, for the enlarged group. In the ethics to do what is right.” its implementation and ethical sphere, rather than informing awareness throughout Amec Martin Luther King our employees to simply follow Foster Wheeler. The Committee is a set of compulsory procedures, supported by the General Counsel Amec Foster Wheeler encourages and Company Secretary. The Legal each individual to live our values function is responsible for the and take personal responsibility content of training and Ethics & for their behaviour. Amec Foster Compliance Officers assist with the Wheeler requires all who work for implementation of training. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Managing ethics amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Managing ethics Code of Business Conduct payments guidance and provisions Going forward, face-to-face ABAC to combat bribery and corruption training will also be provided to and policies, procedures select employees. In 2016, we plan and guidance • An ethics investigations procedure to provide online Code of Business In 2015, Amec Foster Wheeler • A legal matters procedure Conduct and ABAC training to all adopted a new Code of Business employees with computer access Conduct, The Code sets out Amec • A competition law procedure and we also plan to provide certain Foster Wheeler’s values and the • An agents and sponsors procedure employees with online competition responsibilities and required law training. Considerable experience • A third party due diligence behaviours of all who represent or has been obtained in rolling out procedure work under the company. The Code training in the last few years and we is viewed as being fundamental as • An offshore payments procedure hope that the lessons learnt from it underpins the development by such training programmes will make • Customer due diligence procedure the company of an ethical culture. this year’s training programme more The Code has been approved by the successful than ever. company’s board and is reviewed Training annually. It is recognised within Amec The 2015 online Code of Business Foster Wheeler that education is Conduct and ABAC training achieved The Code is supplemented by ethics fundamental to ensuring that the the completion rates set out below: related policies, procedures and company’s values are instilled and guidance. These documents seek to lived. An ongoing training programme expand upon the broader principles has, therefore, been implemented to detailed in the Code. The procedures ensure that our values are embedded include: in our business. In 2015, online Code of Business Conduct and Anti-bribery • An anti-bribery and corruption and Corruption (ABAC) training was procedure, which also includes, provided to all Amec Foster Wheeler amongst other things, facilitation employees with computer access. Target population Number of people trained Completion rate (%) Code of Business Conduct 32,287 30,408 94.2 training ABAC training 31,370 30,225 96.4 Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Managing ethics amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Managing ethics Reporting Ethics cases summary – 2015 Ethics initiatives Amec Foster Wheeler provides In 2015, 90 cases were reported to In developing an ethical culture, it various channels to enable its the HSSEE Committee relating to is important that ethics is at the employees and third parties to ethical concerns, broken down as forefront of employees’ minds and raise ethics concerns, including a follows: is not just something that comes on dedicated ethics website and helpline • 24 calls to the helpline which is the radar when training needs to be administered by an independent administered by an independent completed. After a successful pilot third party. The various reporting third party in legacy AMEC’s Growth Regions channels available are advertised in • 22 reports via the ethics website Business Unit, an initiative named the Code. In addition, the reporting which is administered by an ‘Ethics Beyond Zero’ is being rolled channels are advertised on posters independent third party out globally. This initiative, which in every Amec Foster Wheeler office • 15 reports to the General Counsel seeks to leverage the success of our and, periodically, on the background and Company Secretary and other health and safety initiative ‘Beyond wallpaper on employees’ computers. members of the Legal Function Zero’, sees employees make a personal commitment to ethics and • 14 reports to Management Amec Foster Wheeler takes all ethics integrity, and each internal meeting complaints seriously, investigates • 6 reports to Ethics Officers commences with an ethics moment. each concern and reports on each • 5 reports to the Chief Executive It is hoped that this initiative will put concern to the HSSEE Committee. • 4 reports to Group Internal Audit ethics at centre stage. Amec Foster Wheeler has, in conjunction with one of the Following ethics cases and other Amec Foster Wheeler employs ‘Big 4’ accountancy firms, provided feedback we receive, we review our approximately 40,000 people. That investigations training to individuals policies and procedures, improving is a big team and yet every employee who may be called upon to undertake and adding clarifications as required. and each person who works for us serious ethics/fraud investigations. In 2015 no specific case directly has a part to play in making sure our resulted in changes to our policies values are maintained. and procedures. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Managing ethics amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Human rights Amec Foster Wheeler supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. This is demonstrated through our commitment to the principles of the UN Global Compact. It is also communicated in our Code of Business Conduct (CoBC), where we set out specific behaviours and expectations. Our recently refreshed Supply We recognise that we include The priority for the near term is to Chain Code of Business Conduct amongst our customers some of the further define and communicate is aligned to the CoBC and covers largest extractives companies who what human rights means for the topics including: health, safety, are all signatories to the Voluntary business, ensuring we broaden security and environment (HSSE); Principles of Security and Human and deepen due diligence and ethics and legal requirements; and Rights, and who contractually or management of the issues in our human rights and labour standards. otherwise have an expectation operations and sphere of influence. Together, they ensure that our that we understand and where This activity has been spearheaded supply chain plays an active role appropriate apply those voluntary by John Pearson, Group President in helping us achieve our vision, principles. of Amec Foster Wheeler’s Northern behaves in a way which is consistent Europe & CIS business, who was with our values and so helps Amec Human rights has been a key area of appointed Executive Sponsor Foster Wheeler sustain the respect activity for our business in 2015/16. for Human Rights by our Global and trust of all of our stakeholders. This followed the findings of an Leadership Team in 2015, working internal review undertaken in early closely with group sustainability. 2015 to ensure that our company continued to meet the requirements of the Global Compact following the creation of Amec Foster Wheeler. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Human rights amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Human rights Code of Business Conduct UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 We have invested significant A key action of the Working Group, We are actively engaged in a multiresources in understanding and which is currently underway, stakeholder roundtable convened responding to the requirements of is to review and update our by the Institute of Human Rights the Act by participating in relevant corporate policies, procedures and Business (IHRB), specifically seminars, workshops and debates. and guidance documents to reflect focused on bringing major A high level Modern Slavery Working the requirements of the Act, and engineering and construction firms Group has been convened for this to go further wherever possible. together to collaborate across the purpose with cross functional and As an interim measure, we have industry in an effort to improve cross business unit representation; developed an education pack that worker welfare in our global supply the group convenes on a bi-weekly can be accessed from our Intranet chains. basis. The ethos to our approach is and includes some key awareness for modern slavery to be a values materials for employees to use to We welcome the UK Modern driven rather than a compliance understand what modern slavery is, Slavery Act 2015 as a catalyst for driven process, starting with and how it relates to our business elevating business practice on these ‘doing the right thing’. Our aim is to and our supply chain. We are also important issues across our sector publish a best practice slavery and developing a human trafficking and and actively promote it wherever human trafficking statement on forced labour eLearning module to possible. Our General Counsel our corporate website ahead of our raise awareness of the issue in our for our AMEASE Business Unit legislative deadline. workforce which we aim to roll out (Mohamed El-Roubi) spoke at the by the end of 2016. 2nd Annual Oil and Gas Supply Chain Compliance Middle East (Dubai) in December 2015: ‘Understanding the Effect of the Modern Slavery Act & the Implications to Middle Eastern Oil & Gas’. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Human rights amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Community investment We believe that encouraging and supporting community investment activities carried out by our employees is important. Working together for good causes promotes wellbeing, supports our local communities and helps us to demonstrate our values, particularly how we care about our communities. £460,731 Donated by Amec Foster Wheeler 8,294 5,133 £19,870 Total hours Employees involved Value-in-kind volunteered in volunteering donations £424,741 Raised by our employees Cash Hours Community contributions breakdown 8% 7 Cash 5% Cash Hours Hours 14% 1% 1% 8% 8% Health 5% 7% 7% 14% 14% 5% 1% 5% 1% Education and young people 1% 1% 1% Health Social welfare Health 5% 5% 44% EmergencyEducation reliefand young people Education and young people 1% 1% Health Education and young people Health Education and Social welfare Social welfare Social welfare Social welfare 44% 44% Emergency relief EnvironmentEmergency relief Emergency relief Emergency rel Environment Environment Environment Environment Arts/science Arts/science Arts/science Arts/science Arts/science Other Other 41% Other 41% Economic development Economic development Other Economic development Other Economic dev 41% Economic development 72% 72% 7 Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Community investment amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Integrity & community Community investment Charitable giving Strategic partnerships Community investment The majority of the money Amec Amec Foster Wheeler has two In addition to fundraising activities Foster Wheeler donates to charities global strategic partnerships, we also continued our support each year is through matching SOS Children’s villages and the for local communities in which we the fundraising activities of our World Economic Forum’s Disaster work through a number of activities employees. Amec Foster Wheeler Resource Partnership. from our annual shoreline clean up also provides charitable giving through to supporting various local through ‘in-kind’ material donations SOS Children’s Villages schools or spending time supporting such as office equipment, unused We have partnered with the charity those less fortunate than ourselves. supplies, obsolete branded items, since 2007 and have, to date, The majority of community etc. through employee and corporateinvestment time is spent in support level contributions to operations in of education and young people Our community investment activities more than 25 countries across six which is largely attributable to our are in line with a global community continents, raised over £650,000 – STEM programmes and school investment procedure and process, helping more than 27,000 children partnerships. More information on which is overseen by the charities get a better start in life through some of these partnerships can be committee. The committee agrees educational and energy related found within our case studies and in the budgets for the forthcoming project support. Our employees have latest news. year, reviews recommendations also been active in rallying to provide for and decides on the global strong support for SOS Children’s Our case studies provide a flavour strategic charity, makes periodic major emergency relief programme of just some of the activities our checks on charitable donations to appeals, following natural disasters employees have taken part in over ensure compliance with the global – undertaking a series of innovative the past 12 months. We have further procedure, and also discusses and and creative fundraising events which examples in our latest news section. agrees any specific response to have been supported by generous natural or other disasters. corporate funding. See our SOS fact sheet for more information on our In 2015, the Amec Foster Wheeler support to date. business donated £460,731 to good causes and charitable institutions World Economic Forum (WEF)’s worldwide, including matching Disaster Resource Partnership employee volunteer fundraising. Since its 2011 launch, we have Our employees continue to drive been a core member of the WEF’s our charitable fundraising and Disaster Resource Partnership, community investment efforts; which combines engineering in addition to the contributions and construction with the global made by the company via matched humanitarian community and the funding and other activities, a WEF in an international alliance. We further £424,741 was raised by also have an agreed Memorandum of our employees. The fundraising Understanding with The International efforts of our employees are largely Federation of Red Cross and Red focused on social welfare and health Crescent Societies (IFRC) to charities, together making up 85% collaborate to enhance the meeting of the funds raised and donated. of post-disaster shelter and reconstruction needs through the provision of technical and engineering expertise. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Community investment amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study Support for mobile eye surgery unit Amec Foster Wheeler’s operation in India recently sponsored an eye camp in the village of Kilkodungalore (120km from Chennai) conducted by Sankara Nethralaya, a leading eye-care hospital in India. The project run by Sankara Nethralaya aims at tackling the major cause of preventable blindness namely cataract, by providing quality eye care on the door steps of rural India through a Mobile Eye Surgery Unit. The unit comprises one sterilised van containing the operating theatre, and one unsterilised van containing changing rooms, toilets and facilities. The mobile units are the first of their kind in India, and the only project that has been approved by the Government of India Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to carry out cataract surgeries in rural villages. “This is a wonderful opportunity for employees to visit In addition to the funding by Amec the eye camp organised in a rural village. Normally, Foster Wheeler, 15 of our employees vision for a person means a lot to him and his family. volunteered to assist the project The moment vision is lost, people become dependent on team in registering patients and then others. The moment they get back better eyesight, it’s supporting those patients as they smiles all over and the entire livelihood is restored. It is moved from one section to another. lovely to be a part of this initiative. My sincere thanks to Amec Foster Wheeler for giving me an opportunity to Over the period of the project in the witness this lovely sight.” Kilkodungalore village, 767 patients were screened and 152 cataract Employee volunteer surgeries were undertaken which is far higher than the average 98 which was expected. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Mobile eye surgery unit amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study Partnering with SOS Children’s Villages Helping children realise their true potential “By connecting our global resources, our experience and energy, we will transform the lives of vulnerable children and help them grow into healthy and able adults.” 26,586 Activities to date SOS Children is the world’s largest orphan and abandoned children’s charity providing new family and homes for more than 70,000 children Total number in 475 unique children’s villages in 123 countries. We have supported of beneficiaries them as our global partner since 2007 and have pledged to continue that support until at least 2017, reached marking 10 years, by developing a formal partnership with three £662,284 24 projects overarching aims: • Creating the right environment and opportunity for children donated to date supported • Collaborating effectively • Inspiring and motivating employees 2015 activities Since 2007, we have supported SOS £49,063 raised by employees from 18 million steps walked during the 2015 Children on a number of educational projects within their villages, helping with running costs of the villages as part of emergency relief Steptember challenge as employees which provide a safe environment efforts in Nepal, providing were encouraged to improve their for children; provided funding and support to children and fitness while raising money for support for two infrastructure families affected by the SOS Children’s Villages projects (water and solar); and devastating earthquake provided support in their emergency relief efforts. £143,919 raised in 2015 from employee 9 children’s villages directly fundraising and corporate supported in 2015 matched funding Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / SOS Children’s Villages amecfw.com Page 1 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study Partnering with SOS Children’s Villages Helping children realise their true potential Below outlines some of our 2010 involvement to date: We continued to raise funds for children in Pakistan, Chile, Nigeria, 2007/08 and Tanzania, for SOS Children’s We began our support in the wake emergency relief efforts in Haiti of a devastating earthquake which following the devastating earthquake hit the regions of Tarapaca and in the country. Antofagasta in Chile. Our employees got involved by raising funds for the emergency relief efforts in the region. As a Children’s Village, home to over 121 orphaned and 2012 abandoned children, and a Family Marking our fifth year supporting Strengthening Programme had been SOS Children, 2012 focused on already established in Antofagasta, raising funds for their village in we decided to support these facilities Baku, Azerbaijan to deliver groundin coping with the earthquake’s breaking solar heating and hot aftermath. Many of our employees water systems. Using the five-year were involved in raising funds for anniversary as a theme, activities the emergency relief efforts in relating to the number five were the region. undertaken, for example our Baku Two SOS Children’s Villages are office set a goal to clear five tonnes of 2009 currently being built in Haiti to add to rubbish from one of Baku’s beaches We expanded our level of the two already running; combined, to raise funds. involvement focusing on providing these will care for over 700 children. school fees for vulnerable children. In addition, we provided a much2013 Four countries were selected for needed boost to the restoration We supported SOS Children through support: Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, the work following the Peru earthquake, local events as well as through a Philippines and Peru, to help children ensuring those most vulnerable and global emergency relief campaign attend school, lead a normal life and most affected could return to their to help people impacted by the gain an education. Our donation normal lives. natural disaster in the Philippines provided school fees and equipment and the state of affairs in Syria. Our for over 480 children in towns local 2011 employees raised over £25,000 to many of our offices including Baku A devastating drought and famine which was matched by the company. and Ganja in Azerbaijan, Astana in in East Africa, the worst in 60 years, Kazakhstan, Manila in Philippines focused the world’s attention in 2014 and Chicklayo in Peru. 2011 as 12.4 million people were In 2014, we supported a very displaced or without food and water. valuable water project, voted for by Our employees raised monies our employees, in the SOS Village to aid SOS Children, one of just in Callao, Peru, where children and a few charities with an existing families needed a new water pipe presence in the region. In addition installed. The completion of this to supporting the emergency relief project will improve their quality of efforts in East Africa, the money we life and save money in fetching water raised in 2011 funded the purchase or paying for its transportation. of 24 solar panels, a photovoltaic solar generator and a groundwater tank to collect rain water with solar pumps and overhead tank for the Gwagwalada SOS Village in Nigeria. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / SOS Children’s Villages amecfw.com Page 2 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study Partnering with SOS Children’s Villages Helping children realise their true potential In 2015 we chose to raise funds to support three education focused projects, children’s education supplies in Baku, Azerbaijan; fostering the future of children and youth through education in Surrey 18,204,207 steps (Vancouver), Canada; and mothers’ training in Beijing, China. A number of activities took place over the year, however in September we launched the Steptember Challenge. The challenge lasted throughout the month of September and asked donations employees to commit to tracking their daily steps, with the aim of virtually walking between each of the SOS villages that we were supporting, £8,074 30 September days stopping along the way to learn more about the projects, while getting fit at S M T W T F S the same time. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Employees who wanted to take part 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 in the challenge were asked to log their workouts and steps and donate 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 500 9 an entrance fee to their chosen SOS 25 26 27 28 29 30 Children’s Village to help support vulnerable children and families in nine locations; Baku, Azerbaijan; Beijing, China; Chennai and Kolkata, India; Plaisir, France; San Lorenzo de El Escorial, Spain; Ennerdale, South Africa; Surrey (Vancouver), BC, Canada; and Morosolo, Italy. In total the employees that registered to take paticipants villages part walked over 18 million steps. Water project update When the Village was first built there • A second well to use water SOS Children’s Village, were no municipal sewage services currently connected to the houses Callao, Peru available for use and hence a septic for the purposes of garden In 2014, Amec Foster Wheeler tank was installed. When evidence irrigation and exterior cleaning. raised funds to support a very of corrosion and salt was found in valuable water project, voted for by • A drain to serve the village’s the well water used by the village, our employees, for a new drainage sewage needs by channelling the family houses and staff homes, it system in the SOS Children’s Village sewage their into public utility was deemed unsafe and drinking in Callao, Peru. The last of these systems. water was currently only available funds of £20,435 were transferred at by delivery. A solution was put the start of 2015. forward by our employees involving Work began to implement the project a topographic study to determine in the autumn of 2015 and is due to SOS Children’s Villages has been the feasibility of installing a drain complete mid-2016. working in Callao since 2004 and line to the existing exterior. The the village supports, 57 children in recommendations based from the 12 SOS family homes that make the study included: SOS Village. In addition, a further 315 families from the Callao • One new tank to provide drinking region benefit from the SOS Family water to all families through Strengthening Program. pumping water to their houses. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / SOS Children’s Villages amecfw.com Page 3 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study Partnering with SOS Children’s Villages Helping children realise their true potential Looking forward We will continue to work with SOS Children throughout 2016 on the three projects chosen for 2015. Specific activities include the celebration of motherhood in May to focus on the work that the SOS mothers undertake in the villages, we will also repeat the Steptember Challenge. By the end of 2017 we aim to have: • Engaged 25% of Amec Foster Wheeler offices in SOS Children’s activities. • Helped children in 25 countries where we operate. Please view our video to see how we have supported SOS to date. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / SOS Children’s Villages amecfw.com Page 4 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study Highlighting STEM Amec Foster Wheeler aims to promote engineering by inspiring young people through partnerships and events. Working with schools, colleges and groups, people from around the company develop and deliver activities that highlight STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) subjects in fun and engaging ways. Freddie the amazing Year 10 students say YES Tom and Jerry win a Goblin drinking bird to engineering! Challenge Award Clara Ramirez, Principal Process Employees in our Reading office The Goblin Challenge aims to Engineer in our NECIS business developed a Young Engineering show school children how fun and unit, recently held two engaging Scheme (YES), which aims to bring innovative engineering can be. As STEM workshops at secondary together young people from local part of Amec Foster Wheeler’s schools in London. Clara designed schools, to compete in a real-world partnership with Newtonhill Primary the workshop and called it ‘Freddy engineering challenge. This year’s School, our graduates visited the the amazing drinking bird’ is it a YES, aimed at Year 10 students, school to help the pupils build a perpetual motion machine?’ She invited teams from five schools to battery operated go-kart. Amec used a toy heat engine, which carry out a 12-week study for a new Foster Wheeler’s graduates offered mimicked the motions of a bird oil refinery in the UK. At the end of assistance and guidance on how drinking from a water source, to the programme teams took part to build a streamlined go-kart. illustrate thermodynamic and in a final assessment day, where They engaged in discussions with fundamental physical principles in a students had to present their results the pupils to help them come fun and exciting way. The students and recommendations to a panel of up with ideas on how to improve were asked to study the operation judges. performance. This year’s Tom and of the drinking bird toy carefully. Jerry themed go-karts weren’t To conclude the workshop, Clara Also see case studies: placed in the race but they did win explained how these same principles Surviving a Zombie Apocalypse the trophy for the best bodywork. help her out in her role as an engineer and Dalziel Partnership at Amec Foster Wheeler. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Highlighting STEM amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study 2015 community round-up Shoreline Clean-up Raising money for Steptember United Way The Amec Foster Wheeler Steptember Challenge was a Amec Foster Wheeler offices have global challenge in aid of SOS been participating in the Shoreline The Amec Foster Wheeler Houston, Children’s Villages. Employees Clean-up since 2006 helping to TX office, held its annual United Way were encouraged to get fit and remove more than 19,000lbs Fundraising Campaign, this year make a difference by logging their (8,600kg) of trash, litter and other focusing on employee education. workouts and steps as individuals debris from the world’s shorelines The office hosted several Lunchor in teams throughout September and coastal areas. This year eight and-Learns which provided more and making a donation to one of our offices across four countries information about United Way nine SOS Children’s Villages. Over participated in the clean-up. With a Programs and how they help the 500 employees (including 17 groups) total of 150 employees we collected community. In total, they raised participated, completing over 850lbs (385kg) of garbage equating US$19,978 for the United Way 18 million steps and raising £8,074 to roughly 56 bags of litter. through employee pledges and other for the Children’s Villages. initiatives in 2015. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Community round-up amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study 2015 community roundup Supporting Direct Lakeview’s library donating books, Running to stay fit and Rainwater Intervention educational TV and other library support local charities materials to complete and improve Project (DRIP) the library. For their efforts, the office was given a special recognition during the Department of Education’s Brigada Eskwela (School Brigade) Awards and commended for having a successful public-private partnership and community participation. Americas Charity Challenge Helping to provide support for the development of primary schools in DRIP, a UK-based charity, provides Chonburi, Thailand, was the goal of a sustainable answer to hunger by our Thailand Office running team. achieving food security through Although starting as a small group rainwater harvesting and education of individuals, the Thailand Office in a domestic setting in Eastern Running Club has grown to more than Uganda. The DRIP organisation is 27 people who recently ran in the chaired by Amec Foster Wheeler’s 5th annual Ao-Udom Leam Chabang Andrew Herod based in Saskatoon, Mini Marathon. Funds raised by Canada. For the last ten years, participants are used to help support DRIP has travelled to Uganda with a the development of primary schools contingent of volunteers, including within the city. our employees, to help educate local families on horticulture and to assist Keeping our in building rainwater barrels to help communities clean them achieve self-sufficiency. A new annual, competition has been launched between offices Helping needy students in the Americas to recognise the through back-to-school charity efforts of our employees drive and offices in supporting their local communities. The friendly competition between employees will measure the number of hours that office employees give to charity and broader community Amec Foster Wheeler’s Tucker, initiatives. Offices with the highest Georgia office, has been cleaning levels of participation will have the up its local community since 2013 opportunity to win funding for their with an Adopt-A-Road clean-up. charity of choice, as well as the The Tucker office’s effort to keep ‘President’s Trophy’ – a new award the roadway clean is part of DeKalb highlighting community participation County’s reputation as one of and involvement. America’s ‘best nature-friendly Amec Foster Wheeler employees in places to live’. Volunteers from the the Philippines provided assistance to office Sustainability Committee and low income parents and their children. Young Engineering Professionals Through donations from Amec Foster (YEP) clean the roadway once every Wheeler’s Philippines employees, quarter, in addition to other office more than 30 students were able to volunteers. Since the start of the year have school supplies and guaranteed the office has removed some 300lbs enrolment for the school year. The of trash and litter from their section Philippines office also sponsored the of the roadway. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Community round-up amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study 2015 community roundup Movember! Creating ‘AtCANtis’ with 4,500 tuna cans Amec Foster Wheeler employees have supported Movember and men’s health since 2011, raising more Our Vancouver office created than £200,000 for this charity. This ‘The Lost City of AtCANtis’ in this year the Ineos Nitriles maintenance year’s CANstruction Vancouver team in the UK rallied support for competition. CANstruction their two colleagues who are Vancouver is an annual design and currently battling cancer throughout build completion that takes place the month of November by becoming with teams of architects, engineers, Mo Bros to help raise money to designers and schools creating giant support them. A competition was sized sculptures made entirely out held for best facial hair achieved and of canned food. Generous support the winner’s photo will be used as a from staff at the Vancouver office, holiday card to send to their two along with funds from the social colleagues. committee, helped the team raise the necessary funds to purchase the 4,563 tuna cans that were used in the display. The cans add up to almost 2,200lbs (almost 1,000kg) of food, all of which is donated to the Vancouver Food Bank after the viewing period. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Community round-up amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 People Sustainability Performance Report 2015 Resilient World Fact sheet Resourcing for tomorrow We face a challenging business environment with continued pressures, particularly in the oil and gas and mining sectors. This has impacted some of our activities, however we have adapted to the situation and continue to source and build a strong talent pool for delivery to our customers now and into the future. Stocking the talent STEM activity Entry level recruitment In order to resource for tomorrow Despite the challenges facing our pipeline our teams work closely with schools industry in 2015 we continued We recognise that our company’s and colleges to ignite enthusiasm for to make healthy investments in success is contingent upon our engineering, offering internships and entry level recruitment; offering ability to have the right resources graduate programmes to ensure our employment opportunity to students available, as necessary to deliver ability to meet future skills and local and graduates. The table below high quality efficient solutions for content requirements. illustrates new hire graduates and our clients around the globe. Our internships offered in 2015. teams appreciate that in order to As an example, in 2015 our Northern achieve this imperative, we must be Europe and CIS business (NECIS) agile in our deployment of existing has been involved in over 70 STEM personnel; we must be astute in activities, notably: the development of employee skill sets ensuring they remain relevant • 50 school visits while building a reliable and diverse • 10 college or university visits pipeline of talent for the future. • 10 volunteer/fundraising activities Number of graduates, Business Unit trainees & interns hired in 2015 Group centre 2 NECIS 58 Americas 205 AMEASE 72 GPG 18 Total 355 Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Resourcing for tomorrow amecfw.com Page 1 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Resourcing for tomorrow Operating Ex Non industry / Progress Diversity unit military International Total Target on target Furthermore, our teams have Upstream Asset continued to demonstrate the value Solutions 0 20 20 25 80% of diversity through recruitment from outside our industry. In our NECIS Capital Projects & 1 5 6 5 120% Asset Management business unit we hired 74 people from outside our sector as illustrated Transmission & 0 17 17 5 340% in more detail: Distribution Environment & Investment in recruitment Infrastructure 0 10 10 11 91% technology Clean Energy 0 21 21 20 105% We believe that that in order to resource for tomorrow, in addition Total 1 73 74 66 112% to the aforementioned elements, our resourcing strategy must be underpinned by state of the art Moreover, technology has enabled We are aware that in some of our technology. us to highlight the availability of key emerging markets, the quality of skills internally and re-deploy Amec graduates varies widely across In 2015 our teams deployed a global Foster Wheeler ‘know how’. Taking universities and regions; in part due ‘applicant tracking’ solution, with our Italian entity as an example; key to a lack of curricula, limitations extensive links to social networking skills requirements in 2015 have been around teaching capabilities, sites; raising awareness of our met not only with local resources, but facilities, and/or funding. employer value proposition and by available Amec Foster Wheeler ensuring our visibility to prospective colleagues from the following In countries where we want to candidates wherever they may be. locations: increase our presence and/or where Through this technology we have • Thailand there are stringent local content identified extensive external talent requirements, this could impact pipelines to complement our internal • UK on our ability to deliver high quality resourcing. We currently hold a • India projects in the future. strong data bank of prospective • Singapore candidate details within this newly In response to these challenges, • France deployed system, and increasingly we have set a medium term we will leverage these talent pipelines • Spain objective to focus on addressing to offer ‘local’ talent solutions • South Africa the misalignment between higher around the world, supporting the • Mexico education institutions and the skills local communities in which we work requirements of our industry. We and enabling us to fully meet local Technology enables our collaborative intend to better align business and content requirements. approach to internal talent sourcing education priorities by exploring the and deployment enabling us to meet potential and feasibility for replicating the dynamic needs of our business. and scaling up some of our existing examples of best practice, such Formal education partnerships as our partnership with Universiti We recognise that notwithstanding Teknologi Brunei. We will do this the current business climate facing through long-term partnerships with our markets today, we must take a higher education institutions in the long-term perspective and pay due communities in which we want to regard to the challenges we have continue to operate and grow. We identified that could impact on our will also explore the potential for ability to deliver for customers in a collaboration through existing multifuture upturn. Retaining our talent stakeholder platforms that we are remains a priority for us. signed up to (eg World Economic Forum; UN Global Compact). Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Resourcing for tomorrow amecfw.com Page 2 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Resourcing for tomorrow Effective recruitment We are proud of the strength we have continued to build in our in-house recruitment team. This means that our talent pipeline is primarily sourced direct by our own staff who best know our standards, culture and business drivers and are therefore well placed to identify great people who will succeed in our business. Centre NECIS Americas AMEASE GPG Total In-house recruitment 42 4,038 4,190 894 117 9,281 team External 39 35 51 43 13 181 recruiter Referral 0 21 421 53 26 521 Alumni 0 11 83 42 1 137 Total 81 4,105 4,745 1,032 157 10,120 Developing the talent Pathway to people management We began the development of a pipeline self-paced training programme, that As well as resourcing the right people encourages self-learning to develop for our business, our company’s people management skills, to be success is also contingent on our rolled out to all employees who have ability to develop talent internally people management responsibility. in line with our business drivers, The programme is focused around values and behaviours. To do five subject areas that form the this we focused in 2015 on the full people lifecycle Performance, implementation of a consistent Engagement, Development, Reward approach to managing performance, and Recognition, and Resourcing. All identifying and developing talent of the content will be available to be and managing succession. We accessed at any time, in small bite also began to revise the way we sized pieces. deliver learning around our global capabilities. We also introduced a forwardNew global approach to looking development discussion at a performance development separate time of year to performance We implemented a new global evaluation. The aim is to foster a approach to performance closer and more ongoing dialogue development applied consistently between employee and manager and to 30,000 people across the to give our employees an opportunity d) Introduction of our leadership globe. For the first time we are now to make known their career goals and capability framework formally evaluating demonstration aspirations. We defined the leadership of the behaviours that underpin our capabilities that we need in support values as well as delivery in the job, New approach to succession of business drivers that were assessing not only ‘what’ has been management identified through a businessaccomplished, but also ‘how’. This The new approach to succession wide consultation exercise. These was a key initiative to support the management has been rolled capabilities now inform the 360 we embedding in our business of the out more broadly. This moves have developed to help us assess behaviours created post acquisition succession planning forward by the readiness of our leaders and in support of our values. From a focussing on the actions needed to potential leaders to progress to recent survey early indications are develop successors towards the roles the next level and help us build that the quality of our performance very specific development plans to for which they have been proposed. conversations is rated good or above help get them there. We also ran in 80% of cases. Our completion Executive Leadership Development rates of the year end review at 67% seminars covering six subject areas. represented a good start with a new approach and system but needs to improve in 2016. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Resourcing for tomorrow amecfw.com Page 3 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Resourcing for tomorrow Refreshing high potential activity Investment in talent management Development moves and We refreshed the way we identify and technology promotions develop high potentials. We now have Underpinning all of this activity is our Despite the difficult trading climate, measures in place to help us identify new integrated talent management in 2015 we continued to invest in high potentials earlier in their career system, Conexus, which we launched our people’s development through so that we can seek to give them the in May 2015. Conexus is the name a variety of career moves as shown experiences they need to accede to we have given to this upper quartilebelow: our most senior roles. In addition, rated software we have purchased refreshed communications have from Cornerstone. It underpins helped managers be clearer on the performance, succession and talent difference between high potentials processes and gives us important and high performers. Both are vital data from which to draw insight to this business but are developed in areas such as completion of in different ways. Two cohorts of our important people processes, high potentials were taken through performance rating distributions, our accelerated development succession coverage etc. programmes. Centre NECIS Americas AMEASE GPG Total Business Unit 29 69 55 71 2 226 move Operating 4 19 63 60 19 165 Unit move Country move 1 60 25 283 11 380 Development assignment 0 0 1 9 7 17 (international) We also continued to develop our talent through internal movement and promotion: Centre NECIS Americas AMEASE GPG Total No. positions filled 1 223 337 52 17 630 internally No. of grade change 0 125 726 24 39 914 promotions Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Resourcing for tomorrow amecfw.com Page 4 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study Oil & Gas education partnership Universiti Teknologi Brunei Since 2013, Amec Foster Wheeler and Universiti Teknologi Brunei (UTB)* have had a Memorandum of Understanding in place for an education partnership created to support the Government’s priority to develop the local talent pool in Brunei’s Oil & Gas industry. The partnership is helping to bridge the gap between academic and industrial knowledge at university level to attract young talent to the industry and help increase their employability. The initiative forms part of our goal to build long-term partnerships with higher education institutions in the communities in which we want to continue to operate To date, we have delivered two the skills required in our industry and grow while building a sustainable successful training programmes to deliver high quality projects to pipeline of talent for the future. It also to over 200 third and fourth year customers. To date, Amec Foster supports our efforts to continue to undergraduates from the Faculty of Wheeler has hired six fresh graduates build a long-term presence in Brunei Engineering, School of Business, and in Brunei who were provided training and to demonstrate that we are School of Computing and Informatics at our Asia Pacific headquarters in committed to investing in the future of at UTB with a contribution from our Singapore. Thirty five per cent of our the local talent in the kingdom. workforce estimated at around 48 workforce at our BLNG site office is man-hours annually. A third training composed of local talent. The training programme was led by programme is in the pipeline. Our education partnership with an Amec Foster Wheeler Programme UTB has been well received by Director and delivered by about 10 Supporting activities have included stakeholders. Our efforts have experts from our industry, including participation in career seminars, obtained the respect of HM Sultan our BLNG COGEN site office team. fairs and talks at UTB as part of our of Brunei who attended the UTB The programme was designed to recruitment drive, including Amec Gradate Commencement Ceremony provide an overview of contemporary Foster Wheeler sponsoring two Best we participatedin, in 2015. In April industry practices. It comprises six Student Awards of $1,000 each at 2016, Amec Foster Wheeler was customised modules: engineering; the UTB Graduates’ Evening in 2013. invited to speak the 9th QS World project finance; procurement and We also participated in Brunei Energy Class Conference, Singapore on contracting; project control; quality Week 2014. ‘increasing employability of graduates assurance and control; and project through UTB-Amec Foster Wheeler management. This partnership has helped increase Partnership’. brand awareness of our company amongst the graduate talent pool in * formerly known as Institut Teknologi Brunei, as well as equip them with Brunei (ITB) Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Oil & Gas education partnership amecfw.com Page 1 of 1 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study Surviving a zombie apocalypse STEM challenge Amec Foster Wheeler’s engineers helped promote civil engineering by developing a brand new zombie apocalypse themed activity. Three of our engineers worked alongside the Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE) and others to build a new under-19 activity based on the walking dead and disaster relief concepts. The event was organised to highlight the under-19 age group activities in North East England for the ICE President’s regional visit in April 2015, with the aim of engaging schoolchildren in this subject in a new and exciting way. The committee wanted to showcase the wide range of civil engineering disciplines, as well as the role that civil engineers play in everyday life across the world. The activity also introduced the idea of engineering in developing countries and disaster relief. The volunteers created an activity where the students were tasked with surviving a zombie apocalypse utilising different skill sets to meet the various tasks. The day started with students using their mapreading skills to evaluate natural resources and land features, then planning a route to a safe haven for a night of camping. The students were then required to barter at the ‘zombie shop’ using food items from their team rucksack to purchase materials in order to create a water filter to clean green ‘zombie infested water’. The creations were assessed based on the students’ understanding of the material’s properties, budgeting and the presentation of their ideas. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Surviving a zombie apocalypse amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study Surviving a zombie apocalypse STEM challenge Students then had to cross a zombie-infected river to reach their final destination by constructing a scale sized (13m long) cable stayed bridge. Finally, at their safe haven, the students were asked to construct a platform upon which they could safely pitch their tent for the evening. The shelter activity required the students to solve a problem logically and to understand the principles of surveying, setting out foundations and putting together a structure, just as graduate engineers would do on a construction site. The day required excellent team work, problem solving, and careful planning from the students, although they were encouraged to ask questions. The idea behind using a zombie apocalypse was to capture the imaginations of the young people involved. They were encouraged to step into a fictional world and immerse themselves in the challenge. It’s hoped that by creating a fun learning environment the students would see STEM related fields in a positive way. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Surviving a zombie apocalypse amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study A partnership for success Amec Foster Wheeler’s partnership with Dalziel High School in Motherwell, Scotland is an example of how industry and schools can work together to inspire the next generation of engineering talent. Recognising that a skills shortage Three years into the partnership cannot be fixed overnight, there has been an increased number Amec Foster Wheeler made a of pupils choosing to study science, commitment to work with young technology, engineering and maths In 2013 Malcolm Webb, Chief people at secondary school and (STEM) subjects and engineering Executive of Oil & Gas UK encourage them into engineering. courses at further education level commented: Specifically, Amec Foster Wheeler and in conjunction with the local would target S1 and S2 pupils with college, we’ve established National “Oil & Gas UK forecasts information about choosing to 4, National 5 and Foundation record investment in study science and maths subjects Apprenticeship level engineering producing Britain’s oil as the basic foundation for a career courses. Two pupils changed their and gas reserves this in engineering. S3 and S4 pupils university plans to study engineering would receive information about following work placements with us. year, boosting jobs career paths and opportunities in across the UK. However, engineering and design. S5 and S6 companies frequently pupils would receive coaching in interviews and the opportunity to cite the skills shortage gain work experience placements as the biggest challenge in order to support their further in achieving growth so education applications. as an industry we are pulling out all the stops to make sure we have the skilled people required to develop oil and gas for decades to come.” (Pictured above L-R: Steve King, Amec Foster Wheeler Corporate Design Manager, Dalziel High School Pupils, Margaret Craw, Physics Teacher, Robert Birch, Head Teacher) Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Partnership for success amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study A partnership for success In 2015 Amec Foster Wheeler and Dalziel High won Partnership of the Year at the Scottish Qualifications Authority (SQA) Star Awards and won the STEM Award at the 2015 Education Business Awards. Steve King, Corporate Design Manager at Amec Foster Wheeler, said: “The partnership with the school is about enthusing pupils at all academic levels about engineering as a possible career. We work closely in trying to provide knowledge and awareness of engineering which we hope results in the pupils choosing science, technical and mathematics subjects to support those engineering roles.” (Pictured L-R: Simon Dick, Amec Foster Wheeler Learning & Development Manager, Margaret Craw, Physics Teacher, Steve King, Amec Foster Wheeler Corporate Design Manager, James Monaghan, Science Teacher) Robert Birch, Head Teacher at Dalziel High School, said: “We want to give our young people the best opportunities when they leave school and that means getting them into good employment. There are some fantastic engineering jobs out there and our partnership switches youngsters on to the potential careers available to them. The partnership gives them the opportunity to speak regularly to engineers so they get an understanding of the industry and the real world of work.” Margaret Craw, physics teacher at Dalziel High School added: “We have certainly benefitted from the partnership, but it does come with a lot of hard work and dedication from pupils, staff, and parents, but also from the team at Amec Foster Wheeler. I would hope in the future that we could see many more partnerships like this across a variety of schools as our partnership (Pictured: Dalziel High School Pupils) with Amec Foster Wheeler just goes from strength to strength.” Amec Foster Wheeler is currently working with Education Scotland, the national body for learning in Scotland, to help other schools in Scotland develop meaningful partnerships with industry as well. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Partnership for success amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Embedding behaviours Delivering on promises Developing full potential Doing the right thing Companies with clear values have a stronger sense of purpose. We want our values to summarise what we are and what we stand for, to reflect the real character of Amec Foster Wheeler and its people. Background Prior to day one of AMEC and Foster Companies with clear values Since then the journey has been Wheeler coming together, culture have a stronger sense of purpose, about bringing these values to life was identified as essential to creating which helps them perform better in the way we behave and work our new combined company. Having and last longer. We wanted our together. Statements of behaviours several cultures can be countervalues to summarise what we are associated with each of the three productive; it creates confusion and what we stand for, to reflect values categories were therefore around how to behave and how to the real character of Amec Foster developed through workshops and make decisions. The right culture Wheeler and its people. Work was working groups to further embed is key to delivering business goals, undertaken during the integration the values. These were agreed and for example, commitment to a planning stage by studying past work published early in 2015. value such as ‘connecting globally in culture and engagement, and by as one team’ leads to increased probing the views of employees and breadth of expertise, securing more management, to develop a set of projects. An engaging culture will values for the combined business also win the hearts and minds of our which were issued to everyone on people resulting in a great and high day one. performance place to work. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Embedding behaviours amecfw.com Page 1 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Embedding behaviours Each Business Unit established named Conexus. Simultaneously, “I Work Here Because…” and executed plans to build a global implementation was knowledge and understanding undertaken of a new common survey About 700 employees chose to of the values and behaviours. A approach for objective setting, participate in a global survey where number of methods were employed performance reviews, high potential they indicated their reasons for including presentations, small group talent identification, and succession choosing to work for Amec Foster discussions, recognition mechanisms planning including new definitions Wheeler from a list and also wrote for demonstration of a value, and processes supported by the new out statements about this choice. inclusion of behavioural embedment Conexus system. These processes The results produced convincing KPIs in local incentive programmes, were launched for mid-year reviews confirmation that the values are not an internal social media site where of executives and end-of-year just a list being handed down by top they could be discussed, town halls, performance reviews for all eligible leaders, but rather, they are a strong video and written blogs, and others. employees. The next phase of roll out representation of what our people is the identification of high potential want from their workplace. Linking behaviours to talent and the succession planning processes. performance The top three reasons all fell directly To support the embedding of our in the Developing Full Potential value values and behaviours we wanted Incentives area: to ensure that performance and We built into our executive short-term incentive targets for 2015 a common 1. Opportunities to be challenged and potential were measured and stretched development plans created for objective for the top 400 people every employee based on not only globally relating to how well the new 2. Opportunities to do the things I do ‘what’ they deliver, but also ‘how’, values and behaviours were being best demonstrating how task results embedded. For 2016 we will be taking 3. Future career opportunities were delivered in line with our values performance against the behaviours and behaviours. With this precept, into account at an individual level These results, along with other we procured, and configured, a when determining bonus outcomes data, are being used to formulate an new online performance and talent for this senior management group. employee value proposition that will management system, which we have be released in 2016. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Embedding behaviours amecfw.com Page 2 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Embedding behaviours Engagement In December 2015 we concluded • Highest scores • My colleagues and leaders a three-week survey which was • Amec Foster Wheeler puts listen, understand and respond open to all employees globally. This safety first (Doing the Right to the issues and needs of pulse survey is normally a quarterly Thing category) 87% agree employees (Delivering on exercise sent to 2,000 randomly Promises category) 47% agree selected employees. However, since • My manager treats me with respect (Developing Full • Freeform text box we were nearing the one year mark of our new company, we decided Potential category) 84% agree • 63% of these written comments to offer it globally and to expand it • My colleagues are dedicated had a positive tenor to learn not only how well we are to delivering excellent results • There was much support of doing in providing an engaging work (Delivering on Promises the safety and ethics of the experience for each other but also category) 76% agree company how embedded are our values and • Lowest scores • The chief concerns were around behaviours. lack of personal development • I feel connected to the wider • 20% of our people participated – Amec Foster Wheeler team and too little communication While we would have liked more, (Developing Full Potential from leadership we did not push this nor set it category) 37% agree • The overall results: as mandatory. We advertised it • Amec Foster Wheeler provides through various communications performance feedback and means and allowed people to join development for its people in the opportunity to be heard if (Developing Full Potential they wished. category) 46% agree Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Embedding behaviours amecfw.com Page 3 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Embedding behaviours • Our overall levels of engagement Employee turnover What’s next measured by this survey and the We continue to measure our There is mutual responsibility pulse surveys earlier in the year employee-instigated turnover rate. for creating the culture that our are trending downwards. As a project based business, we values promise and an additional • After studying the scoring and the always have projects starting and responsibility on anyone in a written comments, we believe the finishing, this is part of our natural supervisory position to be a rolefollowing: cycle of work, therefore gross figures model of the behaviours. So the • There has been and is ongoing for leavers can be misleading. answer is in individual choices, concern about our performance Employee instigated turnover ie especially by leaders, to speak, write in tough markets and the those employees we would like to and act in congruence with who obvious implications on job keep, who choose to leave us, is a we say we are as a company. As a security, compensation and more relevant indicator. Our 2015 wise leader once said, every time a opportunities. data is the first set as Amec Foster supervisor communicates with an • Integration is hard work and it is Wheeler and we will report the employee, he or she either increases not complete yet. trending of this data moving forward. or reduces the person’s level of • The quality of communication engagement. That does not mean (content, frequency and style) we will ignore institutionalising the between immediate supervisors employee instigated turnover embedment of culture through tools and their staff is the single 9.4% and media, so we will continue our largest driver of our people’s work in that arena. For example, we level of engagement and it could Collective bargaining will continue to refine and expand use some improvement. In 2015 the number of employees Conexus as a driver of the right • Our values and behaviours covered by collective bargaining conversations. Additionally, we will be statements have resonated with agreements in Amec Foster Wheeler releasing this year our new ‘Pathway our people, not as corporate was 12.8% (4,426 employees). Our to People Management’ programme rules, but as characteristics of employee population is generally not through which we will aid hundreds what they are seeking from their unionised, and where it is we usually of managers over the next few years place of work work through a sector or national in leading, growing and engaging agreement rather than a company their people. This is detailed further level agreement. within the Resourcing for tomorrow factsheet. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Embedding behaviours amecfw.com Page 4 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet We embrace diversity and inclusion Amec Foster Wheeler is committed to achieving a more diverse workforce and inclusive working environment, where all of our people have a sense of belonging and where greater diversity of thought is both encouraged and enabled throughout our business. We recognise that each of us has many different diverse traits which Thought processes shape our view of the world, our Functional specialism Geographic location perspective and our approach. Personality Behaviour We want to maximise the value of Work experience Pastimes our people’s individual differences Carer/Caregiver Personal traits and understand that creating an Thinking style Accent Perspectives inclusive work environment is Skills The range of visible and essential for us to achieve this. Sexual that make us the Life experience Creating and orientation individuals that we are maintaining a work This is reflected through the Creed Disability Seniority Language environment where all emphasis we have given diversity Belief Gender are respected and the Working style value of difference is and inclusion in both our company Religion Ensuring equality Family Educational not only recognised of opportunity for Values but positively values and expected behaviours. all our people by status Heritage Ancestry encouraged Colour eliminating Citizenship Communication style Our diversity and inclusion vision is discrimination, Race Age bias and prejudice that: Nationality Gender Diversity of thought is valued as re-assignment Ethnicity it adds to our business through Marital status enriching the solutions we deliver to our customers. • We are passionate about building a culture of inclusion and respect where the value of difference is not only recognised, but positively encouraged. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Diversity and inclusion amecfw.com Page 1 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet We embrace diversity and inclusion To achieve this vision our Global • Communication and • Culture and behaviours Diversity and Inclusion Steering engagement Foster a culture where diversity Group leads and drives our diversity Raise Amec Foster Wheeler’s and inclusiveness is embedded and inclusion strategy globally, profile both internally and and embraced as part of the Amec focusing on five key areas to externally as a diverse and Foster Wheeler way. influence change and accelerate inclusive employer. Ensuring • Recruitment and talent progress: that our definition and vision management for diversity and inclusion is • Leadership and vision Attract and retain key talent for understood by our people. Create a framework to lead and Amec Foster Wheeler from the drive Amec Foster Wheeler’s full spectrum of the worldwide diversity and inclusion activities talent pool, ensuring that the which clearly demonstrate our right talent is deployed to the best commitment. opportunities in order to help the business globally and achieve creative solutions. • Measurement and evaluation Sustainability Innovation Partnership Appreciated Encouraged Ensure that there are effective New ideas Understanding and reliable methods in place to Developed Belonging Creative Solutions monitor and measure. Valued Supported Technical Our twenty diversity and inclusion excellence champions, all senior leaders from Cost Communication across our business, are each Connected Engaged Problem solving responsible for the delivery of a Respect Diversity diversity and inclusion action plan Inclusion Involved Opportunities Growth for their areas of the business. These Equality Respected Vision and values action plans, centred around these Market focus five areas, are designed to embed our global diversity and inclusion Global brand strategy, address local issues and individual operating unit needs. Profitability Sustainability Corporate social Employee responsibility engagement Productivity Attraction Retention In 2015 we focused on pulse survey asked our four globally which will be monitored and driven communicating to our people what agreed inclusion index questions by our Global Diversity and Inclusion diversity and inclusion means in specifically designed to measure Steering Group. We will also be Amec Foster Wheeler, what our inclusion. The results of which organising our first Global Diversity vision is for diversity and inclusion gave us an Inclusion Index Score of and Inclusion Week in order to create and why it is important to us as 62%. When looking at these results widespread awareness of diversity individuals, as a company and to generally we consider a result over and inclusion as an Amec Foster our customers. This culminated in 70% is really positive and a result Wheeler priority, demonstrate the launch of our Global Mandatory below 50% should be an area for leadership commitment and have Diversity and Inclusion procedure in us to focus on. This will serve as a our people embrace inclusion November 2015. useful benchmark for our diversity and difference so that we develop and inclusion activities moving the highest value solutions and We also carried out a global pulse forward. maximise delivery to our customers survey in November 2015, sent through diversity of thought. to 4,000 randomly selected In 2016 our focus will be to deliver employees, to see how embedded against both our global and local our values and behaviours are. This diversity and inclusion action plans Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Diversity and inclusion amecfw.com Page 2 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet We embrace diversity and inclusion Balanced Team Indicator (BTI) In accordance with our Global Mandatory Diversity and Inclusion Procedure, the BTI is one of the global key performance indicators our business units are required to adopt. Reporting on all visible and invisible differences is simply not possible, therefore the BTI is designed to give an indication of the diversity profile of our people to enable trends to be tracked and monitored. The BTI reports on the nationality, gender and age of our people. These diversity traits were selected to initially form the BTI primarily as they are feasible for us to record and 9,000+ employees report on from our systems globally however we will be looking to develop our reporting capabilities in order to increase the diversity traits and 65 nationalities included in the future. Our NECIS business unit, which spans Northern Europe and 28% of our graduates and 42% of our trainees are female countries in the CIS region, and reaches across our four key markets, has been the first of our business units to launch its BTI reporting. 19% female workforce The NECIS BTI reports allow us to filter this information and produce a BTI for selected populations for example by operating unit, function, 18% of our graduates and 42% of our trainees are not British leadership, country, grade and those who are graduates or trainees. of our people with Construction, Commissioning, 13% Completions, Engineering and Technical Functions are not British 12% of our business unit and operating unit leadership teams are female of our people with Construction, Commissioning, 11% Completions, Engineering and Technical Functions are female 5% of our business unit and operating unit leadership teams are not British More diverse talent pipeline Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Diversity and inclusion amecfw.com Page 3 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet We embrace diversity and inclusion #dot Creating more innovative solutions We can achieve greater diversity for our customers, through greater of thought by creating an inclusive diversity of thought is one of the key environment where peoples’ aims of our diversity and inclusion varied ideas, ways of thinking activities. and perspectives, which are all shaped by their individual visible Diversity of thought fosters greater and invisible differences, are diversity of ideas and insight, encouraged and listened to. stimulates greater creativity and innovation, actively demonstrates respect and helps guard against the tendency for teams and groups to focus on group conformity ‘group think’ at the expense of making the best decisions. NECIS Americas AMEASE GPG Centre Total Male 81 73 78 79 69 76 Female 19 27 22 21 31 24 Gender split based on directly employed workers only NECIS Americas AMEASE GPG Centre Total Male 83 74 80 79 69 78 Female 17 26 20 21 31 22 Gender split all Gender diversity by group 90 90 90 78 80 70 75 60 50 40 30 22 20 25 10 10 10 0 All Senior management Leadership team Board % Male % Female Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Diversity and inclusion amecfw.com Page 4 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Recruitment for diversity #dot #dot #dot #dot #dot #dot #dot #dot #dot #dot #dot #dot #dot #dot #dot We know that different opinions spark creativity and help us make better decisions. So, bringing together professionals with diverse backgrounds and varied experience is key to solving challenging problems with innovative solutions for our customers. Candidates from outside our ‘normal’ talent pools often possess highly transferable skills and experience. This means that the transition period for the candidate to come into the business is minimised, and the diversity of thought and approach they bring is much greater than we would typically find from our traditional or established talent pools. To be sustainable and create a business with genuine diversity of thought, our recruitment teams work closely with hirers around the world to proactively source ‘alternate’ or ‘atypical’ candidates for suitable opportunities in the business. As part of our global diversity and inclusion activities it is our intent that each of our business units establish appropriate recruitment for diversity targets. As an example, our NECIS business unit, which spans Northern Europe and countries in the CIS region, and reaches across our four key markets, supports recruitment for diversity through two bespoke programmes; ‘In 2 Oil & Gas’ and ‘New 2 Nuclear’. These programmes are specifically designed to help proactively search for and engage candidates from diverse sources, including ex-military. The entry routes for these programmes are defined as below: Diverse sources: Non-industry International relocation Candidates with relevant transferable skills and Candidates from alternative locations and geographies. experience from alternative industries, such as a These candidates typically have transferable skills and candidate with pharmaceutical experience looking experience which can be utilised to fill existing role to transition into oil & gas. requirements. Ex-military: Operational entry Strategic development Ex-military candidates can apply for active vacancies Ex-military candidates with 18-24 months service with the intention of an immediate start. remaining can register interest with Amec Foster Wheeler as an employer of choice for future career opportunities. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Recruitment for diversity amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Recruitment for diversity The NECIS recruitment team is set annual recruitment-for-diversity targets for the number of individuals we aim to take into the business during the year, based on the known business growth requirements. In 2015, NECIS recruited a total of 74 new employees through these programmes. In 2016, these programmes will continue to help NECIS to engage candidates from these sources and support Amec Foster Wheeler to achieve a more diverse workforce and inclusive working environment. Source Number of hires 2015 Ex-military 1 Non-industry experience/international relocation 73 Total 74 Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Recruitment for diversity amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Innovation and delivery Sustainability Performance Report 2015 Resilient World Fact sheet Safety by design ‘Doing the right thing – putting safety first’ is one of our core values. This includes the fundamental goals of achieving inherently safer design in all of Amec Foster Wheeler’s engineering and construction efforts. Amec Foster Wheeler’s Safety by Design process assists the achievement of designs with enhanced safety and environmental characteristics. This process is based on the implementation of Inherently Safer Design principles applied to engineering, construction and their environmental aspects. Amec Foster Wheeler applies a • Examine whether actual and Why adopt a Safety by Safety by Design process on its potential negative impacts Design approach? engineering projects, designed to can be entirely avoided, or In addition to making a facility safer, help our engineering and design their magnitude reduced by adopting a Safety by Design process teams, focus on the impact they design. If this is not possible can save costs: have on operations and construction then appropriate and preferably safety, and how we can improve in engineered controls (ie by isolating • Inventory reduction will reduce this area. The intent of Safety by people from the hazard by use of costs because smaller vessels Design is to: enclosures) shall be put in place cost less. to manage the residual risks and • Simpler plant costs less because • Address life-cycle health, safety environmental impacts. there is less equipment and fewer and environmental risks and environmental aspects including ancillaries. management of the use of Amec Foster Wheeler has made • Avoiding hazards also prevents the natural resources in development Safety by Design an integral part costly hazard control measures. projects. of the project engineering design workflow. In addition, we have • Reducing count, size and • Systematically and dedicated resources in our key complexity of equipment reduces comprehensively identify and engineering centres that are actively utilities, labour, testing and assess hazards and environmental involved in ensuring Safety by maintenance costs. challenges, and their associated Design. risk to people, environment, asset and production loss, and company reputation. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Safety by design amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Safety by design A five-step process Define safety & on the consequences of events 1. Define safety goals rather than preventing the events. environmental goals Engineered controls are generally Goals will help maintain focus throughout the Safety by Design preferred to administrative controls, process. Goals should reflect as these require no, or less, human regulatory requirements, legislation Understand hazards & intervention to be effective. and project-specific tolerability environmental impacts of risk criteria and sustainability The preferred hierarchy of controls strategies, as well as project-specific is reflected in Amec Foster Wheeler’s safety and environmental goals. Safety by Design process, and Implement inherently subprocesses that address health & safer design principles 2. Understand hazards & aspects safety and environmental protection If hazards to health and safety or & sustainability issues. the relevant environmental aspects that require management are not Manage residual risks & Various studies can be conducted as known, they cannot be controlled. environmental impacts part of the residual risk management The purpose of this step is to identify process, either in-house or with and understand project specific external support. These studies health and safety hazards as well as Consolidate & could include the review of: environmental impacts. communicate • Operability and safety of processes Amec Foster Wheeler’s five step Safety by involving hazardous materials. 3. Implement Inherent Safer Design process Design principles • Effectiveness of safety The intent of Inherently Safer Design • Moderate – minimise the potential instrumented systems as a is to eliminate a hazard or the use impact of a release of substances, safeguard. of materials or energy completely materials or energy, eg by changing • Analysis of the possible failure or reduce the magnitude of use layout configuration, adopting less of equipment and the potential sufficiently to eliminate the need for hazardous operating conditions, impact of this failure on people and elaborate safety or environmental or by minimising the number of the environment. management systems. This process people exposed. of elimination or reduction is • Effects and likelihood of releases of • Simplify – design facilities and plan hazardous materials. accomplished by means that are executions to reduce or eliminate inherent to the production process • Effects and likelihood of fires, complexity and minimise the and thus permanent and inseparable explosions and nuclear radiation, possibility of human error. from it and therefore highly reliable. and mechanical impacts such as The implementation of Inherently dropped objects and collisions. 4. Manage residual risk Safer Design is achieved by adopting If ‘inherent control’ cannot be fully • The minimisation of the use of a strategy based on the following achieved or is perceived to be resources (eg water) and energy principles: inadequate, residual hazards, risks (eg electricity diesel fuel). • Eliminate remove hazardous and environmental impacts will • Human-machine interface and materials, processes and activities. remain and their associated risks human-friendly design. and effects will need to be reviewed, • Minimise use smaller quantities and where reasonably possible, • Effects and likelihood of potential of hazardous substances and mitigated. Mitigation may require human errors. materials generally; minimise the the implementation of additional number of activities especially • Escape, evacuation and rescue engineered or procedural controls. hazardous ones. process. • Substitute replace a hazardous, Controls or safeguards are generally • Evaluation of risks to people and expensive or rare material or more effective if they prevent a the environment, asset-production activity with one that is less so. hazardous event or unnecessary loss, effects on community, habitat use of materials or energy from and natural heritage. occurring by passive means, rather than reactive means, ie acting Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Safety by design amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Safety by design 5. Consolidate and communicate originally introduced to the world by Once the Safety by Design process Pixar in the film Toy Story. 3DS Max has been completed as intended, provides a comprehensive modelling, and the goals that were identified at animation, simulation and rendering the outset of the project have been solution. met, the process can be closed. The program has The findings of the Safety by Design process can be consolidated and been running for The use of 3DS was first introduced within Amec Foster Wheeler on the communicated to internal and external stakeholders. over five years and BP Clair Ridge Project. Its success, followed by further success on to date more than GDF Cygnus projects showed that Depending on legislative and this software had the capability to client requirements, a dedicated 400 employees animate to a level of detail that would compliance report such as a Case for aid in our Inherently Safe by Design Safety or an Environmental Impact have completed the process. Statement is produced. training. 3DS Max provides us an increased awareness of ISD by graphically Managing actions and representing the effects of what recommendations can go wrong and how to efficiently Any action or recommendation raised design to stop problems before they during the project’s Safety by Design occur. process is recorded and followed up. By animating a small design feature Following up these actions can be to eliminate a potential risk to a complex, as it requires multiple structure failure explosion (based on parties to be involved, either as calculation results), 3DS allows us responsible party or in an approving to realistically replicate the damage capacity. Our SharePoint-based of an explosion and how it affects its engineering and technical action surrounding area. tracker (ETAT) has been specifically developed to address these types of The detailing of an explosion and fire actions. temperature levels that can critically fail structures, such as metal and concrete, are enhanced through the Developing and ability to show the density and maintaining an Inherently dispersion of smoke from an ignition Safer Design culture point. This allows a great insight into how we can design facility layout and For the benefits of Inherently Safer for example where to position the Design to be fully realised it is accommodation modules. important that the entire project team becomes aligned with the Heat can also be animated to show need for it. To support this, in how paint is designed to protect conjunction with the Amec Foster the metallic structure that it is Wheeler Academy, a two-day training covering as well as heat flowing program ‘The Essentials of Safety and through a heating, ventilation and air Environmental Protection through the conditioning (HVAC) system, which Asset Life Cycle’ has been developed on release into the air can affect the and is presented in global locations approach of a helicopter towards several times a year. The objective of an offshore installation. 3DS not the training is to explain the principles only details manmade elements but of the Safety by Design process to our can also program-in the effects of engineering seasonal weather for wind and sea. community. The software is extensively used in We will continue to develop our use In 2015 we began utilising 3DS Max video games, films, television and of 3DS Max further in the long term on some of our high risk projects. commercials, including the Oscarfor offshore inductions and safety winning film Avatar. 3D animation was reviews. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Safety by design amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Supply Chain Management Amec Foster Wheeler’s Supply Chain Management (SCM) function is responsible for the end-to-end management of the external supply chain for the provision of goods and services to our projects across the globe, managing an annual spend of circa $5.5 billion per annum. The global SCM leadership team With the creation of the new focuses on two key areas: company, SCM has become a core part of the overall project delivery Deliver a globally • Firstly, to ensure we promote strong, fair, ethical and successful function, which consists of various consistent and relationship management with our other primary frontline project execution functions. The purpose supply chain as this is fundamental collaborative supply to our delivery of safe and excellent of our supply chain management is to ’Deliver a globally consistent chain management projects for our customers. We value the relationships we have and collaborative supply chain capability utilising with our suppliers and recognise management capability utilising the processes, tools, skilled SCM the important role they play in the the processes, development and ongoing success personnel and suppliers’ expertise to enable excellent project delivery.’ tools, skilled SCM of our business. personnel and • Secondly, developing active awareness of SCM people in To deliver this, the Group Vice President has a global SCM suppliers’ expertise respect of their responsibilities for leadership team comprising the delivering best practice solutions respective business unit SCM leads to enable excellent to projects using the systems, and other subject matter experts project delivery. procedures and processes effectively on our projects. who are actively engaged in project execution related to various facets of supply chain management. In addition to the leadership team, each business unit has SCM leads which are deployed into the Operating Units (OU), forming part of that OU management structure. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Supply chain management amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Supply Chain Management Supporting our suppliers assessment criteria. Where a • Our terms and conditions contain To support and aid our focus on our supplier has created issues for a clause related to the Supply suppliers we have the following in us the assessment information Chain Code of Business Conduct place. is used to have a conversation for which we require suppliers to on how to prevent future confirm acceptance prior to award • An internet SCM section which occurrences. It is also a tool to of any subcontracts or purchase our suppliers can view, is currently identify our poor performing orders. undergoing significant review to suppliers who create increased incorporate the following: • We regularly participate in Supplier risks for us, and also highlight Industry Trade Bodies, for example • A link to a global registration good performing suppliers who EIC connect and Energy North system which enables can support us. in the UK, the annual North Sea suppliers to provide details Conference in the UK, Offshore of their capability which the A Supply Chain Code of Business Technology Conference in the SCM function can use for the Conduct which is aligned to the US, where we provide information purposes of identifying potential company Code of Business Conduct. related to our current and potential suppliers for specific projects This contains the requirements and future projects. These forums related to their provision of expectations we set for the supplier provide suppliers the opportunity goods and services. Currently, community in both their dealings to discuss with our personnel there are 14,000 suppliers with our company and their supply their capabilities and explore the registered from across the chains, particularly in terms of potential to be considered for globe. Entry to the site requires our commitment to the UN Global award of work. suppliers to have accessed the Compact. Company and Supply Chain • We also have regular lunch-andCodes of Conduct. • A ‘hot line’ which suppliers can learn sessions where suppliers use to report any breaches by come in and present to us • We have a Supplier Performance personnel within our company to over the course of a lunchtime, Assessment system in place our Code of Business Conduct and which provides them with the which is used by the team that Supply Chain Code of Business opportunity to meet numerous dealt with the supplier to whom Conduct. No complaints or members of our team, understand we awarded a subcontract or breaches were reported in 2015. current and potential projects, and purchase order. The system also for our supply chain or project has various categories of SCM is working with the personnel to learn more about the assessment related to the Sustainability Director as part products and services available. performance of the supplier in of a Company focus group on executing the work in several emergent needsc of the UK areas: technical compliance, Modern Slavery Act on how to delivery, commercial, HSSE and address this with our suppliers documentation. and their supply chains to determine appropriate due For each category the supplier diligence processes, procedures is assessed, as relevant to their and supporting systems. See scope of work or supply, against Human Rights factsheet for more a set of standard definitions/ information. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Supply chain management amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study Heathrow Airport expansion project Environmental support in airport’s bid for new runway Visualisation of proposed new parkland near Heathrow Amec Foster Wheeler is currently supporting Heathrow Airport Ltd in its bid to the UK Government for a third runway, and in its aspiration to become ‘the world’s most environmentally responsible hub airport’. Project summary • Maximise resource efficiency development of ecological and The Airports Commission, an (energy, waste and water) landscape design our teams have independent organisation set up by • Enhance the natural environment been instrumental at looking at future the UK Government, advised that • Manage the risks of flooding energy-from-waste options as well as the UK urgently needs to expand its looking at a range of possible options • Reduce the adverse and accentuate airport ‘hub’ capacity so that it can around water re-use and low carbon the positive effects on the local remain connected to fast growing energy. community and heritage international markets. With daily average air transport movements in Air quality strategy 2014 of 1,290 and an average number Our approach Amec Foster Wheeler’s air quality of 201,000 passengers arriving and The design approach actively seeks experts have provided technical departing per day Heathrow is one to contribute to Heathrow’s aspiration support to Heathrow for many years. of the busiest airports in the world. to become ‘the world’s most Our team has recently been working Having reviewed three shortlisted environmentally responsible on the latest version of the Heathrow options, the Airports Commission hub airport’ providing real economic, Air Quality Strategy, and helped to recommended that a third runway social and environmental benefits. develop the 2016 blueprint for be built at Heathrow. The UK The proposal’s aim is to help win reducing emissions, which is part Government is currently considering support from statutory consultees of Responsible Heathrow 2020, the the proposal and will make its decision and the public by demonstrating airport’s plan to support the UK later this year. real gain as a consequence of the and local economies and reduce development, rather than simply environmental impacts. off-setting negative impacts Amec Foster Wheeler’s role or responding to legislative Amec Foster Wheeler was appointed We are currently carrying out detailed requirements. as environmental consultants and research into the concentrations of landscape architects by Heathrow atmospheric pollutants that are likely Airport Ltd to support its expansion Environmental and to result from the operation of the plans. Specifically, we provided a suite sustainability strategy third runway. One of the key aspects of environmental and sustainability Amec Foster Wheeler’s environmental of this work has been to quantify services including strategies to: and sustainability specialists have the potential benefits of mitigation • Reduce the effects of increased worked closely with Heathrow for measures that will accompany noise many years looking at ways of the development. This includes embedding sustainability within consideration of plans such • Manage air pollution the future development plans as the Airport Surface Access • Minimise carbon emissions of Heathrow. In addition to the Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Heathrow Airport expansion project amecfw.com Page 1 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study Heathrow Airport expansion project Environmental support in airport’s bid for new runway Strategy (ASAS), which aims to Our work was transparent and The scheme will create a connected increase the public transport share of helped the Airports Commission network of natural, functional and journeys to the airport to over 50%, understand our proposals and community-centred landscapes and the provision of fixed electrical undertake their assessments around the airport. The strategy will ground power (FEGP) and preaccordingly. Through their own go beyond like-for-like replacement conditioned air (PCA) to assessment work, the Commission and establish extensive areas of reduce engine usage. agreed with our conclusions. We publicly accessible green and blue have continued to support Heathrow infrastructure through enhancement Noise strategy following the Commission’s of existing poorer quality land. The Amec Foster Wheeler’s noise team recommendation, preparing technical design will help to integrate the has been working with Heathrow responses, drafting evidence to the airport with the surrounding Airport Ltd and industry stakeholders Environmental Audit Committee, landscape and population; and to develop proposals and options and providing information as part of reinforce Heathrow’s vision to give for a third runway at Heathrow. general community engagement as passengers the best airport service in Using detailed modeling, the team well as other bespoke studies. the world, whilst carefully managing developed options and mitigations environmental responsibilities and to demonstrate that the noise Green and blue being a good neighbour to local impact of a third runway in the future communities. infrastructure would be better than today. Working Amec Foster Wheeler’s landscape with the master-planning team, The green and blue infrastructure architects worked closely with our the noise team helped to design will provide a range of important environmental specialists to design the airfield, informing the location environmental functions including proposals which would help to of the third runway, designing in providing habitat for wildlife, reducing compensate for impacts on public mitigation measures and developing the risk of flooding, trapping airborne open space, habitats, watercourses the airport’s noise insulation and particulates and absorbing carbon and rights of way. The scheme compensation proposals. Our dioxide. It will also play a role in proposed extensive landscape assessment work included air noise, improving health and well-being for enhancements around the airport airside ground noise and road traffic the local community, by providing to create a new regional park with noise working closely with other a range opportunities for people to recreational facilities, a rich topic areas. We prepared Heathrow’s come together and to walk, cycle tapestry of new and improved technical submission to the Airports or participate in other recreational habitats and watercourses, and Commission, setting out in detail how activities, within an attractive network extensive access, for wide-reaching we had arrived at our conclusions, of connected green space. public benefits. how we had approached the modeling work and our mitigation strategy. Landscape masterplan illustrating proposed enhancements around the airport Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Heathrow Airport expansion project amecfw.com Page 2 of 2 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study WA Route Overhead Lines Project The WA Route OHL project is part of the greater South West Scotland (SWS) Renewables connection which, on completion, will see the construction and operation of a modern energy connection network, connecting renewable energy schemes across Scotland (East Ayrshire, Dumfries and Galloway) to the national grid. The WA overhead transmission line extends from the existing Coylton Substation in the north to the New Cumnock Substation (Meikle Hill) in the south. Supported by 46 steel towers, the transmission line is 14.3km long. Construction and related environmental issues Road construction in deep peat During the planning stages of the To help determine the best positions By profiling the peat across the entire project, initial investigations identified for working areas, crane pads and the swathe the best routes, following peat at 29 of the 46 tower locations. best route for the access road network, areas of shallower peat, could be High concentrations of peat can an 80m wide swathe (40m each side determined at the design stage. mean that there is insufficient bearing of the centre of the route) between Results showed varied peat depth pressure during construction which towers WA17 and WA46 were probed along the OHL route ranging from can cause stability issues. A peat to determine the depth of the peat. <1m to over 6m. Often small deep management plan was compiled at Additional probes were also completed areas of peat were flanked by areas this time however further peat was where access roads fell outside the of relatively shallow peat. Although it later identified: 80m OHL route corridor. Peat probes was initially decided that a traditional • Along access roads to each tower were conducted 10m apart across the cut-and-fill design would be followed location 80m wide swath at intervals of 50m in areas where peat was found to be • Between towers along the OHL route. With the average shallower than 1m, varying depth length of each span approximately over short distances meant that the • Crane pads and material storage 300m, this entailed around 54 probes road surface needed to be stepped areas per span across the 29 spans. • Pulling and tensioner positions severely between the different designs. Following completion of the Essentially two construction peat probe work only one span (WA38 Not knowing the extent of the peat techniques were considered for the – WA37) was found to be suitable for made it impossible to route or design construction of the access routes and a cut-and-fill design. the access road network in advance. the work surfaces: • Floating road design • Cut-and-fill design / traditional road design Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Western OHL amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 Case study WA Route Overhead Lines Project The benefits of employing these road construction. Due to consistent This meant that soft spots and methods included: poor ground conditions, designing small areas of deep peat could be • By maintaining the surface layer of the roads was a challenge and often bridged without losing stone into vegetation the basic ecology of the designs dictated road thicknesses of the seemingly bottomless pits. By site was not affected to the same up to 1.2m. As a result, the amount of using a layer of geogrid underneath degree as would occur if traditional stone required was vastly more than culverts where springs, flushes and (cut-and-fill) construction methods originally thought. watercourses needed to be crossed, were adopted the pipes were also suspended and • The environmental impact of By incorporating geogrid into the prevented from sinking down into construction activities and road design the stone was bounded the peat where it would eventually traffic can be reduced due to the together between two layers. become useless in allowing water to quantities of aggregate required flow through the road. • Lower carbon footprint than that Extruded geogrids (monolithic of an equivalent excavated road, structures that consist of two sets of and less carbon released through perpendicular ribs typically made of excavation of the existing peat drawn polyethylene or polypropylene) • Not having the need to excavate were explored and the Tensar TriAx the peat within the road corridor were identified as most suitable. TriAx also means that there is no need to was trialled with great success and dispose of the surplus peat incorporated in all road constructed from that point forward. Construction of temporary roads Given the scale of the project and Before the option of geogrid was the remoteness of tower locations, explored the initial estimates of the an extensive road network needed A stable road constructed through extremely amount of stone needed to complete to be built to access the individual boggy ground and a small watercourse all the access roads on the project tower positions. The roads inevitably was 385,716 tons. By incorporating crossed a range of habitats and land the geogrid and adjusting the designs use practices. Along the route the accordingly the amount of stone area mainly consists of commercial needed was recalculated to 252,661 coniferous forestry, active and tons, a reduction of 34.5%. redundant opencast coal workings in the west and pasture farmland in the With the closest quarry an average of north. Along forestry ridges and open 16 miles away a positive side effect areas, large areas of bog, wet heath to this was a reduction of the total and marshy grassland habitats also distance travelled by the company needed to be crossed. supplying the stone from 308,572 miles to 202,128 miles. With the 20 Two main construction ton trucks averaging 1-2 miles per litre methodologies were adopted namely of fuel this resulted in an estimated floating road construction (within 134,752 litres of fuel saved. wet and boggy areas) and cut-and-fill A work platform constructed on 5m deep peat (mainly within agricultural lands) type by using two layers of geogrid Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Western OHL amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 Case study WA Route Over Head Lines Project Surface water management Silt runoff from the roads and working stone and wrapped with Terram. To Along the OHL route and along platforms were also identified to have allow any silt to settle out, the drains the newly built access roads there the potential to severely impact the were then tied into a number of are numerous small streams and water quality of the watercourses settling ponds positioned along the rivers which can be considered the within close proximity to the working road. To further reduce the amount headwater of three major rivers in areas. To reduce silt migration from of suspended solids, water from the Scotland; the River Ayr, the River Nith the roads and working platforms, ponds was then directed through the and the River Doon. All three of these several mitigation measures were grassy fields until it eventually was led rivers are renowned for their salmon used in conjunction with the standard through a set of silt fences before it and trout populations and although silt fencing. reached the watercourse. most of the burns crossed during To restrict any fines from washing out the construction of the access roads To monitor the effects of the road the bottom of the road, especially at were several miles away from salmon construction activities and the watercourse crossings, Terram was spawning grounds, some of the construction of the tower foundations used to encase the stone. By tying in smaller burns were found to contain on the aquatic environment, 14 additional layers of Terram along the a healthy population of small brown surface water monitoring points were edges of the road and pulling it up trout. identified before work commenced on vertically and fastening it to a fence, site. Baseline samples were taken at any silt laden water seeping from the Removing and relocating the fish the start of the project and thereafter bottom of the road was controlled. present within the affected sections monthly samples were taken and The Terram fence also ensured of the watercourses, before the compared to the baseline figures. that no silt was splashed into the culverts were installed, was a priority individual watercourses by passing and to assist the project involved the To control runoff along roads down vehicles. Ayrshire River Trust. At one of these steep slopes, sub-surface drains were crossings through a tributary to the installed at a number of high risk Black Water, 27 small trout were crossings. These drains consisted of netted within a mere 32m stretch. perforated pipe encased in clean Silt trap with clean stone filled hessian bags. “In such a small burn we didn’t expect to find many fish and I don’t think the environmental team knew what to expect but with 27 small trout netted from a 32m stretch, everyone seemed pretty astonished by the number of fish caught” Stuart Brabbs Ayrshire Rivers Trust Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Western OHL amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 Case study Kuwait environmental remediation programmme (KERP) Since 2012 Amec Foster Wheeler has been undertaking project management consultancy (PMC) services on the Kuwait Environmental Remediation Programme for Kuwait Oil Company (KOC). Background health and safety. Additionally, Amec Under the Kuwait Environmental KOC awarded the first five-year KERP Foster Wheeler provides specialised Remediation Programme, Kuwait project management consultancy technical skills, knowledge, and Oil Company is responsible for contract to Amec Foster Wheeler experience in the environmental the implementation of a number in 2012. Our role includes the remediation field combined with the of projects for the remediation of formulation of remediation and experience of Kuwait-based PMC oil-contaminated soil within KOC contracting strategies, assessment operations and responsibilities. To oilfields damaged by Iraqi invasion of remedial technologies, tender meet these varied requirements, a against Kuwait and 1991 Gulf War. preparation, and management of the project team was formed from across The programme involves a largeawarded remediation contracts. The the globe including the United States, scale environmental remediation PMC team functions include project United Kingdom, Canada, Philippines, and restoration undertaking, funded management, coordination, planning, India, Jordan, Algeria, Sri Lanka, by the United Nations, and carries design, engineering, contracting, Lebanon, Egypt, and Armenia. high visibility and importance both procurement, project controls, and locally and internationally. A budget field oversight of contractors including of approximately US$1.9 billion is reserved for the remediation of approximately 26 million m3 of highly/ visually oil contaminated soil in an area encompassing approximately 114 km2. The destruction of almost 700 oil wells, which took over a year to bring under control, resulted in a complex variety of oil contamination including wet oil lakes, dry oil lakes, contaminated piles, coastal deposits, oil-filled trenches and well-head pits. Amec Foster Wheeler PMC team – 3rd year anniversary Above: Typical wet-oil lake (mixture of oil, water, highly contaminated soil, and potentially UXO) Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / KERP amecfw.com Page 1 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study Kuwait environmental remediation programme (KERP) Environmental remediation The original remediation programme 2. Active/enhanced bioremediation The RBA programme has the was based around the excavation of – soil contaminated with ‘low potential to address the greatest oil-contaminated material with longend’ TPH concentrations shall be volumes of oil-contaminated soil term storage at specially constructed addressed with enhanced active when considering potential impact landfills facilities. A revised strategy bioremediation. This remedial to the local environment and human under the PMC contract was solution is a robust, well proven and health. Understanding contamination developed to conduct the remediation cost effective approach to address concentrations, toxicology, potential through more sustainable means high volumes of oil-contaminated migration and exposure pathways and therefore reduce the amount of soil, demonstrated in the past to be and modelling this for relevant landfills. The revised strategy aims effective in desert environments. receptor groups are the key aspects to minimise the need to construct required to minimise unnecessary 3. Remediation treatment 17 landfills with an ambitious target remediation. This is an internationally technologies – used to treat more of reducing the overall landfill tested, proven method that considers challenging TPH concentrations, capacity from 26 million m3 to 5.3 all aspects of the source material. to address potentially 20% of the million m3. This will be achieved The risk modelling will identify total volume of contaminated soils. using a combination of alternative acceptable TPH concentrations, Sustainability is one criteria for remedial solutions that form the allow prioritisation of high risk selection of treatment methods. ‘Total Remedial Solution’ (TRS). In areas, provide remediation clean-up principle the TRS relies on treating 4. Sludge disposal through beneficial standards, and provide a mechanism certain ranges of Total Petroleum recycling or re-use – oil sludge for assessing treated material re-use. Hydrocarbon (TPH) contamination is the most challenging source with the most appropriate technique contaminant to be addressed and and comprises the following five key it represents potentially 20% of elements: the total volume. Treatment is highly energy intensive and comes 1. RBA programme – marginal TPH at high cost and low through-put. contamination will be sampled The approach for sludge includes and be re-assessed for TPH identifying a disposal outlet concentration and distribution. By through a re-use/recycle option. utilising internationally recognised This will rely on separation from risk assessment models, wet-oil lakes and temporary storage acceptable TPH concentrations for without mixing. Market assessment human health and environmental and construction of temporary receptors shall be determined. storage forms part of this solution. RBA is critical to assess the 5. Containment in engineered landfills contamination and remediate the – this is the default position that land in a way most sustainable and matches existing strategy but beneficial to human health and the for the most challenging TPH ecology. contamination concentrations only. Any material that requires consignment to landfill will have measures put in place to minimise volumes requiring disposal. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / KERP amecfw.com Page 2 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Case study Kuwait environmental remediation programme (KERP) Health and safety considerations Traffic management The traffic management plans include Working in high temperatures Part of the KERP scope is to excavate specific requirements related to the A significant issue the KERP and transport over 2 million m3 of following: Programme faces is associated with heavily oil-contaminated soil to the climate. Kuwait is one of the • Purpose built routes for the purpose built landfills in the North hottest countries in the world with transportation of contaminated soil and South East areas of Kuwait. This temperatures regularly exceeding from the features to the landfills, work scope presents significant 50°C during the summer months. To taking into account existing KOC risks, since large quantities of earth mitigate the risks to our people we facilities, such as well heads or moving equipment and heavy implement the following: flowlines. vehicles are required to facilitate • Heat stress and dehydration the execution. To ensure the safe • Protection requirements for campaigns to educate people on delivery of this work scope Amec existing facilities which are within the risks, the warning signs and Foster Wheeler, in conjunction with close proximity to project traffic what to do in an emergency. our main contractors, has developed routes. and implemented robust traffic • Job safety analysis by task, • Speed limits for routes and management plans. These plans have reviewing the impacts of the heat compliance monitoring been established to provide a wellon the planned activities. requirements. structured and systematic approach • Site audits and inspections of to the excavation, loading and • Speed monitoring devices which welfare facilities are conducted unloading operations, whilst ensuring are fitted to all vehicles. to ensure availability of sufficient pedestrian and heavy equipment • Mirror checking stations are used welfare facilities for all personnel, segregation to eliminate the risks regularly by all heavy vehicles to including cold drinking water and from people/vehicle interaction. ensure correct mirror setup in shade. order to eliminate blind spots. • Working in direct sun is prohibited • Operator/driver competency between the hours of 11am and standards. 4pm during the months of June, • Defensive driving programmes. July and August. • Dust control measures. • Equipment inspection and maintenance programs. • Assurance requirements including audits and inspections. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / KERP amecfw.com Page 3 of 3 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Our reporting Sustainability Performance Report 2015 Resilient World Fact sheet Our reporting GRI G4 and UN Global Material aspects Scope and boundaries Compact The reporting index overleaf In accordance with GRI G4, this The report incorporates all business sets out those indicators we feel report focuses on material issues units plus corporate and shared are material and relevant to our such as those that our internal and services for Amec Foster Wheeler. business, and signposts those external stakeholders have deemed This report covers activities from areas to the GRI G4 standard and significant in relation to our business 1 January to 31 December 2015 the UN Global Compact principles. and the industries in which we work. unless otherwise stated. Previous Our sustainability report is also our reporting covered 2014 activities. Communication of Progress (CoP). If you have any questions or comments, you can email our Director of Sustainability, Frances Fay: frances.fay@amecfw.com Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Our reporting amecfw.com Page 1 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Our reporting GRI Content Index for G4 in accordance – Core General Standard Disclosures General Standard Disclosure / UNGC Principle Factsheet Strategy and Analysis CEO Introduction to our G4-1 CEO statement sustainability programme Organisational Profile G4-3 Name of organisation About Amec Foster Wheeler G4-4 Primary brands, products and services About Amec Foster Wheeler About Amec Foster Wheeler G4-5 Location of headquarters Annual report and accounts Number and name of countries where we have About Amec Foster Wheeler G4-6 significant operations Annual report and accounts About Amec Foster Wheeler G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual report and accounts About Amec Foster Wheeler G4-8 Markets served Annual report and accounts About Amec Foster Wheeler G4-9 Scale of the organisation Annual report and accounts We embrace diversity and inclusion G4-10 Employee breakdown Annual report and accounts G4-11 Collective bargaining Embedding Behaviours Supply chain management G4-12 Organisations supply chain Supply chain code of conduct G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period Annual report and accounts Precautionary approach addressed by Health & safety performance G4-14 organisation Environmental management & performance List external charters, principles, other initiatives Annual report and accounts G4-15 to which we subscribe Our approach to sustainability List of associations and national or international Our approach to sustainability G4-16 advocacy organisations to which we subscribe Annual report and accounts Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 All entities included in financial statements Annual report and accounts Materiality G4-18 Report content and boundaries Our reporting Materiality G4-19 Material aspects identified Our reporting G4-20 Aspect boundary internal Our reporting G4-21 Aspect boundary external Our reporting G4-22 Restatements Our approach to sustainability Our approach to sustainability G4-23 Changes in scope and aspect boundary Throughout all factsheets where applicable Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Our reporting amecfw.com Page 2 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Our reporting General Standard Disclosure / UNGC Principle Factsheet Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups Materiality G4-25 Identification of stakeholders Materiality G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Materiality Key topics raised through stakeholder G4-27 Materiality engagement Report Profile G4-28 Reporting year Our reporting G4-29 Date of previous report Our reporting G4-30 Reporting cycle Our reporting G4-31 Contact Our reporting G4-32 GRI content list Our reporting G4-33 Assurance Assurance statement Governance Annual report and accounts G4-34 to G4-43 Governance Our approach to sustainability Our approach to sustainability G4-45 to G4-47 Governance Annual report and accounts Ethics and Integrity Our approach to sustainability G4-56 Values, principles, standards of behaviours Managing ethics G4-57-G4-58 Ethical behaviour Managing ethics Specific standard disclosures Specific Disclosure DMA and Indicators Factsheet Material Aspects Community investment Indirect economic impacts G4-EC8 Guam circular economy Safety by design Environmental management & performance Energy G4-EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6 Minimising resource use Water G4-EN8 Minimising resource use G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, Carbon management and performance Emissions G4-EN18, G4-EN19 Redesign reduces resource use and carbon Effluents and waste G4 – EN24 Environmental management & performance Compliance G4-EN29 Environmental management & performance Occupational health and safety G4-LA6 Health & safety performance Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Managing ethics Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Our reporting amecfw.com Page 3 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 Fact sheet Our reporting UNGC Principle Reporting factsheet or key document Principle 1 Human rights Support and respect the protection of internationally Health & safety proclaimed human rights Managing ethics Human rights Principle 2 Managing ethics Make sure we are not complicit in human rights abuses Code of Business Conduct Principle 3 Embedding behaviours Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Code of Business Conduct the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Human rights The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsary Code of Business Conduct labour Principle 5 Human rights The effective abolition of child labour Code of Business Conduct Principle 6 Managing ethics The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Diversity and inclusion and occupation Principle 7 Health & safety performance Support a precautionary approach to environmental Environmental management & performance challenges Principle 8 Health & safety performance Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Carbon management and performance responsibility 5 star office efficiency programme Principle 9 Redesign reduces resources use and carbon Encourage the development and diffusion of Kuwait environmental remediation programme (KERP) environmentally friendly technologies Principle 10 Managing ethics Work against corruption in all its forms Note: All factsheets and case studies that have received external assurance are shown with a logo within the footer. Also see the separate assurance statement. Sustainability / Date: 04/16 / Our reporting amecfw.com Page 4 of 4 © Amec Foster Wheeler 2016 amecfw.com
