Capital Innovation Insight 2015 Sustainability Action Report and UNGC Communication of Progress 1 Contents Directors’ Message………………………………………………………………………………..…………………………………………….…... 3 Journey…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 5 Footprint……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..…... 6 Impact………………..…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..…...….. 7 About Us…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..……… 8 Our Solutions………………………………………………………………………………………………................................................. 9 Insight………………………………..…………………………………….………………….……..................................... 10 Innovation………………..……………………………………………….……………………………………………………….. 15 Capital…………………………….………………………………………………………………………………….………….….. 17 UNGC Compliance…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………... 18 Business Responsibility Report………………………………………………………………………………………………………………... 22 3 Directors’ Message: 5 years towards Sustainability and it’s just a start cKinetics completed five years in 2015. The journey has been enthralling We have also been the flag-bearer for resource efficiency projects. Our for us! cKinetics was launched with an aim to transition today’s resourcefootprint now spans beyond South Asia to include newer geographies like dependent economic system towards a Sustainability economy. Turkey. While we continue to be market leaders in the textile industry, we have also branched into new sectors such as personal care, packaging The last five years has seen sustainability as an idea gather traction in the and pharmaceuticals. Our comMIT platform went through a significant mainstream. Rising populations and the quest for economic growth upgrade and we mobile-enabled it. continues to put stress on scarce resources. These challenges are Pawan Mehra beginning to break apart traditional thinking around economic We are proud of our success as an organization but we cannot afford to Managing Director development and for us, they present an opportunity to make our mark. rest. We will continue to be a mission driven firm that seeks to accelerate sustainability through newer and innovative means. Over the past five years, cKinetics has achieved a number of milestones and is today one of Asia’s largest Sustainability advisory firm. We provide Financing is one of the biggest challenges in the Sustainability revolution, Sustainability Insight, Innovation and Capital under one roof. as most projects have long gestation periods and most lenders do not understand the space very well. We are increasingly being recognized as We had started Sustainability Outlook in 2010 (originally India Carbon preferred partners to leading financial institutions (providing a range of Outlook) as part of a pledge that we made at the Clinton Global Initiative services as specialist lenders’ engineer to help frame lines of credit for in 2009. Today it is leading the Sustainability discourse in India. Through Sustainability interventions). Upendra Bhatt initiatives like Sustainability Business Leaders Forum (SBLF) and Parivartan Awards we continue to build and shape conversations and A major step forward is the launch of cKers Finance – a Non-Banking Managing Director encourage collaborations in the sustainability space. In 2015 we launched Financial Company (NBFC) – to provide innovative debt financing in the the India Textile Water Network to allow collaborative knowledge sharing space. Resulting from our strategic and long standing partnership with between Indian textile units. the Centre for Innovation Incubation and Entrepreneurship at IIM Ahmedabad, cKers Finance is industry’s first sustainability oriented Our advisory and operational consulting services have grown manifold project financing platform. over the past few years. Innovation is a key ingredient in this practice. As an innovative and market leading project development firm in the Even as we take these innovative steps, we are proud to confirm our Decentralized Renewable Energy (DRE) space, our work has resulted in continued adherence to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact deployment of close to 150 mini-grid projects and an increasing number across our operations. Our adherence to these principles and our of rooftop projects. In addition, we have been engaged in facilitating Business Responsibility Report are purely voluntary disclosures which close to USD 30 million in lines of credit for the space. shows our commitment to be a responsible, transparent and accountable business. India Office US Office 708 Hemkunt Chambers, 262 Ventura Avenue 89 Nehru Place Palo Alto, New Delhi-110019, INDIA CA 94306, USA Ph: + 91.11.4050.7277, +91.11.4105.1195 Ph: + 1.650.331.1931 Email: contact@cKinetics.com 5 Our Journey: Moving towards shaping the Sustainability landscape 6 Our Footprint: We work with a variety of stakeholders to provide Insight, Innovation and Capital across diverse geographies Expertise Partners Presence Clients 7 Impact in 2015: Our operations continue to save resources, generate green power, build awareness about sustainability and most importantly serve the community Sustainability Outlook portal informed more than 6000 sustainability decision-makers. The 2015 Parivartan Awards recognized leadership in 7 sustainability areas from among 600 nominations. The India Textile Raising Network formed at the Sustainability Business Leaders Forum promoted knowledge sharing about Awareness sustainable business practices between stakeholders. cKinetics’ resource management efforts led to annualized savings of 10 billion liters of water and 22 GWh of Saving electricity savings in manufacturing units across multiple geographies. Resources cKinetics assisted the setting up of 5MW of micro-grid utilities in 2015. Our efforts contributed to annual Generating reduction of 4,000 tons of CO2 emissions. Our assessments helped deploy USD 30 million of capital in the Green Power Decentralized Renewable Energy space. We contributed to The Earth Saviours Foundation which looks after homeless senior citizens who have been Serving abandoned by their families. We also contributed to a rescue center which looks after special needs people. Community 8 About Us: We are a mission driven firm that aims to catalyze change through market driven approaches Mission: To develop market driven Vision: To accelerate the creation and solutions to promote the rapid adoption maintenance of systems which shape a of sustainable growth strategies in balance between current and future emerging market industries and resource needs communities The Flywheel: At cKinetics, we have a flywheel that helps propel us towards our mission and vision. A flywheel is a rotating mechanical device that is used to store rotational energy. It is used for providing continuous energy when the energy is discontinuous. Each one of us at cKinetics strives to add our energy to the flywheel to ensure that the system (our organization) always moves forward. 9 Our Solutions: In 2015, we reconfigured ourselves to better meet the goal of Sustainability… we are expanding on the pillars of Insight, Innovation and Capital INSIGHT INNOVATION ACTION CAPITAL Information Advisory and Innovation solutions Consulting Capital  Market intelligence and industry  Resource blue printing and  Accelerator to identify benchmarks process efficiency innovations  cKers Finance – market making  Collaborative intelligence  Project development through a platform that provides debt  Innovation networks  ESG assessments and reporting  Monitoring Resource Utilization  LCA and product design Efficiency  Supply chain programs 10 Market Intelligence: Sustainability Outlook expanded its impact and continued to develop new frameworks Sustainability Outlook is the information  ‘Zero Liquid Discharge: Outlook for marketplace of choice for sustainability Indian Industry’ professionals in India. In 2015, it engaged  ‘Waste Management Trends in Indian more than 6,000 sustainability Industry’ professionals across multiple segments.  ‘IoT + Smart Devices driving Analytics and Big Data for Sustainability’ In 2015, Ministry of New and Renewable  ‘Sustainable Materials in the Energy (MNRE) and United Nations Construction Industry’ Development Programme (UNDP) tasked  ‘Framing Sustainability for E-commerce’ Sustainability Outlook with managing  ‘Green Chemistry: Indian Industry Biopower India, a comprehensive warming up to Global Action’ knowledge series on biomass power sector. To demystify the opportunity represented by smart cities, we developed a Smart Also, in collaboration with Alliance for Cities Opportunity Assessment Model. Energy Efficient Economy and Shakti This model estimates the business Sustainable Energy Foundation we opportunity for smart cities in India at USD released PAT Pulse – a quarterly briefing 45-50 billion over the next 5 years. This series on the impact of Perform, Achieve opportunity primarily pertains to four and Trade mechanism. Our ‘India Power focus areas – Smart Energy, Smart Trading Scenario’ report polled power Transportation, Smart Water Management generators, traders and buyers to assess and Smart Waste Management. Smart the current scenario in the IndiaPower energy and smart water management Trading market. account for the lion’s share in terms of potential business opportunity in India We launched several market briefs on estimated at USD 14.4 billion and USD trending topics in the sustainability circles 23.4 billion respectively. such as:  ‘Energy Management Trends in Indian Industry’ 11 Collaborative Intelligence: Sustainability Business Leadership Forum launched India Textile Water Network Instituted by Sustainability Outlook, Delhi featured over 25 sessions across 3 Sustainable Business Leadership Forum days and was attended by over 350 (SBLF) is an invitation-only, Indian sustainability leaders and several global industry-focused market development institutions from the industrial and platform, which equips organizations, policy landscape. managers and industry stakeholders with business know-how and catalytic The summit for the first time featured tools for enabling corporate transition short pitch sessions where the latest towards sustainable business practices. resource and material management solutions were presented to an The forum witnessed enthusiastic audience comprising of both solution participation from the Indian industry in seekers and investors. 2015 and worked on themes such as:  Energy and Water Efficient In the past, the Working Group on Manufacturing Sustainability Disclosure and Reporting  Sustainable materials and Waste have had their genesis at SBLF Reuse conferences. The 2015 summit saw the  Big Data Analytics and Internet of formation of the India Textile Water Things Network, which was launched in  Distributed Renewable Energy partnership with the Stockholm  Sustainable Facilities International Water Institute.  Branding for sustainability The fifth annual summit of Sustainable Business Leadership Forum held in New 12 13 Shaping Innovation: The 5th edition of the Parivartan Awards reached across to nearly 600 innovators A flagship initiative of Sustainability entailing an initial outreach of over 600 Outlook, Parivartan Sustainability nominations and a final shortlist of about Leadership Awards is a discovery, 50. The first stage detailed evaluation for showcase and engagement platform to the 2015 Awards was conducted by a 30 uncover and celebrate innovation and member Sector Expert Panel consisting of leadership in resource conservation within senior technical experts from the industry. the industry. The Parivartan Awards has come to be recognized as the pre-eminent The 2015 awards recognized sustainable awards honoring excellence in the leadership in the following areas: sustainability space.  Leadership in Sustainable spaces and facilities The awards have uncovered truly path Leadership in Sustainable production breaking industry initiatives through which  Leadership in Material or Waste ReIndian corporates are transitioning towards use closed loop business systems and  Leadership in Branding for sustainable manufacturing processes. Sustainability  Innovation towards Sustainability The 5th edition of the Parivartan Awards through Big Data and Analytics elicited an even more enthusiastic  Disruptive Innovations in Distributed response from the sustainability Renewable Energy community. The winners were arrived at  Emerging Sustainability Innovators after a rigorous two stage review process Trailblazer of the Parivartan Year Award Winners Madhav Pai, cofounder EMBARQ India 14 15 Our geographical reach on creating blue-prints on resource and process efficiency expanded in 2015 Our Resource Management International Water Institute (SIWI) interventions are different from which began in 2013, expanded globally conventional resource efficiency in 2015. The pilot project SWAR that we strategies. Our aim is not just to attain worked on with SIWI, received global incremental improvements but also to acclaim for its innovative approach and Annualized savings in 2015 seek transformational changes. impact in 2015. We continuously seek to implement In 2015 we opened up a Chennai office new and innovative resource to cater to the growing resource conservation technologies as well as conservation needs of manufacturers in 10 billion liters 22 GWh use data for better decision-making. South India. We also added capabilities to deliver projects in Turkey in addition of Water of Electricity saved Human Engineering is a core forceto countries which we already serve, multiplier we use. We engage senior namely Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, China, and middle management as well as Indonesia and Ethiopia. shop-floor workers in the best resource efficiency practices. Our proprietary Being an organization which prides itself tool comMIT also helps decision-makers on innovation, we continue to seek in tracking resource use efficiency at novel ways of incorporating new data their respective work-sites. and technology into our operations. Hence, we launched iZLD (Intelligent cKinetics continue to be the partner of Zero Liquid Discharge) as a service. It is choice for global retail brands and their a cost-effective solution for industries supply chain partners in Asia. At the such as Textile, Paper and Pulp, same time, we have expanded our Pharmaceuticals and Distilleries presence to other industries such as seeking water optimization and ZLD personal care, packaging, implementation. pharmaceuticals and medical devices. Our partnership with the Stockholm 16 We continue to drive leadership in Sustainable Energy, especially in the decentralized space cKinetics consolidated its position as a implementation of the Off-grid schemes market leader in the Decentralized in Rajasthan state under a ADB funded Renewable Energy based micro-utilities technical assistance program. In space. addition, our project development team was instrumental in supporting We continue to be involved in all three implementation of close to 60 miniaspects of renewable energy projects: grids alone under the Rockefeller  Project Development and Financing Foundation backed Smart Power for  Systems Engineering and Project Rural Development. 5 MW 4000+ tons Management of micro-utility of CO2 saved  Incubation of Operational Entities In addition, jointly with partners, cKinetics was responsible for rollout of projects installed annually We have significantly expanded our an innovative franchising model for work on rooftop solar in industrial transition of diesel based operators to settings – through the year, we have mini-grid operators. The program is undertaken project development across poised for a scale-up to another 40 odd hospitals, industrial facilities and hotel sites in the year ahead. rooftops. We continue to intensify our work in the energy access segment – cKinetics team has been instrumental in 17 In 2015 we have made significant bets in cracking the financing conundrum Capital continues to be the biggest catalyze domestic debt financing in the challenge preventing the move towards DRE space. clean energy and sustainability Crowning this work has been the launch interventions. At cKinetics, we try to of cKers Finance, a new age Nonsolve the capital issue via two means: Banking Financial Company (NBFC) by acting as an accelerator for early geared to provide long-term debt stage ventures in the sustainability financing to innovative technologyspace and second by acting as a bridge backed interventions in this space. The between investors and the companies venture has been setup in partnership in the sustainability space. with IIM Ahmedabad’s Centre for Innovation Incubation and Based on cKinetics’ comprehensive Entrepreneurship (www.CIIE.co) and assessment, KfW has undertaken to has been backed by Infuse Ventures establish a EUR 20 million credit line (www.InfuseVentures.in). for Off-grid Renewable Energy Projects in India. In addition, cKinetics partnered with Climate and Development Knowledge Network (CDKN) to establish the role and implementation pathway for a guarantee facility to Adherence to the Principles of UN Global Compact 19 Adherence to UNGC Principles (1/3) Principles of the UNGC Policies for dealing with incidents of Human Right Violations and As a part of its ongoing commitment to mainstreaming sustainability, cKinetics is proud to Corruption support the UN Global Compact Principles. These principles have been a strong We are committed to diligently managing our business operations, both internally as well component of the firm’s core growth strategy and expansion process. as in external stakeholders, in a manner which reflects our high ethical standards. cKinetics has a zero tolerance policy with respect to incidents of corruption, both in the Materiality of UNGC Principles public and the corporate sphere. Given its role as a specialized Sustainability Advisory firm, cKinetics has limited exposure to Sustainability Risks and ESG impact through its own operations. Thus, materiality issues surrounding the UNGC Principles, their implementation and subsequent outcomes have been evaluated through the following lens: 1. How, and to what extent, do the principles apply to cKinetics in its operations? 2. How, and to what extent, can these principles become central to the service offerings of cKinetics and, thus, attain the desired impact created through its business operations? Actions and Tools for Implementation Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct outlines the expectations and aspirations of cKinetics management and staff in key areas of Human Rights, Corruption and Work Force Environment, etc. Operating Principles As explained in the initial section of this report (on page 8), the Mission and Vision guide the strategic planning and day-to-day operations of the firm. 20 Adherence to UNGC Principles (2/3) Areas Principles Outlook and Undertaking Tools for Implementation Outcomes cKinetics is committed to upholding Human The Code of Conduct defines our commitment to Rights, in its capacity as a responsible human rights; it outlines our stance and strategy for Principle 1: Businesses should support and business, in letter and in spirit, as it is preventing the abuse of human rights. All respect the protection of internationally material to the company. employees and extended stakeholders are expected There have been no cases of violation of human proclaimed human rights; and Human Rights to abide by it. rights within our organization or in our day-to-day Principle 2: make sure that they are not Operating in emerging markets pose a operations. complicit in human rights abuses. number of unique human rights challenges. Any violation can be reported confidentially cKinetics is committed to the reporting of any (through an anonymous email ID) and the individual human rights violations observed in the will be protected from repercussions. course of conducting its business operations. There were no reported violations of labor principles. As a firm with a presence in multiple Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the geographies, cKinetics is in compliance with Any violation can be reported confidentially and the Each employee met with the manager twice to freedom of association and the effective discuss the performance, concerns and goals. all relevant local regulations in its respective individual will be protected from repercussions recognition of the right to collective operations bargaining We conduct weekly, monthly and half yearly Employees are allowed 1 day per month to attend Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of The prevalence of the informal, unorganized, meetings with the team wherein feedback is conferences, seminars and programs for knowledge Labor forced and compulsory labor sector in India poses a number of distinct actively incorporated into the company’s policies advancement. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child challenges in adequately assessing some of and strategies. We continually provide our small suppliers’ adherence to Principles 4 opportunities, through training and access to All internally reported complaints and concerns were labor and 5. However, we make a concerted effort industry conferences, for our workforce to grow dealt with on a priority basis . Principle 6: the elimination of discriminatio to maintain constant vigilance when working intellectually and professionally. n in respect of employment and occupation with local small businesses. We sponsor employees who wish to take up educational courses relevant to their domain. 21 Adherence to UNGC Principles (3/3) Areas Principles Outlook and Undertaking Tools for Implementation Outcomes As an advisory firm, cKinetics has a limited Our team is currently engaged in actively monitoring Smart use of resources is an Operating Principle of socio-ecological footprint. However, we are and tracking our electricity consumption using a suite cKinetics and focus is on reducing consumption. Principle 7: Businesses should support a actively engaged in managing our resource of metering and analytics software. precautionary approach to consumption and maintain constant efforts to environmental challenges. Energy measurement system installed to actively track engage with our employees and the Principle 8: Businesses should HacK (How to at cKinetics) is an internal document energy consumption. community in a responsible fashion. undertake initiatives to promote which defines our expectations and commitments Environment greater environmental responsibility regarding the team’s alignment with our mission and Reuse of paper made mandatory and recycling is Our commitment to sustainability is at the very Principle 9: Businesses should vision to create positive impact. encouraged. core of our business mission, vision, and encourage the development and operations. cKinetics has made strong diffusion of environmentally friendly We also encourage and support our employees to be Our visiting cards are printed on recycled paper and contributions to sustainability in India. We technologies cognizant towards environmental impact and the stationary (folders) distributed at our conventions seek to create real impact through our various business initiatives. undertake resource efficient efforts. are made of recycled paper. cKinetics supports all 71 articles of the UN The Code of Conduct defines our expectations and Convention against Corruption (UNCAC). commitments regarding anti-bribery practices both in Principle 10: Businesses should work Antiour own operations and in those of our partners. There have been no reported incidents of corruption against corruption in all its forms, Corruption We take an active, zero-tolerance, stance involving the organization or one of its employees. including extortion and bribery against bribery and corrupt business practices Any violation can be reported and the individual will through diligent monitoring and enforcement. be ensured protection from reprisal. Annual Business Responsibility Report 2015 23 Annual Business Responsibility Report 2015 (1/6) This section presents the disclosure as per Business Responsibility Report (BRR) requirements. The framework presents indicators developed from Disclosure as per Business Responsibility Report (BRR) guidelines the 9 core principles of the National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Economic & Environmental Responsibilities of Business that were announced In addition to disclosing activities as per the by the Indian Ministry of Corporate Affairs in 2011. UNGC’s framework for the Communication of While cKinetics does not face a mandate in disclosing on the BRR framework, we are eager to engage with, and promote, this initiative both within Progress, we have also provided a Business Responsibility Report. The framework our own operations and those of our clients. This section has been filled out as per the format of the ABRR (Annual Business Responsibility Report) presents indicators developed from the 9 core that has been suggested by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (and adopted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India for the top 100 listed principles of the National Voluntary companies). Its public disclosure is part of the National Voluntary Guidelines on Social Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business. Guidelines on Social, Economic & Environmental Responsibilities of Business that were announced by the Ministry of BR Information Corporate Affairs. 1. Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR Importance of the BRR Framework The BRR represents a significant step forward  Details of the Director/Director(s) responsible for implementation of the BR in promoting the widespread adoption of nonpolicy/policies financial (ESG) disclosure among Indian firms. While cKinetics does not face a mandate in  Name: Upendra Bhatt disclosing on the BRR framework, we are  Designation : Managing Director eager to engage with, and promote, this initiative both within our own operations and 2. Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies (Reply in Y/N) those of our clients. Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 Do you have a policy/policies for.... Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA Has the policy being formulated in consultation with the relevant stakeholders? Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA Does the policy conform to any national/international standards? If yes, specify? Y NA NA Y NA Y NA NA NA (50 words) Has the policy being approved by the Board? Is yes, has it been signed by Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA MD/owner/CEO/appropriate Board Director? Does the company have a specified committee of the Board/Director/Official to Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA oversee the implementation of the policy? 24 Annual Business Responsibility Report 2015 (2/6) Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online? NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Has the policy been formally communicated to all relevant internal and Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA external stakeholders? Does the company have in-house structure to implement the policy/policies? Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism related to the policy/policies to address stakeholders’ Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA grievances related to the policy/policies? Has the company carried out independent audit/evaluation of the working of N N N N N N N N N this policy by an internal or external agency? 3. Governance related to BR Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability Report? What is the hyperlink for Indicate the frequency with which the Board of Directors, Committee of the Board or CEO viewing this report? How frequently it is published? assess the BR performance of the Company: Within 3 months, 3-6 months, Annually,  The company publishes a Sustainability Action Report which is available on More than 1 year www.cKinetics.com  Annually 25 Annual Business Responsibility Report 2015 (3/6) Section: Principle-wise performance  cKinetics’ practice areas around Decentralized Renewable Energy (DRE) and around Resource Management and Efficiency (RME) are designed to help customers reduce their resource footprint. Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics,  Sustainability Outlook is a market intelligence platform incubated by cKinetics to Transparency and Accountability advance the mainstream conversation around resource conservation and risk 1. Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption cover only the company? mitigation issues Yes/No. Does it extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs  The Sustainable Business Leadership Forum (SBLF) is India’s leading market /Others? development platform which equips organizations, managers and industry stakeholders  cKinetics’ policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption extend to its subsidiary, on the ‘how’ of sustainability through a unique programmatic approach comprising of contractors and all businesses it interacts with. round the year programs and ‘on-ground industry oriented’ work.  cKinetics is an active supporter of the UN Convention against Corruption; as such, we have adopted a zero-tolerance policy on bribery and corruption. We do not tolerate 2. For each such product, provide the following details in respect of resource use (energy, any of our employees engaging in any form of bribery or corruption. Employees, or water, raw material etc.) per unit of product(optional): persons acting on behalf of the firm, found to be seeking, accepting, or offering a  Reduction during sourcing/production/ distribution achieved since the previous year bribe, gift, or other improper payment as a reward for improper performance of a throughout the value chain? relevant function or activity will be subject to punitive measures (e.g. suspension, • Not applicable termination and legal action).  Reduction during usage by consumers (energy, water) has been achieved since the  It is our expectation that all business partners and stakeholders we work with adhere previous year? to the same standards. • Not applicable. The results of cKinetics’ professional services are summarized in the section titled “Our Impact” 2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial year and what percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the management? If so, provide details 3. Does the company have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing (including thereof, in about 50 words or so. transportation)? If yes, what percentage of your inputs was sourced sustainably? Also,  No complaints were received provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.  Whenever possible, the firm sources tools and products which are resource efficient Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and and have the lowest possible environmental impact. However, eco-friendly products contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle are just becoming available in the Indian marketas such, we attempt to simply reduce 1. List up to 3 of your products or services whose design has incorporated social or consumption and reuse/repurpose existing resources wherever possible. environmental concerns, risks and/or opportunities. 26 Annual Business Responsibility Report 2015 (4/6) 4. Has the company taken any steps to procure goods and services from local & small 5. Do you have an employee association that is recognized by management? producers, including communities surrounding their place of work?  No  Whenever possible, the firm sources services and products from local vendors / producers (in Delhi/NCR) 6. What percentage of your permanent employees is members of this recognized a) If yes, what steps have been taken to improve their capacity and capability of local and employee association? small vendors?  NA  As a small volume buyer, we have limited abilities to influence the production and sourcing method of our vendors. 7. Please indicate the number of complaints relating to child labor, forced labor, involuntary labor, sexual harassment in the last financial year and pending, as on the end 5. Does the company have a mechanism to recycle products and waste? If yes what is the of the financial year. percentage of recycling of products and waste (separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%). Also,  0 provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.  As a professional services firm, our waste streams are non-industrial in nature. At the Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive work-place we have adopted practices on recycling and reuse of paper; e-waste towards all stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged, segregation and tracking; printer material recycling; etc. vulnerable and marginalised 1. Has the company mapped its internal and external stakeholders? Yes/No Principle 3: Businesses should promote the well-being of all employees  Partially 1. Please indicate the Total number of employees.  26 Full time employees 2. Out of the above, has the company identified the disadvantaged, vulnerable & marginalized stakeholders? 2. Please indicate the Total number of employees hired on temporary/contractual/casual  In select work areas only basis.  10-15 (linked to projects) 3. Are there any special initiatives taken by the company to engage with the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders. If so, provide details thereof, in 3. Please indicate the Number of permanent women employees. about 50 words or so.  6 employees  As part of our CSR activities, cKinetics’ team picks up causes to work with that impact the community. In 2015 , we contributed to The Earth Saviours Foundation which looks 4. Please indicate the Number of permanent employees with disabilities after homeless and abandoned senior citizens and a rescue center to look after special  0 needs people. 27 Annual Business Responsibility Report 2015 (5/6) Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights 5. Has the company undertaken any other initiatives on – clean technology, energy 1. Does the policy of the company on human rights cover only the company or extend to efficiency, renewable energy, etc. Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for web page etc. the Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others?  Yes. The company has installed an Energy Management System in its own facilities that  It presently covers the company and its subsidiary. tracks the usage of energy. 2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial year and 6. Are the Emissions/Waste generated by the company within the permissible limits given what per cent was satisfactorily resolved by the management? by CPCB/SPCB for the financial year being reported?  No stakeholder complaints  NA Principle 6: Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore 7. Number of show cause/ legal notices received from CPCB/SPCB which are pending (i.e. the environment not resolved to satisfaction) as on end of Financial Year. 1. Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the company or extends to the  None Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/others.  Presently the policy covers the company and its subsidiary. Principle 7: Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory 2. Does the company have strategies/ initiatives to address global environmental issues policy, should do so in a responsible manner such as climate change, global warming, etc.? Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for 1. Is your company a member of any trade and chamber or association? If Yes, Name only webpage etc. those major ones that your business deals with:  cKinetics’ own operations have a limited impact since it is an advisory firm. As  UN Global Compact Sustainability focused advisory firm, all its offerings are geared towards reducing the  Alliance for an Energy Efficient Economy impact on the environment due to resource consumption. More is available at  Sustainable Business Leadership Forum (SBLF) www.cKinetics.com 2. Have you advocated/lobbied through above associations for the advancement or 3. Does the company identify and assess potential environmental risks? Y/N improvement of public good? Yes/No; if yes specify the broad areas ( drop box:  NA Governance and Administration, Economic Reforms, Inclusive Development Policies, Energy security, Water, Food Security, Sustainable Business Principles, Others) 4. Does the company have any project related to Clean Development Mechanism? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. Also, if Yes, whether any environmental  cKinetics has been engaged in policy research and advocacy in the areas of: compliance report is filed? Decentralized Renewable Energy; Energy Access; and Disclosure and reporting of  NA Environmental and Social (E&S) metrics through the SBLF. 28 Annual Business Responsibility Report 2015 (6/6) Principle 8: Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their development customers and consumers in a responsible manner 1. Does the company have specified programs/initiatives/projects in pursuit of the policy 1. What percentage of customer complaints/consumer cases are pending as on the end of related to Principle 8? If yes details thereof. financial year.  Yes. As mentioned in Principle 4, as part of its CSR activities, cKinetics’ team picks up  None causes to work with that impact the community. 2. Does the company display product information on the product label, over and above 2. Are the programs/projects undertaken through in-house team/own what is mandated as per local laws? Yes/No/NA/Remarks(additional information) foundation/external NGO/government structures/any other organization?  NA  Through external NGOs 3. Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against the company regarding unfair trade 3. Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative? practices, irresponsible advertising and/or anti-competitive behavior during the last five  cKinetics gets reports on the utilization of the CSR funds. years and pending as on end of financial year. If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. 4. Have you taken steps to ensure that this community development initiative is  No successfully adopted by the community? Please explain in 50 words, or so.  NA 4. Did your company carry out any consumer survey/ consumer satisfaction trends?  No
