www.accessbankplc.com ACCESS BANK FINANCING THE FUTURE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 CONTENTS TABLES 04 32 Progress on the Nigeria Sustainable banking principles Introduction / highlights (NSBP) 10 Table 1: Economic Value Generated, Distributed and Retained 51 Table 12: Employee composition by gender 04 36 Progress on the United Nations Global Impact Executive summary (UNGC) 13 Table 3: Bank’s total capitalisation 51 Table 13: Gender distribution of top management employees 05 About this report 40 Service to our customers, clients and markets 15 Table 4: Summary of our approach to sustainability 52 Table 14: Gender distribution of the Board of Directors 06 Chairman’s statement 41 Customer Engagement 16 Table 5: Stakeholder engagement approaches in 2014 58 Table 16: Training programmes for risk management staff in 2014 07 Group Managing Director/CEO’s statement 44 Responsiveness to our customers’ needs 33 Table 7: Bank-wide updates on the Nigeria Sustainable Banking Principles 59 Table 17: Capacity building events for customer-facing employees 08 Key Performance 50 Employees: Our people and our culture 37 Table 8: Bank-wide updates on the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 61 Table 18: 2014 CEO awards: categories and awardees 09 Awards and recognitions 52 Women’s empowerment principles 42 Table 9: Survey results: customer satisfaction with service channels 64 Table 19: Supplier assessment/rating criteria 11 Our Business 55 Employee engagement 69 Table 20: Community development and invest43 Table 10: Survey results: customer satisfaction ment projects (Bank and employee volunteers) 13 62 with retail products Shareholder’s Engagement Environmental Stewardship 13 Significant Changes 64 Our supply chain relationship 43 Table 11: Survey results: customer satisfaction with quality of staff 75 Table 21: Partner organisations and activities included in Serving with Passion 14 Corporate Philosophy 66 Communities and wider societies 15 Our Approach (Supply Chain) 73 Employee volunteering scheme 16 Stakeholder’s Engagement in 2014 75 ‘We Care’ Programme FIGURES 17 Employees 76 Supplementary Information 17 Customers 77 General standard disclosures 13 Figure 1: Composition of Bank’s capitalisation 55 Figure 8: Employee satisfaction by level 21 Materiality 87 2014 Employee Survey 22 Figure 3: Materiality matrix 55 Figure 9: Employee satisfaction by gender 23 Corporate Governance 91 Contact Us 42 Figure 4: Customer satisfaction with service channels 56 Figure 10: Employee satisfaction by age 24 Performance, Monitoring, Audits & Evaluation 43 Figure 5: Customer satisfaction with retail products 56 Figure 11: Employee satisfaction with Bank’s core competencies 25 Strategy: Our Business 43 Figure 6: Customer satisfaction with quality of staff 57 Figure 12: Number of Employees Trained at the School of Banking Excellence (2012 2014) 26 Responsible Business 55 Figure 7: Overall satisfaction among employees 57 Figure 13: Summary of Bank-wide training in 2014 27 Adoption of Local and International best practices Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ABOUT THIS REPORT At Access Bank, our vision is to be the Ensuring that we consider the needs of all At Access The Bank, our 2014 Access vision Bank is to be theReport which, by Sustainability ourlong in the are positive term,activities; business they include world’s most respected African Bank. On this our stakeholders is essential to enabling us world’s most presents respected African our sustainability Bank. for for ourthe performance communities we customers, shareholders, in, strategic operate journey, we understand that our operations to fulfil this role; taking decisions which, in the On thisperiod ranging journey, wefromthe understand 1st of January that alliances we are committed to, community employees and the communities in the long term, are positive for our customers, 2014 to the 31st our operations of banking and December 2014. Material activities development and nongovernmental and banking activities are not conducted shareholders, employees and the communities events are notafterconductedthis date in aand up to the vacuum. we operate is, similarly, As 26th of which organisations. crucial. In developing this report, we in a vacuum. As such, we make efforts to July2015 such, we make have also been efforts to included continually subject to Above have all, wemade conduct of relevant use our business andin applicable continually understand the expectations, in which we operate is, similarly, crucial. Above board understand approval. theWe consider anneeds expectations, issue andto be a way that international sustainability is sustainable, facilitating standards and all, we conduct our business in a way that is needs and concerns of those who influence, material concernsif of it isthose to impact likely who influence,our ability and to guidelines, particularly the AA1000 Assurance sustainable, facilitating greater and more greater and more inclusive prosperity and are influenced by, our business whilst achieve our strategy, are influenced by, ourto remain commercially business whilst Standards, and the Global Reporting Initiative inclusive prosperity for current and future simultaneously seeking to respond adequately sustainable simultaneously sociallyrelevant. and seeking to respond The intendedfor current (GRI)and future generations. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. generations. We believe that success is not to these expectations. In a bid to guarantee readers adequately of this reportexpectations. are the Bank’s broad We believe to these And,thatfor the success is notwe first time, have prepared this only only measured by what we do, but also by how the financial and economic sustainability of our base In a bid of to stakeholders, guarantee the financial those whommeasured specifically, sustainability report in accordance by what we do, but also by with the GRI we do it. Thus, having secured our foundation andhave we economic sustainability and direct relationships of ourregularly G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines – core business, we respond with a variety of initiatives how we do it. Thus, having secured our sustainably, everything we do is driven by communicate business, we respond with. Thesewith include a varietyour option. Additionally, Corporate Citizenship and actions which also allow for maximum foundation sustainably, everything we the desire to achieve our vision through shareholders, of initiatives and customers, employees, actions which also suppliers, has provided an independent third party possible beneficial impact on the local and sustainability. As we move rapidly towards government allow for maximum and regulatory possibleorganisations. beneficial by thefor assurance do is driven the report. desire For more information, to achieve global economy, The environment and society financing the future, we are optimistic about Our impact stakeholders on the local are andthose global whom we engageour vision economy, please see Corporate Citizenship Assurance through sustainability. As at large. In light of this, the 2014 Access Bank what lies ahead and have greater confidence with from time-to-time The environment on particular and society at issues or Statement on page XYZ. we move rapidly towards financing the Sustainability Report has been produced to about prospects regarding inclusive growth processes, large. In light the 2015and of this,projects policies, performance Access (financial and non-financial). Bank Sustainability Report has Stakeholders been have future, we are optimistic about what meet the specific sustainability information and prosperity for communities, resource needs of our diverse stakeholders. efficiency and environmental sustainability. an indirectto produced meeton impact theand may be impacted lies ahead and have greater confidence specific sustainability information needs of about prospects regarding inclusive our diverse stakeholders. Ensuring growth and prosperity for communities, that we consider the needs of all our stakeholders is essential to enabling resource efficiency and environmental us to fulfil this role; taking decisions sustainability. FSCTM 100% recycled credit 100% recycled fibres This report is printed on Respecta 100 TM paper obtained from sustainably managed plantations is Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)TM certified. A 100% Ecological spirit. Respecta is a 100% FSCTM certified 100% recycled coated fine paper created to ensure maximum environmental and social responsibility, In fact it is produced from 100% post-consumer recycled fibre using power from high performance cogeneration plants, which means that for every tonne of Respecta 100 there is a saving of 100kg of CO2 emisions. 4 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 5 CHAIRPERSON’S GROUP MANAGING STATEMENT DIRECTOR/CEO ’S STATEMENT Over the years, globalisation and its attendant by providing responsible banking services, causes that benefit society. All of our actions, Acting responsibly requires a balancebetween host communities. At Access Bank, we place Account for retirees, PaywithCapture (a economic benefits have lifted many people protecting the environment, managing from the way we run our business to our economic, environmental and social objectives. premium on sustainable socio-economic and payment solution that has helped reduce the out of poverty and has raised the income levels our human assets, and engaging with our employee volunteering scheme to how we use Our economic success as a Bank has been human development. This is evident in our number of people that have little or no access of millions more. However, this prosperity communities. In 2014, we made significant our resources, align with our vision of becoming supported largely by our people, ambition and approach and commitment to promoting the to financial services), Access Money and the progress in bringing our commitment to life. the world’s most respected African Bank. We sustainability practices. Whilst we continue wellbeing of our employees and surrounding ‘W’ initiative. This way, our Bank is helping to has mostly come at the expense of the to vigorously pursue our vision which is now communities; meeting the utility needs of reduce the number of people that have little or environment and local communities. At Access We continually embed sustainability in every therefore focus on connecting our capabilities outlined with a clear strategy that will help us our clients and customers; safeguarding no access to financial services. The ‘W’ initiative Bank, we recognise that our growth must be aspect of our activity. We are grateful for the to help people achieve their goals, connecting achieve it, our goal is to build and maintain a the environment from degradation; and is our Bank’s response to the global efforts at sustainable to the end that it is both inclusive efforts of our staff during the year, and we are companies and individuals to finance that fuel business which is profitable yet sustainable in guaranteeing profits for our shareholders supporting and empowering today’s woman. and environmentally sound to reduce the proud of what they have achieved. the present and future economic growth, and Through W, we are helping to build a bigger the long term. Our strategic approach guides and investors. As we continue to take this impact of our operations on the planet as well community development. where and how we seek to drive value as a Bank. and stronger society which appreciates and committed approach, we recognise that we are as improve the quality of life for people in our Access Bank employees devoted Through our principal activities – providing taking remarkable steps towards realising our leverages the power of womanhood. As we host communities. around140,000 hours of their time to a wide Mrs. Mosunmola Belo-Olusoga financial services and managing risks, we play bank-wide vision of become the world’s most move towards that big, strong and sustainable range of volunteering activities, and these a central role in society and in the economic future, we remain committed to international Chairperson, Access Bank plc respected African bank, while also making Our Bank has made good progress on many included projects which help young people system. Our target is to build and maintain a best practices such as the United Nations positive impact in societies around us. As we fronts; we continue to position ourselves as build the skills and confidence to fulfil their business which is sustainable in the long term. Global Compact, UN Women Empowerment operate our business, and record noteworthy an industry leader by allowing the concept potential. Clearly, we have turned corporate Banks, and the employees within them, play a successes, we appreciate the efforts of our Principles, Equator Principles, United Nations of sustainability to permeate our operations, social responsibility into action. Our values crucial role in the economic and social system, Environment Programme Finance Initiative, various stakeholders who have been part of communities and business activities on every guide our behaviour. They help us to conduct creating value for many parties in different amongst others. the journey right from the beginning of the level. business with the utmost integrity, to create ways. year. We understand that there is no success We have also forged partnerships with the long-term value for our shareholders and without them. In response to stakeholder public and private sector united by a shared Our commitment to our stakeholders is a By extending access to finance and innovative to nurture the best talent. We maintain an expectations, we sought to strengthen our commitment to lead efforts in sustainable fundamental part of who we are. Indeed, financial products to our clients, we are unwavering focus on serving our customers internal systems to deliver inclusive products, development across multi-sector or contributing to sustainable economic growth we strive to serve our clients, employees, effectively. At the same time, we work to women empowerment initiatives, community in our markets and local economies. We do industry platforms. By working together with shareholders and communities at all times constantly improve our processes, procedures investment and continued engagement/ stakeholders, we can truly lead improve the this through our innovative financial products and believe that doing our part to sustain the and policies. dialogue. It is delighting to note the several adoption of sustainable business practices and services which help drive economic environment in which we live is a vital part of developmental initiatives undertaken by in Nigeria and broadly Africa. Looking ahead development and job creation. Access Bank’s this service. At Access Bank, we understand that focusing our employees who contribute their time, with great optimism, we will live by the highest main impact on theenvironment and society is on profit is a legitimate motive for every talents and money, to champion life changing standards of integrity in everything we do, through the business activities we finance. Sustainability is of great importance to our interventions in local communities. We drive value for our investors by putting longeconomic behaviour. We however, make it our business and is based on developing business To achieve long term sustainable development, also leveraged resource efficiency models term success over short term gain, earn purpose to make financial lives better through practices that are not only financially viable we strive to responsibly manage our internally to managing our consumption of our stakeholders’ trust by placing them at the power of our over 10,000 employees who and socially relevant, but also environmentally environmental and social risks. Our approach is water, energy and paper whilst also cushioning the core of our strategy, deliver best in class daily deliver on this purpose for our customers, responsible. As a direct result of this, our to engage with key stakeholders – customers, the environmental and social effects of our innovation by empowering our people and act strengthening the communities through sustainability ambition reaches far beyond legal investors, employees, suppliers, regulators, financial products and services. In line with as a responsible partner with communities by voluntary service contribution and philanthropy. our commitment to innovative products enriching more lives through our social impact or compliance obligations; we are committed and communities to reduce or manage the impacts from our financing decisions. In doing and inclusive finance, we launched a range initiatives. to enshrining principles that make for a better In the year under review, our Bank contributed this, we are better positioned to strengthen of exciting products and initiatives to meet future for our business and stakeholders over 280,000 volunteer hours investing in and develop long lasting relationships, and the needs of the under-banked segments of Herbert Wigwe, contribute to sustainable development of our society. These products include the Evergreen Access Bank Plc 6 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 7 KEY PERFORMANCE AWARDS & RECOGNITION July 2015 July 2015 May 2015 December 2014 The 2014 Access Bank Sustainability report builds on progress and feedback from “Centre for Environmental “GBCHealth Leadership in “EuroMoney Best Flow “Most Socially Responsible our stakeholders during the year. We seek to provide a detailed overview of our Management and Control Sustainability Award” House Award” Bank, Nigeria” (CEMAC) Sustainability Awards” Bank’s financial and non-financial performance through the period January 01, 2014 to December 31, 2015. Access Bank emerged winner of the In the 2015 Euromoney Awards for The Bank was awarded the title The University of Nigeria, Nsukka GBCHealth Leadership in Sustainability Excellence, Access Bank emerged as of the “Most Socially Responsible (UNN) awarded the Bank for its selfless In the year under review, our Bank made significant progress in its financial and Award. This award recognizes the Bank the winner of the Best Flow House in Bank” in the Intercontinental efforts and hard work in sustainable non-financial performance entrenching sustainability across every aspect of the as a leader in sustainability in Nigeria, Africa award. The Bank was recognised Finance Magazine Global Awards. development within the country. business to meet the dynamic needs of our stakeholders – employees, customers, and broadly Africa. for its increasing transaction flows This further attests to the across Africa and particularly for its ever-increasing innovation and community, investors, suppliers and regulators. dominance of the Nigerian financial sustained commitment to good market. Furthermore, this is the first corporate citizenship that the time an African Bank has been named Bank continues to champion. winner of this highly revered award. December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 “International Short Film “Best Company in “Best Customer Service “Most Sustainable Bank, Festival Corporate Social Sustainability reporting” Company Award” Nigeria” Responsibility Award” Access Bank has a long tradition of Access Bank was adjudged best This award recognises companies Our Bank was officially announced as support and development of the Arts company in sustainability reporting at that deliver effective and the Most Sustainable Bank in Nigeria and youth over the years. In line with the Social Enterprise Report Awards exceptional customer service in by World Finance, United Kingdom. this, the Bank emerged winner of the (SERAs) having being the first and only Nigeria. Access Bank emerged The award is a testament of our InShort Corporate Social Nigerian bank to have consecutively winner of the Best Customer leadership in the sustainability space in Responsibility award. published its sustainability disclosures Service Company in Nigeria at the Nigeria and Africa at large. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE over the past seven years. Nigerian Customer Service Awards. Below is an analysis of how value was created and distributed to relevant stakeholders during the period: July 2014 April 2014 March 2014 Categories of Economic Value 2014 2013 2012 Direct economic value generated Revenues 245,217,569 206,891,219 208,308,873 “Socially Responsible “Best Nigerian Company “Credit card product of Lender of the Year” in Corporate Citizenship” the year” Economic value distributed Operating costs 152,824,294 122,802,371 121,008,955 Access Bank emerged winner of the Access Bank was adjudged the best Access Bank emerged overall winner in the ‘Credit Card Product of the Year’ Employee wages and benefits 31,293,540 31,081,954 33,683,156 most socially responsible Bank of Nigerian company in Corporate category at the annual Card and e-Payment Africa, South Africa. The award the year at the Business Day Annual Citizenship in the first ever competitive is recognition for the Bank’s investment in its card products and channel Payments to providers of capital 22,483,662 28,270,022 16,683,567 Banking Awards. index on corporate social responsibility services, creativity, innovation and value to its customers”. In 2014, we made in Nigeria by CSR-in-Action, a significant progress in generating revenues by offering unparalleled financial Payments to government (by country) 8,958,810 7,498,759 1,695,343 registered social enterprise devoted products and services to our numerous customers. to the advancement of social ethics, Community investments and charitable donations 388,832 391,000 173,229 Having made various direct contributions to the economy by providing social responsibility and corporate governance in Nigeria. employment to many; ethical and transparent tax returns to the government Economic value retained 29,268,431 16,847,113 35,064,623 and deeppocket investments in surrounding communities, the Bank was able to retain substantial earnings and economic value that will enable it to sustain itself in the coming years. 8 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 9 KEY PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS TABLE 1: ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED, DISTRIBUTED AND RETAINED Categories of Economic Value 2012 (’000 Naira) 2013 (’000 Naira) 2014 (’000 Naira) Direct economic value generated Revenues 208,308,873 206,891,219 245,217,569 Economic value distributed Operating costs 121,008,955 122,802,371 152,824,294 Employee wages and benefits 33,683,156 31,081,954 31,293,540 Payments to providers of capital 16,683,567 28,270,022 22,483,662 Payments to government (by country) 1,695,343 7,498,759 8,958,810 Community investments and charitable donations 173,229,020 391,000,000 388,832,257 Economic value retained 35,064,623 16,847,113 29,268,431 Organisational profile to and exceed regulatory requirements. From These, in addition to the Board charter and strict performance monitoring to the careful the Bank’s Memorandum and Articles of Access Bank Plc is a full service commercial appointment and supervision of experienced, Association, collectively provide the foundation Access Bank integrates the principles of sustainable development into its work with clients, suppliers, and Bank operating through a network of 310 capable Directors, not to mention the for sound corporate governance. Our core communities. These principles are also at the heart of Access Bank’s corporate philosophy and are aligned branches and service outlets located in complementary role of overseeing committee, values of excellence, innovation, leadership, with our overarching goal of becoming the world’s most respected African Bank. In 2015, the Sustainable major centres across Nigeria, sub Saharan we will always be in the leading rank. We are passion for customers, professionalism and Development Goals (SDGs), a proposed set of goals, targets and indicators that countries will use over the Africa and the United Kingdom. Listed on the also transparent in all that we do, maintaining empowered employees continue to shape our next 15 years as a framework for designing their agendas and policies, will be launched. Finance will be a critical Nigerian Stock Exchange in 1998, our Bank high ethical standard. And if we should ever corporate behaviour. cornerstone of the SDGs, and Access Bank is supporting the design and implementation of financing solutions serves various markets through 4 business fall short, we have a formal whistle-blowing to meet the needs of the post-2015 agenda. Our work in sustainable development focus among other areas segments: Corporate and Investment, procedure to ensure we stay on the right Performance Monitoring and primarily on health, arts, sports, education, and the environment. As a hallmark of progress, the Bank’s revenues Commercial, Business Banking, Personal course. In all of this, we adhere to – and strive Evaluation increased significantly in 2014, and so did employee benefits and our contributions to the government through and Private Banking. We have over 830,000 to exceed – the regulatory requirements. That tax payments. However, the amount of economic value channelled into community investment lowered slightly shareholders including several Nigerian and way you can be sure that a better tomorrow The Board in the discharge of its oversight in 2014 compared to 2013. This decrease, although not substantial, was a result of the Bank’s decision to International Institutional Investors and awaits, not just because of our vision, function continuously engages management undertake a robust review of our sustainability and corporate social responsibility strategy in 2014. Nevertheless, have enjoyed what is arguably Africa’s most resources and capabilities, but because of the in the planning, definition and execution as always, our sustainability strides remain big and strong and in view of our reviewed sustainability strategy, successful banking growth trajectory in the way we believe in getting there. of strategy. Management’s report on the Access Bank is poised to stand out remarkably and positively in financing thefuture for all our stakeholders. last ten years ranking amongst Africa’s top 20 execution of defined strategic objectives is banks by total assets and capital. As part of our The Bank and its subsidiaries (the Group) are a regular feature of the Board’s agenda, thus continued growth strategy, we are focused on governed under a framework that enables providing the Board with the opportunity to “PRIMARILY ON HEALTH, ARTS, SPORTS, mainstreaming sustainable business practices into our operations by constantly delivering the Board to discharge its oversight functions while providing strategic direction to the Bank evaluate and critique management’s execution of strategy. EDUCATION, AND THE ENVIRONMENT” sustainable economic growth that is profitable, environmentally responsible and socially in balance with its responsibility to ensure regulatory compliance. The subsidiaries relevant. comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements of their host countries and also Nature of ownership and legal align their governance framework to the Bank’s form governance framework. The Bank maintains an excellent track record Commission’s Code of Corporate Governance of corporate governance having clearly (‘the SEC Code’) and the Post-Listing demonstrated a strong commitment to adhere Requirements of the Nigeria Stock Exchange. 10 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 11 KEY PERFORMANCE The Bank’s performance on Corporate Governance is continuously being monitored and reported. We carry out quarterly and Given their experience and background, the Report, Non-Deal Roadshows and the capitalisation, as well as the Bank’s improved annual reviews of our compliance with the Board believes that they will continue to add Investors Forum at the Stock Exchange. framework for managing its business risks and CBN Code and the SEC Code respectively, and value to the Bank. The Board recommended maximizing opportunities. the re-election of these Directors to maintain The Bank has a robust Investors render reports to the regulators. The Board the needed balance of skill, knowledge and Communication and Disclosure Policy. Although, revenues increased significantly has also established a system of independent experience on the Board. As provided in the policy, the Board and during the reporting year, there were no annual evaluation of its performance, that management ensure that communication significant changes to the Bank’s ownership of its committees and individual directors. The evaluation is done by an independent Shareholders Engagement with the investing public about the Bank structure. The Bank’s total capitalization as at and its subsidiaries is timely, factual broadly year end 2014 is broken down into debt and consultant approved by the Board. In 2014, The Board recognises the importance of disseminated and accurate in accordance with equity as follows. Accenture Limited was engaged to conduct ensuring the flow of complete, adequate and all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. the performance evaluation. The independent timely information to shareholders to enable consultant does not have any connection them make informed decisions. The Group is The Bank’s reports and communication to with the Group or any of its directors. The committed to maintaining high standards of shareholders and other stakeholders are in Board believes that the use of an independent corporate disclosure. Shareholders meetings plain, readable and understandable format. consultant not only encourages directors to are convened and held in an open manner in The Bank’s website www.accessbankplc.com is be more candid in their evaluation of the Board line with the Bank’s Articles of Association and regularly updated with both financial and nonperformance, but also enhances the objectivity minimum qualifications for director Ogunmefun retired at the Bank’s 25th Annual existing statutory and regulatory regimes, for financial information. and transparency of the evaluation process. General Meeting held on April 30, 2014 the purpose of deliberating on issues affecting The result of the Board performance evaluation nominees set forth in the policy. The and being eligible were duly re-elected by the Bank’s strategic direction. The details of the Investors’ Communication was presented by the independent consultant Committee may gather information about the shareholders. The shareholders also elected and Disclosure Policy are available at the during the Board Meeting held on January 29, candidates through interviews, questionnaires, Dr. (Mrs.) Ajoritsedere Awosika, Mr. Paul Usoro, The Annual General Meeting is a medium Figure 1: Composition of Bank's Capitalisation Investor Portal on the Bank’s website. The 2015. background checks, or any other means that Mr. Obinna Nwosu, Mrs. Ojinika Olaghere, Mr. for promoting interaction between the Board ensures that shareholders’ statutory the Committee deems helpful in the evaluation Roosevelt Ogbonna, Mr. Elias Igbinakenzua board, management and shareholders. and general rights are protected at all times, The evaluation was a 360 degree exercise process. The Committee meets to discuss and Mrs. Titi Osuntoki. The appointments had Attendance at the Annual General Meeting particularly their right to vote at general Table 3: Bank’s total capitalisation covering directors’ self-assessment, peer and evaluate the qualities and skills of each earlier been approved by the CBN. Pursuant is open to shareholders or their proxies, meetings. assessment and evaluation of the Board and candidate, taking into account the overall to the provisions of the Article of Association, while proceedings at such meetings are the Committees. The effectiveness of the Capital ‘000 Naira composition and needs of the Board. Based Dr. Mahmoud Isa-Dutse, Mrs. Mosun Belousually monitored by members of the The Board also ensures that all shareholders Independent Directors vis-à-vis the CBN on the results of the evaluation process, the Olusoga and Dr. Ernest Ndukwe will retire at press, representatives of the Nigerian Stock are treated equally regardless of the size Guidelines on Independent Directors of Banks Shareholders’ funds 277,410,728 Committee shall recommend candidates to this Annual General Meeting and being eligible Exchange, the Central Bank of Nigeria and the of their shareholding and social conditions. was also evaluated. The result confirmed that the Board for appointment as a director subject for re-election will submit themselves for Securities and Exchange Commission. Our shareholders are encouraged to share Tier II capital Bonds 73,155,391 the individual directors and the Board continue to shareholders and Central Bank of Nigeria’s re-election. The Board confirms that following in the responsibility of sustaining the Bank’s to operate at a very high level of effectiveness The Board ensures that shareholders are approval. Dr. Babatunde Folawiyo, following his a formal evaluation, these three Directors corporate values by exercising their rights as Total 350,566,119 and efficiency. Appointment, Retirement and provided with adequate notice of meetings. completion of the maximum 12 year term as continue to demonstrate commitment to their protected by law. Reelection of Directors The Board has put An Extraordinary General Meeting may also provided by the CBN Code, retired from the role as Non-Executive Directors. in place a formal process for the selection be convened at the request of the Board or Board on January 28, 2014. The Board had in Significant Changes of new directors to ensure the transparency shareholders holding not less than than 10% of December 2013 approved the appointment of the nomination process. The process is the Bank’s Paid-up Capital. During the reporting period, the Bank made documented in the Fit and Proper Person of Mr. Paul Usoro as a Non-Executive Director. substantial progress in strengthening the policy and is led by the Board Governance The appointment was approved by the CBN The Group has a dedicated Investors stability of our credit outlook. Our credit rating and Nomination Committee. The Committee in January 2014. In accordance with the Relations Unit, which focuses on facilitating was upgraded from “A” to “A+” by Agusto & Co, identifies candidates for appointment as Bank’s Articles of Association, one third of all communication with shareholders and analysts a leading credit rating firm in Nigerian, thus director in consultation with the Chairman, NonExecutive Directors (rounded down) are on a regular basis and addressing their queries affirming the Bank as one of the Systematically the Group Managing Director and/or any other offered for re-election every year (depending and concerns. Investors and stakeholders Important Banking (SIB) institutions in Nigeria director, or through the use of search firms or on their tenure on the Board) together with frequently are provided with information about and positioning Access Bank as one of Nigeria’s such other methods as the Committee deems directors appointed by the Board since the the Bank through various channels, including tier 1 banks. helpful to identify candidates. Once candidates last Annual General Meeting. In keeping with Quarterly Investors Conference Calls, the have been identified, the Committee shall the requirement, Messrs Emmanuel Chiejina, General Meeting, the website, the Annual Indeed, the improved credit rating recognised confirm that the candidates meet the Oritsedere Otubu and Mrs. Anthonia Kemi Reports and Accounts, the Sustainability Access Bank’s satisfactory liquidity and 12 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 13 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY OUR APPROACH OUR Our Core Values Excellence Empowered employees • Recruiting and retaining the right people andteams based VISION • Supply Chain: on shared values and vision; As a Bank, we are not only in business to Member of the United Nations Environment • Surpassing ordinary standards to be the best in all that maximise shareholders’ value; we consider • Developing our people to become worldclass Programme (UNEP). In 2014, our sustainability we do; professionals; In our journey to becoming a truly sustainable the social and environmental impact of every approach focused on responsible business • Setting the standards for what it means to be enterprise, our Bank has taken a look beyond To be the world’s Most Respected • Encouraging a sense of ownership at individual level whilst aspect of our banking operations. The Bank’s practice, community investment and strategic exceptional; African Bank. fostering team spirit and loyalty to a shared vision; Management has a high level of focus on direct operations and deep into supply chain. positioning on sustainability. Our banking • Never losing sight of our commitment toexcellence, • Promoting a sense of belonging and community; sustainability and the Bank’s strategy is to philosophy promotes economic development even when the going gets tough; We continue to influence the behaviour of • Facilitating continuous learning by providing the training, integrate sustainability into our operations for • Remembering that excellence requiresdedication and and sustainable social and environmental tools and coaching to help our people grow; suppliers by enforcing policies covering human commitment; and the long term success of our business. causes across a range of stakeholders. • Helping them take care of their health; rights, labour, and environment. • Our approach is not ‘excellence at allcosts’ but • Pursuing a positive work/life balancefor increased Access Bank’s Board of Directors, through an Our responsible business practice ‘excellence on all fronts’ so that we deliver outcomes that are economically, environmentally and socially productivity and improved employee satisfaction; and established CSR/ Sustainability Committee, encompasses economic development and • People and culture: responsible. • Encouraging a diverse workforce; respect for and provides the highest level of governance advocacy; employee and stakeholder relations; We have continued to attain business unit buyappreciation of differences in ethnicity, gender, age, oversight for sustainability management. The treating customers fairly; the environment; in for a broad Environmental and Social Risk national origin, disability, and religion. CSR/ Sustainability Committee is responsible and gender empowerment. In the period Management (ESRM) Policy which is applied OUR for overseeing the delivery of the Bank’s Leadership Professionalism under review, we made progress in our in our lending decision. We also continue to sustainable business strategy, to ensure the • Putting our best foot forward in everything we do, sustainability performance with regards to our pursue our aspiration to be the employer of • Leading by example, leading with guts; especially in high pressure situations; Bank’s sustainability ambitions in each of its environmental, social and economic impacts. MISSION choice in the communities where we operate. • Being first, being the best, sometimes being the only; strategic priorities are achieved. • Consistently bringing the best of our knowledge and Our strategic result areas include: • We must embody the change we want to see; expertise to the table in all of our interactions with our We adopt global best practice principles, • Community: • Setting the standard; stakeholders; frameworks and standards, to support the • Environment: Setting standards for sustainable • Setting the highest standards in our work ethic, Putting the community at the centre of • Challenging the status quo; business practices that unleash the behaviours and activities in the way we treat our effective mainstreaming of sustainability By focusing and applying our resources and • Market making; and everything we do is critical to our success. talents of our employees, deliver customers and – just as importantly– each other; in the Bank. We are therefore an Equator experience, we have become a powerful force superior value to our customers and • Self-awareness in being able to maintain a balanced • Putting our customers’ needs ahead of our own; Principles Financial Institution, organisational in managing operational impact of business Our business is focused on listening to the provide innovative solutions for the assessment of externalities and costs incurred in the markets and communities we serve. • Maintaining composure and clear thinking at all times; and stakeholders of Global Reporting Initiatives, on the environment by mainstreaming needs of the communities in which we operate pursuit of leadership. • Ensuring continuous learning; through continuous growth and Co-Chair of the United Nations Global environmentally friendly policies into our and provide genuine solutions that help and career development. Compact Local Network, Nigeria, and Board business. improve such communities. Passion for customers Innovation Table 4: Our Approach to Sustainability • We live to serve our customers; • Identifying new market needs and opportunities; • In addition to delivering excellent customerservice, we • Creativity, invention, inspiration, exploration; Strategic term Strategic term Our Strategic Sustainability Drivers focus on: Access Bank’s vision: “To be the world’s most • Pioneering new ways of doing things, new products and respected African bank” • Economic empowerment: enabling peopleto achieve services, new approaches to clients/customers; more through provision of finance, lifting people up • Being first, testing the waters, pushing boundaries; Access Bank’s Sustainability vision: “To be the throughout the value chain; Long term Until the achievement of our Bank’s vision most sustainable and respected bank in Africa, • Going from concept to market/reality; and • Financial education: helping people clearly understand financing and facilitating brighter futures for all of our • Anticipating and responding quickly to market needs with stakeholders through innovative services and best in how our products and services work; the right technology, products and services to achieve class operations” • Financial inclusion: providing finance to those individuals customer objectives and communities that traditionally have limited or no Bank’s strategic medium term targets Currently in progress: access to finance; and Short to Medium term 1 – 5 years • Strategic leadership positioning on sustainability • Treating customers fairly: building long-term • Innovative financing for social development relationships based on trust, fairness and transparency • Building tangible assets • Risk management 14 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 15 EMPLOYEES STAKEHOLDER • To ensure that we remain an employer of choice that provides a safe, positive and ENGAGEMENT IN 2014 inspiringworking environment. Why we engage with our employees • To understand and respond to the needs and concerns of our staff members. • To provide staff with strategic direction and keep them informed about group activities. • To provide us with feedback and input that can help us improve their working environment Why we engage with our employees and experience. Access Bank’s success is hinged on the stakeholder groups according to the level of Shareholders relationship we have with our stakeholders. the influence they have on our Bank’s business, Regulators • Ongoing and daily engagement at all levels. For us, stakeholder management is more than Frequency of engagement as well as the impact we potentially have Customers • As required by staff Stakeholders influences on Access Bank simply communicating with people connected on them. Our priority stakeholders are our Employees to our Bank; it is an ongoing process of employees, customers, investors, regulators • In addition to the regular, direct communication between managers and teams, speciﬁc listening, informing, sharing ideas and receiving employee engagements in 2014 included: and communities. We further demonstrate our feedback – with the objective of creating Communities Supplier • Group Executive visioning meetings commitment to our stakeholders by including Media shared value and growth for the Bank and its • Employee satisfaction surveys them as key elements in our Bank’s mission stakeholders. We define our stakeholders as • Recognition and Awards statement. • Retreats those individuals or groups of persons that Industry 2014 engagements Analysts • HR Town Hall Meetings impact on, or are impacted by, our business By empowering our various strategic business • Regular electronic newsletters operations, and activities. • Employee Volunteering Showcase units to engage directly with their particular • Intranet Regularly, the Bank engages in a number stakeholders, we ensure that the Bank remains • Happy Hour of activities to improve the experience of fully in touch with their needs, expectations • Retreats our stakeholders. At Access Bank, every and perceptions and enables the businesses stakeholder is important to us. However, to react quickly to any issue that requires • Ongoing and daily engagement at all levels. Why we engage with our employees for optimum engagement, we prioritise our attention. • As required by staff Stakeholders dependence on Access Bank Table 5: Stakeholder engagement approaches in 2014 Material Issues Our response/Resulting developments • The institution of work/life balance initiatives such as the monthly “Happy Hour” free-drink Work/life Balance event organised to encourage staff bonding, Aerobic/Zumba classes for employees, arts and crafts exhibitions, amongst others. • We offer our employees and managers numerous development opportunities through leadership development trainings, our monthly “Quest for Excellence” engagement Development and growth opportunities sessions aimed at exposing employees to industry trends and talent development. • Specifically, we instituted the Access Women Network with the objective of developing new and existing female talents through capacity building, mentoring, and networking. CUSTOMERS • To gain a better understanding of our customers, their aspirations, businesses and ﬁnancial service needs. Why we engage with our employees • To ensure that we maintain the high service levels expected by our customers. • To inform product development and prioritisation • To ensure accuracy of our customers’ personal and/or business information • To access the ﬁnancial products and services they need • To get advice and guidance on how to achieve desired outcomes for themselves, their Why our customers engage with us families, their businesses and their communities. • To provide us with input that can be used to enhance our solutions and services. Frequency of engagement • Depends on customer needs and identiﬁed service or guidance opportunities. 16 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 17 CUSTOMERS REGULATORS • Interactions through branch outlets, relationship managers, call centres and complaint lines. • To maintain open, honest and transparent relationships with Regulators and ensure • Customer seminars and surveys. Why we engage with our regulators compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements. Specific 2014 engagements • Social media, marketing and advertising activities. • To retain our various operating licences and minimise our operational risk. • Speciﬁc customer engagements, including focus groups, one-on-one meetings, functions and events • To ensure regulatory compliance Why our regulators engage with us • To promote a sound financial system Material Issues Our response/Resulting developments Frequency of engagement • Daily, weekly, quarterly and as required. • We moved beyond provision of mainstream financial service to the introduction of mobile Greater accessibility to banking Services • Regulatory consultations solutions such as PaywithCapture and AccessMoney, through which our customers were and customer-friendly channel choice provided with online and mobile service channels to increase access to our banking services. Specific 2014 engagements • Working groups • Onsite meetings Holistic understanding of customers’ • We proactively match the skills of our bankers to identiﬁed customer needs. businesses • We ensure that our customers have access to specialists when these are needed. Material Issues Our response/Resulting developments • The Bank complies with the relevant provisions of the Securities and Exchange Commission Financial sustainability COMMUNITIES and the Central Bank of Nigeria regulatory requirements. • To create partnerships that best facilitate our integrated sustainability activities • To obtain input from communities and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) regarding Why we engage with our communities key focus areas. SUPPLIERS • To create awareness of our integrated sustainability commitment and initiatives • To secure funding and partner on common social and environmental issues. • To obtain products or services required for conducting our business. Why our communities engage with us • To collaborate in a way that furthers social and environmental agendas for the greater good Why we engage with our suppliers • To maintain an ideal supply of goods and services for our operations. of local communities. • To help suppliers ensure their own sustainability through education and development. • To provide products and services. Frequency of engagement • Ongoing, as partnerships dictate or as stakeholder needs require. • To promote new products and service offerings. Why our suppliers engage with us • To respond to tenders. • Employee volunteering initiatives • To seek input and guidance on their sustainability journeys • Charitable donations Specific 2014 engagements • Nongovernmental organisation (NGO) partnerships Frequency of engagement • Forums, Ongoing, as required. • Philanthropic sponsorships • One-on-one negotiations and meetings • Community outreach efforts Specific 2014 engagements • Ongoing interaction with suppliers and contractors for procurement purposes. Material Issues Our response/Resulting developments Material Issues Our response/Resulting developments • Partnered with the GBCHealth to build capacity and support the drive for malaria elimination in Nigeria. Our partnership with the GBCHealth also led to the establishment of the • Special payment terms of seven days are adhered to for small businesses. Malaria Pricing, payment terms and service Malaria Elimination Trust, a vehicle through which funds are raised to support the national government and international community efforts at eliminating malaria in Nigeria. delivery • Due diligence completed before suppliers are engaged. 18 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 19 SHAREHOLDERS MATERIALITY • To continue learning through interaction with the industry and cross-sectorial organisations Why we engage with our shareholders • To leverage and build our strategic business partnerships for the maximum beneﬁt of all our stakeholders. • For mutually beneﬁcial learning and to influence and/or promote the Bank’s Sustainability Why our shareholders engage with us agenda. Frequency of engagement • Ongoing, as required • Investor Day As a Bank, it is important that we consider the needs of all our stakeholders • Deal/ Non deal Roadshow in our core business decisions in the short and long term. We are increasing 2014 engagements • Shareholder Associations Meeting our capacity to engage, understand and identify stakeholder views and • Bi-annual Investor Relations Newsletter develop tools to help us consider the wider impacts of our decisions. This is essential to the way we do business and we believe it will deliver greater Material Issues Our response/Resulting developments value to our stakeholders. • Access Bank conducts stress tests and scenario analyses to position the Bank against likely Macroeconomic stability exposure to macroeconomic pressure • The Bank operates an internal watch system, tasked with consistently ensuring that we stay Regulatory headwinds above regulatory limits by having adequate capital (both financial and human) to support our growth in an increasingly turbulent environment • Adherence to regulatory(local and international) standards of disclosure Financial disclosure • Timely and organised disclosure of voluntary information • Ensure Management is accessible to relevant stakeholders • We have a robust corporate governance system, which is regularly reviewed by independent industry experts. The reviews are conducted on an annual basis and presented by the Board Corporate governance to shareholders during the Bank’s Annual General Meeting, and subsequently submitted to Material matters Materiality drivers Key stakeholders Access Bank the Central Bank of Nigeria. • Contributing to social stability and responding to issues of national Access Bank leverages strategic • Government • Women empowerment development. partnerships, corporate social • Communities investments, employee volunteering Social • Socio-economic development • Attracting and retaining talented • Employees programmes to improve the quality • Access to finance and capable employees of life for people living in host • Contributing to social upliftment • Customers Media communities. and social welfare • Improved customer experience • Effective integration and management of customer • Customers • Financial and economic conditions experience. • Financial analysts and performance. Access Bank delivers economic • Contributing to a stable economic • Media benefits in the form of long-term Economic • Effective risk management. and financial environment • Regulatory bodies cost savings through its Sustainability • Governance, compliance and • Managing risk exposure performance. ethics. • Governments • Creating sustainable shareholder • Employees • Responsible business practices. value. • Supporting customers in E&S considerations of their Access Bank enhanced its businesses. • Customers environmental and social risk • Reducing the environmental management systems (ESMS). • Environmental and social impacts • Regulatory bodies impact of business operations. of lending Environment • Reducing our carbon emissions • Contributing to behaviour change • Government Also, the Bank applies Equator for a more sustainable future. • Media Principles to its project finance. and resource consumption The bank leads and collaborates • Ensuring the implementation • Employees on industry wide initiatives for of Nigerian Sustainable Banking environmental sustainability. Principles within the Bank and other relevant regulations 20 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 21 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Based on the above, the material environmental, social and economic impacts, issues, risks and As illustrated in the matrix (Figure 3) above, opportunities that are of significance to Access Bank’sbusiness as well as our stakeholders are an analysis of material aspects enabled us to identified below: prioritise the aspects that are of concern to our business and stakeholders. Consequently, Access Bank is committed to implementing standards of corporate governance across Articles of Association, collectively provide these aspects were assessed for associated best practice standards of corporate the Access Bank Group which is essential the foundation for Access Bank’s sound impact, risks and opportunities which guide governance. The Bank and its subsidiaries for the sustainability of the enterprise. Our corporate governance. The Bank has a Highest our environmental, social and governance are governed under a framework that governance framework is designed to ensure multi-faceted approach to governance that practices. enables the Board of Directors (“the Board”) ongoing compliance with relevant corporate combines adherence to relevant local codes to discharge its oversight functions while governance codes such as the Central Bank while adopting international best practice, Community Investments In the year under review, we reassessed key providing strategic direction to the Bank in of Nigeria’s Code of Corporate Governance especially on issues where local codes are Indirect economic impacts drivers for sustainability within the Bank with harmony with its responsibility to ensure for Banks in Nigeria Post Consolidation either absent or insufficient. Significance of issue to our stakeholder groups Human Rights a view to effectively managing the impact of regulatory compliance. The subsidiaries (the CBN Code), the Securities and Ethical Investing Anti-corruption our business on our stakeholders. In line with This approach of adopting international best comply with the statutory and regulatory Exchange Commission’s Code of Corporate Customer welfare and experience this, we have adopted the Global Reporting requirements of their host countries and Governance (the SEC Code) and the Postpractices is underpinned by the necessity for Compliance Initiative (GRI) G4 framework which provides also align their governance framework to Listing Requirements of the Nigeria Stock ensuring compliance with both regulatory and Employee volunteering generally applicable sustainability indicators for the Bank’s overall governance framework. Exchange. These, in addition to the Board ethical standards across our operations in Africa Supplier assessment / responsible sourcing Economic performance The Board is responsible for embedding high charter and the Bank’s Memorandum and as well as in the United Kingdom and China. a wider set of stakeholders. The scope of our Non-discrimination assessment covers all activities of our Strategic Responsible employment Protecting customer privacy Diversity / Equal opportunities Women Empowerment Business Units (SBUs), taking a broad view of our direct and indirect impact. ETHICS, INTEGRITY AND WHISTLEBLOWING Grievance Mechanisms Energy Efficiency Employee Relations Water Therefore, from the materiality process, In addition to the various national codes report or call attention to wrongdoing within scroll down to the whistle-blower column, and Environmental impact of financial products we mapped out the 2014 material issues and charters to which we adhere, our core the Bank. Our whistle-blowing channels are then register anonymously or otherwise, any Emissions reduction Audit and evaluations to Access Bank and its stakeholders to values of excellence, innovation, leadership, provided below: allegations they want the Bank to investigate. Responsible marketing passion for customers, professionalism and include: economic performance and direct The Bank’s Chief Internal Auditor is responsible Workplace health and safety empowered employees continue to shape Telephone: Internal: +234-1-2712065 Local spending economic impacts; indirect economic impacts; for monitoring and reporting on whistleEmployee development strategic community investments, financial our corporate behaviour. External: KPMG Toll free lines: blowing, while quarterly reports are rendered Materials inclusion; human rights; non-discrimination; 0703-000-0026; 0703-000-0027; to the Board Audit Committee. Commendably, At Access Bank, we are strongly committed anti-corruption; customer experience; 0808-822-8888 this has increased the confidence of our to high ethical standards and integrity. women empowerment; regulatory and legal We demonstrate this by our continuous High Email: compliance; supplier assessment/ responsible engagement with employees, and working Internal: whistleblower@accessbankplc.com High Significance of issue to Access Bank Highest sourcing; diversity and equal opportunities; with leading institutions to build capacity for External: kpmgethicsline@ng.kpmg.com employee relations; energy, materials ethical behaviour amongst our employees. efficiency; emissions reduction; environmental Furthermore, we instil a culture of openness The Bank’s website also provides an avenue for impact of financial products; grievance and integrity through the deployment of lodging whistle-blower’s reports. Individuals mechanisms; audit and evaluations; health and our whistle-blowing system through which interested in whistleblowing may click on the Figure 3: Materiality Matrix safety; and employee development. employees and external stakeholders may Customer Service link on the Bank’s website, 22 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 23 PERFORMANCE MONITORING, STRATEGY AUDITS & EVALUATION OUR BUSINESS As a global financial services provider with Over the years, we have maintained fluid a diverse range of products tailored to dialogue with our stakeholders. This enables individuals, businesses, institutions and us to strategically align and respond to governments, Access Bank seeks to make a relevant issues, needs and expectations positive contribution to the global economic of stakeholders. We maintain stable and growth and development. longlasting relationships with all of our stakeholders in order to understand their For Access Bank, being sustainable implies expectations, respond to their needs, doing business and, at the same time, demands and expectations with innovative contributing to the economic and social progress of the communities where we solutions and build long-term relationships are present, whilst taking into account our based upon trust. environmental impact on all stakeholders. At the heart of our strategy is the strong Our strategy, together with a solid corporate belief that we can finance the future of governance structure, has enabled Access our numerous stakeholders – customers, Bank to retain its leadership position among employees, suppliers, and shareholders. The the sustainable banks in Nigeria and broader markets in which we operate are among the African continent. Access Bank has a most challenging in the world, with multiple sustainability strategy focused on generating developmental issues. stable recurring profits. However, this model integrates not only economic criteria Whilst these challenges create opportunities, but also ethical, social and environmental we are devoting our resources to achieving criteria. The business model, based on our results and making impact through the long term vision, has allowed the Bank retain power of finance. As a result, we promote The Board in the discharge of its oversight conduct the performance evaluation. The effectiveness and efficiency. In addition to its position as a leader in sustainability, access to banking along with social inclusion, function continuously engages management independent consultant does not have any financial performance, the implementation anticipating challenges and taking advantage while contributing to the development of in the planning, definition and execution connection with the Access Bank Group or of the Bank’s environmental and social risk of the opportunities found in our current the communities where we are present and of strategy. Management’s report on the any of its directors. The Board believes that management framework and performance, changing landscape. preserving the environment. execution of defined strategic objectives is the use of an independent consultant not as conducted by the Bank’s Environmental a regular feature of the Board’s agenda, thus only encourages directors to be more candid Sustainability and CSR/ sustainability teams providing the Board with the opportunity in their evaluation of the Board performance, is also periodically being assessed and to evaluate and critique management’s but also enhances the objectivity and audited. execution of strategy. transparency of the evaluation process. The result of the Board performance evaluation These audit functions are conducted The Bank’s performance on Corporate was presented by the independent quarterly and annually by the Bank’s internal Governance is continuously being monitored consultant during the Board meeting held on audit unit, across all the Bank’s strategic and reported. We carry out quarterly and January 29, 2015. business units concerned with, and affected annual reviews of our compliance with the by the environmental and social risk policies. CBN Code and the SEC Code respectively, The evaluation was a 360 degree exercise and render reports to the regulators. covering directors’ self-assessment, peer Also, the Bank is committed to external assessment, and evaluation of the Board and assurance of its environmental and social The Board has also established a system the Committees. performance initiatives as contained in our of independent annual evaluation of its sustainability report, internal statements and performance, that of its committees and The effectiveness of the Independent policy frameworks. individual directors. Directors vis-à-vis the CBN Guidelines on Independent Directors of Banks was Such external assurance involves an audit The evaluation is done by an independent also evaluated. The result confirmed that and evaluation of our sustainability-related consultant approved by the Board. In the individual directors and the Board processes, and is usually conducted by an 2014, Accenture Limited was engaged to continue to operate at a very high level of independent consultant. 24 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 25 RESPONSIBLE ADOPTION OF LOCAL AND INTERNATIONAL BEST PRACTICES FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT BUSINESS In addition to our partnerships with these journey. This is because we do not just want to because of our Bank’s own commitment to organisations, Access Bank recognises that it be members; we want to be actual bearers of growth, excellence and continued prosperity is insufficient to simply be members of these the noble identities of our coalitions. of our business and the societies and coalitions. We understand that adherence, to environments within which our business the principles, values and shared commitments Thus, we have endorsed a number of operates. As a bank of best practice, we have a responsibility to the society in addition to our of our partnerships is much more important to sustainability codes, standards, charters and Our various partnerships for sustainable duty to help grow local communities and the real economy through the provision ensure that our partnerships are effective and principles. While we have an obligation to development, as well as our leadership roles of capital which drives infrastructure development, creates jobs, and enables that the partnerships really make significant comply with some of these principles, majority and contributions to these partnerships are companies and individuals to purchase goods and do business every day. impact towards our sustainable development of them are voluntary and we adhere to them outlined as follows: We are determined to drive profitable, ethical economic growth that is environmentally responsible and socially relevant. We are a force for good in all that we do. We take personal responsibility for delivering outcomes to our Partnership/coalition Partnership’s profile Updates on Access Bank’s involvement respective stakeholders and are determined to show full commitment to our dayto-day actions and business decisions, balance economic, environmental and social United Nations Global The UNGC is a global platform and Access Bank has been actively involved in the activities of the considerations. Compact (UNGC) an initiative of the UN established UNGC aimed at promoting corporate sustainability. to encourage businesses to adopt fundamental principles in the areas In 2014, we partnered with the UNGC to lead high level dialogue of human rights, labour practices, focused on anticorruption at the Tenth Principle anniversary. environment and anticorruption. Also, in January 2015, Access Bank sponsored and led highlevel discussions at UNGC’s CEO Roundtable on Sustainable Business. Also, our contribution to these events demonstrated our unwavering commitment to responsible and ethical business practices. It also positioned our Bank as a key stakeholder in the Leadership, collaborative partnerships and commitments to global sustainability dialogue. external sustainability initiatives In May 2015, Access Bank was appointed a member of the Steering At Access Bank, financial sustainability has long and social risk management. We believe Committee for the UNGC local network and a member of the been established as a core trait of our business. that this approach should apply to overall UNGC environment work stream, and eventually, assigned to the risk management, agricultural finance, As a result, we continue to take proactive steps Co-Chair position on the UNGC local network in Nigeria. These environmental finance, emerging business to leverage financially smart business models are vivid and strong testaments to the Bank’s performance and opportunities in global carbon trading and that also embrace sustainable development. leadership in contributing to sustainable development. carbon credit offset investments in Africa. In doing so, we ensure that our operations, In addition, during the initial stages of the environmental work business activities, products and services meet Indeed our partnerships go beyond these stream of the UNGC local network, Access Bank hosted other the social and environmental needs of our multilateral financial institutions, to include work stream members to the strategic planning meetings. Read stakeholders. several other regional and international organisations and coalitions making great more about our progress with the UNGC on pages 38 40. We demonstrate our continued dedication to sustainable development impact around the sustainable development through our strategic world. Nigerian Business The NBCSD is a council of CEOs of Access Bank was one of the 25 pioneer members of the NBCSD partnerships and collaboration with formidable Council on pioneering companies committed to in 2014. Ever since, we have been actively involved in NBCSD’s institutions such as the United Nations We do this because of our strong commitment Sustainable making a difference in the sustainable activities, alongside other member-organisations (both local and Environment Programme Finance Initiative to all round development which is not only Development development of Nigeria. NBCSD brings multinational) with presence in Nigeria and committed to the (UNEP FI), International Finance Corporation financially sustainable, but also socially (NBCSD) the collective force and voice of the sustainable development of Nigeria. (IFC), the Netherlands Development Finance equitable and ecologically friendly. private sector to promote sustainable Company (FMO), amongst others. Having demonstrated strong sustainability leadership positioning development practices in Nigeria. Responsible businessneeds of the while participating in, and contributing to the Council’s activities, In maintaining these multilateral partnerships, communities in which we operate and provide the Bank was recently elected to the Board of the NBCSD. Access we continue to encourage the wider Nigerian genuine solutions that help improve such Bank is represented on the NBCSD Board by the Group Managing financial sector to embed environmental communities. Director/CEO, Herbert Wigwe. 26 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 27 Partnership/coalition Partnership’s profile Updates on Access Bank’s involvement Partnership/coalition Partnership’s profile Updates on Access Bank’s involvement Nigeria Sustainable The NSBPs were created to enhance Throughout 2014 Access Bank chaired the NSBP Steering United Nations In partnership with the UNGC and the Access Bank was the first Nigerian Bank to also sign on to the Banking Principles economically viable, socially equitable Committee. In this capacity, the Bank provided leadership, Principles for UNEP FI, the UNPRI is a United Nations UNPRI. At the core of Access Bank’s subscription to the UNPRI (NSBP) Steering and environmentally sustainable guidance and assistance to other Nigerian banks in the Responsible backed initiative, led by the investment is the desire to incorporate environmental, social and good Committee practices in the Nigerian Banking implementation of the NSBP. In addition, the Bank doubled as Investment (UNPRI) community to encourage responsible governance considerations in all our investment decisions. In sector. The NSBP Steering Committee the Interim Secretariat for the Committee, thus coordinating environmental, social and governance 2014 we demonstrated this commitment through the ESG coordinates industry collaboration successful meetings, execution of the Committee’s activities, and (ESG) considerations while making criteria included in our investment and financing activities. In our toward the successful implementation promoting the adoption of the NSBP among signatories. investment decisions commitment to investing responsibly, Access Bank discloses of the NSBPs in Nigeria. investment performance annually to the UNPRI. Our most recent For example, as a way of assisting Nigerian Financial Institutions to disclosure covered the financial year ended 31 December 2014. embed the principles into their businesses, Access Bank hosted With regard to our approach to investing, Access bank executes NSBP signatories to a forum on 29 August, 2014 to seek inputs to the UNPRI’s principle of Active Ownership. the NSBP Terms of Reference and to also obtain feedback on the challenges of implementing the principles, as well as brainstorm on Although the overall responsibilities for making investment waysforward. Our role as the Chair and Interim Secretariat of the decisions rests with the Board of Directors subsequent to NSBP continued even until 2015. obtaining executive management’s approval, our equity investments are initiated by SBUs with input from the Risk United Nations The UNEP FI is a collaborative initiative Access Bank is well represented on the regional representatives’ Management Division which screens and appraises the Environmental between UNEP and the global financial platform of the UNEP FI in Africa. By the virtue of this, we join consistency of each and every one of our investments with Programme Finance sector. UNEP FI works with its full range other global leaders in environmental sustainability to move our responsible investment framework and risk management Initiative (UNEP FI) of partners to promote sustainable sustainable finance forward. As an active member of the UNEP policy. Critical to this screening and appraisal processes are development through the financial FI, we participated in UNEP FI’s AGM in Geneva in October 2014. environmental, social, governance, labour and human rights industry players Access Bank commits to ensuring that these innovations in finance practices of the investee. become commonplace in the Nigerian banking industry Through designated staff of the risk management division, the Access Bank joins the global leaders in the finance and investment Board also pursues and addresses the incorporation of human sectors, to support and encourage the implementation and rights issues as well as environmental and social governance issues adoption of domestic and international policies on climate change in the appraisal of all our investments during our annual reviews and and clean energy. in year-on-year decision making about all our externally managed assets. Internally, Access bank also maintains a policy statement Through our commitment to this initiative, our Bank recognises and additional guidance documents on responsible investment opportunities for us to create more financial products and which guide all our investment decisions in accordance with the services targeted around financing clean energy and renewables, six UNPRI guiding principles. These principles guided all of our in the bid to mitigate global warming. Recently, Access Bank was investment decisions in 2014. appointed as Co-Chair, Africa and Middle East Task Force of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and Board Nigerian NCF is dedicated to nature conservation In 2014, we remained an active member of the NCF. We promoted member, Global Steering Committee, United Nations Environment Conservation and sustainable development in Nigeria. biodiversity conservation in Nigeria through our membership Programme and Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). Foundation (NCF) NCF leads in promoting sustainable contributions to the NCF. development through environmental Clearly, these appointments are credible indicators of the Bank’s conservation and natural resource leadership role in the sustainable development of Nigeria and management in Nigeria. Africa. Nigeria Business A network of companies working In accordance with our commitment to the anti-AIDS mission of Coalition Against together to help member-companies NIBUCAA, Access Bank has continued to empower our employees AIDS (NIBUCAA) and others to develop workplace and our communities with knowledge on ways to combat HIV/ programmes for preventing and AIDS. In addition, we still maintain our workplace policies against combating HIV/AIDS HIV-discrimination. 28 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 29 Partnership/coalition Partnership’s profile Updates on Access Bank’s involvement Partnership/coalition Partnership’s profile Updates on Access Bank’s involvement Convention on CBi works to empower individuals and In our continuous partnership with CBi, we have been successful Corporate Alliance CAMA is a group of private sector We maintained our leadership status as a signatory to CAMA. Business Integrity institutions against corrupt practices. in keeping our commitment to zero-tolerance for corruption. In on Malaria in Africa organisations with business interests in This way, we further strengthened our commitment to investing (CBi) Its mission is to promote ethical 2014, actual execution of this commitment across our SBUs truly (CAMA) Africa. These organisations pool efforts in the eradication of malaria incidence in the communities within business practices, transparency and helped the Bank to avoid corrupt practices. to combat malaria in sub-Saharan which we operate. We served as the major local host of the CAMA healthy competition in the private and Africa. technical fora and awards in 2014. public sectors. WeConnect WeConnect is a global non-profit In 2014, Access Bank established a partnership with WeConnect International organisation committed to sustainable International. The partnership strengthened later during the Global Reporting The GRI is a global non-profit We are the first Nigerian Bank to become an organizational development through women economic year, when the Bank was appointed to WeConnect’s National Initiative (GRI) organisation that promotes corporate stakeholder of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). In 2014, empowerment. WeConnect is a Advisory Board in Nigeria. The appointment was in recognition sustainability practices through we maintained our status as an organisational stakeholder to coalition of corporate members from of the Bank’s significant contributions to the development of sustainability reporting. GRI does this the GRI. We upheld the GRI’s mandate by publishing our annual over seventy (70) countries. WeConnect women entrepreneurship in Sub-Saharan Africa. By virtue of our by releasing standards and principles on Sustainability report, thus we have kept the record of not breaking makes impact by encouraging, membership, we became the first and only financial institution sustainability reporting the chain of our annual sustainability reporting since our first report increasing and promoting opportunities serving as a partner to the international organization. in 2008. for women-owned businesses. Through this strategic partnership with WeConnect, Access Our commitment to transparency and disclosure of our Bank is set to continuously leverage its alliances, partnerships sustainability performance is also evidently demonstrated by this and collaborations with reputable international organisations, to latest Sustainability report which conforms to the most recent GRI promote women entrepreneurship across Africa Reporting Guidelines, the G4. By so doing, we are the first Nigerian bank to report in accordance with the new GRI G4 guidelines. Equator Principles The Equator Principles are a framework In Nigeria, we were the first Bank to adopt the Equator Principles. (EP) for managing environmental and social Our adoption of the Equator Principles for Project Finance is risks in the financial sector. Over 80 evident in our Environmental and Social Risk Management financial institutions in over hundred System. In 2014, the Bank’s key lending services were executed countries have signed up to the in accordance with the Equator Principles. In adherence to the Principles. Equator Principles, Access Bank also continues to promote assessments of finance projects in line with internationally recognised IFC’s Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability. To demonstrate our continued commitment to responsible project finance, we participated in the EP 2014 annual meeting in Cape Town, South Africa in October 2014. London The LBG is a global network of In 2014, we used the LBG Model as the framework for tracking our Benchmarking Group organisations that are committed various community investment and employee volunteering efforts. (LBG) to community investment as a tool For us, the model remains a beneficial tool for the Bank to capture for sustainable development. These community investment data, and to also assess our performance. organisations use the LBG Model as a framework for measuring, managing and reporting the value, and the achievements, of the contributions they make to communities and the society. GBCHealth A coalition of more than 230 companies Throughout 2014, Access Bank served as the local host and working to improve the health of their convener of GBCHealth’s events, workshops and regional workforces and communities around conferences in Nigeria, thus offering local leadership and the world. Focus areas include reducing partnership for GBCHealth’s impactful initiatives for combatting maternal, new-born and child mortality, HIV, TB and malaria in Nigeria. and advancing efforts for combatting HIV, TB and malaria. 30 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 31 PROGRESS ON THE NIGERIA SUSTAINABLE BANKING PRINCIPLES (NSBP) Table 7: Bank-wide updates on the Nigeria Sustainable Banking Principles Access Bank’s corresponding initiatives in Principles 2014 PRINCIPLE 01 Access Bank is making significant efforts to integrate environmental and social risks considerations into its lending decisions. As an Equator Principles Financial Institution, The Nigeria Sustainable Banking Principles (NSBP) were established in 2012 we recently reviewed our Environmental and Social Risk Management System to include more encompassing processes and procedures for identifying, assessing and mitigating to accelerate the adoption of banking and finance practices which are not Our Business Activities: the environmental and social risks and/or impacts that may be associated with the only economically viable, but socially equitable and environmentally friendly. businesses or projects that we fund. In 2014, based on the Equator Principles we applied Environmental and Social Risk: We will integrate environmental and the IFC Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability to gauge the In the midst of rising global environmental and social challenges, the NSBPs social considerations into decision-making processes relating to our negative impacts of our prospective borrowers. This way, we were able to avoid certain Business Activities to avoid, minimise or offset negative impacts. adverse impacts of these business deals on the environment and society. And in many seek to, amid other things, forge growth strategies as well as provide guidance cases, were these impacts were unavoidable, we were able to significantly minimise the to signatories to conduct their business in alignment with international impacts. sustainable finance and banking practices. From the inception, and with the These functions have been driven largely by our Environmental and Sustainability (E&S) unit, which was established in 2014 as part of our Enterprise Risk Management objective of providing direction and oversight within member organizations, department. Also, an automated review process was put in place, thus to drive Access Bank has chaired the NSBP Steering Committee to provide guidance conscious and fully-fledged integration of environmental issues into the Bank’s risk decision-making. This way we continued to safeguard the wellbeing, health and safety to the Nigerian banking industry as part of the process of driving the of biodiversity, ecosystems, labour and surrounding communities in areas where Access Bank delivers project finance services. adoption and implementation of the principles. Our noteworthy leadership PRINCIPLE 02 contributions to the progress of the NSBPs in 2014 included: At Access bank, efficiency is a veritable watchword; we have put in place various initiatives to ensure that our internal business operations have the minimum possible adverse impact on environmental resources and social equity. Throughout our business operations, Access Bank shuns all forms of environmental pollution, while encouraging Our Business Operations: resource efficiency. We will avoid, minimise or offset the negative impacts of our For example, through the reduction of diesel consumption at our business locations, Business Operations on the environment and local communities in the Bank is taking substantial strides towards ensuring that our contributions to global which we operate, and where possible, promote positive impacts. carbon emissions footprint are lowered. The Bank also makes efforts to prevent The NSBP Steering The NSBP Steering Committee The NSBP Pre-reporting resource wastage through water consumption, material resources such as paper, and Committee: Strategic Planning Forum: Workshop: business travel, where possible. Please see pages 61 62 for more information. Access Bank hosted a pre-reporting workshop PRINCIPLE 03 As part of the objectives of the Nigeria In a bid to assist Nigerian banks to embed As a bank, Access Bank fully shows and demonstrates respect for human rights and all for Nigerian banks with a view to providing a the Principles in their business activities related charters on the subject matter. Our Bank’s documented Human Rights policy Sustainable Banking Principles, Access Bank led good understanding of Sustainability reporting guides our organisation-wide actions in a manner akin to the Universal Declaration of the Steering Committee on a strategic initiative and operations, Access Bank hosted NSBP as well as an enabling level playing field critical Human Rights. We demonstrate our respect for the rights of all people, through our to engage key stakeholders in the sustainable signatories to a forum on Friday, August 29, to accelerating the financial services industry Human Rights: gender-inclusive, equal opportunities and non-discriminatory workplace culture. 2014 to seek each organisation’s input into the forward. The strategic focus of the NSBP banking community in dialogue around the We will respect human rights in our Business Operations and At Access Bank, we respect the rights of all peoples, men, women, old, young, PLWHA, NSBP Terms of Reference as well as feedback Steering Committee is to conduct a preimplementation of the Nigerian Sustainable Activities. disabled, amongst others. This respect is also demonstrated through our security on the implementation of the Principles. reporting workshop prior to every reporting personnel, all of whom have been adequately trained on human rights issues. This is Banking Principles as well as seek top level buyperiod with a view to preparing signatories evident, for example, in the courtesy and conscientiousness exhibited by the Bank’s ing of the business case for Sustainability. Attendees of the event included guards and security attendants in all our branches. Being the face of the bank, and most (i.e. all banks in Nigeria) for the reporting representatives of Access Bank, Associated often the first contact points, we ensure continued human rights excellence, through requirements as well as CBN’s expectations It also created a platform to update signatories regular assessment, drills, evaluation as well as ongoing human rights awareness Discount House, Central Bank of Nigeria, of signatories. A CBN representative was a key amongst our security personnel. and achieve a uniform level of understanding, Ecobank, First Bank, Skye Bank, Union Bank, speaker/presenter at the session which held at commitment and delivery towards the and Zenith Bank to develop strategic initiatives Access Bank’s Head Office on September 24, In addition, we also promote human rights compliance through our lending decisions and supply chain relationships. Respectively, our procurement and credit risk teams, adopt attainment of the overall vision of the NSBP. for the Steering Committee. 2014. due diligence processes which ensure that Access Bank does not conduct business with prospective borrowers or vendors that have questionable human rights records. In 2014, we continued to maintain a grievance mechanism on human rights, amongst others issues, through our whistle-blowing line, through which our internal and external stakeholders can report any human rights abuses. Clearly, the availability of this line has strongly guarded and prevented members of the Bank’s staff from indulging in human rights abuses. 32 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 33 Principles Access Bank’s corresponding initiatives in 2014 Principles Access Bank’s corresponding initiatives in 2014 PRINCIPLE 04 PRINCIPLE 08 In recent years, the proportion of women employees in Access Bank has been on the On our journey to financing a bigger and stronger future, we appreciate the need to upward trend. The same is also true of the number of women on the Bank’s board. These work and collaborate with other sustainability-leading institutions, both locally and are indications of Access Bank’s demonstrated commitment to accelerating the economic internationally. These partnerships have helped our Bank to stay abreast of best practices empowerment of women, as well as the Bank’s role as one of the leading sponsors of the concerning embedding corporate sustainability. Besides, we have been able to share our Women’s Economic Empowerment: Women’s Empowerment Principles promoted by UN Women and the UN Global Compact. Collaborative Partnerships: own experience with our partners through these alliances and coalitions. More information about our local and international partnerships, as well as our progress with these We will promote women’s economic empowerment through a In 2014, we launched the “W” initiative, a one-stop center for all of Access Bank’s women We will collaborate across the sector and leverage international partnerships are presented on pages 28 33. gender inclusive workplace culture in our Business Operations and empowerment offerings. Some of the packages include capacity building programs partnerships to accelerate our collective progress and move the seek to provide products and services designed specifically for exclusive to women, mentoring programmes, and maternal health services, all aimed at sector as one, ensuring our approach is consistent with international We strengthened our degree of local collaboration within the Nigerian banking sector in women through our Business Activities. helping to build a bigger, stronger and more sustainable society which leverages on the standards and Nigerian development needs. 2014. Each of these initiatives and collaborative events were aimed at catalysing progress resilience of women. Other internal initiatives run within the Bank to empower and advance in adopting and implementing the NSBP within individual banks and across the sector. our female employees include Access Women’s Network and Supporting the Access Amongst others collaborative events, three (3) of Access Bank’s key initiatives in 2014 Woman initiative. include: • The NSBP Steering Committee Roadshow PRINCIPLE 05 Access Bank’s goal is to reduce the number of Nigerian citizens that have no access to • The NSBP Steering Committee Strategic Planning Forum financial services from 46.3% to 20% by 2020. This is in a bid to accelerate the Central Bank • The NSBP Pre-reporting Workshop of Nigeria’s National Financial Inclusion Strategy (NFIS). In 2014, our Bank initiated a number of impactful financial inclusion schemes. Read more about these events on page 34. Financial Inclusion: These were launched to provide various demographic groups in Nigeria with access to the PRINCIPLE 09 For the seventh year in a row, we have been reporting publicly on our sustainability We will promote financial inclusion, seeking to provide financial financial sector and the financial services it affords. These initiatives included Early Savers performance since 2008. These reports have often included not only statements of our services to individuals and communities that traditionally have had for children, Evergreen Account for retirees and the elderly, Women in Small and Medium commitment to sustainable development, but also our performance on matters relating to limited or no access to the formal financial sector. Enterprises initiative, which supports female entrepreneurs as part of the “W” initiative and environmental and social sustainability. Access Money, which delivers the ability to carry out transactions from virtually anywhere. We also launched the Cash Deposit Automated Teller Machine (ATM) product in 2014 Reporting: Our flagship reports on sustainability, which are our Annual Sustainability Reports, also to enable Nigerians to carry out deposit transactions anywhere without an Access Bank We will regularly review and report on our progress in meeting these happen to be one of the foremost in the African banking sector. Our reporting also covers card. This service is not limited only to our customers, but can also be accessed by every Principles at the individual institution and sector level. reporting to various other voluntary coalitions such as the UNGC, the EP, the UNPRI, member of the public 24-7. which we are active members of. We also report periodically and as required, about our compliance with the Nigeria Sustainable Banking Principles. PRINCIPLE 06 As a bank of best practice, Access Bank has, over the years, maintained a stable environmental and social governance framework which pulls together the Bank’s various Environmental and Social initiatives. Our governance structure starts with the board and executive management team which provides strategic leadership and support for the E&S Governance: Bank’s sustainability roadmap and various E&S initiatives; thus continually helping to ensure that the initiatives are in sync with the Bank’s overall strategic goals and business priorities. We will implement robust and transparent E&S governance practices in our respective institutions and assess the E&S governance Actually implementing the Bank’s sustainability strategy are the dedicated staff, who practices of our clients. have been suitably trained in E&S issues. These staff handle environmental and social sustainability-related tasks in the Bank’s different strategic business units, particularly in the Risk Management Unit where the Bank’s investments are appraised against the tenets of responsible banking and finance. PRINCIPLE 07 As obtains in other segments of the organisation, Access Bank continuously commits to Capacity Building: building and strengthening the capacity of its staff who are involved in sustainability-related functions. We will develop individual institutional and sector capacity necessary to identify, assess and manage the environmental and social risks At industry level, we have provided several training opportunities to colleagues of other and opportunities associated with our Business Activities and banks, and other financial institutions to enable them to effectively implement the Nigerian Business Operations. Sustainable Banking Principles. 34 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 35 Table 8: Bank-wide updates on the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Access Bank’s corresponding initiatives in UNGC Principles PROGRESS ON THE UNITED NATIONS 2014 GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) Human Rights PRINCIPLE 01 At Access Bank, we fully support and show respect for human rights. Our recently reviewed Human Rights policy stands at the heart of our commitment to the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights. In our business operations, we demonstrate our respect for Businesses should support the rights of all people, through our equal opportunities employment approach, alongside and respect the protection our zero-tolerance for discriminatory practices, for example against women, PLWHA and of internationally proclaimed disabled, amongst others. As much as practicable, we also endeavour to check for human human rights. rights abuses within our supply chain. This has helped us to stay away from human rights grievances. Over the years, since our adoption of related principles such as the Equator PRINCIPLE 02 Principles, the Bank has also ensured that our lending and borrowing activities do not go into projects or businesses that have adverse human rights impacts. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights We uphold fairness in our dealings with our staff, striving in all ways possible to provide abuses. and maintain a safe and healthy work environment which provides access to ancillary In its operations and activities, Access Bank remains strongly committed to doing amenities and recreational facilities which continues to improve their quality of life (such as our Access Recreation centre). Through our human resources unit, the Bank continues business in accordance with the United Nations Global Compact. Over the years, to monitor and raise internal human rights awareness through formal and informal training amongst employees and management. We also maintain a Bank-wide grievance process we have groomed a Sustainability team which oversees our allegiance to the UNGC. through which staff and even outsiders can report, amongst other issues, human rights abuses. During the reporting year, our Bank received no internal or external grievance Our sustainability team works with various representatives in other SBUs to track relating to human rights abuse. and monitor our performance. Not only are these principles kept within our business, Access Bank is a responsible employer of labour. Our clearly documented our vendor-facing SBUs are also conscious of the value of the UNGC’s 10 principles, Labour PRINCIPLE 03 human resources policies have been built upon the foundations of the Nigerian Businesses should uphold Labour Laws and, where applicable, international best practices such as the such that our commitment inevitably permeates through our supply chain. Eventually the freedom of association and International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions. The Bank communicates the effective recognition of the and makes these policies available to all staff. Thus, keeping our people aware perpetuating a system in which our continued relationships with our supply chain right to collective bargaining of their rights, privileges and responsibilities within the provisions of these entities depend largely on their adherence to the tenets of these principles. local and international labour best practices. In addition, our whistle-blower line provides our employees with confidence to report all cases of labour and PRINCIPLE 04 employee relations abuses experienced. Access Bank did not receive any such The elimination of all forms of complaints during the year. forced and compulsory labour Our human resources policies are well furnished with conditions of service that truly recognise and allow for, continuous dialogue between the management PRINCIPLE 05 and employees whenever key decisions which concern employees are to be The effective abolition of child made. These commitments are indeed acknowledged by line managers, teamlabour leads and supervisors Bank-wide, thus making this all system of mutual respect thrive amongst employees. The Bank strongly upholds a positive corporate culture which respects all employees and as such forced and compulsory labour PRINCIPLE 06 is totally eliminated. In addition, Access Bank frowns strongly on child labour, neither does the Bank approve of business with vendors or borrowers who The elimination of discrimination engage in the use of underage workers or any form of coerced labour. in respect of employment and occupation The Bank is also making significant progress in its diversity agenda. We have continued to demonstrate our superior commitment to policies and practices related to supporting the empowerment of women and advancing gender equality in our workplaces. The Bank subscribes to the Women’s Empowerment Principles (see pages 51 52), and has gradually begun to eliminate traditional banking stereotypes in which women for example, were excluded from certain roles and opportunities. This can be seen, for example, in the current status of female employment, women in senior management, as well as women on the Bank’s board, all of which are clearly on the upward trend. In addition, the Bank makes equal remuneration to both men and women who work at the same level, and also promotes continued support, employment and non-discrimination of women during cases of pregnancy and after childbirth. For example, the Bank makes provision for maternity leaves, and more flexible work options during periods after child birth, such that retention rates after such parental leaves stands at about 100%. Through the Access Women’s Network and the “W” initiative, the Bank continues to create and maintain workplace awareness of, and respect for, gender equality, gender-based nondiscrimination for all workers. Read more about the Access Women’s Network and the “W” initiative on pages 50 and 68. 36 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 37 Table 8: Bank-wide updates on the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Access Bank’s corresponding initiatives in Access Bank’s corresponding initiatives in UNGC Principles UNGC Principles 2014 2014 The rapidly increasing urgency and need for action toward alleviating global environmental Access Bank demonstrates its compliance with the 10th principle primarily through its Environment PRINCIPLE 07 challenges continues to increase the Bank’s awareness and concern to take significant Anti-corruption PRINCIPLE 10 anti-bribery compliance officers. These officers help to instil the highest ethical and legal steps towards helping to solve some of the emerging global biophysical megatrends. We standards amongst the Banks employees, and also track compliance by screening our Businesses should support Businesses should work against strongly uphold the precautionary principle, which motivates us to want to get involved operations practices against relevant and applicable local and international laws relating to a precautionary approach to corruption in all its forms, for example, in mitigating climate change, even when the scientific evidence may seem corruption, bribery and anticompetitive behaviour. environmental challenges including extortion and bribery inconclusive. As part of the global efforts to combat potentially dangerous climate change, a number of initiatives exist in the Bank to curtail our greenhouse emissions footprint As an ethical organization, Access Bank demonstrates zero tolerance for bribery and through the reduction of diesel consumption at our business locations. The Bank also corruption. This is clearly expressed in the Bank’s documented policies such as AntiPRINCIPLE 08 makes efforts to reduce water consumption, material resources such as paper, and bribery policy, code of ethics and compliance manual, all of which are made available to business travel, where possible. members of staff, regardless of level and job function. To maintain a Bank-wide enabling Undertake initiatives to environment to anti-corruption, we promote training of our employees on these practices. promote greater environmental A number of other initiatives are also ongoing in the Bank to ensure that the businesses Indeed, over 97% of our staff have received training in Anti-Money Laundering and responsibility we lend to and finance do not have adverse environmental impacts, or at least have Combating the Financing of Terrorism. In addition, the Bank has imbibed a strict culture impacts that can be mitigated. Amongst others, key instruments we use to do this, towards corruption and bribery defaulters in which the Bank adopts disciplinary/punitive have primarily included environmental impact assessments and due diligence audits of approaches which may, for instance, lead to dismissal of staff and perhaps blacklisting, PRINCIPLE 09 prospective projects, clients and suppliers. In furtherance of our continued commitment in case of non-complying suppliers. During the reporting year, no legal action was taken to environmental stewardship and responsibility, we became a pioneer member of the against Access Bank with regard to corruption, bribery, anti-competitive behaviour or Encourage the development Environment work stream of the UNGC local network in Nigeria in early 2015 violations of any related local and/or international laws and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 38 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 39 SERVICE TO OUR CUSTOMER CUSTOMERS, CLIENTS ENGAGEMENT & MARKETS Access Bank understands that market conditions are dynamic. In fact, we appreciate that the attitudes, behaviours and propensities of our customers and markets are ever changing. As a result, we maintain an ongoing approach “The customer is king”. It’s an old cliché that markets we serve provides us with a platform of our over 6 million customer, and together has lived with many organisations. However, to foster cordial relationships with them, we continue to make progress on our journey to interacting and engaging with them. Depending on the demographic and socio-economic characteristics of many businesses merely pay lipand eyeunderstand their needs, and also presents the towards financing the future. our customers, as well as the reason for engagement, Access Bank deploys various approaches to engage with service to this statement. At Access Bank, it is Bank with lots of opportunity craft exciting and customers. Based on internal reviews, we appreciate the efficacy of our year-on-year customer engagement not so. Our customers and clients are truly part innovative financial products and services our Our demonstrated dedication to providing mechanisms, and this has been due primarily to our strong emphasis on having a variety of approaches. As a result, of the Access family. markets. our customers with satisfactory services was recognised by the Nigeria Customer Service in 2014, our approach to customer engagement comprised the following: Throughout our business units and divisions, In order to get this right, Access Bank deploys Awards (NCSA) in 2014. The NCSA declared we have a deeply rooted mindset to offer high innovative approaches to engaging with Access Bank the Winner of the “2014 Best Events, Meetings and Business Telemarketing: Website: quality service to our clients, while welcoming our customers, identifying their concerns Customer Service Company Award” in the their views and respecting their perspectives. and needs and therefore responding Banking category. Forums: Telemarketing involves using telephone calls Customer feedback through the “Contact us” appropriately to their concerns, while treating Periodic meetings and forums are usually to market our products and services. These portal on the Bank’s website. This is not just because our customers and every customer’s issue respectfully and organised for specific client/ customer groups calls are made daily by our world-class Contact clients expect to be treated and served confidentially. We also make a deliberate Center team. Our Customer Ombudsman: in order to interact with them. Other events we well; it is because we understand that their attempt to review our ongoing engagement Access Bank’s Ombudsman is a dedicated satisfaction also feeds back some impact on organise typically include town hall meetings, Social Media: approaches with our customers as our platform, through which we engage our and other business events such as seminars, our business. Indeed, our commitment to We are highly visible and active on social media customers, listen to their complaints, while market profile changes. By so doing, we are workshops and/or award nights to which responsible service to our customers and the platforms, particularly Twitter, Facebook, being responsive to the issues raised by them. consistently rewarded with loyalty from a host customers are often invited. Google Plus and LinkedIn. Our Social Media See more about our Customer Ombudsman team is demonstrably very helpful in answering office on page 47. Customers Digest and other the queries of our current and prospective publications: customers. While promoting the Bank’s online Customer Satisfaction Surveys: Customers Digests are Access Bank’s flagship brand, the team also welcomes and receives Surveys are a powerful engagement tool. Since publications used to engage our customers. comments and feedback daily from all members 2010, we have been using surveys to gauge our They are published quarterly and typically of the public. customers’ opinion on our service delivery and contain information on the Bank’s latest performance at Access Bank. Discussions and Focus Groups: initiatives. When we need to obtain intensive and These surveys are held annually and the Bank’s Other occasional publications include our qualitative information from our customers key area of focus is to identify the satisfaction circulars and our promotional materials. While concerning our performance, products and and loyalty of its customers. circulars keep our customers abreast of our services, one of our strongest approaches is to discuss with them, particularly through Customer loyalty is very important. It is a good policies, changes in processes and servicing supervised focus groups. indicator of our business profitability and future requirements, the promotional materials are business performance. In many cases, the marketing items which inform our customers Marketing visits and calls: results of our customer satisfaction surveys are about new products and service offerings. We make use of visits and calls to continually benchmarked against our perceived customer engage our customers about the situation satisfaction performance in other leading Electronic Alerts: of their business, in order for us to know how industry surveys of customer satisfaction. These include SMS and e-mail alerts, and are we can better serve them. Our relationship often used to convey quick and/ or urgent officers are central to our marketing visit efforts. This enables us to comparatively review our information to customers. Typical cases in which Through these visits, the Bank is also able to survey-based performance in the light of these alerts are sent to customers include share information withcustomers and also equivalent industry-wide surveys. birthdays, celebrations and festive days etc. request feedback from them on specific issues. 40 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 41 SERVICE TO OUR CUSTOMERS, CLIENTS AND MARKETS Customer satisfaction with 5 FY 2013 retail products 4 2014 Customer Satisfaction Survey Clearly, across all three parameters for estimating customer satisfaction with our 3 FY 2014 In 2014, our Customer Satisfaction Survey (CSAT) was conducted in August, towards the end of the year. This was retail products, the Bank’s performance were 2 done so that we could better identify our customer satisfaction performance, and better prepare for the upcoming high in 2014 and had also improved since year 2015. The survey was randomly deployed to thirty (30) of our branches across Nigeria to the most active Retail the last reporting period. It is very likely that 1 and Business Banking customers to solicit their feedback on satisfaction with the Bank’s performance on service our customer’s satisfaction ratings of our delivery in the following contextual areas: products pricing/fees improved owing to the 0 Customer satisfaction Customer Knowledge Ability of product to meet fact that certain maintenance charges were with Pricing/Fees of Product Features customer’s needs • Customer satisfaction with servicechannels removed from the Bank’s retail products in Figure 5: Customer satisfaction with retail products • Customer satisfaction with retail products May/June 2014. • Customer satisfaction with quality of staff Parameter (Likert scale of 5.0) 74.22 FY 2013 FY 2014 Customer satisfaction with Pricing/Fees 3.1 3.5 Customer Knowledge of Product Features 3.4 3.5 Ability of product to meet customers’ needs 3.4 3.8 Customer satisfaction with Figure 4: Customer satisfaction with service channels Table 10: Survey results: customer satisfaction with retail products service channels: The surveys were administered through online ATM and paperbased channels. Customer satisfaction with This time, the survey results were benchmarked quality of staff Survey 90 Internet Banking Access CSAT FY 2013 against our reported performance in the Access Bank had a high rating on the KPMG KPMG BICSS (April 2014) industrywide KPMG 2014 Banking Industry 2014 BICSS on Customer satisfaction with Access CSAT August 2014 Customers’ rating (%) 80 Customer Satisfaction Survey (KPMG BICSS) Mobile Banking the quality of our Bank’s staff (i.e. customer 79.8 which was released in May 2014, where care satisfaction). Although the 2014 BICSS 74.22 70 applicable. The summary of results is presented rating was slightly lower than 2013 CSAT Access CA AT FY 2013 Access CS AT FY 2014 below and in comparison to the KPMG BICSS. Relationship management performance ratings, the 2014 CSAT showed 82.2 that our customers now perceive the quality Table 11: Survey results: customer Figure 6: Customer satisfaction with quality of staff The survey results showed that for each of of customer care rendered by our staff as the service channels, including ATM, internet Point of Sale (POS) more satisfactory than they did in 2013. banking, mobile banking and PoS, customers generally esteemed the Bank’s performance 60 65 70 75 80 85 highly (i.e. above 70%) on both the KPMG BICSS Percentage (%) Customer Satisfaction Rating and our CSAT, with the exception of relationship Access bank 2014 CSAT KPMG 2014 BICSS management. Through staff training, the Bank responded to improve our service to customers in terms of Customer Satisfaction Rating (in %) relationship management (please see Table 17, Internet Mobile Relationship Point of ATM page 57), while also aiming to further strengthen Banking Banking Management Sale (PoS) performance in the other areas. Access Bank CSAT 2014 80 72 71 69 71 KPMG BICSS 2014 73 72 71 75 71 Table 9: Survey results: customer satisfaction with service channels 42 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 43 Responsiveness to our Voice of Customer (VOC) solution bank to pro-actively align to the ever-dynamic Financial inclusion Access Money Women in Small and Medium customers’ needs expectations of our customers in this fast-paced, enterprises (SMEs) At Access Bank, we have a strategic objective At Access Bank, sustainability, in all its Today, the world is connected as a global village technologically evolving world. As customers ramifications is fast becoming the dominant – it’s what we all refer to as globalization. And as At Access Bank, we are not just service providers, to continually put our customers at the heart At the heart of an emerging economy, are SMEs. conduct their transactions with the Bank through trend in the design of our financial products and we progress into a bigger, stronger global future, we are conscientious listeners. As we engage of our business. As part of this objective, the As such, Access Bank has a vision “to be among Bank introduced its Voice of the Customer diverse channels, they are sent a survey invite services. At the core of our financial services the potential for further interconnectedness are with our customers, we truly take to heart the the Top 3 SME banks as well as the Bank of concerns, needs and expectations that they (VOC) solution in January 2015. This was our through their registered email addresses with the offerings is financial inclusion. Access Bank humongous, while barriers are diminishing rapidly choice for women, by 2017.” As we support the make of us. This informs our array of financial way of demonstrating apt responsiveness to Bank for feedback. is committed and determined to ensure that in virtually all business and social ramifications, growth of these SMEs, we remain committed products and services. Our customers have the needs of our customers to have a more individuals, groups and peoples that have particularly in finance. As such, at Access Bank, to encouraging the financial inclusion of female Since its initiation, over nine thousand (9000) traditionally had limited access to the financial we believe that our customers do not have to shown that access to our financial services by flexible, reachable and on-the-spot means of entrepreneurs. This has specifically been through invaluable pieces of feedback have been provided sector gain access to it in due time. To do this, encounter barriers of time and space while in all segments of the population and at all times is communicating their feedback to the Bank. our “W” initiative. Access Bank launched the “W” paramount to them. Thus, we have also shown by customers to the Bank, thus demonstrating our Inclusive Banking Group works effortlessly to need of the financial products and services initiative in July 2014 to offer women exclusive that we care to listen, by designing products that The VOC is aimed at obtaining customers’ that the VOC initiative has been impactful in identify financial inclusion gaps, also strategising we offer. This belief spurred the launching of access to variety of valueadding and empowering are appropriately tailored to demographic groups real time feedback and insights about the obtaining feedback from our customers. Thus on how best to close the gap. We believe that Access Money in 2014. Access Money is the benefits and financial privileges. Please see page that traditionally get excluded from financial Bank’s services, products and employees as far, the feedback received are being used to this way, we can help the Central Bank of Nigeria Mobile Money service we have designed, all for 68 for more information on “W”. services. This is our commitment to financial they transact across the Bank’s various service step up our services so as to improve the overall execute its National Financial Inclusion Strategy the pleasure of our esteemed customers. With inclusion. channels. This is a tactical approach by Access experience and satisfaction of our customers. (NFIS) and also help promote a more equitable Access Money, the Bank provides customers distribution of capital within the society. Through with 24-7 access to financial services and our Inclusive Banking team, Access Bank’s goal transactions via their mobile phones from the is to reduce the number of Nigerian citizens that convenience of their homes, offices, or anywhere, have no access to financial services from 46.3% in a manner that is simple, secure, timely and to 20% by 2020. And we are working towards it. hassle-free. With ‘Access Money’, we are already financing the future today; millions of Nigerians will be able to make purchases, pay for services and receive payments by the simple touch of a button on their phones. 44 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 45 SERVICE TO OUR CUSTOMERS, CLIENTS AND MARKETS Customer health and safety Access Bank is very concerned about the welfare of our customers, both within and outside our operational premises and business locations. Just as much as we take responsibility for the health and safety of our employees, we are also committed to ensuring that our operations and the discharge of our services in our operational locations do not impact adversely on the health, safety and welfare of our customers. This is because financing a bigger future requires Children Cash Deposit ATMs: Making Elderly and Senior Citizens keeping and growing our customer base, and to secure lasting business relationships with our To encourage children to build stronger and deposits without Banking Hall customers, we understand the need to incerely care about their wellbeing. That is exactly what At Access Bank, we understand that senior we are doing. better financial management skills, we refined entry citizens, the elderly and aged can have our “Early Savers” product in 2014. Now, troubles managing their retirement finances. The Bank takes all possible measures to prevent the risks of health and safety hazards to our “Early Savers” offers kids fun and interactive Further to the Bank’s goal of providing As a result, our Evergreen Account was customers in all our Banking premises and locations of operation. As a result, Access Bank as approaches to gaining and boosting their enjoyable experience to customers through developed to help 60+ citizens have an easy not issued any query, grievance or complaints regarding any incidences of harm to customer financial aptitude via the Early Savers microall its touch points and providing access to our post-retirement banking experience which is health and safety in the year 2014. Also, the Bank was not involved in any lawsuits, fines, or site. We also pioneered a virtual banking app for services for people with limited access to our costexclusive and free. penalty related to breach of local laws relating to the health and safety of our customers. children on the Early Savers microsite. The first Banking locations, Access Bank introduced of its kind in Nigeria, this app helps to familiarise Cash Deposit Automated Teller Machines children with simulated banking transactions. (ATMs) which allows customers to make cash In addition, Access Bank launched several deposits into any Access Bank account without initiatives in 2014 to promote greater financial a human teller interface. This product offers a inclusion amongst children. These included the convenient cash deposit service as it does not Early Savers Club for financial literacy, Holiday require a bank card to transact and is available Banking for Children amongst others. 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Trust, responsiveness, Access Bank appreciates the value of the loyalty and trust of our customers. We understand that to gain and maintain trust with our customers, we also have to show ourselves trustworthy. confidentiality and sincerity Trust was one of the major drivers in 2009, when we established our Customer Ombudsman to our customers department. Thus, we became the first Nigerian Bank to have done so. An Ombudsman is a person, an officer or an employee who receives complaints, investigates them and tries to deal with the problems fairly. Since 2009, our Customer Ombudsman has continued to facilitate timely resolution of all customer complaints, while ensuring confidentiality, and building trust with them. Through our Ombudsman department we have shown over and over again to our customers that we are responsive to their concerns. As we incorporate these concerns and feedback into our business, we find that we are able to serve them better, thus growing our business thereby. In 2014, thousands of specific, individual and transactionrelated complaints were received by our Customer Ombudsman department. All of these concerns were resolved amicably and in confidence. Access Bank did not receive any grievance from customers regarding breach of customer privacy or loss or misappropriation of customer data during the year. 46 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 47 Responsible marketing In addition to our Customer Ombudsman, our commitment to building trust with our Rewarding our customers As a bank of best practice, Access Bank delights its customers through unparalleled services customers also extends to our marketing communications approach. Throughout the that make them remain loyal to our brand. Nonetheless, we regularly delight our customers Bank and its subsidiaries, we approach our marketing promotions with an attitude of clarity, with treats to reward them for their loyalty. We recognise that only best-in-class services can sincerity and non-discrimination, knowing fully well that a lack of these elements in our market keep them, but we go above and beyond with a variety of other tangible reward packages. communications and product promotions can lead to diminished trust and confidence among our current and potential customers. As a result, our corporate communication’s unit ensures • Access Bank Yuletide Season package: compliance to all relevant national laws related to consumer protection and market promotions, During the reporting year, our flagship customer reward initiative was the Access Bank Yuletide such as the Consumer Protection Act and the guidelines of the Consumer Protection Council. Season package. In the spirit of the December 2014 season, the Bank demonstrated its In addition, for all our advertising campaigns, the Bank seeks approval of the Advertising passion for our esteemed customers by commemorating the year end in a unique way through Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON), through our brand/ media vendors. We also seek its keeping-in-touch activities. We used the opportunity to appreciate our valued customers to avoid all forms and kinds of misrepresentation of the value of our financial products for their patronage and firm support throughout the year. Access Bank organised Raffle Draw and services or the benefits accruable to our promotions, in any communications to events in over 200 of our branches in Nigeria. From the draws, two (2) lucky winners were our customers, regardless of whether they are handled internally or outsourced to our awarded with gift shopping vouchers of N5,000 each, in each of the branches. This gesture communication vendors. In compliance with local regulations, the credibility of our promotional received lots of thankful comments from our customers – some testimonial statements statements are typically audited and verified by independent external consultants. Truly, this are presented in our last quarter Customer Digest of 2014 (Please see our customer digest helps to sustain the confidence of our customers in the claims and statements we make. reports at https://www. accessbankplc.com/media-centre/ customer-digest). Owing to our approach, Access Bank did not receive any queries, grievances, lawsuits, fines, penalties or complaints resulting from non-compliance with local regulations on marketing • Access Mobile Banking Campaign: communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship throughout the year 2014. Besides the end-of-year rewards, Access Bank periodically rewarded loyal customers, particularly those who demonstrated early adoption of our innovative products. During the early stages of our Access Mobile Banking Campaign in 2014, hundreds of our customers received gift packs worth about N 1.5 million in total. • World Cup Promo: As our token to encourage the proliferation of a culture which promotes and supports sport development among the Nigerian public, we unveiled the Access Bank World Cup Promo in 2014. Four of our customers were rewarded with all-expense paid return-trips to the 2014 FIFA World Cup Tournament in Brazil. 48 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 49 EMPLOYEES: OUR Responsible employment (equal opportunities employment) As a Bank of best practices and a clear leader in PEOPLE & OUR CULTURE responsible business practices in Nigeria, Access Bank continues to promote employment policies and processes that equally favour and encourage the engagement of both men and women. As a result, women are well represented amongst the Bank’s employees, and even on our Board positions and top management. In addition, we understand that adequate compensation is necessary to keep our employees able to meet their needs. As a result, Access Bank pays all its At Access Bank, we are very conscious about the value of our people. We know that our employees are our greatest assets. employees a fair remuneration. For example, Thus, in order to truly secure our position as a top financier for today and the future, we make great strides to ensure that our lowest paid unskilled employees earn about the morale and productivity of our employees remain high. Our employees are at the heart of the Bank’s success, and 200% of the national minimum wage. our demonstrated commitment to capacity building, learning and development truly ensures that they are respected as professionals and that they continue to stand out among their industry peers. As a result, our vibrant corporate culture has Non-discrimination and physical kept us going. It is our way of life, and as we grow, we are taking with us an unparalleled positive corporate culture into the future of finance and banking in Africa. Owing to our commitment to maintaining a positive corporate culture and employee disability welfare, no query, grievance or complaints regarding labour practices were filled against Access Bank in the year 2014. Also, In respect of the rights of all humans, Access the Bank was not involved in any lawsuits, fines, or penalties related to breach of labourrelated local or international laws. Bank makes every effort to be fair in our Indeed, ours is a corporate culture comprising one of Africa’s finest blends of workforce development, non-discrimination, employee management and recruitment ethical business practices, workplace health and safety, amongst others. processes. We do not consider any characteristic such as age, gender or religion, which are unrelated to performance potential during our recruitment process. We give equal preference to men and women, as long as they have the prerequisite qualifications and experience to do the job. As a matter of fact, both our male and female employees at the same job level have always been paid equal remuneration. This remains true and will continue to be so, in testament to our unwavering commitment to equal opportunities employment. Not even in cases of physical disability, do we approve of discrimination. In the event that any of our employees becomes disabled, the Access Bank Group has a commitment to arrange appropriate training and support to ensure continuous employment for 2012 2013 2014 Percentage of female employees 39% 40% 41% that employee without subjecting the employee to any discrimination or disadvantage in career Percentage of male employees 61% 40% 59% development. Total number of employees 2977 2463 2721 Table 12: Employee composition by gender As at 31 December 2014, Access Bank had 9 employees with physical disability (this number Top management employees Top management employees was 8 at the end of 2013). During the reporting (Executive director to CEO): 7 (Assistant GM to GM): 74 year, no discriminatory incident was recorded to have occurred at any of our offices, branches, and Percentage of females 29% Percentage of females 22% operational locations. As such, no grievances, Percentage of males 71% Percentage of males 78% complaints or lawsuits were filed against Access Bank during the reporting period Table 13: Gender distribution of top management employees 50 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 51 EMPLOYEES Principle Current initiatives 01. Access Bank maintains a high-level corporate leadership on gender equality matters. Leading by Women Empowerment: when it comes to zero-tolerance to gender our women to better succeed in their careers. example, our Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (GMD/CEO) Herbert Wigwe, still discrimination, Access Bank is a global leader in Through the Supporting the Access Woman women on board serves as the Bank’s lead champion on women empowerment initiatives, while Bolaji Agbaje, the promoting sustainable development through initiative, we have begun to redefine the career At Access Bank, we strongly lean towards Establish high-level Head, Group human resources, and Omobolanle Victor-Laniyan, Head, Sustainability continue gender diversity. To further drive our global experiences of our female employees by actively developing and executing policies that break leadership in workplace women empowerment, pursuing improved gender diversity at all levels corporate leadership for to represent the actively Bank on the international Leadership Group of the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. As a Bank, we also take to heart leadership in collaborative partnerships down barriers which limit women from entering Access Bank operates two unique initiatives. and throughout all strategic business units. As a gender equality careers paths and positions that have been with other financial sector players who are committed to women empowerment. In addition, part of this initiative the Bank is in the process of traditionally dominated by men, particularly board we serve on the Banker’s Committee’s Sub-committee on Women Economic Empowerment in One is the Access Women’s Network, and building a crèche for our staff. membership. This is because of our firm belief in Nigeria. the other is tagged Supporting the Access the pivotal role that women, alongside men, will Woman. Access Women’s Network is a package This will ensure that the choice between their 02. Access Bank treats all men and women fairly. Our programs and benefit packages are equally play in moving global banking and finance to that of empowering programmes comprising careers and their children will no longer be mutually made available to both men and women. The Bank makes equal remuneration to both men and bigger, stronger future. Indeed, women make up capacity building, mentoring and networking exclusive for our working mothers. Besides the women who work at the same level. We also promote continued support, employment and nonabout 31% of our Board, which is impressive by opportunities, all specially designed to grow and Access Women’s Network, and Supporting the international standards. Across the European Access Woman initiatives, “W” is another impactful Treat all women and men discrimination of women during cases of pregnancy and after childbirth. This includes, amongst groom our female employees, at all levels in the Union, the average is only half that, with women women empowerment initiative launched by fairly at work – respect and others, the provisions we make for maternity leaves, and more flexible post-child birth work organisation. options, thus putting our Bank’s post-parental leave retention rates at about 100%. At Access comprising less than 15.8% of directors; and in Access Bank. However “W” extends to female support human rights and Bank, we do not discriminate against either men or women; and as a bank, we are totally opposed the UK, the average for a FTSE 100 company is Interestingly, Access Women’s Network is also members of the public outside the Bank. Please non-discrimination to gender-based harassment of any kind. Our whistle-blowing line remains open to complaints just under 22%. Clearly, helping to catalyse the confidence and skills of read more about “W” on page 68. and grievances around gender-based discrimination (whether against men or women). This whistle blowing mechanism also significantly helps to deter gender-based abuses in our workplaces. Table 14: Gender distribution of the Board of Directors 03. 2012 2013 2014 Our Bank has a strong commitment to health and safety. We remain committed to promoting the wellbeing of all our staff, including female and male employees. Our internal health and safety Percentage of women on board 13% 33% 31% programmes and health maintenance schemes help to ensure that our employees are in good Percentage of men on board 87% 67% 69% Ensure the health, safety physical and mental conditions always. Since 2013, and throughout 2014, the Access Recreation Total number of board members 15 15 16 and wellbeing of all women Centre (ARC), unrivalled in the industry, provided our workers with an avenue for boosting their work-life balance. The ARC which comprises a gymnasium, meal rooms and various relaxation and men workers spots, help to boost wellness and healthy living among Access Bank’s employees. 04. As a bank of best practice, Access Bank has an undying commitment to the development, training and capacity building of our workers. Read more about these on pages 55 59. Indeed, all of these professional development packages are at the disposal of our male and female workers, without Promote education, discrimination. In addition, having recognised the potential role of women in the future of financing WOMEN’S training and professional development for women a stronger and bigger Africa, Access Bank launched a number of initiatives to further catalyse the professional development, mentoring and grooming of our women employees. These include the EMPOWERMENT Access Women Network which was launched in 2013, and the Supporting the Access Woman and the “W” initiative which were introduced in 2014. PRINCIPLES At Access Bank, the empowerment of women is one issue at the heart of our growth and sustainable development strategy. Women empowerment is a very material issue to us and our stakeholders, and we have always maintained programmes within our organisation to eradicate gender equality. As such, Access Bank has continued to play a role as one of the leading sponsors of the internationally proclaimed Women’s Empowerment Principles promoted by the United Nations Women and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). As a bank of best practice, we continue to subscribe to the Women’s Empowerment Principles, and have gradually begun to eliminate traditional banking, finance and societal stereotypes by which women were excluded from certain roles, opportunities and privileges. 52 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 53 2014 employee satisfaction survey EMPLOYEE The objectives of the 2014 Employee Satisfaction Survey were to: • Measure the level of employee satisfaction in 2014 and ENGAGEMENT understand the trend from 2012 In 2014, the Bank made deliberate efforts to solicit feedback • Obtain insight on how well the Group is doing on its people from its employees on a wide range of issues, including ways management practices, and to better the delivery of our products and services, as well as • Obtain insight into what motivates employees and what welfare and other matters. This was done primarily through our affects attrition level across the Access Bank Group Employee Satisfaction Survey, our yearly flagship initiative for understanding employee expectations and concerns. An employee participation rate of 82% was recorded; this was greater than the anticipated participation level of 80%. Principle Current initiatives 05. Owing to our zero-tolerance for discrimination in terms of professional development, the Overall satisfaction among Satisfaction Index by Grade Satisfaction Index by Gender proportion of the Bank’s female workers, of women in top management and on the Bank’s board have been on the rise in past years. About 31% of our board members are females, having risen employees Level The satisfaction index increased for both Overall satisfaction level for Nigeria, the Employee satisfaction index remained male and female employees. The increase Implement enterprise from 12% in 2012; and about 41% of our employees are females, having risen from 39% in 2012. is due to: Bank’s by far largest country of operation, constant for officers and top development, supply chain Besides this, Access Bank also promotes initiatives to empower women through our supply increased from 3.5 in 2013 to 4.0 in 2014. management but increased for middle • Increase in employee engagement and marketing practices chain activities and marketing practices. For example in 2014, and as a part of the “W” initiative, The increase can be attributed to the managers for the period under review. activities – introduction of monthly that empower women we began a deliberate support of the growth of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) owned by following: The increase is due to the career happy hour and the launch of the Access advancement opportunities within the women. We will continue to remain committed to encouraging the financial inclusion of female • Upward review in remuneration Recreational and Fitness Center. Bank. entrepreneurs, through the provision of value-adding and empowering benefits as well as financial impacted on Employee’s satisfaction products targeted at women in business. • The increased activities of the Access (please refer to figures for employee Women Network which has helped wages and benefits, presented in Table female employees build a stronger 06. Access Bank’s commitment to women empowerment is also evident in our community 1, page 11). network both professionally and investment initiatives. In 2014, we partnered with WeConnect International, a global non-profit • Increase in Employee engagement socially, the Launch of “W” which also working towards worldwide empowerment of women, to organise a Global Certification Capacity demonstrated the Bank’s willingness to activities such as Thank God it’s Promote equality through Development Workshop for upcoming women entrepreneurs in communities around us. Please Friday (TGIF), employee performance empower women. community initiatives and see more information on page 69. In addition, Access Bank makes every effort to prevent the recognition, introduction of the monthly discrimination and exclusion of girls and women in communities where we donate our time advocacy and resources through charitable causes and employee volunteering. Read more about our • Happy Hour sessions, as well as the new community initiatives on pages 50 and 68. Access Recreational and Fitness Center, which was launched in 2013 07. Access Bank regularly reports to our stakeholders and members of the general public on all our sustainable development initiatives. This includes our communication of progress towards achieving gender equality and women economic empowerment through our periodic reports. We 5 Measure and publicly do this primarily through our annual sustainability reports such as this one. Ongoing launch of new 4.5 3.5 Officers 5 Female report on progress to initiatives are also usually reported through other channels such as our Bank’s quarterly Customer Middle Management Male Employee satisfaction index Employee satisfaction index Employee satisfaction index 4 Top Management Digests. achieve gender equality 3.5 3 3 2.5 3 2 1.5 1 0.5 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Figure 7: Overall satisfaction among employees Figure 8: Employee satisfaction by level Figure 9: Employee satisfaction by gender 54 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 55 EMPLOYEES: OUR PEOPLE AND OUR CULTURE Satisfaction Index by Age Band Satisfaction Index by Bank’s core competencies Occupational health and Through the HMO scheme, Access Bank • Intensive awareness and sensitization maintains retained health partnerships session for all members of staff. The Satisfaction index for employees in the 50 59 years Employees’ satisfaction with core competencies in the Bank have either improved safety with high class hospitals which provide age bracket remained constant. There was an increase in or remained steady over the years. These competencies include work-life balance, At Access Bank we know that financing • Restriction of travels for staff to all our employees and their families with satisfaction index for employees in the 20 29 years, 30 co-workers, senior/ top level management, safety of work environment, workplace a bigger, stronger future cannot reduce exposure to the disease, while health and medical services, as needed. 39 years and 40 49 years age brackets. This was most diversity, organizational structure, managers and supervisors, team dynamics, and preclude investments in safe and healthy encouraging virtual conferencing likely attributed to the upward review in remuneration. work place ethics. In 2014, employees rated the Bank at least 3.5 out of 5 in all these workplaces for our employees. In mid-2014, the outbreak of the Ebola core competence areas, with employees regarding the Bank’s commit to ethical Virus Disease (EVD) ravaged many West • Use of infrared thermometers to screen dealings in the highest esteem. However, although employee satisfaction with We maintain all our business premises African countries, including Nigeria. temperatures staff and customers work-life balance improved significantly between 2013 and 2014, employees with the core motive to prevent entering into Access Bank’s offices were still not very happy with it. As a result, besides initial measures taken in jeopardizing the wellbeing of our EVD posed a significant business workforce. continuity risk to the Bank alongside • Provision of hand-sanitizers at the early 2014 (see “Work-life balance” section of Table 5, page 20), the Bank took several other business entities. In a bid entrance to the Bank’s premises measures to further enhance continued improvements in employee work-life For example, fire-fighting equipment are to ensure the control of the disease, the balance, by enforcing stricter compliance with the company’s generator shut installed in all our operational locations By the end of 2014, EVD had been Bank established mechanisms to ensure down policy, in order to discourage spending extremely long hours at work. and all our employees are duly insured eliminated from the country, and Nigeria that employees – and their acquaintances against occupational health hazards. was declared Ebola-free by the World – are safeguarded from the virus. These Health Organisation. included: In addition, 100% of our full time staff are covered by the national health insurance • An ad-hoc EVD committee was set up Nevertheless, during the period of the scheme and an Health Maintenance to coordinate the Bank’s response to epidemic and afterwards, no Access Bank Organisation (HMO) scheme. the epidemic employee was diagnosed with EVD. 3.5 2012 2013 2014 5 2012 2013 2014 Employee satisfaction index Employee satisfaction index Training, education and 3 3 capacity building In order to enable our employees to be the best at what they do, Access Bank maintains high training standards for its employees. It was for this reason that the 0 0 Access Bank School of Banking Excellence 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 was founded in 2003. Since then the Age Group (years) School of Banking excellence, acclaimed one of the industry’s best platforms for Figure 10: Employee satisfaction by age Figure 11: Employee satisfaction with Bank’s core competencies organisational capacity building, has trained over 3,000 people. Although the School is owned and managed by Access Bank, many of the workers have gone on onto management and executive jobs in the Bank itself, other banks, and other sectors of Nigeria. Average number of Workers that have been trained by the 367 participants/training 131 school include our employees from other countries where we operate. 303 254 Although the School of Banking 238 Number of trainings Excellence trains new intakes to adequately equip them for the jobs, Access Bank, as a Bank of best practice, Average number of 802 hours/trainings has a highly-diverse range of other training programmes aimed at keeping our staff at 2012 2013 2014 their best, throughout every stage of their career with the Bank. Figure 12: Number of Employees Trained at the Figure 13: Summary of Bank-wide training in 2014 School of Banking Excellence (2012 2014) 56 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 57 Excellence above Industry Training for a Sustainable Training of Access Bank Month Topic Trainer/speaker Description Peers Start Enterprise/Credit Risk We understand that excellence is a matter Management employees Presentation was to inform staff of the importance of creating Not found anywhere in Nigeria, Access enjoyable experiences for customers, as it affects their of priority to our employees. Just like Service Strategies for the year Management employees Bank trains all At Access Bank, we truly understand our January 2014 Ojini Olaghere perception of the brand and project the service outlook for the Bank, our people are committed to 2014 entry level employees on sustainable business environment. Just as countless 2014. The presentation bothered around the strategies of excelling above their peers. As a result, banking practices. This is to ensure that new opportunities abound for us to tap into Access Bank decided to take the School of Taking Ownership and Teamwork. employees understand the sustainability for the benefit of our business, we also Banking Excellence’s Entry Level Training realise that risks are ever-present. These vision of the Bank as soon as they hit the Programme (ELTP) a step further in 2014. business risks need to be well taken care Jonathan Browne & Forrester Research was invited to re-introduce the concept of ground running. Role of Employees in Customer We did this by initiating discussions with the of and mitigated, and we understand that March 2014 Qaalfa Dibeehi Customer Experience, the Customer Experience pyramid and Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria having quality employees at the centre of Experience Culture Each month, an average of 50 new (Forrester Research) the path to customer experience maturity. (CIBN) to get the School and the ELTP Access Bank employees are engaged this is the key to success. As a result, Access accredited by the CIBN. Bank ensures that its risk management The outcome of the Forrester Maturity Assessment on Access on this training. Training for a Sustainable staff are regularly updated with the required Bank was presented to staff at the session. The presentation Start therefore helps the Bank to further Owing to the rigour and robustness of knowledge and tools to help them do their integrate sustainable practices into its entire highlighted poor staff attitude, poor service delivery and our training programme for new intakes, work properly and thus help assuage the business units. April 2014 Boost your CX to the next level Dapo Fajimi cumbersome processes as some of the reasons for the the ELTP was accredited by the CIBN in Bank’s business risks. This is a testament variance between the brand promise and the customer service December 2014. Therefore, unlike their to our conscientious corporate culture. At By the virtue of this programme, we have being delivered. Staff members gained understanding of CX and Access Bank, we are committed to always industry colleagues, graduates of the also been able to substantially alleviate how improved attitude is a key to success. providing our people with the resources Access Bank School of Banking Excellence the traditional behavioural problems that they need to do their work effectively and CX in the Travels and Tourism Representatives from Wakanow.com to explain Customer will henceforth be exempted from inhibit sustainable change in many business Stella Nnewa-Obinwa seamlessly. In 2014, the Bank engaged in May 2014 Industry: Experience as related to the Travels and Tourism industry and courses in the diploma level of the CIBN’s environments. various activities to ensure that employees (Wakanow.com) Lessons from Wakanow.com shared stories of how to build customer trust and loyalty. professional examinations. Therefore, we in all functional areas are adequately bring our people steps closer to pioneering By channelling resources into these training empowered to manage risk across the Service, Innovation and Employee programmes, we are confident that we Procter and Gamble shared how it manages its various innovative finance and banking solutions for organisation. As strong risk management CommitmentWhat the Banking Mrs. Ehinomen will continue to lead in financing for a remains a critical pillar of our strategy and September 2014 consumer’s needs through continuous research, understanding the future through continuing professional Industry can learn from Procter Enekabor (P&G) sustainable future. the maintenance of our financial health, the product cycle and making informed decisions. development with the CIBN. and Gamble critical capacity building programmes were organised for the Bank’s Enterprise Risk The presentation highlighted the importance of passion for Table 16: Training programmes for risk management staff in 2014 Management staff during the reporting Building the true Access Brand: Hubert Eze customers and for the business as that is what makes a brand period. November 2014 Learnings from Nigerian Breweries (Nigerian Breweries) different from its competitors. The session also covered how to Certification/Training No of staff Plc identify brand moments of truth. Certified Operational Risk Manager 21 Capacity building for Differentiating through Customer Certified Risk Specialist 20 customer-facing employees December 2014 Experience: How Emirates is Valentine Nwawodoh Emirates officials shared how focus on the customer is key to an across SBUs leading the pack in the airline (Emirates) organization’s success. Certified ISO 31000 on Risk Management 40 industry There was also a lot of internal capacity Liquidity Master Class 20 building for market-facing employees. This Table 17: Capacity building events for customer-facing employees was in a bid to ensure that our employees Liquidity Risk Management and Measurement Basel III 20 were given the appropriate tools to make their job easy in creating wonderful service Loan & Transaction Monitoring Master Class 20 experience for our customers and market communities. Much of these trainings had Risk Management & Measurement Techniques 20 hundreds of attendees from different SBUs Bank Stress Testing for Extreme Events 20 of the Bank. This often involved inviting seasoned experts from within and outside Retail Credit Appraisal & Loan Workout Strategy 20 the Bank to coach employees on customer service and customer relationship Problem Loan, Distressed Asset Management, Restructuring & Exit Strategies 20 management. 58 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 59 Employee recognition and reward Knowledge sharing sessions Safety Consciousness in the The Ebola Pandemic What As a Bank of Best Practice, Access Bank on critical societal issues face of Global Terrorism and you need to know: Myth and recognises the value of rewarding our In addition to work-related training and Crime: Lesson for Bankers Reality employees. We therefore think outside the box, capacity building, the Bank also organised In June, Mr. Adegoke Fayoade, Chief In August, the Bank invited Dr. Chimaobi going beyond traditional remuneration budget a number of knowledge sharing sessions Superintendent and the Divisional Police koronkwo of HealthSafe Medical Services to to motivate our employees. As is our practice, in 2014, to sensitise all employees about Officer (DPO) of the Victoria Island Police deliver this presentation. Dr. Okoronkwo’s we celebrated our employees who distinguished critical issues of concern within the society. Division, was invited to give this talk. Staff talk sensitised and educated members themselves amongst their peers through hard In 2014, two major issues of concern in members were given tips on how to stay of staff about the Ebola pandemic. He work, dedication and commitment. During the Nigeria were internal terrorism and the security conscious. The presentation provided insightful tips on ways to identify annual CEO’s Award Ceremony which was held spread of the Ebola Virus Disease (EVD). focused on safety in/around the home, the symptoms of EVD, and approaches in May 2014, the Bank recognised Neka Adogu These sessions were of high priority to safety in/around the office, general tips to protecting oneself and household from (Nigeria) and Julie SoyinkaSonuga (UK) with the make our employees aware of how to for safety, as well as emergency phone contracting the virus. CEO Special Award and the Brand Ambassador copewith these threatening societal issues. numbers. of the Year respectively. Employees of the Idumota Retail Operations unit in Lagos, Nigeria were celebrated with the Cost Centre of the Year Award, while the Quality AssuranceCorporate Operations unit was awarded the 5-Star Unit of the Year. Other awardees and award categories across the Access Bank Group Categories Country Winners are presented as follows. Employee of the Year Nigeria Taiwo Fowowe Ghana Kojo Bedjabeng Table 18: 2014 CEO awards: categories and awardees Sierra Leone Georgina Williams Congo Claudine Musanda Categories Country Winners Rwanda Teddy Ndayambaje Gambia Edrisa Faye Brand Ambassador Nigeria Victor Onyebuchi Zambia Patricia Mugamya of the Year Ghana Matilda Asante Asiedu UK Victor Adeniregun Congo Claudine Musanda Most Admired Senior Nigeria Abraham Aziegbe Rwanda Chris Osisiogu Staff Ghana Stephen Abban Gambia Austin Ola-Tunde Rwanda Chris Osisiogu Zambia Jones Gambia Buba Kanteh UK Mimi Daka Zambia Chris Mwelo Julie Soyinka-Sonuga Support Staff of the Nigeria Akintunde Ogundare Year Ghana Isaac Afedzie Quaye Co-worker of Nigeria Aminah Adedipe Sierra Leone Karim Koroma the Year Ghana Richard Owusu Rwanda Ivan Ingabire Congo Rudy Munsy Gambia Pa Modou Jallow Rwanda Teddy Ndayambaje Zambia Joy Banda Gambia Paul Munashe Zambia Dalitso Hamaluba Teller of the Year Nigeria Omolaja Folarin Ghana Agnes Ofosu Congo Danny Tshilumba Rwanda Francis Bazatsinda Customer Service Nigeria Vanessa Attah Gambia Haja Isatou Drammeh Staff of the Year Ghana Yvonne Quarshie Zambia Musa Banda Congo Ricky Rwanda Dahlia Umulinga Excellence in Nigeria Ojeifoh Okosun Gambia Nil Leadership Award Ghana Ama Somuah Boateng Zambia Evelyn Nalwimba Rwanda Alice Umulisa UK Adekunle Adeniji Zambia Dalitso Hamaluba UK Laura Kidd 60 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 61 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP evaluate and manage environmental and social risks and impacts of our project finance and lending activities. Even so, in 2014, we established a dedicated Environmental and Sustainability unit as part of our Enterprise Risk Management department. Also, an automated review process was put in place, thus to drive conscious and fully-fledged integration of environmental issues into the Bank’s risk decision-making. This way we will continue to safeguard the wellbeing, health and safety of biodiversity, ecosystems, labour and surrounding communities in areas where Access Bank delivers project finance services. We are confident that we will continue to maintain and retain our social license to provide finance solutions in the coming future. Over the years, we have tested and tried the Equator Principles, and we have reaped great benefits from adherence, thus minimizing our business risks, mitigating the impacts that remain and preventing environmental and social consequences thereby. In fact, the Equator Principles are central to Access Bank’s Environmental and Social Risk Management System (ESRMS). Based on our firm commitments to environmental and social risk management, At Access Bank, we want to finance a bigger and stronger future. And as we do so, there is a reason why we are a number of projects were handled and executed in line with Equator Principles in 2014. (For more information, please see our latest Equator Principles very passionate about being conscientious stewards of the environment. It’s because we truly understand that compliance reports at https://www.accessbankplc.com/ sustainable-banking/sustainability-report). Above all, in 2014, we ensured that our operational the future of finance – on which we our business thrives – hugely depends on ecological resources and natural facilities did not constitute any environmental nuisance to surrounding communities and other stakeholders. We were mindful about waste management capital. We understand that there can be no finance when there are no environmental resources to harness and and disposal at our office locations, while outsourcing the service to government-approved waste management third-parties firms. Our whistle-blowing transform. And mind you, we don’t just care about the environment, because of our business. Rather, we do so also line also exists to make sure that our people shun all unethical practices related to any risk issue related to Access Bank. Through the whistle-blowing because our people: shareholders, employees, customers and communities, all desire a future wherein nature and line, third parties and external stakeholders are encouraged to report any malpractice committed by Access Bank and/or her representatives, including its resources are equally accessible to their children’s and grandchildren’s generations. environmental ones. Throughout the year, Access Bank did not receive any grievance or related complaints concerning environmental issues, neither for air, water, land or soil pollution. Energy and Greenhouse Shut-down Policy, and made substantial Materials: progress. The Policy involved shutting Emissions: down generators at 6pm for branches, and Since 2012, we began the process of Environmental Performance Beyond Environmental Cushioning the Environmental At Access Bank, we utilise two mainsources 9pm for the Head Office. Thus, the Bank implementing a mandatory paper-and print In 2014, Access Bank took stringent Compliance (and Social) Impact of our of energy at our branches and business was able to save energy of up to 97706.91 saving initiative to cut printing and paper Financial Products, Services premises. These include electricity from use by 50% across the Bank. We have measures and implemented appropriate Access Bank understands that in order to Kilowatthour of diesel-generated energy the national grid as well as electricity from systems and mechanisms to enable us finance a bigger, stronger future, financial and Activities in 2014 through our shut-down policy. At made significant progress thus far on that on-site diesel-fuelled power generating ambition. adhere to all stipulated environmental institutions must follow the trends, and an emission factor of 0.893 kg CO2e/ kWh, From the inception, Access Bank has been units, simply known as generators. regulations in our areas of operation, act accordingly as the future sets in. We this amounted to avoidance of an estimated financing the future for many businesses, Electricity from the national grid is supplied Across the Bank, we ensure that prints are particularly in Nigeria, where the bulk of understand that natural resources such 87252.27 kilogram of CO2e greenhouse customers and individuals. Even so, ahead by the various local distribution companies done on eco print mode and all internal our business activities are conducted. as fresh water, quality air, minerals and so emissions by the Bank in 2014. of our industry colleagues, we have been (DISCOs) of the now-decentralised Power documents are printed on our printers As a result, Access Bank did not suffer on, are getting scarcer as global and local pioneering the development of many populations increase. Because we want Holding Company of Nigeria to our business Water: which are set at the front-and-back print or bear any financial or non-financial innovative products and services for our locations in different parts of Nigeria. The Virtually all the water used in the Bank’s mode. We also ensure that all paper sanctions, queries, fines or penalties owing to be a leader in the future of finance, we clients in various industry sectors. We will generators are however used to augment stationery used in printing internal memos to non-compliance to all relevant national anticipate the trends, eventually realising offices in our significant areas of operations continue to pioneer and innovate, as this is energy supply from the grid during the are re-used where possible. environmental regulations, or voluntary that resource constraints may not end in large Nigerian cities, are abstracted from our surest bet to lead in financing a stronger frequent power outages. In 2014, energy codes and standards of environmental soon. Therefore, we have taken steps boreholes. This is because dependence future for both African and global markets. supply was an important issue to Access These approaches have significantly protection to which we are subscribed. within our business to go beyond mere on municipal water networks can be very Bank. This was not only because of the reduced our paper purchase and have compliance with environmental laws and However, we realise that project finance inefficient. Over the course of the year, growing energy insecurity and scarcity resulted in substantial cost savings over regulations, into becoming more efficient and lending, our major financial services, we took noteworthy steps to optimise our around the globe, but also the rising costs the years. In addition, our procurement unit in our use of natural resources, including have inherent environmental and even water consumption, so as to reduce the of fossil fuels which powered our generators ensures that we only buy papers that are energy, water and other materials. Our social impacts. This was why we signed amount of water groundwater abstracted to keep our business going. Besides these Forest Stewardship Council certified. This core approach has been to carefully and up to the Equator Principles in 2009. The and used. These efforts can be observed at factors, we were also cognisant of the way Access Bank is helping to promote periodically monitor our consumption Equator Principles are a set of internationally our offices, in the types of cisterns used in risk of climate change, and we sought sustainable harnessing of the world’s forest of energy, fuel, water, paper and other recognised principles for addressing restrooms. These water-efficient cisterns to do our part to mitigate the emissions resources. materials, and then adopting reduce, reuse, environmental and social concerns in help ensure optimal use of water, thus of greenhouse gases. As this desire minimising waste. and recycling strategies where practicable. project finance, and Access Bank was the also forms part of our strategic plan, our While monitoring is handled by our General first Nigerian company to sign up to the Throughout the Bank, we aim to halve our business units were fully conscious of the Resource Management (GRM) unit, the principles. Since 2009, adherence to the water use in the coming years; as such we need to be energy-efficient in discharging Sustainability/CSR team coordinates Equator Principles have helped us to identify, are looking to install more of these watertheir operational functions. Therefore in behavioural efforts for our employees to efficient cisterns in more of our branch 2014, we continued with our Generator adopt eco-friendly habits at work. ffices so as to conserve more water 62 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 63 OUR SUPPLY CHAIN RELATIONSHIPS At Access Bank, we are an embodiment of sustainable procurement practices. We do not just buy from our suppliers; rather, we ceaselessly use the power of procurement relationships to positively influence their environmental, social and economic performance. Although we simply need suppliers and vendors to continue to thrive, however, we need our suppliers to be responsible in order for the larger society to thrive. At Access, we choose the latter option. Sustaining this commitment is an integral step on our journey toward financing a bigger, stronger future. Maximum = 20 Parameters used in Local sourcing Environmental and social due Supplier engagement Vendor selection process Total rating score Parameters* evaluating ‘New’ suppliers (Scale: 1–5) diligence Besides evaluating our prospective suppliers As in the previous years, we progressed in We maintain inclusive and robust procurement for responsible practices, Access Bank is also engaging our suppliers in 2014. Typically, As part of our supplier assessment criteria, policies which enhances our corporate PARAMETER 1 Track records committed to enhancing efficiency, resource Access Bank ensures that while traditional our engagement approach mainly included responsibility, while also helping our suppliers optimisation and waste/pollution reduction correspondences via e-mails and letters. We assessment parameters (such as Track record, to improve in their sustainability and corporate PARAMETER 2 Geographical coverage in our supply chain. We demonstrate this Geographical coverage, Quality of goods/ also held a number of forums, events and responsibility performance. Our investors, commitment through our Bank-wide efforts to exhibitions during the year which helped us to service and Status of dealership/distributorship shareholders and employees are ethics-minded, PARAMETER 3 Quality of service/product source required products and services locally or etc.) are considered, indicators such as convey best practices and emerging trends in so also the surrounding communities, non-profit where impracticable, we encourage sourcing as sustainable and responsible business practices ethical, environmental, societal, human rights, organisations, the media and our regulators do close as possible to our operational locations to them. In addition to these, we engaged not expect to see us associate ourselves with PARAMETER 4 Accredited/dealership status labour and governance practices are also were the supplies are needed. incorporated into the criteria. This is our way our vendors through visits to their business vendors that trample on human rights or whose sites. Typically, these site visits were critical of conducting due diligence to ensure that businesses promote environmental harm and/ This is not just because it makes financial to our supplier assessment framework and Parameters used in evaluating ‘approved’ we are not transacting business with a vendor or social injustice. Access Bank appreciates the sense. It is also because we continually aim to due diligence. The ‘Supplier’ section of Table Parameters and ‘In use, not yet registered’ suppliers who has adverse impacts on the society. In concern of these stakeholders, and in order minimise the environmental footprint of our 5 captures our engagement approaches with (Scale: 1–5) 2014, our suppliers were assessed using these to live up to their expectations, we maintain procurement, through reduction of Supply Miles. our suppliers in 2014, their concerns and how sustainability-based criteria. We checked their a standard procurement framework, which PARAMETER 1 Problem resolution In addition, we realise that it a good way to grow Track Record, to establish, for example, how we responded to those concerns (please see helps us to conduct thorough due diligence page 22). our local economy, by creating opportunities for they were managing waste, and whether they and assessment of our vendors in line with the Bank’s policy. This is our management approach PARAMETER 2 Timeliness of service delivery local businesses and sustaining local workers, had a history of severe pollution, employing their jobs and livelihoods. children/under-aged people or using forced to sustaining strong, positive relations with our supply chain. Depending on whether they are PARAMETER 3 Service/product quality labour in defiance to Nigerian labour laws. We also assessed their Geographical Coverage to new/ prospective or old/approved suppliers, Character and composure of company ascertain their ability to supply to our locations Access Bank’s vendor assessment process PARAMETER 4 representative with minimum possible travel distance, thus consists of the following criteria: to minimise greenhouse emissions via supply Table 19: Supplier assesment / rating criteria 1. Track record chain transport. Green considerations were Table 19: Supplier assesment 2. Geographical coverage also included to make sure that the Quality 3. Quality of goods/service *Please refer to Environmental and Social Due Diligence (page 65) to see how we incorporate of Products procured incorporated low environmental, social and governance considerations and responsible business practices into environmental footprints. In addition, we used 4. Status of dealership/distributorship some of these supplier assessment parameters. dealership criteria to ensure that the potential 5. Problem resolution supplier did not have governance problems, 6. Timeliness of service delivery that they were committed to ethical practices, 7. Service/product quality and that they had the appropriate legal status 8. Character and composure of company to operate and provide products and services in representative the required capacity. 64 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 65 UNICEF Charity Shield Polo Tournament Access Bank has always remained entrepreneurs committed to its social responsibility drive. Consequently, the Bank continuously seeks and seizes opportunities to demonstrate this commitment by contributing to external initiatives that align to its strategic focus areas for sustainable human development, both in the local and global communities. The 2014 UNICEF Charity Shield Polo Tournament is one of such prominent initiatives, which was COMMUNITIES & sponsored by Access Bank. The 2014 edition of the annual Access Bank-UNICEF Charity Shield Polo Tournament was held at the Fifth Chukker Polo Resort in Kangimi, Kaduna THE WIDER SOCIETY State from 3rd to 7th June, 2014. The range of events which featured celebrities from different parts of the globe, proved to be yet another platform for supporting orphaned and vulnerable children in Northern Nigeria. The Polo Tournament has its root in the “Emir of Katsina Charity Shield Polo Tournament” which was inaugurated by the Fifth Chukker Polo and Country Club in 2003 as a fund raising platform to support local charity organisations. Each year, the tournament is geared towards UNICEF’s intervention projects for orphans and vulnerable children and has over the years become one of the biggest and most attractive international sporting and fundraising events in the country. In partnership with the Fifth Chukker Polo club, Access Bank raised more than N900 million for UNICEF projects towards helping and supporting vulnerable children, through the Charity Shield Polo Tournament. Also, proceeds from the sale of memorabilia at the annual tournament were channelled into UNICEF’s cause, comprising the provision of comfortable shelter for the orphaned and vulnerable children. This was demonstrated through commissioning of housing projects in a number of Local Government Areas in Kaduna State. As Nigeria’s most innovative financial power house, Access Bank’s long term commitment to the prestigious UNICEF Charity Shield Polo, has received official approval from the Kaduna State Government. The Kaduna State Governor, Alhaji Ramallan Yero, commended the unequalled involvement of Access Bank in promoting Charity, Polo and Sports generally in the country. In his words, Alhaji Yero stated “We are happy with Access Bank and Fifth Chukker for taking the mantle of supporting UNICEF in its campaign of engaging our teeming youths positively through polo and other charitable activities and I would urge them not to rest in their efforts.” Being the main sponsor of the 2014 Charity Shield Polo Tournament, Access Bank presented a N10 million donation to UNICEF. The West Africa Trade and Commodity Finance Power breakfast for small and medium scale Conference entrepreneurs At Access Bank, we hopeful about the future of business in Nigeria, Access Bank is not taking the bigger, stronger future alone; we are and we are very confident of the growth potentials of various key taking an army of growing businesses in our communities with us, sectors such as agriculture, manufacturing, infrastructure development using the power of finance and knowledge sharing. On that journey, As one of Africa’s largest banks, we are policy, anti-corruption efforts, charitable within or outside Access Bank. Without amongst others, for driving development in the country. As a Bank, we the Bank has continued to reiterate the importance of grooming Small doing our best to drive economic growth donations and employee volunteering. doubt, this has prevented Access Bank’s are really looking forward to that future, even as we set ourselves up to and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), as they are crucial to the sustained and prosperity within the communities in We make these efforts so as to jointly operations and business activities from finance it. In view of this, Access Bank sponsored the 6th edition of the development of the economy. which we serve. This is important because secure, for ourselves and the people having any adverse or negative impacts West Africa Trade and Export Finance conference, an event organised To this end, Access Bank organised a variety of knowledge sharing our business will thrive even more, when around us, a future of excellence. Access in community where we serve. During by the Exporta Publishing and Events in Lagos, at the Eko Convention events for SMEs in 2014, most notable of which was the “Power the people in surrounding communities, Bank maintains a whistleblowing line the reporting year, no complaints were Centre on the 4th and 5th of February, 2015. Breakfast” forum for customers, which held on Thursday, June 5, 2014 as well as their livelihoods, prosper through which virtually all our grievance received from members of surrounding The West Africa Trade and Commodity Finance Conference is one at Access Bank’s Head Office in Lagos, Nigeria. At the event, senior economically. Each year, and as part of our procedures have been incorporated. communities regarding any of our of the foremost trade finance conferences in West Africa, convening officials from the Bank spoke to attendees, exposing them to the strategic corporate responsibility objectives, The whistleblowing and ethics line, branches or operating units. The same typically over 200 local, regional and international delegates annually relevance of SMEs to the Bank, and the range of financing opportunities we commit to channelling noteworthy although primarily designed to ensure was true of 2012 and 2013. Rather than to discuss new business opportunities within the well-established and that the Bank avails to SMEs. Titi Osuntoki, the Executive Director, resources and funds into impacting people’s that Access Bank staff commit to ethical create negative impacts on surrounding emerging trade and commodity sectors. Business Banking remarked that the Bank’s competitive edge lies in lives positively and responsibly. Indeed, our behaviour, also allows members of the communities, Access Bank seeks to Using a range of conversational tools such as specific transaction case its efficient electronic channels, trained and highly skilled workforce, commitments have been largely focused surrounding communities to report any create positive impacts. studies, roundtable discussions, onstage interviews, and live question competitive products and pricing, accessibility of loans and advances, around the United Nation’s Millennium misdemeanour or misbehaviour (by and answer sessions, the two-day event brought together delegates support services, financial and business development advisory services Development Goals (MDGs). As such in any Access Bank employee or anyone As much as possible, we ensure that from Corporate, Banking and Financial Services Organizations to which Access Bank provides to SMEs. In addition, the Head of SME 2014, as we do each year, we initiated and related with Access Bank) that might have our business is truly utilised as a tool for brainstorm and pool their thoughts and opinions on key market Support, Access Bank, Oyediji Atoyebi, informed that the Bank, in its supported numerous efforts aimed at consequences and adverse social and/ community development. trends and issues emerging in each of these sectors ranging from quest to support small businesses, has evolved several strategies and achieving the MDGs. Over the years, our or economic impacts on the surrounding agribusiness, to risk mitigation, to marketing, construction and products to help alleviate the funding challenges faced by SMEs. Oyediji As such, and as part of our strategic areas of focus in community investment committee. Our whistleblowing lines and infrastructure, to name a few. Dignitaries present at the conference assured attendees that Access Bank is now more ready to assist SMEs plans, a substantial portion of our returns included representatives from Dangote Group, Structured Business, explore opportunities inherent in the large available market, increase have therefore included education, health, platforms are made freely accessible and are geared towards boosting human Europe, Africa and Asia, Shoreline Energy International; Oando Refinery awareness of the SMEs’ role in the economy, obtain government gender equality, arts, and sports. Many available to the public, and anyone is free development indexes in the communities and Terminals, senior executives from Access Bank amongst many finance intervention, provide access to overdraft line, trade finance, of these efforts to invest in, and grow to report unethical dealings of Access around us. Notable tools that we use others. assets finance and other related facilities, including availing them solid relationships with our communities Bank staff in their communities. Our in carrying out these initiatives have investment account products that help manage surplus cash flows, have included the widening reach of our publicly-available ethics line have made The event culminated in a networking session on the 2nd day, which included: partnerships, donations providing acceptable yields for customers. These SMEs have great market presence, our indirect economic all our staff conscious that unethical provided ample opportunity for attendees doing business in West and sponsorships, and our Employee potential for employment generation, improvement of local technology, Africa to establish new business contacts and build relationships with impacts, grievance mechanisms, public practices will not be tolerated, whether output diversification and boosting of indigenous entrepreneurship. Volunteering Scheme (EVS). other key market players. These conversations and relationships are expected to be fertile grounds for springing up new business projects Hence why Access Bank, above many of our industry peers, will in our communities, generate more employment for the people, and continue to extend impactful partnerships to SMEs in our communities. also contribute to the economic and human development of the larger Nigerian society. 66 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 67 Table 20: Community development and investment projects (Bank and employee volunteers) INPUTS Programme/Initiative Cash Time 02. Value Of Cash 03. Total Hours 04. Value Of Staff 05. Total Value Of Community 01. Activity Name Contributions Volunteered In Time Contributed Contributions Focus Area (Naira) Company Time Naira (Naira) Educational empowerment/Computer Literacy Education 210,000.00 120 197,260.27 407,260.27 Initiative. Recipient: Pacelli School of the Blind Volunteer Unit: Corporate Counsel The “W” Initiative WeConnect Global Certification In all, the workshop trained one hundred (100) Infrastructural Contribution: female business owners, some of whom were In July 2014, Access Bank unveiled the “W” Capacity Development • Provision of two (2) laptops, one (1) Internet modem, Internet in the process of obtaining their certification for subscription for six (6) months initiative to accelerate a new and stronger wave of workshop supplier capacity to global corporates. In the end, Attitudinal Contribution: hitherto scanty female entrepreneurs in Nigeria. In achieving our vision to be the world’s the workshop had helped the participants to build • organising reading classes and inspirational sessions for In addition to financial inclusion, the “W” initiative students of Pacelli School for the Blind most respected African Bank, Access Bank their capacity and scale their business operations, is a one-stop center of all of Access Bank’s understands that our societies, both local and thus empowering and positioning them to be Impact: women empowerment offerings. Some of these • making teaching easier and faster global, cannot continue to sideline women from able to sell successfully to top local, regional and • installation of text-to-speech software that talks and enables include capacity building programs exclusive to entrepreneurship opportunities traditionally multinational corporations. students to carry out commands they hear women, mentoring programmes, and maternal perceived to be within the reach of men alone. health services, all aimed at helping to build a This workshop event was convene and sponsored “A-Word-A Day” Education Initiative. 121,750.00 20 123,744.29 245,494.29 Thankfully, there is a growing trend around bigger, stronger and more sustainable society. by Access Bank as part of our continued the globe for improved access to finance for Recipient: Under the “W” initiative, participating women commitment to the “W” initiative. women, driven by individuals and institution Olomu Primary School, Ajah, Lagos and their families have access to a wide range of who also share this mindset. opportunities. Part of these privileges includes Volunteer Unit: access to loans and credit facilities; access to As a result, there has been a new and rising Customer Experience the ‘W’ community in which they can get insights wave in the development of many new banking Infrastructural Contribution: concerning family matters and finance matters. In products specially designed for women, thus • 10 pieces of new plastic tables addition, ‘W’ community also provides women with boosting the recognition given to women for • 40 pieces of new plastic chairs access to information about several value-adding their potential role in accelerating a sustainable • 80 pieces of 20-leaf notebooks special offers for the home, including specially economic development. • 50 pieces of pencil sharpeners discounted offers as well as freebies on health, • 50 pieces of erasers However, there persists a wide knowledge gap beauty and fitness. • 5 dozens of pencils among Nigerian women, who seem not to be • 30 pieces of “New Trends in English Language” Textbooks The “W” initiative also hosts our Maternal Health very much aware of rapidly growing business, • 30 pieces of “New Trends in Mathematics” Textbooks Support (MHS) Scheme, through which Access growth and empowerment opportunities • 60 pieces of “Compendium Fine and Creative Art” Textbooks Bank supports local and international treatments available to them. for fertility antenatal and postnatal treatment, and Attitudinal Contribution: To this end, Access Bank hosted a capacity • Volunteering staff time for teaching pupils other specialist procedures such as hysterectomy development program themed “Introduction (uterus removal), myomectomy (fibroid removal), to Global Certification” on July 17, 2014 at “A-Word-A Day” Education Initiative. 2,681,500.00 432 258,064.00 2,939,564.00 dental, bariatric and orthopaedic treatments. The the Head Office, The Plaza in Lagos, Nigeria, MHS Scheme can be availed to women within 48 in partnership with WeConnect International. Recipient: hours. WeConnect is a coalition of businesses and Bonny Camp Primary School, Lagos Indeed, “W” is all about raising and grooming entrepreneurs who are either women-owned Volunteer Unit: and sustaining –in communities around us – a businesses or committed to promoting the Personal Banking Group continuing generation of women that are inspired, economic empowerment of women. Infrastructural Contribution: healthy, connected and empowered. It is Access • Classroom furniture The workshop featured seminar presentations Bank’s commitment to banking women. • Drilling and Installation of Boreholes , pumping machine and from Access Bank Plc and WeConnect 2 water tanks International. Information shared with • Electric Fans and other electrical fittings and fixtures. All of these exciting initiatives re hosted on the • Patching and Painting of Toilet walls, Fence walls and internal participants included opportunities for sales “W” initiative website, www.thewcommunity.com, walls of classroom conversion, networking and sales leads • Installation of additional water closets. an online community for Access women. Since its generation. inception, millions of Naira has been spent on “W” and its component initiatives. 68 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 69 INPUTS INPUTS Programme/Initiative Cash Time Programme/Initiative Cash Time 02. Value Of Cash 03. Total Hours 04. Value Of Staff 05. Total Value Of 02. Value Of Cash 03. Total Hours 04. Value Of Staff 05. Total Value Of Community Community 01. Activity Name Contributions Volunteered In Time Contributed Contributions 01. Activity Name Contributions Volunteered In Time Contributed Contributions Focus Area Focus Area (Naira) Company Time Naira (Naira) (Naira) Company Time Naira (Naira) Education Support our School Initiative 600,000.00 50 108,012.96 708,012.96 Education Support for Children living with Down Syndrome 2,242,000.00 1,632 1,073,856.00 3,315,856.00 Recipient: Recipient: Ikosi Primary School, Lagos • Down Syndrome Society of Nigeria • Atunda Olu Primary School Volunteer Unit: • Patmos Orphanage Internal Audit Infrastructural Contribution: Volunteer Unit: • Renovation of drainage channel • Re-flooring of classrooms • Charity walk to raise awareness and support for • Replacement of windows with steel windows vulnerable children • Painting of school fence building and replacement of doors • Contribution to Therapy Pool Facility • Provision of 10 new fans and 18 toilets • Partnership with the Down Syndrome Association of Nigeria Sponsorship of heart surgery Supporting the Blind 13,700,000.00 420 1,260,000.00 14,960,000.00 • Building and furnishing of the infant section of Atanda Recipient: Olu School Nigerian Society for the Blind (NSB) • Provision of borehole for Patmos Orphanage • Art exhibition for vulnerable children, photography, T shirts Volunteer Unit: and other expenses Centralised Operations Group • Charity Bake Sale/Meet the Stars a fund raising initiative Infrastructural Contribution: supported by celebrities such as Basketmouth, Miss • Assistive technology items for the blind such as Perkins braille Tourism, Mr. Nigeria 2007, Lynxx machines • 4 hostels for 40 people • Painting Expenditure Breakdown • Sponsorship of heart surgery N1, 873, 000 • Beds, mattresses, • Building and furnishing of infant section, Atanda Olu School • 3 classrooms for 40 people N242, 000 • Manual typewriters for 20 students • Borehole Project N600, 000 • vent activation for vulnerable children N200, 000 Attitudinal Contribution: • Volunteering staff time for teaching pupils Renovation of a block of six classrooms at Keke N/ 200,000.00 38 108,100.24 308,100.24 Primary School, Agege Computer Literacy Initiative 2,297,900.00 80 72,000.00 2,369,900.00 Replacement of electric bulbs Recipient: 100 chairs and 20 roundtables Gbara Community School, Lagos Volunteer Unit: Donation of 50 furniture to students of Epetedo High 215,000.00 30 55,978.38 270,978.38 Information & Communication Technology School Infrastructural Contribution: 17 new white boards • Computer education • 202 G1 Intel Dual Core 3GHz Windows OS Micro tower + Award of N250,000 for business plan winner for the 2nd 18.5 inch LV1911 LED monitor 250,000.00 0 0.00 250,000.00 Lagos State Enterprise Day • Blue Gate BG650VA UPS • Acer P1173DLP 3D Projector Delivery of Ultra-modern Home Economics • HP Office Jet PRO 8600 2, 122, 580 1, 230 413, 306.65 2, 535, 886.65 Laboratory to Oduduwa Senior Secondary School,Lagos • Furniture • Swift 4G LTE (Business Plan 7am 7pm daily, 24GB) Girl Child Mentoring Programme 0.00 30 10, 080. 60 10, 080. 60 • PHCN Connection • Local Area Connection Scholarship award to the best graduating student in 2014 who gained admission to a University. The recipient is 100, 000 0 0.00 100, 000 Support our School Initiative a Petroleum Engineering student in the University of Lagos. Recipient: Empowerment session and donation of key facilities to Ikosi Primary School, Lagos 728, 462 15 5, 040.30 733, 502.3 Lagos State Correctional Boys Centre Volunteer Unit: Internal Audit Infrastructural Contribution: Cash donation as scholarship to support the secondary school education of orphans under the care of Lydia 100, 000 30 0.00 100, 000 • Renovation of drainage channel • Donation of teaching aids to the Atunda Olu School for the Women foundation. Physically Blind and Mentally 70 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 71 Programme/Initiative Cash Time INPUTS EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING SCHEME 02. Value Of Cash 03. Total Hours 04. Value Of Staff 05. Total Value Of Community 01. Activity Name Contributions Volunteered In Time Contributed Contributions Focus Area (Naira) Company Time Naira (Naira) Support towards Muritala Mohammed Foundation’s 2014 Education Education for Leadership & Sustainable Development 5, 000, 000 0 0.00 5, 000, 000 At Access Bank, we empower our employees to achieve their goals. We do this by creating an enabling environment in which they are able to Conference contribute positively to our corporate culture in the way they desire. As a bank of best practice guided by sustainability in all that we do, we have Support for School of Entrepreneurship 500, 000 0 0.00 500, 000 taken on a conscious mandate to be the best. Our employees recognise this, and of their own volition, they have also chosen to be forces for good in the communities around which they work. They are our employee volunteers, they are the faces of our employee volunteering scheme Support towards CIPM Millennium Building Project 1, 000, 000 0 0.00 1, 000, 000 (EVS), and we are extremely proud of them. Over the years, all our operational divisions and units have mastered the art of impactful community Infrastructure upgrade (Provision of chairs, flat screen giving, and each year, each one takes ownership of their unique employee volunteering initiatives. Indeed, this is a noteworthy indication that televisions, and construction of an entrance) for the General 500, 000 20 50, 600.16 550, 600.16 Access Bank has fully integrated employee-driven community investment into its business. In the course of the year 2014, thousands of Access Hospital, Kaduna. Bank’s employee volunteers in various divisions and units identified, selected and championed several innovative initiatives to better the lives Save-a-Life Project (Corrective Surgery for Kids) 2, 500, 000 2, 160 37, 804.89 2, 537, 804.89 of people in our host communities. Demonstrably, their collaborative efforts have brought evident social and economic benefits to our host communities in various parts of Nigeria. Success stories and highlights are as follows: Sponsorship of Friends Africa on World Aids Day Novelty 10, 000, 000 20 15, 630.12 10,015, 630.12 Match Arts & Crafts Exhibition, and Documentary for 0.00 0 0.00 3, 700, 000 Children living with Down syndrome Support for Empowerment Support Initiative Of Rivers State 1, 900, 000 0 0.00 1, 900, 000 The Heart for Eye Project Blind (NSB) as the beneficiary of her 2014 accommodate at least 100 students per volunteering initiative. By partnering the time. This guarantees that more visually What happens when a group of ordinary Support for Salvage Africa Building Project 1, 000, 000 0 0.00 1, 000, 000 Society, our COG was able to alleviate the impaired persons are properly positioned people realise that: Support towards Dreamland Foundation 3, 500, 000 0 0.00 2, 000, 000 plight of some visually impaired persons in for more fulfilling lives. • There is need to empower individuals Lagos. The Nigerian Society for the Blind Support towards Chike Okoli Foundation 1, 000, 000 0 0.00 2, 000, 000 who are blind or have poor vision, to live As a result, COG commenced the Heart is situated at the Blind Centre, Cappa, productively and independently by building for Eye Project in order to increase the Support for Centre for Youth Studies 3,000,000.00 0 0.00 600, 000 Oshodi, Lagos. The Centre was founded confidence through training, tools and boarding capacity of the Centre and mentorship? in 1955 with the objective of training Support for the Women & Girls Summit 2014 5,000,000.00 0 0.00 5,000,000.00 also invest in some assistive technology and giving hope to visually-challenged • These visually impaired people who go items for the home. The project is being Support for the International Short Film Festival 5,000,000.00 0 0.00 5,000,000.00 adolescents and adults in Nigeria. Since through unfortunate circumstances financed by generous donations from Saving One Million Lives Project 80,000,000.00 0 0.00 80,000,000.00 1955, the Centre has trained over 2,000 typically need rehabilitating with the within and outside the Group and the blind men and women to acquire skills in Outreach Children’s Helping Children Breathe Project 500,000.00 0 0.00 500,000.00 support of philanthropists, corporate tenure is put at a three-year partnership Braille reading, typewriting, handicrafts, organisations, and religious bodies? between Access Bank and the Nigerian Role of Women in Emerging African Democracies 2014 2,000,000.00 0 0.00 2,000,000.00 telephone switchboard operation, tie • Such needed training, mentorship Society for the Blind. Thus far, and still and dye and various skills necessary for Business Day Annual Giving Back Conference 2,000,000.00 0 0.00 2,000,000.00 and rehabilitation are in line with their counting, COG’s contributions have job placement in relevant industries or Sponsorship of Two Adolescents living with HIV/AIDS to organisation’s approved Corporate Social included: for self-employment. But there was the 20th International AIDS Day Conference in Melbourne, 3,397,445.00 0 0.00 3,397,445.00 Responsibility focus area on Education? a problem: the maximum capacity • Four (4) hostels for 40 people Australia Extraordinary things! This was exactly of students the Centre admits is 60. • Equipped the room with beds, Orphans and Vulnerable Children Secure Future Programme 2,000,000.00 0 0.00 2,000,000.00 mattresses for 40 students. what happened when Access Bank’s Therefore, our Centralised Operations Africa Leadership Initiative West Africa 155,000,000.00 0 0.00 155,000,000.00 Centralised Operations Group (COG) Group identified a crucial need for • Roof and some interior finishing with identified the Nigerian Society for the the Centre to increase its capacity to paints. Nigerian Conservation Foundation Walk for Life 2,000,000.00 0 0.00 2,000,000.00 Ikoyi Junior Golf Challenge 2014 5,000,000.00 0 0.00 5,000,000.00 CSR for Eniong Community 259,000.00 259,000.00 Chirstopher Kolade Musical Excellence Awards 2,000,000.00 2,000,000.00 UNICEF Charity Shield 10,000,000.00 10,000,000.00 Total 299,674,595.00 2,937.00 3,257,016.15 299,931,611.15 72 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 73 ‘WE CARE’ PROGRAMME Closing the Digital Divide Being fully conscious of the fact that a lot The Division also carried out the following Taking a cue from our Bank-wide drive to as screen readers, text-to-speech software, of information and content on the web are trainings sessions for the children at CLL, give back to our surrounding communities and scanners. As a result, the Bank’s One wonders what could happen when unsuitable for children of that age group, based on the team’s employee volunteering through good corporate citizenship, our employee volunteers in the Corporate lots of time, effort and a total sum of the team deployed internet firewalls on drive: employees in the Corporate Counsel Counsel Group/Company Secretariat N2,270,000 is expended on an initiative the computer systems to block access to Group/Company Secretariat decided in provided the following items to the school: aimed at providing children in Gbara • Personal hygiene and protection X-rated sites. 2014 to add value to the students of Pacelli Community School, Lagos State with awareness • Two (2) Laptop computers, School for the Blind and Partially Sighted access to knowledge and resources Hopefully, within the coming years, several • Financial literacy and saving culture Children. The approach was simple, “we • One (1) Internet Modem, and Six month on Information and Communication hundreds of students will have been approached the administrators of the Pacelli Internet subscription to afford students Technology (ICT). This project, tagged adequately exposed to the theoretical and • Personal values and brand School in a bid to understand the present the opportunity to interact with the Closing the Digital Divide, was initiated practical aspects of computer education. • Promoting child and family well-being needs of the school…” said an employee global community and also source for and executed by Access Bank’s employee Closing the Digital Divide volunteer in the Bank’s Corporate Counsel information which may not be readily volunteers in the Bank’s Information • Politics and people governance Group. He continued, “…thus, we were able available around them Serving with Technology department. Since the launch of the Universal Basic • Family values to determine how best to be of assistance.” Passion For 2014, the theme of the Education Act of 2004 in Nigeria, much The team provided the school and its employee volunteering scheme for has been achieved to reconstruct • Choosing the right career path The school is a non-governmental and students with the following: the Bank’s Financial Control Group was dilapidated school buildings around the non-fee paying institution under the • Feedback received from CLL’s centered on impacting vulnerable children. • Twenty (20) units of complete personal country. Many new ones have also been proprietorship of the Catholic Archdiocese administration and the children computer systems, constructed since then, with other basic of Lagos. Pacelli was founded in June The Group also made efforts to raise demonstrated that the training was • Uninterruptible power supply (UPS) facilities provided. However, the United 1962 following an approval granted by the awareness in surrounding communities very impactful. Nation’s goal to achieve universal primary Nigerian government for the establishment about vulnerable children, whilst • One year Internet connection between education is lagging behind in many states of a special school for the education reinforcing their role in the sustenance of PCs – Swift 4G across Nigeria. Against this backdrop, of the visually challenged. The school Nigeria and Africa’s future. • Acer Projector Access Bank’s Personal Banking Division accommodates about 130 students drawn In other to achieve their volunteering • PHCN Connection sought to deliver some of the Bank’s social from across the nation. “As computer objectives for the year, the Group partnered • HP printer responsibility aspirations, by contributing skills are becoming a fundamental part of three institutions, namely: The Group also organised a Charity Bake to the well-being, development and education,” the volunteer stated, “we found • Furniture Sale/ Meet-the-Stars event which featured education of children in need, especially the that it would make a lot of sense if a some • Children’s Developmental Centre Without doubt, the initiative afforded the deprived, abused, and homeless. As such, laptops are provided to complement other the following: • Atanda Olu School students the advantage of computer and the Division identified Child Lifeline (CLL), electronic learning tools and accessories • Sumptuous goodies baked by the internet resources as students in the most a non-profit charitable organisation. CLL’s which the school already possesses” such • Down’s Syndrome Foundation of Nigeria Financial Control and Strategy Group affluent areas of the Nigerian society. objective is to promote the care, well-being Closing the Digital Divide will also hopefully and development of children in need, • Selfies taken with notable celebrities continue to aid learning and intellectual especially the deprived, abused, destitute PARTNER ORGANISATION ACTIVITIES • Obinna Nwosu, the Group Deputy development among the male and female and homeless. Based in Lagos, CLL impacts Managing Director of Access Bank, being students of Gbara Community School. lives from around Nigeria. In 2104, CLL • Charity Walk the guest of honour was funded entirely by voluntary donations Children’s Developmental Centre The Access Bank I.T. team also developed • Contribution to Therapy Pool Facility and gifts from philanthropists, including • Raffle tickets where winners won dates a 52-week roster to ensure weekly visits to the Bank’s Personal Banking Division’s • Charity Walk with celebrities the school to tutor students on the practical Down’s Syndrome Foundation of Nigeria substantial in-kind donations. 5 personal • Sponsorship of Heart Surgery aspects of computer applications while also A total of forty children and young adults computers/laptops were made available to conducting routine maintenance of the • Building and Furnishing the Infant Section of attended the event which was held at the CLL’s Library in Ibeshe, Ikorodu. hardware units. Atanda Olu School the school Access Bank Head Office on December 12, 2014. • Provision of Borehole Table 21: Partner organizations and activities included in serving with passion 74 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 75 GENERAL STANDARD SUPPLEMENTARY DISCLOSURES STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS INFORMATION GRI G4 Indicators Pg CONTENT INDEX Description Of Disclosure Report Reference and DMA Number Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the Chairman’s Statement 1 DATA TABLE G4-1 about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s sustainability strategy. Group Managing Director/CEO’s Statement 8 Organizational profile G4-3 Name of the organization Access Bank (Cover page) Cover page G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services Our brand and Markets 14 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Nature of ownership and legal form 13 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has G4-6 Nature of ownership and legal form 13 significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Nature of ownership and legal form 13 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors G4-8 Our brand and Markets 14 served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) G4-9 Scale of the organization Nature of ownership and legal form 13 Nature of ownership and legal form 13 G4-10 Employee and workforce composition Responsible employment (equal opportunities employment) 49 Percentage of total employees covered by collective Table 8: Bank-wide updates on the United Nations Global G4-11 39 bargaining agreements Compact (UNGC): Labour G4-12 Description of supply chain Supply chain 15 Financial Performance and SocioEconomic Benefits 11 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding G4-13 the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or supply Nature of ownership and legal form 13 chain Supply chain 15 Table 6: Progress on our collaborative partnerships: United 29 Nations Environment ProgrammeFinance Initiative (UNEP-FI) Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle G4-14 is being addressed Table 8: Bank-wide updates on the United Nations Global 38 Compact (UNGC): Environment Adoption of Local and International Best Practices for 28 Sustainable Development Externally developed economic, environmental and social G4-15 charters, principles, or other initiatives subscribed to Women’s Empowerment Principles 51 endorsed Progress on the Nigeria Sustainable Banking Principles 34 Progress on the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 38 76 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 77 G4 Indicators Pg G4 Indicators Pg Description Of Disclosure Report Reference Description Of Disclosure Report Reference and DMA Number and DMA Number Memberships of associations (such as industry Corporate governance, Ethics and Integrity 26 Leadership, Collaborative Partnerships and Commitments to G4-16 associations) and national or international advocacy 28 External Sustainability Initiatives Governance structure, including committees of the highest Corporate Governance and Sustainability 26 organizations governance body; as well as any committees responsible Progress on the Nigeria Sustainable Banking Principles: E&S Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-34 36 for decision-making on economic, environmental and Governance About this Report 5 social impacts Table 5: Stakeholder engagement approaches in 2014: Entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial 21 G4-17 Table 5: Stakeholder engagement approaches in 2014: Shareholders statements that are covered by the report. 21 Shareholders Ethics, integrity and whistle-blowing Process for defining report content nd Aspect Boundaries Our Materiality Process 23-25 Corporate Philosophy 16 G4-18 and how the organisation has implemented the Reporting Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of Our vision 16 Our approach to ‘setting standards for sustainable business G4-56 Principles for Defining Report Content 17-18 practices’ behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics Our mission 16 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining Our core values 16-17 G4-19 Our Materiality Process 23-25 report content Ethics, integrity and whistle-blowing G4-20 Aspects Boundary within the organization Our Materiality Process 23-25 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining G4-19 Our Materiality Process 23-25 G4-21 Aspects Boundary outside the organization Our Materiality Process 23-25 report content Effect of any restatements of information provided in G4-20 Aspects Boundary outside the organization Our Materiality Process 23-25 G4-22 About this report 5 previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements G4-21 Aspects Boundary outside the organization Our Materiality Process 23-25 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding Our Materiality Process 23-25 G4-23 the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or supply Effect of any restatements of information provided in G4-22 About this report 5 chain About this report 5 previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements Significant changes during the reporting period regarding Our Materiality Process 23-25 Stakeholder engagement G4-23 the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or supply G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged Stakeholder engagement in 2014 19-20 chain About this report 5 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Stakeholder engagement in 2014 19-20 Specific standard disclosures Category: economic Stakeholder engagement approach, including frequency Stakeholder engagement in 2014 19-20 of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and Material aspect: economic performance G4-26 an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Financial Performance and SocioEconomic Benefits 11 process Table 5: Stakeholder engagement approaches in 2014 20-23 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Financial Performance and Socio-Economic Benefits 11 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder G4-27 Table 5: Stakeholder engagement approaches in 2014 20-23 engagement, and how the organization has responded Table 6: Progress on our collaborative partnerships: United 29 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP-FI) G4-EC2 Report profile the organization’s activities due to climate change Energy and greenhouse emissions 61 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for G4-28 About this report 5 information provided Material aspect: indirect economic impacts G4-29 Date of most recent previous report About this report 5 Communities and the wider society 5 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) About this report 5 Financial Performance and SocioEconomic Benefits 11 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Contact point for questions regarding the report or its G4-EC7 Employee Volunteering Scheme 77-81 G4-31 Contact us 95 and services supported contents The G4 ‘in accordance’ option chosen; GRI Content Index G4-32 About this report 5 and reference to External Assurance report Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external About this report 5 G4-33 assurance for the report Performance Monitoring, Audits and Evaluation 27-28 78 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 79 G4 Indicators Pg G4 Indicators Pg Description Of Disclosure Report Reference Description Of Disclosure Report Reference and DMA Number and DMA Number Local sourcing 65 Material aspect: supplier environmental assessment Community Development and Investment Projects 70-77 Vendor selection process 64 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach The West Africa Trade and Commodity Finance Conference 67-68 Environmental and Social Due Diligence 65 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent G4-EC8 of impacts Power Breakfast for Small & Medium Scale Entrepreneurs 68 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-EN32 Environmental and Social Due Diligence 65 WeConnect Global Certification Capacity Development Workshop 69 environmental criteria Employee Volunteering Scheme 77-81 Material aspect: environmental grievance mechanisms Category: environmental Ethics, Integrity and Whistleblowing 26 27 Material aspect: energy G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Cushioning the Environmental (and Social) Impact of our 62 63 Beyond Environmental Compliance 61 Financial Products, Services and Activities G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Number of grievances about environmental impacts Energy and Greenhouse Emissions 61-62 Cushioning the Environmental (and Social) Impact of our G4-EN34 filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance 62 63 Financial Products, Services and Activities G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Energy and Greenhouse Emissions 61 62 mechanisms Material aspe Material aspect: water ct: energy Category: social Beyond Environmental Compliance 61 Sub-category: labor practices and decent work G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Water 62 Material aspect: employment G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Water 62 Employees: our people and our culture 49 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Material aspect: emissions Responsible employment (equal opportunities employment) 49 Beyond Environmental Compliance 23-25 Table 15: Bank-wide updates on the Women’s Empowerment G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 51 Energy and greenhouse emissions 61-62 Principles (table): Treat all women and men fairly at work Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by G4-LA3 G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Energy and greenhouse emissions 61-62 gender Table 8: Bank-wide updates on the United Nations Global 38-39 Compact (UNGC): Labour Material aspect: products and services Material aspect: occupational health and safety Cushioning the Environmental (and Social) Impact of our G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 62 63 Financial Products, Services and Activities G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Occupational Health and Safety 55 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of Cushioning the Environmental (and Social) Impact of our G4-EN27 62 63 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint products and services Financial Products, Services and Activities management-worker health and safety committees that G4-LA5 Occupational Health and Safety 55 Material aspect: compliance help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Environmental Performance 61 Material aspect: Training and education G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Table 5: Stakeholder engagement approaches in 2014: regulatory 21 compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Training, education and capacity building 55 G4-EN29 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Environmental Performance 61 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, G4-LA9 Training, education and capacity building 56 environmental laws and regulations and by employee category Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that G4-LA10 support the continued employability of employees and Training, education and capacity building 55-59 assist them in managing career endings 80 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 81 G4 Indicators Pg G4 Indicators Pg Description Of Disclosure Report Reference Description Of Disclosure Report Reference and DMA Number and DMA Number Material aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity Material aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Responsible employment (equal opportunities employment) 49 Table 7: Bank-wide updates on the Nigeria Sustainable Banking G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Principles: Principle 3: Human Rights: We will respect human 35 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Responsible employment (equal opportunities employment) 49 rights in our Business Operations and Activities employees per employee category according to gender, G4-LA12 49 age group, minority group membership, and other Non-discrimination and physical disability 49-50 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Table 7: Bank-wide updates on the Nigeria Sustainable Banking indicators of diversity Women Empowerment: Women on board 50 G4-HR7 organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are Principles: Principle 3: Human Rights: We will respect human 49-50 rights in our Business Operations and Activities relevant to operations Material aspect: Supplier assessment for labor practices 50 Vendor selection process 64 Material aspect: Supplier human rights assessment G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Environmental and Social Due Diligence 65 Vendor selection process 64 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Environmental and Social Due Diligence 65 G4-LA14 Environmental and Social Due Diligence 65 labor practices criteria Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-HR10 Environmental and Social Due Diligence 65 Material aspect: Labor practices grievance mechanisms labor practices criteria G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Ethics, Integrity and Whistleblowing 26-27 Material aspect: Human rights grievance mechanisms Number of grievances about labor practices filed, Ethics, Integrity and Whistleblowing 26-27 G4-LA16 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Employees: our people and our culture 49 Table 8: Bank-wide updates on the United Nations Global mechanisms 38-39 Compact (UNGC): Human rights Sub-category: Human rights G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Table 7: Bank-wide updates on the Nigeria Sustainable Banking Material aspect: Investment Principles: Principle 3: Human Rights: We will respect human 35 rights in our Business Operations and Activities Table 6: Progress on our collaborative partnerships: United G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 30-31 Table 8: Bank-wide updates on the United Nations Global Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI) 38-39 Number of grievances about human rights impacts Compact (UNGC): Human rights Total number and percentage of significant investment Table 6: Progress on our collaborative partnerships: United G4-HR12 filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Table 7: Bank-wide updates on the Nigeria Sustainable Banking G4-HR1 agreements and contracts that include human rights 30-31 Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI) mechanisms Principles: Principle 3: Human Rights: We will respect human 35 clauses or that underwent human rights screening rights in our Business Material aspect: Non-discrimination Sub-category: Society Responsible employment (equal opportunities employment) 49 Material aspect: Local communities G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Non-discrimination and physical disability 49 Communities and the wider society 66 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Women Empowerment: Women on board 50 Employee Volunteering Scheme 77 Operations with significant actual and potential negative Communities and the wider society 66-77 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective G4-SO2 G4-HR3 Non-discrimination and physical disability 49 impacts on local communities actions taken Employee Volunteering Scheme 77-81 82 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 83 G4 Indicators Pg G4 Indicators Pg Description Of Disclosure Report Reference Description Of Disclosure Report Reference and DMA Number and DMA Number Material aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity Sub-category: Product responsibility Table 8: Bank-wide updates on the United Nations Global Material aspect: Customer health and safety 39 40 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Compact (UNGC): Anti-corruption G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Customer Health and Safety 46 Ethics, Integrity and Whistleblowing 26-27 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with Total number and percentage of operations assessed for Table 8: Bank-wide updates on the United Nations Global G4-SO3 39-40 regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified Compact (UNGC): Anti-corruption G4-PR2 Customer Health and Safety 46 safety impacts of products and services during their life Communication and training on anticorruption policies and Table 8: Bank-wide updates on the United Nations Global G4-SO4 39-40 cycle, by type of outcomes procedures Compact (UNGC): Anti-corruption Material aspect: Marketing communications Material aspect: Anti-competitive behavior Trust, Responsiveness, Confidentiality and Sincerity to our Table 8: Bank-wide updates on the United Nations Global G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 47 39-40 Customers Responsible marketing G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Compact (UNGC): Anti-corruption Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Ethics, Integrity and Whistleblowing 26-27 regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing Trust, Responsiveness, Confidentiality and Sincerity to our Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Table 8: Bank-wide updates on the United Nations Global G4-PR7 47 G4-SO7 39-40 communications, including advertising, promotion, and Customers Responsible marketing anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Compact (UNGC): Anti-corruption sponsorship, by type of outcomes Material aspect: Compliance Material aspect: Customer privacy Table 5: Stakeholder engagement approaches in 2014: regulatory G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 21 Trust, Responsiveness, Confidentiality and Sincerity to our compliance G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 47 Customers Responsible marketing Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Table 5: Stakeholder engagement approaches in 2014: regulatory Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Trust, Responsiveness, Confidentiality and Sincerity to our G4-SO8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and 21 G4-PR8 47 compliance breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Customers regulations Material aspect: Supplier assessment for impacts on society Material aspect: Compliance Vendor selection process 64 Trust, Responsiveness, Confidentiality and Sincerity to our 47 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Customers Environmental and Social Due Diligence 65 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Responsible marketing 47 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-SO9 Environmental and Social Due Diligence 65 criteria for impacts on society Table 5: Stakeholder engagement approaches in 2014: 21 shareholders: regulatory compliance Material aspect: Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with Trust, Responsiveness, Confidentiality and Sincerity to our 47 G4-PR9 laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of Customers Ethics, Integrity and Whistleblowing 26-27 G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach products and services Responsible marketing 47 Communities and the wider society 66 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, Material aspect (financial services sector supplement): Audit G4-SO11 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Communities and the wider society 66 mechanisms Disclosure on Management Approach: Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of G4-DMA Performance Monitoring, Audits and Evaluation 27-28 environmental and social policies and risk assessment procedures (former FS9) 84 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 85 2014 EMPLOYEE SURVEY G4 Indicators Pg 01. OBJECTIVES Description Of Disclosure Report Reference and DMA Number The objectives of the 2014 employee satisfaction survey are: Material aspect (financial services sector supplement): active ownership • To measure the level of employee satisfaction in 2014 and understand the trend from 2012 Table 6: Progress on our collaborative partnerships: United G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 30-31 • To obtain insight on how well the Group is doing on its people management practices Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI) • To obtain insight into what motivates employees and what affects attrition level across the Group Percentage and number of companies held in the Table 6: Progress on our collaborative partnerships: United G4-FS10 institution’s portfolio with which the organization has 30-31 Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI) interacted on environmental or social issues 02. PARTICIPATION RATE The total number of employees that participated in the survey was 82%, which was higher than the planned level of 80%. The high participation is largely attributable to the leadership role played by Group Heads and Strategic Business Unit Heads. 2.1 Participation Rate by Divisions Participation Rate by Divisions 88% 86% 84% 82% % 80% 78% 76% 74% 72% BBD CBD CIBD ERG PBD Ops & IT 03. EMPLOYEE 4 SATISFACTION INDEX 3.8 The total number of employees that participated in the survey was 82%, which was higher than the planned level of 80%. The high 3.6 participation is largely attributable to the leadership role played by Group Heads and Strategic Business Unit Heads. 3.4 Overall satisfaction level for Nigeria increased from 3.5 in 2013 to 3.2 4.0 in 2014. The increase can be attributed to the following: 2012 2013 2014 1. The review in remuneration impacted on Employee’s satisfaction. 2. Increase in Employee engagement activities – TGIF, celebration of staff who performed extra-ordinarily well, introduction of Year 3.5 3.5 4 monthly happy hour, launch of the Access Recreational and Fitness Center. 86 87 The Satisfaction index for employees in the 50 59 years age bracket remained constant. There was an increase in satisfaction index for employees in the 20 – 29 years, 30 -39 years and 40 49 years age bracket. This is attributed to the following: • The review in remuneration • Most of the participants in this category were biased in participating because they assumed they could be identified. 3.1 Satisfaction Index by Grade Level 3.5 Satisfaction Index by Gender 4.5 4 4.5 3.5 4 3 3.5 2.5 3 2 2.5 1.5 2 1 1.5 0.5 1 0 0.5 Officer Middle Management Top Management 0 2012 3.5 3.5 4.5 2013 3.5 3.5 4.5 2012 2013 2014 2014 3.5 4.0 4.5 2012 3.5 3.5 4.0 2013 3.0 3.0 3.5 Employee satisfaction index remained constant for officers and top management but increased for middle managers for the period under review. The increase is due to the career advancement opportunities within the Bank. The satisfaction index increased for both Male and female employees. The increase is due to: 3.2 Satisfaction Index by Length of Service • Increase in Employee engagement activities – introduction of monthly happy hour and the launch of the Access Recreational and Fitness Center. • The increased activities of the Access Women Network which has helped female employees build a stronger network both professionally and 4.5 socially, the Launch of the W which shows the Bank’s willingness to empower Women. 4 3.5 3.6 Satisfaction Index for Top Performers 3 2.5 2 1.5 1 4.0 0.5 3.9 0 3.8 > 1 year 1 3 years 3 & 6 years 6 & 10 years > 10 years 3.7 2012 3.5 3.0 3.5 3.5 4.0 3.6 2013 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 4.0 3.5 2014 3.5 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.5 3.4 3.3 3.2 2012 2013 2014 Satisfaction index increased for those between 6 – 10 years, and those above 10 years. The increase is attributed to the belief of the employees in A 3.5 3.5 4.0 A* 4 3.5 4.0 the above categories that the Bank is a great place to work and a complete buy-in into the Access Way. 3.3 Satisfaction Index by Age Band The increase in the satisfaction Index increased for Key talents due to the overseas training opportunities made available to them and the 4.5 recognition of their contribution to the Bank’s achievement. 4 3.5 3 2.5 2 1.5 1 0.5 0 20 & 29 years 30 & 39 years 40 & 49 years 50 & 59 years 2012 3.0 3.5 3.5 3.5 2013 3.0 3.5 3.5 4.0 2014 3.5 4.0 4.0 4.0 88 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 89 JOINT STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT BY MEMBERS OF THE BANKERS COMMITTEE 04. CORE COMPETENCIES The total number of employees that participated in the survey was 82%, which was higher than the planned level of 80%. The high participation As leaders in the Nigerian financial sector, we are uniquely positioned to further economic growth and development in is largely attributable to the leadership role played by Group Heads and Strategic Business Unit Heads. Nigeria through our regulatory, lending and investmentactivities across a diversity of segments and sectors of the Nigerian economy. The context iwhich we make business decisions is, however, characterized by complex and growing 4.1 Competencies with Satisfaction Indexes of 3.5 and Above challenges relating to population growth, urban migration, poverty, destruction of biodiversity and ecosystems, Core Competence > 3.5 pressure on food sources, prices and security, lack of energyand infrastructure and potential climate change legislation 5 from our trade partners, amongst others. 4 Increasingly, it has been demonstrated that the development imperative in Nigeria shouldnot only be economically viable, but socially relevant and environmentally responsible. We recognize that we have a role and responsibility to 3 deliver positive development impacts to society whilst protecting the communities and environments in which we 2 operate – for today’s generation as well as for future generations. We believe that such an approach, one of 1 sustainable banking, is consistent with our individual and collective business objectives, and can stimulate further 0 economic growth and opportunity as well as enhance innovation and competitiveness. Workplace Ethics Team Dynamics My Manager / Supervisor Organizational Structure Diversity in the Workplace Safety & Working Environment Career Opportunities Senior/Top Level Management Co-Workers Given the above considerations, we are prepared to take steps to ensure that our business decision-making activities 2012 4.5 4.0 4.0 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.0 3.0 take these considerations into account and are, where applicable, consistent with relevant international standards and 2013 4.5 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.0 practices, but with due regard for the Nigerian context and distinct development needs. 2014 4.5 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 3.5 3.5 3.5 Consequently, we hereby state our commitment to developing and launching a voluntary set of Nigerian sustainable banking principles which will include: 4.2 Competencies with Satisfaction Indexes below 3.5 1) An over-arching set of guidelines relating to our: Core Competence below 3.5 (a) direct impact on communities and the environment as a result of our own business operations; and (b) indirect impacts on communities and the environment as a result of our lending and investment 3 activities; 2.5 2 2) A set of sector-specific guidelines, including as a first priority: 1.5 (a) oil and gas; 1 (b) power (with a focus on renewable energy); and 0.5 (c) agriculture and related water resource issues; 0.5 3) A commitment to raising awareness and developing meaningful and lasting local capacity to manage Job Security Human Resource Culture & Training Work / Life Function Climate Opportunities Balance emerging environmental and social risks and opportunities within our internal operations, as well as to 2012 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 1.0 relevant financial sector government agencies, learning institutions and service providers. 2013 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 1.5 2014 3.0 3.0 3.0 2.5 2.5 In developing these sustainable banking principles, we recognize the need for a process which involves the engagement of relevant stakeholders and industry experts. We also recognize the need for an approach which provides for appropriate levels of transparency, accountability and self-assessment through regular reporting to our stakeholders. We will seek to work with the Central Bank of Nigeria, other relevant government agencies and Culture and Climate development finance institutions to create the enabling environment as well as the incentives and enforcement There has been an increase in the understanding and buy-in of the Access Way. However, there is still the need to significantly improve employees understanding across grades. mechanisms required for successful adoption and uptake of the sustainable banking principles. We acknowledge that we can better support environmentally and socially responsible economic development in HR Function Nigeria by joining forces rather than standing alone. We hereby sign this Joint Commitment Statement with the aim of There was a slight growth in this competency area. Employees believe that the HR function has improved and they are of the opinon that HR staff should be increased and given proper training to enable them champion employee issues. developing a set of sustainable banking principles for the Nigerian banking sector, to drive long-term sustainable growth whilst focusing on development priorities, safeguarding the environment and our people, and delivering measurable benefits to society and the real economy. 90 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 91 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Independent assurance statement by CSR-in-Action to Access Bank Plc on the 2014 GRI G4 Sustainability Report for reporting period January to Responsivity December 2014. • We note that owing to Access Bank’s ambition to be the World’s most respected African Bank, the bank has set very high standards for its non-financial The scope of our assurance engagement performance. Ultimately, the bank works to respond to stakeholder related issues by setting industry standards and exceeding regulatory performance both at home and abroad. Access Banks new compliance and risk management initiative focused on Killing the Price of Non-Compliance (PONC) offers Access Bank engaged CSR-in-Action Consulting to provide independent assurance using the AA1000 Assurance Standard to comment on Access interesting opportunities for improved risk management and sustainability performance for the bank. Bank’s adherence to the AA1000 standard. CSR-in-Action approaches providing AA1000 assurance using the principles of: • Access Bank has made considerable efforts to communicate its responses on sustainability related issues to stakeholders. The report appears Inclusivity – Access Bank’s approach to identifying and engaging stakeholders to gain a full picture of sustainability related challenges over the to have been written to be more appealing to a broad group of stakeholders. We note that this is a conscious attempt to respond to stakeholder reporting period; requests for a more reader-friendly sustainability report. Materiality the criteria the bank has adopted to determining which issues were deemed relatively important to the Bank and stakeholders; and Our Methodology Responsiveness how the Bank has responded to issues raised by key stakeholders in the development of the report. CSR-in-Action carried out Type 1 assurance on Access Bank in accordance with the AS1000AS requirements which expects us to report on the nature and extent of adherence to AA1000APS. Our assurance engagement with Access Bank was commissioned on 14th October 2015 and spanned a Our assurance engagement is a Type 1 assurance as defined by the AA1000 standard: we evaluated the extent of adherence to the AA1000AS period of 2 months. A team of three, led by the Executive Director, were directly involved in the assurance process. The Executive Director provided principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness; and provided assurance to ascertain the adherence to the Accountability principles. In assuring supervisory oversight for the engagement and commentary process. To form our conclusions, our engagement with Access involved but was not the behavior of the organisation, we investigated the systems, structure and processes to arrive at our conclusions. For the 2014 sustainability report, limited to the following procedures: we used disclosed information to relate the adherence with the assurance standard for the report development process. • Analysed the stakeholder identification and engagement process directly related to the report development process on a non-statistical basis Our conclusions are derived from a moderate level assurance, implying that we believe there is sufficient evidence to support the statement such that including review of a sample of engagements and the outcomes of engagement. Our approach involved interviews with key managerial staff including the risk of our conclusion being in error is reduced but not zero. Our liabilities are to the extent of this assurance statement. Access Bank is entirely Head of Sustainability, Facilities, Compliance, and Communications and External Relations; responsible for the content of this report. • Reviewed the process through which material issues for the report were identified and determined for the 2014 sustainability report. This involved a Our opinions, conclusions and recommendations review of documented activities, policies and reports resulting from the bank’s operations during the reporting period; In our opinion, the report was developed through extensive stakeholder engagement, materiality was determined through a systematic and inclusive • Reviewed the content of the report in relation to the findings from our assurance engagement and provided recommendations for improvement. approach and the Bank has systems in place to effectively respond to issues raised by key stakeholders all of which reflect adherence to the principles of AA1000 (2008). We conclude that Access Bank adheres with the principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness as set out in the AA1000 CSR-in-Action has not been responsible for the preparation of the report; neither has our engagement extended to a complete audit of the report Accountability Principles Standard (APS) (2008). development process for Access Bank. Our responsibility is to express independently a conclusion of the 2014 Sustainability Report and provide commentary on the non-financial performance of Access Bank as agreed between Access Bank and CSR-in-Action. Our responsibility for the Our comments and recommendations conclusions formed within the statement are to Access Bank only. Inclusivity • Stakeholder engagement has continued to mature in Access Bank as demonstrated through a clear rationale for engagement of stakeholders across board. We note that Access Bank has established processes and the required resources to effectively engage its key stakeholders • Engagement with stakeholders has taken place extensively at home and in the subsidiaries throughout the year. We note that Access Bank has made conscious efforts to include its subsidiaries in a broad approach to inclusive stakeholder engagement, a conscious improvement based on recommendations made in assurance statement from a recent sustainability report. Materiality • Progress on the Nigerian Sustainability Banking Principles (NSBP) shows that industry-wide sustainability is material to Access bank’s sustainability aspirations. Access Bank’s consistent adoption of global voluntary sustainability performance frameworks such as the Equator Principles and institutionalizing the IFC sustainability performance criteria reveal Access Banks global sustainability ambitions, consistent with its strategic aspirations, to be the World’s most respected African Bank. • Engagement with stakeholders has taken place across the group and subsidiaries. For an increasingly growing bank, it is suggested that Access Bank adopt innovative approaches in presenting its materiality matrix. The 2014 sustainability report features a materiality matrix which is compacted with material issues. Future reports can benefit from a materiality matrix which is separated based on the dimensions of sustainability, geographical location or function across the bank. 92 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014 94 Access Bank Sustainability Report 2014
