Organizing for future growth TOP-TOY’s Performance Report 2015/2016 1 Organizing for future growth TOP-TOY’s Performance Report 2015/2016 Introduction Message from our CEO 3 Highlights of the year 4 About TOP-TOY This is TOP-TOY 5 BR – the authority on making children happy 7 Everything for children at TOYS”R”US 9 Our 2020 strategy 10 Sustainability Our approach to sustainability 11 Safe playing experiences 12 Safe and responsible working conditions 13 Ethical product offering and marketing 14 Business ethics and community engagement 15 Reducing our environmental impact 16 Employees and diversity 17 Our performance Financial performance 18 About this report About this report and reporting methodology 19 2 “ This year has been marked by a number of significant changes for TOP-TOY – new owners, a new board, a new CEO and a new head office. I see great Financial performance This year we have seen our sales increase both online and in our physical stores in total with 5.9% in constant currencies. “ potential in our organisation, and I am confident However, following the closure of our wholesale business, our top line has, as expected, declined 2%. We have also seen a reduction in exciting times and growth that our profits, largely due to the one-off costs related to this closure and are ahead the write down of assets related to moving our Danish head office. Changes in foreign exchange ratios also had a negative impact on the operating result. We experienced a higher cost of goods sold due to a stronger USD and lower revenue due to a lower exchange rate for Norwegian and Swedish kroner. Overall our financial result this year did not meet expectations and is considered unsatisfactory. A continuing, very competitive retail marketplace for toys calls for a lean cost structure and strong price and margin management. Our key ambition for 2016/2017 is to grow our sales and market share in all our markets. I am confident we can achieve this through a powerful selection of great new toys relevant to our two retail banners and made available through an improved online shopping experience; through successful implementation of a new ERP system and through continued development of the TOP-TOY culture. All with an ongoing focus on ensuring our stores provide great customer experiences and sell fun, inspirational and safe quality products. Growing responsibly Our long-term growth has to be achieved in a responsible manner. This is why TOP-TOY has been a signatory of the UN Global Compact MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO since 2010. Our commitment is as strong as ever. In 2015/2016, we have continued our work to ensure safe play In 2015/2016, we undertook significant changes to strengthen growth for TOP-TOY and to ensure that children across the markets for children, safe and responsible conditions for the workers who our organisation. The biggest was the sale to the private we operate in get hours and hours of safe, joyful play and learning. produce our products and an ethical approach to our product equity fund EQT, making them the majority owner of TOP-TOY. offering and marketing. It has been a great pleasure for me to find Looking ahead, we need to continue evolving to stay competitive. that this commitment is firmly embedded in TOP-TOY. From family owned to private equity ownership Relentless customer focus and working in a coherent and During the year, TOP-TOY entered a partnership with EQT. Following this collaborative manner across TOP-TOY and with our partners change of ownership, a new board of directors was established, and I are necessary to ensure our customers enjoy a great shopping joined TOP-TOY as CEO after Peter Gjørup as the first CEO of TOP-TOY experience and a strong product offering that keeps them without family relations. These steps are a natural continuation of the coming back. journey that began with the launch of our new strategy in 2014/2015. I would like to say a big thank you to all employees for embracing the Our goal is to develop and grow our company to ensure we remain the Søren Torp Laursen opportunities this year’s changes have brought and for welcoming me undisputed no. 1 toy retailer in the Nordic region. To achieve that, we will CEO into an organisation full of dedicated people who know their business. build on our more than 50 years of experience while adapting proactively Exciting times lie ahead as we work together to attain long-term and continuously to the dynamic toy market. 3 HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR TOP-TOY entered a partnership with EQT. EQT IS NOW THE MAJORITY SHAREHOLDER in the company, while the founding Gjørup family still owns approximately 24%. Changes were also made to the Board of Directors and a new chairman appointed. 8 NEW TOYS”R”US STORES OPENED and 1 closed as part of our store On 1 January 2016, we COMPLETED THE CLOSURE network optimisation. OF OUR WHOLESALE BUSINESS, NORSTAR. 16 NEW BR STORES OPENED and 11 closed as part of our continuous store In October 2015, we finalised the implementation network optimisation. of the NEW BR STORE DESIGN, which aims to improve our customers’ shopping experience. In spring 2016, SØREN TORP LAURSEN joined TOP-TOY as CEO. ADJUSTED EBITDA TOTALLED DKK 165 MILLION More than 210 stores in our Nordic markets now Søren comes with solid experience in the toy business from 29 years enjoy the new, modern look. of working for LEGO. DKK 3,538 MILLION IN ADJUSTED REVENUE 135,635 PRODUCTS SOLD 3,651 NEW PRODUCTS VERIFIED FROM OUR FSC-CERTIFIED as part of our product safety procedure BR Wood product line 1 PRODUCT RECALL. Our objective is In March 2016, WE MOVED OUR WORKING CONDITIONS zero. Whenever it comes to our attention DANISH HEAD OFFICE from Tune, SCREENED AT 836 FACTORIES that something is wrong with one of our Roskilde to new modern facilities that manufacture the products products, we initiate a recall rather than closer to Copenhagen (Vallensbæk). we offer our customers compromise children’s safety. 4 “ We strive to make children smile by selling 309 2,228 ADJUSTED REVENUE “ STORES FULL-TIME DKK quality products that inspire them to play, learn and have fun 30,683 EMPLOYEES 3,538 MILLION PRODUCTS IN ASSORTMENT* ADJUSTED 45 EBITDA million DKK 165 PRODUCTS SOLD 19.9 million THROUGH CUSTOMERS SERVED MILLION BR & TOYS R US IN BR & TOYS R US * Number of products in the assortment during the financial year. Previously this was reported as number of products on a specific date. THIS IS TOP-TOY We are the leading retail company for toys and other we have four BR web shops and four TOYS”R”US web shops. This makes this as an investment in our customers and in the development and children’s products in the Nordic region, defined by our TOP-TOY the leading player in the Nordic toy market. growth of our company. strong values and clear business concept. We have a passion for play, a commitment to responsible business Investing in future growth and building on more than and a desire to meet and exceed customer expectations. Our core values 50 years of experience Our five core values – business sense, responsibility, family tree, TOP-TOY has more than 50 years of experience in enriching A leading position through more than 300 BR and top performance and toy fun – are engrained in the company and each children’s lives. In 2015/2016, we took an important step towards TOYS”R”US stores of our employees. They are also embedded in our Code of Conduct, strengthening our development and innovation capabilities which guides the ethical behaviour of our people, helping them to make Through our two retail chains BR and TOYS”R”US, we offer a broad through a new partnership with the private equity fund EQT. the right decisions and shaping a culture based on personal accountability. range of inspiring products that enable children of all ages to explore The partnership adds competencies and capital to TOP-TOY and develop their creativity while learning and having fun. The range that will support the market share growth of our retail banners. spans everything from toys, trampolines and pools to children’s books, Our sustainability commitment EQT’s and TOP-TOY’s values complement each other well, as both bed linen, role-play costumes and accessories. We sell our own brand We take responsibility for our actions throughout the value chain emphasise responsible business practices, entrepreneurship, products and other leading international brands. and with respect for our most important stakeholders – the children a long-term view of value creation and always doing better than who play with our products. We invest many resources in ensuring yesterday. EQT is now the majority shareholder in the company, We operate more than 300 stores. Most of our stores are in the Nordic our customers can trust our products to be safe, produced under while the founding Gjørup family still owns approximately 24%. region, but we also have more than 20 BR stores in Germany. In addition, responsible conditions and marketed in an ethical manner. We see 5 Business sense We strive to give our customers good service and offer them products of the right quality at the right time and price. Business sense also means being proactive and driving our markets. 3 Responsibility 27 We take responsibility for our actions ICELAND throughout the value chain and with respect for our most important stakeholders – the children who play with our products. Family tree The importance of family is apparent throughout TOP-TOY. Families are the most frequent visitors to our stores, FINLAND and there is a strong family spirit among our employees. FAROE SWEDEN ISLANDS 7 Top performance NORWAY We strive to be top performers. 29 We want to do better than yesterday, 1 20 and we do this by listening to relevant stakeholders and closely monitoring Franchise store 14 194 our performance. 65 45 Toy fun 317 622 Fun is a key driver in our work, and one we wouldn’t be without. Just as children have fun experimenting and trying out new things, we have fun when choosing and testing the products we sell and growing our company. 16 87 DENMARK 895 Copenhagen 89 HONG KONG 2,228 full-time employees GERMANY 23 249 BR stores 60 84 Main offices Our business as it looked at the end of the fiscal year June 30, 2016. TOYS”R”US stores 6 “ BR is the authority on 24% “ making children happy with Over 1,000 249 FULL-TIME REVENUE its recognisable mascot and its own EMPLOYEES BASED ON BR PRODUCTS AND OWN BRANDS loyalty programme Club BR STORES MORE THAN 118,000 FACEBOOK LIKES 13.2 million 27 ~88% CUSTOMERS SERVED million PRODUCTS SOLD CUSTOMER BRAND AWARENESS BR – THE AUTHORITY ON MAKING CHILDREN HAPPY BR is TOP-TOY’s high street toy retailer with stores in prime locations, While children can still enjoy all the colours and magic of wonderful comprises our own brand, our private label brands and many a strong brand with a recognisable mascot, well-established customer products at their eye level, adults are treated to a more accessible well-known brands from our suppliers. BR offers a broad range of relationships and, not least, our loyalty programme Club BR. store with easy navigation signs and a smart layout. creative and educational products such as baby and toddler toys, children’s books, roleplay costumes and accessories, interactive toys, The authority on making children happy BR store network video games and much more. Our ambition is to make BR the authority on making children happy We opened the first BR store in 1963. Today we have a strong market position and a network of more than 240 stores, all located close BR own brands – – known for understanding what children want and making them smile. We want BR to remain the no. 1 specialty retail chain in to our customers in shopping malls and other prime locations in responsible products focused on child development the Nordic markets and the customers’ preferred place to go for Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, the Faroe Islands and Germany. To differentiate BR from other retailers, we invest in developing our personal service, easy and convenient shopping and a targeted Customer awareness of the BR brand is strong, averaging 88% in our own brand products, sold exclusively in our BR stores and web shops. assortment of inspiring, quality products. Celebrating children’s Nordic markets. We work continuously to optimise our network by Our focus is on products that target babies, toddlers and young birthdays is important, so all Club BR members can collect a free opening new BR stores in markets with growth potential and closing children. We continuously develop our own brand products and gift in their local BR shop when their big day comes around. unprofitable ones. product lines, such as our creative BR line, BR Wood and BR Bath. Both BR Wood and BR Bath have been designed with the physical As part of the exciting journey towards modernising and re-focusing BR, Fun, inspirational, safe toys of high quality development, learning abilities and creative thinking of 0 to 3-year-old we have rolled out a more modern, Scandinavian BR identity concept BR offers a focused assortment of fun, inspirational and high quality children in mind. Safety and sustainability considerations are naturally in all our stores to strengthen the customer shopping experience. toys and other products that target young children. The assortment integrated in the development and design of these products. 7 RESPONSIBLE BR PRODUCT LINE This BR stacking soldier is sold in all our stores and web shops. It is part of Working conditions BR’s wooden product line and intended for children from 18 months of age. China is the country of origin. Like all our products from China, the soldier is produced in a factory that has been audited for its working conditions. Children’s right to safe play Children have a right to safe play. To protect them, the BR stacking soldier has gone through a thorough safety and quality procedure to ensure it meets the highest mechanical and chemical safety standards. It has been subjected to several mechanical tests. Child development The BR stacking soldier has been designed with much consideration for the physical development, learning and creative thinking of children. It is great for challenging and developing hand-eye coordination and problem-solving skills. Safe for children to chew It is perfectly safe for children to put the soldier in their mouths. All ingredients in the paint have been evaluated to make sure there are no harmful substances. Timeless design The design of the stacking soldier is based on Scandinavian traditions. It is durable, classic and evokes a sense of nostalgia. Packaging and the environment Sustainable wood The packaging is made of recycled cardboard with a UV coating The stacking soldier is made from FSC® certified wood. That means it supports that ensures quality and environmental standards are met. responsible forestry and is certified in accordance with FSC standards. 8 ~104,500 Over 500 60 NEW TOYS”R”US FULL-TIME NEWSLETTER MEMBERS STORES EMPLOYEES (a total of ~ 406,800) ~83% 18 million CUSTOMER BRAND AWARENESS 6.7 million PRODUCTS SOLD CUSTOMERS SERVED EVERYTHING FOR CHILDREN AT TOYS”R”US “ We have successfully operated a “ TOYS”R”US is TOP-TOY’s chain of large toy stores, offering More than 12,000 fun, inspiring products per store strong network a broad assortment of entertaining products at great prices Each TOYS”R”US store offers more than 12,000 products, and targeting children of all ages. covering everything from trampolines, swimming pools, bicycles and construction products to party tableware, lamps and of TOYS”R”US stores for more than children’s furniture. TOYS”R”US also offers a wide selection of The one-stop destination with everything 20 years well-known brands, such as LEGO, PLAYMOBIL, FISHER PRICE, for children and our private-label brands, including OUTRA and COLOR KIDS. TOYS”R”US is the one-stop destination with everything for children. TOYS”R”US store network Our target when developing the TOYS”R”US concept is to ensure For more than 20 years, TOP-TOY has successfully operated a strong We focus on creating a strong mix of products that appeals to that TOYS”R”US is the most entertaining destination for children network of TOYS”R”US stores across the Nordic region under a licence a broad target group so our customers can always find a broad and adults, offering fun experiences and events and the largest agreement. Today we operate 60 stores across Norway, Sweden, range of categories. TOYS”R”US should also be the go-to place for assortment of children’s favourite brands, great prices and good Finland, Denmark and Iceland, giving us a strong position in the market. entertaining seasonal and outdoor products. bargains. This includes building in-store experience universes, By opening new stores in markets with growth potential, we optimise creating points of inspiration and entertainment, and introducing our store network continuously. Customer awareness of the TOYS”R”US designated areas for events and seasonal occasions. brand is strong, averaging 83% in our largest markets. 9 OUR 2020 STRATEGY Our 2020 ambition is to develop and grow our company to We have defined three strategic objectives to ensure we achieve maintain our position as the undisputed no. 1 toy retailer in the this goal: differentiating our retail chains and expanding our store Nordic region, committed to delivering value to customers and network, developing a customer-centric approach and strengthening consumers while achieving sustainable and profitable growth. our online position. A number of strategic initiatives support these objectives. All TOP-TOY employees are involved in the implementation of our strategy and are regularly updated on our progress. OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES Differentiating our retail chains Developing a customer-centric approach Strengthening our online position and expanding our store network Examples of our strategic progress in 2015/2016 • We have further optimised our store network to bring • We will implement a new global ERP system. The system is our stores closer to customers. In 2015/2016, the network scheduled to go live in spring 2017. The system will enable • We finalised the implementation of the new BR store design, increased with 12 more stores, as we opened 24 new us to collect better data about customer purchasing behaviour, which aims to improve our customers’ shopping experience. stores and closed 12. equipping us to create a more tailor-made experience for the More than 210 stores in our Nordic markets now enjoy the new, • We have optimised our click and collect service by introducing individual shopper. modern look. click and collect express in Denmark, Norway, Sweden and • We will continue to strengthen and digitalise Club BR so members • We have expanded our own brand product lines, BR Wood and Finland. Customers using click and collect express can order have more reasons to visit our BR stores all year round. BR Bath, with 22 new products. In September 2015, we launched their products online and collect them just three hours later • We will enhance our online shopper experience across both a new creative own brand product line. These product lines help in any of our BR or TOYS”R”US stores. banners and all markets by strengthening our online platforms to differentiate BR from TOYS”R”US and other toy stores. to ensure they utilise commercial activities across all channels and • We are working on detailed strategies for each of our product Examples of initiatives that will support our meet consumer expectations. categories to ensure our product offerings meet customer demands. This has led to the introduction of new product categories. strategy in the future • We will continue to expand our store network. For example, we have introduced children’s books to our product • We will continue to work on the BR concept and on ensuring assortment in BR Sweden following their successful introduction that TOYS”R”US stands out as the one-stop destination with in Denmark. everything for children. 10 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY We strive to run our business in an ethical way. This means taking responsibility for our actions throughout the value chain and for our most important stakeholders – the children who play with our products. Products you can trust Our priorities UN Global Compact Our sustainability priorities are defined by what we consider material Important priorities across our supply chain are: As part of our commitment to responsibility, we have been signatories of the for us as a company with children as the end-consumers: making sure • Safe play for the children playing with our products UN Global Compact since 2010. As illustrated below, we consider and work that our customers can trust our products and our marketing. • Safe and responsible factory working conditions with the UN Global Compact principles at all stages of our value chain. • An ethical product offering and marketing Our customers should be able to trust that toys bought in our stores UN, UNICEF and Save the Children have developed the Children’s Rights and are safe for their children to play with, meet all applicable national and Our employees and the communities we are part of are equally Business Principles that guide us in prioritising our sustainability activities international legislation and have been produced under responsible important to our business. For this reason, we also focus on: throughout our value chain. We focus primarily on the following principles: conditions for factory workers. In addition, when children come in our • Respect and support children’s rights • Business ethics and community engagement stores or browse our catalogues, they should not be exposed to products • Contribute to the elimination of child labour • Reducing our environmental impact or marketing that could affect them negatively. For this reason, we avoid • Provide decent work for young workers, parents and caregivers • Employees and diversity stereotyping, sexualisation and products that promote gambling, for example. • Ensure that products and services are safe • Use marketing and advertising that respect and support children’s rights. Designing and WE SUPPORT Production Products on the move Selling our products Our products in play choosing our products Children have a right to safe play and should not be exposed to products that We respect the rights of our employees We strive to meet our costumers with an and of workers in our value chain. We test our products thoroughly may affect them negatively. This is why ethical product offering and marketing Human and labour rights we integrate product safety and ethical Our social compliance programme works and aim to utilise our stores to raise – because children have a right to ensure our products are made under to safe play. considerations in our product design funds for our communities. and selection. safe and responsible conditions. Our office employees in Hong Kong and Denmark ensure our product We strive to create a good work We strive to ensure good jobs for Human and labour rights environment and minimize our store and office employees who assortment is fun and inspiring, and we our employees strive to ensure them a good job with a work-related injuries among employees contribute to providing customers with a sustainable work-life balance. at our distribution centre. great shopping experience. We try to avoid air freight and work to We integrate environmental concerns in We aim to reduce energy consumption Environment reduce waste, energy use and emissions the packaging of our own brands. and emissions in our stores. at our distribution centre. Our Code of Conduct sets high ethical Our Code of Conduct sets high ethical Anti-corruption standards for transparent and objective standards for transparent and objective business decisions. business decisions. * The table illustrates how we work with the UN Global Compact principles in our value chain. 11 SAFE PLAYING EXPERIENCES Children have a right to safe play. The safety of the children who play with our products is at the very top of our priorities. Production We work systematically to integrate safety in a product’s entire lifecycle. Quality checks and inspections are performed during production 166 All our products have been tested thoroughly to make sure they are safe as a safeguard against potential safety risks. We pay special to play with, and our toys naturally always comply with all relevant EU and attention to critical points in the manufacturing process, production inspections national safety regulations. In the case of chemical content and for some for example the use of chemicals. Complex products such toys aimed at children under the age of three, we set ourselves higher as cosmetics are subject to particular scrutiny. If we find standards than those of the EU Toy Safety Directive. parts or materials that do not meet our requirements, they are improved or reworked as early in the Production production process as possible. We help support good and meaningful safety regulations Process starts inspection by collaborating with the European Committee for the Standardisation of Toys (CEN TC 52) and the Danish Standardisation Agency. We also encourage Product accepted for production FInal products 3,973 product inspections market surveillance by relevant authorities to ensure Confirmation Testing of ODUCTION products by a level playing field. of factory PR 3rd party labs Specification of Product requirements inspection by TOP-TOY Development 3,651 DEVELOPMENT VERIFICATION Every product design is assessed for Verification of Assessment of documentation its chemical and mechanical safety verified product design and labelling new products and quality. The design may be 994 and sample changed and improved before Final products products are approved products assessed are approved for production. A sample is made Shipment An idea is born SALE Monitoring and Verification collecting claims Sales All finished products are assessed to ensure Evaluation and registration of they meet the strict European standards Once products are on the market, we continue Feedback to incidents for mechanical and chemical safety. to monitor their safety by collecting feedback supplier from consumers. This provides input for any future product redesigns or potential product recalls. Due to our strict safety and quality control, we have had very few recalls in 1 recall recent years. 12 SAFE AND RESPONSIBLE WORKING CONDITIONS We take our responsibility to respect human and labour rights seriously. We monitor our suppliers’ performance via social audits. We screen the working Through our social compliance programme, we work continuously to ensure our conditions of all supplier factories through a step-wise approval process, and an order products are made under responsible conditions with respect for international cannot be placed before the factory is approved. In 2015/16 we screened 836 factories. human rights and labour standards. Our products are only produced by factories that have been audited in accordance with our social compliance standards. In 2015, we initiated a dialogue with the Centre for Children’s Rights and Corporate Social Responsibility (CCR CSR) to assess our human rights impact in our supply chain, with We do not own any factories ourselves but collaborate with our suppliers to special focus on young and migrant workers. We are now assessing the best way make sure the people, who make our toys, have safe, humane and healthy to include the learnings from this cooperation in our social compliance programme. working conditions, where their rights are respected. Audits Approval Factory performance and progress are monitored If an audit report does not contain any critical findings or, via audits when we first place an order and if required, the factory agrees to appropriate then once a year. Conducted by ourselves or, corrective action, the factory is approved and in most cases, third party auditing bodies, production can start. The factory may be the factory audits consist of several steps, subject to a follow-up audit to verify that Geographical distribution of factories 2015/16 including document reviews, interviews corrective action is being implemented with workers and management, and a according to plan. 3% China 4% visual inspection of the factory. 5% Europe Assessment of Social audits (excluding Nordic countries) the documentation at factory 17% 71% Assessment of China 71% Asia (excluding China) Relevant factory audit reports Nordic countries documentation is submitted to TOP-TOY AUDITS Other Screening of Approval or potential rejection of Factory certification and audits 2015/16 factories DOCUMENTATION factory APPROVAL 1% ICTI Documentation 6% Low-risk countires All factories are assessed 49% 19% according to submitted SA-8000, BSCI and SMETA An idea is Production ICTI documentation and audit 49% born starts reports before an approval TOP-TOY own audits can be issued and an order 25% Other placed with a supplier. 13 ETHICAL PRODUCT OFFERING AND MARKETING It is through our products and marketing that we engage most directly with children and their families. Children experience our marketing and product offering when they browse our catalogues and visit our stores. Ethical product offering As children are our target group, we have an even greater responsibility to be ethical in terms of both product offering and marketing. Customers should feel confident that children will not be exposed to products that may affect them negatively, for example by sending inappropriate signals or causing emotional or physical harm. For this reason, we developed our Ethical Product Offering Policy in 2015 to define products we will not include in our assortment. Responsible marketing Our Ethical Product Offering Policy also covers some marketing-related issues. In the years ahead, we will increase our focus on responsible marketing by developing a separate Responsible Marketing Policy. This ambition comes from the recognition that marketing ommunications can influence children’s behaviour. We wish to ensure our marketing promotes safe, inclusive and active play. Examples of our positions Gender, marketing and product offering We also make efforts to avoid stereotyping in our store design. Safe play: We offer personal protection equipment along with products We want to give children the opportunity to wish for products In all BR stores and new TOYS”R”US stores, the sections are not such as bikes, skateboards and roller skates, for example. We also make and play with toys of their choice. In our experience, girls and boys categorised according to gender but according to product sure that the use of relevant personal protection equipment is shown often like to play with many different toys across traditional and categories such as interactive play, creativity and learning, when promoting these products. stereotypical gender categories. This is why we always strive to classic toys, baby and toddler products, and so on. Tobacco and alcohol: We do not offer products that can be perceived as give our customers the opportunity to buy and play with the toys of their own choice regardless of gender. Although we work continuously to ensure we portray modern ways promoting the use of tobacco or alcohol. As far as possible, this also applies of playing without stereotyping, we acknowledge that this takes time to the reproduction of related logos on, for example, football trading cards This principle is also reflected in our marketing, where we and that things do not change overnight. and model-scale vehicles. work to portray children playing together with products Right impression of product features: We promote products in a way across categories, both in our catalogues and when we that gives children the right impression of product features. This avoids produce other commercial material. disappointing the children. 14 BUSINESS ETHICS AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT We strive to conduct our business in an ethical manner, and we engage with our stakeholders and the wider community. Our ongoing goal is to improve our business and become more responsible. We welcome feedback from our customers and other stakeholders. Community engagement with two international organisations that aim to improve children’s We believe that most challenges are best faced together. This is lives and opportunities one for each of our retail banners. why we support initiatives that promote responsible business and These partnerships will be launched during 2016/2017. collaborate with relevant organisations that work for responsible manufacturing practices at industry level or for good and meaningful Business ethics safety regulations. At TOP-TOY, we are committed to high ethical standards in everything we do. To support this, we have developed our Code of Conduct, Community investment which helps guide the responsible behaviour of our employees. As part of being a responsible company, we wish to invest in the communities we are part of to help children in need and make The Code of Conduct is a tool for encouraging and supporting them smile. We wish to make sure that the organisations we dialogue when solving the ethical dilemmas that employees may support get the most out of our community investment, and we face in their daily work and for establishing clear roles and believe the best way to achieve this is through long-term strategic responsibilities across the organisation. It also ensures our partnerships. From 2009 to 2014, we supported the SOS children’s external stakeholders know what to expect from us. villages in Nanchang, China, primarily by selling plush dogs in our BR stores. During this period, we donated approximately DKK 11.5 Detailed policies and tools support the practical application of million. We are in the process of establishing strategic partnerships our Code of Conduct. Pa r ti CI cipa nt of BS WE SUPPORT We participate in the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) The UN Global Compact International Council of Toy Industries (ICTI) Care Foundation. Signatory since 2010 We are part of the ICTI Care Committed Brands PLUS Program. We also collaborate with European Committee for the Standardisation of Toys (CEN TC 52) and the Danish Standardisation Agency 15 REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT We are committed to minimising our overall impact on the environment while striving to promote environmentally responsible behaviour among our employees, suppliers and business partners. Our environmental policy We operate in a global context where we need to focus our environment-related efforts on those areas where we can make the most positive change. Since we do not own any manufacturing or production sites, our biggest direct environmental impact comes from our distribution set-up and retail stores. Our environmental policy focuses on the following six priority areas where we believe we can bring about the most positive change: • Energy and emissions • Product packaging • Waste • Transportation • Product suppliers • Investments and purchases Responsible BR product lines We have integrated environmental concerns in the development of all our new BR product lines. Packaging is made of recycled cardboard with a UV coating that ensures quality and environmental standards are met. In addition, the BR Wood product series is made entirely of FSC-certified wood. In 2015/2016, we sold more than Implementing LED lighting in our warehouse and stores In 2015/2016, we implemented LED lighting in eight new TOYS”R”US stores. 135,000 BR Wood products and added 15 new products to this One of the most important steps we have taken to reduce energy LED lighting will also be implemented in the remaining TOYS”R”US stores in product line. consumption and emissions is the implementation of LED lighting the years ahead. in our own facilities. At our distribution centre, this has saved approximately 710,000 kWh, corresponding to 300 tonnes of CO2 Stores with LED lighting at year-end 2014/15 2015/16 a year. At our BR stores, we have saved approximately 4.4 million kWh, corresponding to a 1,800 tonne reduction in CO2 and annual Stores with LED lighting 35% 75% savings of DKK 3.2 million. 16 EMPLOYEES AND DIVERSITY At TOP-TOY, we view our employees – their knowledge, creativity and engagement – as our most important asset. Job creation We are aware that one of our key contributions to society is job creation. Through our stores, warehouse and offices, we create jobs that require a range of skillsets. Located in many parts of the Nordic countries, our stores create local jobs for skilled and unskilled workers. In 2015/2016, more than 6,132 people were employed at TOP-TOY, corresponding to 2,228 full-time employees. Creating good jobs We want to create good jobs that attract and retain qualified employees. To achieve this, we invest in maintaining and developing our employees’ qualifications and work continuously to improve our training of store and office employees. During 2015, 70 store managers or trainee store managers attended our store manager school. We have a strong health and safety organisation in our stores, warehouses and offices. We encourage employees to be prompt and proactive in reporting workplace hazards and accidents and raising concerns about the workplace that can impact physical or psychological safety. Women and men in top management 2014/15 2015/16 Diversity Women Men Women Men We believe that our future competitiveness depends on our ability to attract and retain Board of directors 17% 83% 0% 100% an engaged and competent workforce, recognising the benefits of diversity in respect Executive management team (EMT) 0% 100% 0% 100% of gender, culture and experience. Our aim is to continue progressing towards our Top management team (TMT) 38% 62% 23% 77% long-term commitment to hire and promote women at top management level. Middle managers 26% 74% 31% 69% Store managers 67% 33% 65% 35% Our long-term goal for diversity in our Board of Directors is that two board members Entire top management 59% 41% 60% 40% should be women in 2019/2020. In 2015/2016, the number of women on the board decreased. In light of our goal, this development is naturally unsatisfactory. Our 2015/2016 target was that around half of all new managerial appointments should be women. We will New appointments to managerial positions 2015/16 maintain this target until a balanced gender distribution has been achieved. In 2015/2016, the target was only reached for new middle manager employees. Women Men Board of directors 0 (0%) 4 (100%) Closure of NORSTAR Executive management team (EMT) 0 (0%) 1 (100%) Part of our responsibility as an employer is to treat our employees with respect – also in the Top management team (TMT) 0 (0%) 3 (100%) unfortunate situations where we have to let people go. On 1 January 2016, we completed Middle managers 5 (62%) 3 (38%) the closure of our wholesale business, NORSTAR. The decision affected 131 colleagues, all of Entire top management 5 (31%) 11 (69%) whom have been offered guidance and support in taking the next step in their careers. 17 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE TOP-TOY’s financial performance in 2015/2016 was negatively Copenhagen, contributed further to the decline in profits after tax. affected by one-off costs related to the closure of our wholesale business and to moving into a new head office. Looking ahead Our operating business was also negatively impacted by We expect that the market for toys will grow modestly in the coming years, as consumer exchange rate developments. At the same time, revenue from confidence increases and more children are born. Our goal is always to perform better our core business – retail – increased. We expect results to than the market and increase our market shares. improve to a satisfactory level as early as 2016/2017 following implementation of margin-improving initiatives in 2016. The toy market is a dynamic market, where a new Star Wars® movie, for example, can have a major impact on the product assortment. As the 2016 Christmas season will be characterised Revenue – store and online performance by few big, new toy-related movies and stories, classic toys and play patterns will be in focus. Total revenue declined 2% to DKK 3,917 million due to the closure We will implement margin-improving initiatives in 2016. Along with our strategic focus on of wholesale activities at year-end 2015 and a lower exchange rate strengthening our omni-channel, becoming more customer-centric and differentiating our for Norwegian and Swedish kroner. BR and TOYS”R”US brands so they appeal to different consumer needs, this prepares us for a strong year of growth – in total sales and same-store sales and from our online and Retail revenue increased 5.9% adjusted for currency impact. This was omni-channel efforts. due to the net addition of 12 stores to our network. Both our BR and TOYS”R”US web shops recorded considerable growth in the number of visitors and revenue as well as high customer satisfaction. Customers have responded very well to our click and collect service. TOP-TOY key figures in DKK million Wholesale revenue declined from DKK 592 million in 2014/2015 to 2013/2014 2014/15 2015/16 DKK 379 million in 2015/2016. All wholesale activities were closed at year-end 2015. Revenue 3,965 4,007 3,917 Adjusted revenue* 3,336 3,424 3,538 This year’s profits Adjusted EBITDA** 185.2 226.7 165.4 Profit for the year 63.6 103.1 6.6 Adjusted EBITDA declined by 27% to DKK 165 million. During the financial year, significant management resources were spent on Employees and stores changes related to the closure of the wholesale division at the end Number of full-time employees 2,258 2,177 2,228 of 2015 and on new strategic projects following the partnership Number of stores 302 297 309 with EQT. Our operating business was also negatively impacted by exchange rate developments, which were hedged only to a limited Key financial ratio degree and could not be fully absorbed in decisions regarding sales prices and assortment mix at short notice. The decline also caused a Adjusted EBITDA margin 5.6% 6.6% 4.7% decline in profits after tax. One-off costs related to the closure of our wholesale business and a write down of assets related to moving * Adjusted revenue excludes wholesale revenue the Danish head office to new modern facilities in Vallensbæk near ** Adjusted EBITDA excludes discontinued wholesale activities, consultancy costs for strategic projects, reorganisation and movement of HQ to Vallensbæk 18 ABOUT THIS REPORT This 2015/2016 performance report is our seventh annual report and part of our effort to give stakeholders a clear and easily accessible account of our financial and non-financial progress. The report is supported by more extensive online information about our company, policies and performance. These are available at www.top-toy.com Legal notices METHODOLOGY AND Throughout this report, references are made to TOP-TOY, which consists of REPORTING FRAMEWORK TOP-TOY A/S and its subsidiaries. Scope and reporting framework TOP-TOY is a registered trademark of TOP-TOY (Hong Kong) Ltd. BR and the This report focuses on our performance during the financial year from Guardsman (workmark and devices) are registered trademarks of TOP-TOY A/S. 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016. NORSTAR is a registered trademark of NORSTAR A/S. The report meets the criteria of the UN Global Compact, including the TOYS“R”US, the TOYS“R”US & Star design and the Giraffe design are registered commitment to issue an annual Communication on Progress (COP) report. trademarks of Geoffrey, LLC. TOP-TOY A/S is a licensee of Geoffrey, LLC. Our financial report, particularly the management review, complies with the statutory statement on corporate social responsibility by the Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99a and the statutory statement on corporate social responsibility by the Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99b. This report is available at www.top-toy.com Non-financial data This report is based on quantitative and qualitative data collected from internal systems and key people across the organisation. Statements and data have been verified for correctness by responsible managers to ensure the report is an accurate reflection of TOP-TOY’s performance. We work continuously to improve our data collection and verification systems and become more data driven. Financial data The financial data in this report covers TOP-TOY A/S and its subsidiaries. 19 TOP-TOY Delta Park 37, 2665 Vallensbæk Denmark Tel +45 4616 3656 www.top-toy.com TOP-TOY Hong Kong 11/F, Manhattan Place, 23 Wang Tai Road Kowloon Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong Tel +852 3143 8888 www.top-toy.com For more information about TOP-TOY and our performance, visit: www.top-toy.com Please forward any questions or comments to the Communications and Sustainability team at com@top-toy.com © 2016, TOP-TOY A/S. All rights reserved. 20
