csr report 2014-2015 2014-2015 csr report OUR VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY We are determined to stay away from the outbreak of green-washing trends and remain true to what we are trying to achieve in a context where numerous other companies are humming the CSR tune. S ince our last report in 2013, we have taken a leap green-washing trends and remain true to what we are trying forward in our endeavor to become a more socially to achieve in a context where numerous other companies are responsible company, promoting sustainable living humming the CSR tune. and business in everything we do. In 2014, we joined the During the last 2 years, we have put our focus on 4 areas. United Nations Global Compact by committing to respect the Our commitment in this respect goes as follows: (1) to our 10 principles of the UNGC and by taking actions in support of Employees wellbeing as we want to make sure we firmly align those principles. Some of the UNGC principles are already part our interests to theirs, (2) to the Environment as we look at of what we have been accomplishing since the inception of reducing the impact of our company by coming up with specific our Group in 1897; others have been addressed steadily since targeted initiatives, (3) to the Community at large as we 2011 when we took onboard CSR as a corporate function. If empower this latter by ensuring we break the barriers between CSR is today stronger, more embedded in our practices, we us as an enterprise and the geography in which we operate and Human Rights nevertheless still have a long way to go and we are ready for (4) to Education. Since the creation of our foundation in 1987 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the journey. (Our Lady of Hope Foundation for Education and Teaching), we the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Gladly, our corporate values of trust, respect, sharing and have taken upon ourselves to help disadvantaged Lebanese Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. courage are at the heart of our CSR engagement to the extent students to go to school and/or continue their education that we know that whenever we are doing good, we are also because we believe that education is a fundamental human Labour doing well even in this difficult part of the world. Unfortunately, right but also because education is key for future generations Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the challenges we are facing in carrying out sustainable to avoid poverty and alienation. the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; practices locally and in the region did not lessen compared to For us, the internal compass revolving around employee Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; those prevailing at the time we issued our previous report. On wellbeing, environment protection, community empowerment Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and the contrary, the inflow of Syrian refugees to Lebanon and the and education, is what will keep us going. We will therefore Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. national garbage crisis constitute a few of those new threats continue engaging our people around the 4 pillars, driving we have to deal with onwards and on a daily basis next to behavior, changing minds and impacting positively and Environment the persisting folly of the Lebanese socio-political scene. At confidently our society and the environment. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; times, it might seem impossible to foster initiatives such as Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and environment protection for instance, when the horror of war is Bertrand Fattal Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. hitting our neighboring country. Yet, we persevere and remain Senior Vice President committed to bring about positive change even if our efforts Anti-Corruption remain as a tiny as a drop of water in an ocean of distress. This Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. said, we are determined to stay away from the outbreak of 4 2014-2015 CSR Report 5 OUR Headquartered in Beirut, our company Fattal Group our COMPANY was founded in 1897. We are agents of renowned COMPANY international, regional and local brands with 120 years of experience in distributing products to the market. Our Group’s solid workforce infrastructure and diversified trade network are the recipe of our successful business record. We handle a wide portfolio of products and services encompassing several categories such as food and beverages, home France and personal care, pharmaceuticals, medical and office equipment, perfumes and cosmetics, jewelry, electronics and home appliances, to name but a few. Many of the brands we represent belong to Fortune Lebanon 500 companies. We are as well, proud recipients of numerous awards from our suppliers and varied other stakeholders. Via our portfolio of quality brands, we Syria thrive to improve the daily lives of 60 million families in the region and directly employ more than 2,500 people in the Arab world. Iraq Beyond distribution, we strategically ventured in direct sales, retail and logistics with a blue chip reputation in Lebanon and the Middle East. Our company has a culture of humility, resilience and salesmanship and stands on its core values of courage, trust, respect and sharing. Number of Suppliers Number of Customers Where we operate Lebanon Syria Jordan Iraq UAE Algeria Egypt France Lebanon Syria Jordan Iraq UAE Algeria Egypt* France Operating in Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Iraq, UAE, Algeria, *Direct sales business involving a large number of direct customers as opposed to resellers and the trade. Egypt and France, Fattal Group is a a powerful gateway to reaching millions of consumers in the MENA region. We Number of SKUs (Stock Keeping Units) Number of Employees handle more than 80,000 different SKUs (stock keeping units) across our operations with over 425 trade suppliers and 87,000 customers. More than 50% of our workforce is located in Lebanon. Our second biggest operation after UAE Lebanon is Iraq, followed by Jordan and the UAE. Algeria Jordan Egypt Lebanon Syria Jordan Iraq UAE Algeria Egypt France Lebanon Syria Jordan Iraq UAE Algeria Egypt France 6 2014-2015 CSR Report 7 OUR priorities Our CSR VISION Strive for a healthy, secure, pleasant and sustainable environment. Our Priorities Our CSR Mission Impact people’s lives inside and outside the organization, to improve our workplace and the environment in our region. ut Beir ding in in Buil oph art D f the state o Our EMPLOYEE WELLBEING EMPOWERMENT TO COMMUNITY P. 12 Sports, Health and Safety P. 28 Internship P. 14 Food and Beverage P. 30 Educational Programs P. 15 Seniority and Recognition P. 31 Philanthropy P. 17 Retirement and other benefits P. 32 Support and Empowerment P. 17 Code of Ethics P. 18 Integration and Team Building P. 19 Celebrations and Outings EDUCATION P. 20 Employee Engagement P. 36 Financial Contributions P. 38 Annual Gala Concert ENVIRONMENT P. 40 Beirut Marathon P. 41 Crowdfunding For us, the internal compass revolving around employee wellbeing, P. 22 Recycling P. 42 Our Partnership with AVSI environment protection, community empowerment and education, P. 23 Reducing is what will keep us going. P. 23 Reusing P. 24 Energy Consumption P. 25 Nature Preservation 8 2014-2015 CSR Report 9 OUR people EMPLOYEE WELLBEING Lena Abi Farah, Business Manager and Member of the Integration Committee Nowadays, people spend more time at work than at home; work fills the biggest part of our life! Therefore, welcoming every new employee in the big Fattal family The wellbeing of our people is at the forefront of our concerns. While we praise ourselves for and making him or her feel comfortable, confident and integrated, is what we strive being a people oriented organization, we strive each day to develop further our best practices to accomplish in the integration sessions. Our role is not limited to explaining rules and in this respect. Our aim is to largely meet and exceed our workforce’s welfare expectations regulations as we also make sure we communicate properly on the importance of living besides creating a work environment where ethics, freedom of speech, gender equality and fair our corporate values of Trust, Courage, Sharing & Respect. Each attendee of the integration recognition are dealt with prioritarily. session then becomes aware that he or she is here to make a difference regardless of any title or position. Because newly onboard people should have faith in their abilities, we help We believe that a valued, satisfied and secure employee is more likely to succeed in seeking them in less than 36 hours, discover how they can create and accomplish initiatives they were personal and business achievements. Therefore, we care for our people’s proper integration in not aware of. We also convey to them that when there is passion, inspiration and devotion to what the company’s culture so that they overcome miscellaneous day-to-day challenges. At all stages they do, they cannot go wrong. Later on, people who attended the integration session might forget the of their career path, we encourage our teams to celebrate successes in the most rewarding details of what they said or did but they will take with them what we made them feel deep: the pride to ways. Furthermore, we ensure they are all granted access to our state-of-the-art retirement be part of Fattal Group. plan designed to secure the future of our employees. 10 2014-2015 CSR Report 11 OCCUPATIONAL CARE PROGRAMS 2014 2015 Target Group Objective First Aid 12 13 All Employees Acquiring 1st aid principles and how employees employees to react in emergency situations SPINAL CARE All employees Acquiring useful tips and healthy people 0 141 habits to prevent injury and back employees employees pain. Driver Improvement 0 59 Employees at risk, Improving driving skills and helping Program (DIP) by YASA employees employees drivers of delivery vans educate participants on defensive mainly driving, mechanical maintenance, mechanism of trauma and many EMPLOYEE WELLBEING more all to insure safe driving. ll team sketba Corporate Ba tional Our Na Sports, Health and Safety Sports activities are a great way to enjoy our dynamic In this context, Al Mouyasser our affiliate in Iraq, has and healthy rivalry spirit in a non-business context. It is also been very active. In 2015, our Iraqi colleagues kicked off a unique opportunity for colleagues from different entities to an inter-branch football tournament and a successful ping interact as teams, opponents and supporters. Our outdoor pong competition involving contenders from different Iraqi basketball and volleyball court located in our headquarters provinces. site in Beirut is the venue where most of our yearly company sports tournaments take place. Aside from sports, our employees’ health condition and safety is yet another important priority. Consequently, In 2014-2015, sports tournaments involved up to 8 we regularly invest in long term health centered programs competing teams in activities such as football, basketball, such as the ‘Proactive Spinal Care Awareness Program’ volleyball but also ping pong, involving several business intended to help our people better manage physical strain. entities. The tournaments season regularly features as well, Similarly, we offer occupational safety programs aimed at At our headquarters in Beirut, we bring fitness to the Group gym facility in Beirut offers cardio equipment, free intellectual games typically such as chess and backgammon. raising awareness and protecting our employees against office. The Dolphin Fitness Club created in 2011 is at the weights, strengths machines, Zumba and yoga classes, Resulting from the same ambition to always go the extra injuries. In this context, we launched in 2015 the YASA heart of our employee wellbeing program. Encouraging ping pong, baby foot, boxing and an outdoor area. mile in whatever we do, we created in 2015 a Fattal Group ‘Driving Improvement Program (DIP) and in 2014, the ‘First our teams to stay fit while benefiting from preferential Members can benefit from the presence of a qualified official basketball team and participated in corporate games Aid Program’ which we carry out in cooperation with the membership rates and proximity to the office is was coach as well as a personal trainer. In 2015, the Dolphin against other local and regional organizations. Lebanese Red Cross. the reason behind the Fitness Club project. The Fattal Fitness Club registered a total of 255 memberships. 12 2014-2015 CSR Report 13 Formal Ceremony at Bernard Fattal Auditorium EMPLOYEE WELLBEING One of our 2 c anteens loc ated a t the F &B Bu ilding Seniority and Recognition We recognize our employees at various stages of within the Group, 33 employees celebrated their 15 their tenure within the Group. Seniority events are years of seniority and 18 employees, their 25 years. meant to acknowledge loyalty and are celebrated at the For each tenure span, we acknowledge people’s loyalty conclusion of 8, 15 and 25 years of service. In 2014by offering a different set of both material and highly 2015, 67 employees celebrated their 8 years of seniority symbolic presents. Food and Beverage Seniority Celebrations seniority 2014 2015 BENEFITS & TOKENS Quality food and beverage products being what we 8 years 33 34 Financial reward (1 monthly salary), Framed certificate of always thrive to distribute to the market, we make employees employees recognition, 8 months free membership at the corprorate gym sure our community of employees gets the same when it comes to lunch breaks at the company premises. 15 years 21 12 Financial reward (2 monthly salaries), Framed certificate of Our 2 cafeterias located in our headquarters site in employees employees recognition, Silver pin with Fattal Group emblem, 15 months free Beirut, propose company subsidized meals prepared by membership at the corporate gym, Lunch with direct and top carefully selected caterers. At our canteens in Beirut, we management use state of the art equipment and fittings to reflect the Group’s intent to keep the daily 45-minute lunch break 25 years 10 8 Financial reward (4 monthly salaries), Framed certificate of as pleasurable, as convivial and healthy as possible. On employees employees Recognition, Gold pin with Fattal Group emblem, Crystal Trophy, weekdays, our cafeterias in Beirut host an average of 25 months free membership, at the corporate gym, Lunch with 200 visitors daily. Fattal Group Chairman, direct and top management 14 2014-2015 CSR Report 15 RETIREMENT & OTHER BENEFTIS In line with our priorities to boost the wellbeing of Our Group offers in addition, a unique pension plan our workforce, and in addition to our health insurance whereby retired employees work on a part time basis schemes, we take pride in our proprietary saving plan performing less demanding tasks while still benefiting which we designed and put in place in 1992, and revisited from health insurance coverage. Our Group counts in 2013. The plan allows Fattal Group employees to currently 96 employees under the pension plan scheme. enhance their retirement earnings through an enterprise saving scheme bearing advantageous interest rates. Away from rigid processes, we have the capability Funded partly by the company and partly by voluntary of looking at specific cases one by one. In 2015, we employee contribution, the plan grants a great deal of helped 4 employees afford high cost treatments to fight flexibility for colleagues who wish to withdraw financial congenital diseases that were not covered by health benefits during their career and before retirement age in insurance. In 2015, we welcomed 3 additional recruits view of making alternative investments such as housing, with special needs onboard the Fattal Group. land or other personal investments. l Auditorium Bernard Fatta Awards Celebration at Performance EMPLOYEE WELLBEING As a core belief in the wellbeing of our employees’ community, Performance recognition takes place also at the level of recognizing performance is a practice our company has commercial entities allowing them to reward furthermore, been embracing all from the start. Our yearly Performance achievements which were not acknowledged companywide. Awards Ceremonies represent a crucial moment of the year Many of our entities hold their own ceremonies locally or whereby colleagues from our Lebanon and MENA operations abroad, using out-of-the-box formats and breathtaking get publicly recognized for their individual work as well as venues. for their team performance. Ceremonies take place in Beirut at the very emblematic Bernard Fattal Auditorium followed We also share with our workforce their moments of by the traditional get together reception. Every 2 years, we happiness and grief throughout a well-designed community grant the prestigious ‘Bernard Fattal Entrepreneurship & news communication scheme with appropriate gestures Pioneering Award’ (E&P) meant to recognize exceptional and tokens of solidarity. entrepreneurial and pioneering endeavor. Code Of Ethics In 2015, we issued the second edition of the Group wedding, Birth and grief: ‘Code of Ethics and Business Conduct’ responding to an evolving business world characterized by our own expansion across the MENA region and the evolution Occasion 2014 2015 benefits of the digital technology. The document states the Group’s obligation to abide by the law and by business Wedding 21 25 Financial reward (Purchase voucher) based on years of service ethics. It also states its firm commitment to preserve employees employees and varying between 500$ to 1 monthly salary the environment, empower the community, and protect people’s rights. The 2015 version of the Fattal Group birth 49 65 250$ Purchase voucher ‘Code of Ethics and Business Conduct’ conveys clearly children children the Group’s corporate values of trust, respect, courage and sharing, those being at the heart of our company’s grief 37 40 Donation of LBP 100.000 to Our Lady of Hope Foundation identity. By signing the code, employees engage in losses* losses* conducting honest and responsible business practices. *Direct member of an employee family 16 2014-2015 CSR Report 17 Celebrations and Outings Colleagues from our Finance team at an outing and team building event in Byblos We encourage our teams across different functions up with an inventive themed night featuring each year and geographies to organize and engage in miscellaneous the traditions of a different country. With all what it takes festivities. Christmas, Ramadan, Easter, Adha, Nowruz, from exuberant decoration, ethnic food, traditional music, Mother’s day and many other occasions are celebrated by to typical costumes and make up, all prepared in-house to our teams in the most joyful, innovative and warm ways. the enjoyment of everyone, many of such celebrations have Often such events are ideal occasions to expand festivities become anchored in the traditions of our business entities. to the outside world spreading the giving spirit among the most deprived. In addition to specific grand occasions, we also appreciate organizing spontaneous outings either centrally or led by Some of our entities celebrate their own occasions commercial entities, support functions or small units to such as our Home and Personal Care division in Beirut who several nearby destinations for the sake of team bonding commemorates the anniversary of its inception by coming around a lunch, a dinner, a drink or a walk in the nature. A few of our HPC team members at a Sottish night in Beirut EMPLOYEE WELLBEING Integration and Team Building Upon joining our company, each and every new employee related to the distribution business. Upon completion of the the Fattal Group legacy but also discovering the company’s goes through both an onboarding and an integration program. program, recruits feel much more comfortable in their new potential. Also during the integration seminar, participants Onboarding is a one-day platform aimed at welcoming job and ready for an enhanced work experience. get to know better Fattal Group various stakeholders from new recruits allowing them to become familiar with the 6 months to 1 year following their onboarding, employees customers to suppliers and from bankers to the wider public. company values, culture and overall business activities. are invited to a 2-day retreat outside the office where they Next to Onboarding and Integration, we regularly design During an onboarding session, new comers get also to take part to the so called “Integration Workshop” along with team building events initiated either centrally with the help know typically, the main policies and procedures underlying colleagues from different departments. of HRD or directly via the management of the concerned the Group’s operations, compensation benefits, insurance Selected among the Group’s most inspirational figures, entity. To make sure employees remain integrated and well schemes, saving plan and many other topics of importance. coaches throughout the 2-day program engage participants informed, Fattal Group through its corporate communication Onboarding is later completed via a series of six 2-hour in highly interactive activities aimed at appreciating the department issues an internal weekly digital magazine and sessions spread over a period of 3 months whereby recruits Group’s history, mission, vision and best practices. Group a bi-annual printed pamphlet respectively by the name of get to appreciate the company’s code of ethics, business and individual assignments are prepared by participants with ‘Links’ and ‘Reach Out’, relaying all kinds of company news etiquette, as well as a wide array of business capabilities the purpose of delving in depth into the soul and spirit of across the Group. 18 2014-2015 CSR Report 19 IBM-Kenexa SURVEY RESULTS (%) 2015 Employee Engagement 83 Index % 85 90 86 70 Performance Excellence Index % 89 96 79 85 84 72 EMPLOYEE WELLBEING Participation Rate % 77 85 90 98 20 88 75 Lebanon Interbrands Armada Draco Overall industry Jordan UAE Algeria benchmark Indicator Definition Employee Engagement THE EXTENT TO WHICH EMPLOYEES ARE MOTIVATED TO CONTRIBUTE TO Index % ORGANIZATIONAL SUCCESS, AND ARE WILLING TO APPLY DISCRETIONARY EFFORT TO ACCOMPLISH TASKS IMPORTANT TO THE ACHIEVEMENT OF ORGANIZATIONAL GOALS Performance THE EXTENT TO WHICH AN ORGANISATION IS STRONGLY COMMITTED TO HIGH LEVELS Excellence Index % OF CUSTOMER SERVICE AND PRODUCT QUALITY AND RELIES UPON CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT OF PRACTICES TO ACHIEVE SUPERIOR ORGANISATIONAL RESULTS Employee Engagement We are convinced of the primary importance of monitoring 16% above global norms for employee engagement and our employees’ engagement level as we believe our 13% above global norms for Performance Excellence. “Pride” workforce deserves better than a transactional relationship and “Belief” in the values of the company were very highly with the company. In 2015, we commissioned IBM-Kenexa, graded. the renowned Talent Management Company, to run a Group wide survey aimed at (1) assessing the extent to which Survey results were shared with the Board of Directors employees are motivated to contribute to organizational and Top Management, and a workshop was organized to success and (2) the extent to which the company through coach managers on how to deal with the survey’s outcomes, In 2015, our workforce rated us 16% above global norms its workforce is committed to performance excellence. The sharing them with their respective teams and building overall results were very good and greater than what is constructive action plans to enhance areas that needed for employee engagement and 13% above global norms globally seen, as per IBM-Kenexa. Fattal Group was rated development. for Performance Excellence 20 2014-2015 CSR Report 21 OUR ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT Sleiman Corbani, Corporate Communications Manager “When the paper recycling initiative followed by plastic bottle caps and cardboard was first launched in 2012, I was skeptical regarding results. I thought people at work tended to be focused on their day-to-day tasks. Thanks to the marked efforts of the CSR committee at that time, we all became much more environmentally aware than I ever thought we would become. Even while on-the-job, caring for the environment mattered to my colleagues and to me, materializing through We believe that preserving the environment requires that we actively direct our efforts each one of us actively collecting and sorting different kinds of recyclables. With the recent towards curbing the negative impact of our operations on the ecosystem. Therefore, we have garbage crisis prevailing, turning our company into a much less polluting organization has put in place several projects to help us act in that direction. In this respect, managing company become a serious urge. Thanks to the new CSR unit and its current leadership, this is now an waste such as office paper, warehouse cardboard, promotional material, IT supplies, plastic and acclaimed objective looked at as a major priority for 2017. With Fattal Group celebrating its 120 nylon remains are at the heart of our everyday green initiatives. We are also active in reducing years in 2017, I feel proud that the company I work for has chosen this very emblematic year to kick energy consumption and in offsetting our expansion plans especially when building new offices off work on becoming the first zero waste company in Lebanon.” and warehouses, with large planted areas. 22 2014-2015 CSR Report 23 Reducing In 2013, we accomplished a leap forward in reducing paper usage through our accounts receivables department by shifting from printed account statements to a computerized interface, allowing clients to check Recyclables (Units) 2014 2015 their dues online. In 2014-2015, this initiative led to a 67 reduction in paper usage worth of nearly 150 reams of A4 paper (375 KG), not to mention the reduction in the consumption of ink cartridges and related hardware. 35 32 12 8 Recycling Reusing ENVIRONMENT Printer Screen PC & UPS & Other Laptop Power Supply In 2014 -2015 we saved the equivalent of 4,528 trees Our efforts in terms of ‘reusing’ are still shy but nevertheless worth mentioning. Through the Karcher brand (266 Tons of paper/cardboard) via our paper recycling (cleaning equipment) which we distribute, we have been implementing small scale but very inspiring practices program put in place in 2012. Providing dedicated paper directly linked to our commercial activities. Our frequent participation in 2014-2015 to miscellaneous fairs involving recycling bins in each and every working space across our Recyclables (Tons) Karcher cleaning devices is a typical case whereby we make use of old warehouse pallets and worn tires to furnish Lebanon premises was and still is key to the success of this our booths, hence conveying to the community a strong ecofriendly message. initiative. Similarly, in our warehouses, cardboard boxes as well as nylon waste and obsolete promotional materials are 152 systematically collected every day, compressed in-house and delivered to recycling companies. n 2014 Our plastic bottle caps collection program launched in 114.3 2013 in collaboration with Arc-En-Ciel, a powerful local NGO n 2015 specialized in waste management, allows us to offer a free wheelchair to at least one physically disabled person each year. In 2014-2015, we collected through our workforce, 1.4 tons of plastic bottle caps. Also for recycling purposes and for the last 5 years, we have been actively collecting old IT supplies generated by our company’s usage of technology. In 2014-2015, we 14.3 delivered to local recycling companies, more than 150 pieces of hardware including old computers, screens, printers, 0.8 0.6 0.0 scanners, UPS and other computer accessories. Paper/ Plastic Nylon Cardboard Bottle Caps 24 2014-2015 CSR Report 25 ENVIRONMENT Energy Consumption Our Garden with Centenary trees serving as outdoor lunchtime canteen In 2013, we started integrating LED technology for Nature Preservation lighting purposes across each and every new office block or warehouse we build. Similarly for air-conditioning, we Our commitment to nature preservation is not new. It dates back to the 80’s when we started allocating large use VRV technology exclusively given it has proved, next green spaces whenever new offices and warehouses were built, often at the expense of parking spots. Our concern to LED bulbs, to be considerably efficient in terms of to maintain a high ratio of built versus green areas throughout our past, current and future expansion plans, has energy saving. In 2014-2015, this combination of green become a full-fledged practice of our sustainable growth culture. At our headquarters in Lebanon, employees and practices resulted in circa 50% reduction in both cost and visitors benefit from an outdoor tree shaded area pretty much similar to a small park often used for recreational energy consumption. Whereas photovoltaic alternatives activities and outdoor lunch break. Similarly, green areas have been taken into account to a large extent at our (solar panels) are still under study but at a very advanced warehouses in Nahr Ibrahim (North of Beirut) and in our premises in Erbil Iraqi Kurdistan. level, green diesel oil is systematically used to fuel the We believe we have gone a long way learning how to be environmentally friendly and that we are ready to start Group’s electricity generators in Lebanon. our zero waste company project by 2017. The challenge is significant but the will and the mindset are there. 26 2014-2015 CSR Report 27 OUR COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT TO COMMUNITY Ghida Ibrahim, Group CSR Officer “Our country, like many other countries in the region, is seriously struggling to overcome political conflicts, security issues, inflation problems, poverty, Empowering the community stands as another of our Group’s particularly important priorities. unemployment, revenue discrepancies, religious discrimination etc. Amidst this Next to our employee wellbeing and environment preservation concerns, helping out the wider unfortunate situation, individuals and corporations are compelled to take responsibility society achieve sustainable goals on its turn, is part of our culture of sharing. In this respect, and drive positive change across their communities rather than remaining on the our internship programs equip pre-graduate university students with a best-in-class short observer’s side. I am personally convinced that joining efforts at all levels is not optional experience allowing them to grasp quickly the various dynamics of working for an enterprise. anymore, it has become mandatory. Fattal Group being an influential player in the region, has Not less important are our efforts to spread knowledge outside the office across educational always engaged in supporting the society by helping students, young entrepreneurs, NGOs, and institutions often eager to host us as guest and/or inspirational speakers. We are proud as well, even companies foster a better tomorrow. Growing furthermore our commitment to empower to be partners to a handful of associations and NGOs whom we sponsor regularly by backing the communities where we operate must be more than ever at the center of our company priorities. up their causes, ranging from education, drug abuse and help to the elderly, up towards gender That is what made the whole difference for me as an employee of the Group and what will continue to equality. We make sure in all cases, and whenever we involve in philanthropic activities, to reach make the difference, for me, as a consumer.” the right beneficiaries, at the right time, at the right place benefit from our contributions. 28 2014-2015 CSR Report 29 Intersnship awardee, Summer 2014 Few of our Interns during Internship Closure Intership Applications Average Acceptance Ceremony, August 2014 versus Retention by Educational Institution Internship EMPOWERMENT TO COMMUNITY 148 40% 40% In 2014-2015, a total of 90 university students enrolled our coaches prepare thoroughly every year in view of a 113 in our internship program which we run each year during successful internship season. Around 30% of applicants get the months of July and August. Depending on what the accepted in the internship program, all selected fairly from pre-graduate student is majoring in, tailor-made projects the best ranking educational institutions. Upon finalizing are designed and redesigned to answer most of his/her the list of interns for a specific year, we give priority to our 20% expectations. Each intern is directed to the department workforce’s children making sure we do not compromise that suits most his/her educational background with a work on the educational level. The program is challenging but 48 curriculum that provides a unique learning opportunity via features fun moments such the graduation ceremony real-life work situations supervised by a dedicated coach. which the interns’ family members and friends as well as 37 n American University of Beirut Fattal Group top management and the Chairman’s office n Université Saint Joseph On the job training, technical and business tutoring, are invited. Every year, a handful of interns end up proudly n Students applying n Other* in addition to field work, sales assignments, workshops working for us once they graduate. as well as specific projects are among the many activities n Students joining * LAU, AUST, NDU, Lebanese University, Balamand University, 2014 2015 La Sagesse, Antoinine University 30 2014-2015 CSR Report 31 PHILANTHROPY We actively engage in philanthropy in order to support 2015, we joined forces and collected clothing destined specific causes. For instance, our affiliate in Iraq was to the elderly community whom we visited at ‘Amour Et extremely swift in granting food donations to refugees Partage’, an elderly care association. In the same spirit of fleeing ISIS outbreak in 2015. Locally, and typically during giving, our consumer electronics division donated in 2015 a Christmas and Ramadan, our household and personal Play Station (PS3) console to the Psychiatry department of care division regularly grants free products to charity St. Charles Hospital, gaming having proved to be a privileged associations such as St. Jude Children Cancer, The Sidon therapy for cases involving drug abuse rehabilitation and Orphan Welfare Society and Al Mabarrat Foundation. In anger management treatments. EMPOWERMENT TO COMMUNITY Educational Programs In addition to our Internship program, we are keen on employer standpoint as opposed to a headhunter’s. In providing educational institutions with as much support 2015, our head of household and personal care division, as we can by sharing our know-how and expertise Yani Athanassiou, delivered an equally winning talk at in the business field in general and in the distribution a workshop organized by USEK (Université Saint Esprit field in particular. In 2014, our HRD through its director Kaslik) around the topic of retail management and the Jacqueline Moukheiber, gave university students an related challenges in Lebanon and in the region. We interactive talk on how to win a job interview. The talk also intervene with schools through our proactive HR that was delivered at ESA Business School with whom team often delivering custom made programs to young we are partners since its inception in 1996, was rated students avid of knowing more about the business field. as one of the best as it dealt with the topic from an 32 2014-2015 CSR Report 33 Our endeavor to empower women goes beyond sponsorship initiatives and lies at the heart of the Fattal Group’s commercial activities in Lebanon and in Egypt. Through the Tupperware and AVON brands which we promote actively, we contribute to the empowerment of more than 60,000 women throughout an extensive network of Lebanese and Egyptian women. Our direct sales operations got us the acclaim of thousands of ladies in the region and are looked at as a lucrative and respectful way to earn a living but also to gain individuality and independence especially in remotely located areas. 2015 aqra in lse in F choolpu porting Mys ms sup Our tea Support AND Empowerment We actively empower the community by sponsoring about drug abuse prevention by sponsoring its annual events EMPOWERMENT TO COMMUNITY causes that meet our sustainability goals. We typically but also and most importantly by cooperating together in support causes directly related to education, but also delivering customized awareness sessions to the children causes that promote gender equality, health, and a we help through our foundation dedicated to education greener environment. In this context, we are partners to (Our Lady of Hope Foundation for Education and teaching). several associations such as ‘Myschoolpulse’, a nonprofit In 2017, our collaboration with ‘Skoun’ will hopefully go the organization dedicated to providing education to hospitalized extra mile and encompass awareness programs targeting children undergoing lengthy treatments. Every summer for our own employees’ kids. already 5 years, we participate to the 5KM race organized Our AVON team at the Shouf Cedras reserve by ‘Myschoolpulse’ in the context of an annual fundraising In 2014 and in the context of our commitment campaign at Faqra Club. Whenever we engage in supporting to empower women, we sponsored the AIWF (Arab the community, we strive to involve our workforce as we International Women’s Forum) yearly networking event In 2014-2015, we continued to support Lebanon’s the Keserwan region with the aim of collecting empty firmly believe that caring and giving back is a human quality and offered our own recreational premises for the event. environment and natural heritage namely through the shotgun shells which many hunters sadly leave behind. much more than a corporate practice. AIWF is a unique network linking Arab women with their LMTA and Jouzour Loubnan associations and extended And finally, each year, on June 14, we celebrate the international counterparts serving as their voice and our impact over the reforestation of 2 hectares in the International Blood Donor Day by giving the chance to ‘Skoun’, a Lebanese drug abuse rehabilitation institution, showcasing their development, ability and competence in Shouf Biosphere Reserve, the largest natural reserve our workforce to contribute by donating blood. We are receives our empowerment in the same manner. We support business, professional and public life. in Lebanon. We had organized in 2014, addressing the partners with the NGO Donner Sans Compter (DSC) in the latter association in its mission to spread awareness same concern, a nature cleaning and hiking day across this respect. 34 2014-2015 CSR Report 35 Stephanie Fattal, Fattal Group Board Member Schooling fees in Lebanon are the number one financial burden on most households resulting “30 years after the onset of Our Lady of Hope Foundation and as we embark in modern in disrupted educational paths, decreasing enrollment rates, poor quality education, and high CSR the way it is meant to be nowadays, the words of our late Chairman Georges Fattal levels of school drop-outs. In 1987, Our Lady of Hope Foundation was created on an initiative of remain more than ever valid and strikingly contemporary: “Our goals should expand beyond the Fattal Group in order to help students with very limited financial means access proper and business prosperity otherwise all work is vain.” Of equal resonance, the words of our visionary steady schooling. It has been since, and still is the pillar through which we impact the community CEO, the late Bernard Fattal are not less eloquent: “Our Lady of Hope Foundation is primarily an the most, interacting with educational institutions all across the country providing grants and act of faith in the future of our country”. As a board member, I take pride realizing each day that our varied educational support without discrimination. company, through our Foundation, has been recently multiplying efforts to help our nation’s future In 2014-2015 and through our Foundation, we boosted fundraising initiatives, developed EDUCATION generations overcome barriers to education. I want to thank Our Lady of Hope Foundation Board of Trustees and all the volunteers as well as all the donors starting with the Fattal community of employees further new activities, involved more donors and engaged more volunteers. We also partnered reaching out to our friends, customers and suppliers. You are and will remain behind the smiles drawn on with several institutions serving the same cause as us. Today, Our Lady of Hope Foundation is the faces of numerous families across Lebanon as they ensure that their kids will not anymore be compelled more than ever actively fostering education, giving access to education to hundreds of children to withdraw from school.” who happened to be born in less advantaged communities. 36 2014-2015 CSR Report 37 FINANCIAL Contributions Throughout the years, we succeeded in maintaining our commitment to help students no matter the circumstances. Thanks to our donors, partners, sponsors and the efforts of our volunteers, we are able to keep our promises year after year, ensuring that underprivileged children continue to benefit from our financial contributions. In 2014-2015, 1,199 children benefited from our contributions to schooling fees. NUMBER OF FINANCIAL contributions 819 674 666 640 619 609 605 597 606 601 570 560 578 580 563 567 527 504 548 516 481 434 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 In 2012, we started to focus on a lesser number of schools without necessarily altering the number or the value We strive to increase the total value of our contributions year on year as this means most of the time that we are of the financial contributions we grant. 30 years of experience in the field, taught us that the best way to ensure answering the needs of more and more families eager to ensure proper schooling for their kids. In 2014, the total students efficiently benefit from our grants, is to closely follow up on their educational journey, therefore limiting amount of schooling fees contributions was in excess of 300$K. We do our utmost to ensure the wider coverage the number of schools towards a better management of the distributed funds. This improved way of looking at the possible reaching out to the most remote and deprived areas. Recently, we enhanced our grants spread, typically recipients of our financial contributions, led us often to increase selectively the amount of individual grants in favor targeting remote areas such as Bekaa, North and the South of Lebanon always making sure we address schools with of a more effective and efficient impact. the most urgent requests. NUMBER OF SCHOOLS versus number of students YEARLY FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS FINANCIAL Contributions DISTRIBUTION BY REGION 2014 $350,000 5,26% $307,960 8,77% 640 $300,000 $285,074 619 601 580 548 560 563 570 567 $248,789 $247,960 12,28% $250,000 $223,615 $220,730 $200,000 $180,697 $185,829 59,65% 14,04% $150,000 EDUCATION 273 255 246 237 241 219 $100,000 171 n Beirut 92 $50,000 n South 67 n North n Number of schools n Bekaa $0 n Number of students n Mount Lebanon 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 38 2014-2015 CSR Report 39 t in 2014 a Gala Concer e cause of education at Supporters of th The ‘Golden Age’ singing at a fundraising concert in 2014 and wearing Our Lady of Hope Foundation colors. Annual Gala Concert SOURCES OF FUNDS Our Lady of Hope Foundation derives funds from different sources namely its Board of Trustees, Fattal Family 6% members, Fattal companies, Fattal employees, individual donors and through social activities. Fundraising through 22% social events accounts for circa 20% of the funds we raise and includes the traditional Annual Gala Concert. The traditional Annual Gala Concert represents Our Lady of Hope Foundation’s main annual fundraising activity. 1% It features each year a different prominent Lebanese celebrity in the context of a musical concert. Each year, the Gala Concert gathers around 1000 supporters many of which are Fattal Group employees, their generous friends 13% 48% EDUCATION and family members, but also customers, suppliers and various stakeholders. An average of $75,000 is raised during this yearly social event. We are extremely thankful to the artists, to UNESCO Palace in Beirut and to Emile Lahoud Convention Center in Dbayeh for hosting most of our annual events at their venues. We are equally grateful to our 9% n Fattal Family Members n Fattal Staff & Individual Donors Food & Beverage division for their unfailing support year on year, handling the convivial welcome drink that takes n Fattal Group of Companies n Board Members Contributions place at the start of each event. n Fattal Affiliated Members n Social Activities 40 2014-2015 CSR Report 41 Hope Lady of of Our upp o rte rs in 2015 iastic s arathon Enthus o n a t Beirut M ti Founda Our Lady of Hope Foundation winners of 2015 Beirut Marathon Relay Race NGO category 1st, 2nd and 3rd price CROWDFUNDING Beirut Marathon In 2015, we embraced crowdfunding as a means to increase further the inflow of funds and decided to go for the sports theme. In fact, we were solicited by a team In 2014, we started diversifying the sources of funds to Braun, Clearblue, Vanish, Xerox, Carefree, Medco, of enthusiastic and independent semi-professional coming from social activities and partnered with Beirut Alvita, ESA Business School, Netlogistics and Volvic for athletes, all driven by the urge to challenge themselves Marathon Association. For 2 consecutive years, around sponsoring the different races. and finish a full Ironman triathlon. The similarities 400 Fattal Group employees, their family members and between the struggle for education and the athletes’ friends participated to the 10 KM run for fun race and In the context of Beirut Marathon and both in 2014 extremely demanding races (swimming, biking, running), Anne for their outstanding efforts! We are also thankful to the kids’ itinerary with over $20,000 raised annually. and 2015, we were 3 relay race teams composed of led us to go for a crowdfunding campaign involving 7 to Khoury Home and the Euromena Fund for sponsoring In 2015 and also in the context of Beirut Marathon, Fattal and non Fattal enthusiastic athletes to win semi-professional athletes many of them first time generously our very first crowdfunding initiative. Assurex a sister company, enrolled its employees in proudly the first, second and third price. (NGO Category). triathlon finishers, but all determined to complete EDUCATION the Marathon for our cause and as part of its CSR We are equally grateful and proud of Perrine Malaud, the 2015 Nice Full Ironman Triathlon. The 7 athletes In 2015 also, and as an individual initiative, we had commitment to foster education. Téléperformance, Marcello Mori and Charbel Bassil all 3, full marathon first crowdfunded in favor of the Foundation and offered in Georges Baaklini, raising high the flag of the Foundation also a sister company did the same in 2014. Carrefour time finishers, for taking and completing the challenge addition, several free fitness sessions to the children in by running and completing the Bahrain Half Ironman. Lebanon engaged their workforce next to ours both in of running 42.195 KM for our cause in 2015! 2 of the schools we regularly support. We are thankful Funds coming from crowdfunding initiatives in 2015 2014 and 2015. We are thankful to our supporters and to Vincent, Olivier, Suzy, Charbel, Pascal, Tom and Mary amounted to over $25,000. 42 2014-2015 CSR Report 43 AVSI kids during a day out at our Headquarters in Beirut in 2015 posing in Our partnership with AVSI front of a commemorative cedars tree they planted. Since 2013, a strategic partnership has been initiated between AVSI and Our Lady of Hope Foundation. AVSI is an To further make this goal more engaging and beyond material help, Fattal Group as a major sponsor of Our international not-for-profit, non-governmental organization (NGO) founded in Italy in 1972. Its mission is to promote Lady of Hope Foundation, came up with a parenting program involving employees as godfathers and godmothers. the dignity of the person through development cooperation activities, with with a special focuse on education. AVSI Following the successful pilot project undertaken in 2013 involving parenting of 12 children, we are at the time of EDUCATION is present in Lebanon since 1996 and very active in remote underprivileged areas especially in the south and north this report, parenting and closely monitoring the educational and personal progress of 20 children in the areas of of Lebanon as well as in the western sector of the Bekaa valley. The added value of our collaboration with AVSI is the Marjayoun in the South of Lebanon and Becharri in the North. In 2014 and 2015, and in order to strengthen further latter’s ability to give us access to public schools whereas Our Lady of Hope Foundation deals generally with private the bonds with the children, we organized visits to our headquarters in Beirut as well as outings during Christmas schools. Children designated by AVSI hence, receive contributions from Our Lady of Hope foundation to enhance the Season. In addition, we enrolled the children in the Myschoolpulse race in Faqra, next to our employees’ kids as quality of their socio-educational life but not to secure their tuition fees. part of our involvement in the community. 44 2014-2015 CSR Report 45 There is no better giving than the time volunteers’ offer for the wellbeing of others. Rooted in our company core beliefs, volunteerism is the main drive behind the success of every CSR initiative. In fact, Fattal CSR strategy implementation largely depends on volunteers, all colleagues from various departments and functions. Spread across 5 committees, they offer their collective energy, talent, and expertise in a continuous endeavor to leave a positive mark on the community. Upon publishing this report, we seize the opportunity to thank our volunteers for their determination and availability. They are a valuable asset to the Fattal Group, for the CSR department as well as for the community at large. Ambiance Committee: Dolly Emmanuel, Laure Harb, Laureine Atallah and Richard Mechleb. Sports Committee: Joseph Kabbani, Nicolas Frenn and Rami Choucair. Cafeteria Committee: Elias Khalil, Carmen Ghantous Lea Feghaly and Marc Azkoul. Environment Committee: Elie Constantine, Jihad Bou Ghannam and Youssef Chalita Education Committee: Maria Chlela, Marie-Noëlle Fattal and Samir Mesarra. This report has been conceived by the Fattal CSR department, together with the Corporate Communications and the HR departments. It was graphically designed by Chantal Coroller and printed by Arab Printing Press on FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certified paper. 46 www.fattal.com.lb
