Deloitte Bulgaria United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Report for 2015/2016 Statement of continued support 10.06.2016 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Deloitte Bulgaria reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Sylvia Peneva Country Managing Partner Deloitte Bulgaria Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights As a network, Deloitte recognizes that it has a responsibility to uphold human rights both in the workplace and more broadly within its sphere of influence. Deloitte not only works to address human rights issues within its communities but also seeks to respond to the urgent human rights challenges of our world in a manner commensurate with its ability to effect change within and across regions and borders. Security is a paramount concern for global organisations whose people work in or travel to areas where they may be at risk – not only from civil unrest, but also from natural disasters or other troubling events. The DTTL Global Security Office takes these risks and the protection of Deloitte professionals very seriously, and has a comprehensive program in place to work with member firms to address ever-present threats around the globe. Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses In Deloitte workplace human rights take the form of non-discrimination and diversity in personnel practices, privacy, professional development and work-life balance. Deloitte has embedded concern for human rights in its core values, as a means of integrating respect for one another in the organisation’s culture worldwide. Recruiting and retention activities reflect a desire to hire professionals who share Deloitte’s values and commitment to responsible business. Deloitte policy and values concerning the internationally proclaimed human rights are made aware to all employees by the code of contact. Action implemented Human resource policy and procedures supporting Human Rights: Health and well-being Child support project Each employee, regardless of gender, The health and well-being of the employees receives one-time child financial support is of great importance to Deloitte, and we as a special bonus for a new born baby. have put programmes in place to help our This programme was introduced in June employees stay healthy. All Deloitte Bulgaria 2007 and is an on-going activity. employees receive additional health-care package, which includes systematic checkups, consultations with specialists and medication. Measurement of outcomes. Measurable results or outcomes Activity Date of completion Percentage of participants Health programme On-going 100% Child support On-going 100% new parents One of the Ethical Principles adopted by Deloitte is: Respect and Fair Treatment “We treat all our colleagues with respect, courtesy, and fairness.” • We understand the impact that our individual behavior has on our firms, our colleagues, and society, and always work to take responsible action. • We encourage and value the diverse mix of people, viewpoints, talents, and experiences found at Deloitte. • We are fair in our behavior and our policies promote equal opportunity for all. Staff training and awareness Each employee receives a training of Deloitte Ethical Principles. Dealing with incidents of Human Rights violations and Periodic review of results by senior management The Ethics Officer helps motivate and sustain ethical behavior across our organization by offering tools, programmes and support to sustain the Ethical Principles and strengthen Deloitte Ethics Programmes. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association & effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, policy and goals Our commitment or policy Deloitte’s Shared Values and Ethical Principles prescribe that all interaction between Deloitte and its employees must be characterized by integrity, trust, and mutual respect. Listening to its people allows Deloitte to prioritize their interest and concerns, and address them with appropriate communications, policies, programmes, and member firm services. Deloitte’s Shared Values and Ethical Principles also include non-discrimination and inclusion as integral parts of the way the network functions. Deloitte Bulgaria introduced the flexible working hours policy Implementation and measurement Talent engagement and growth DTTL network’s total workforce now comprises approximately 225,000 member firm partners and professionals worldwide. In Bulgaria Deloitte employs over 237 partners and professionals. Deloitte has earned recognition as a leader in cross-border student recruitment. The company is sustaining its commitment to providing fair, open and inclusive working environment. To deliver against these commitments Deloitte’s approach to talent management is: understanding viewpoints, setting expectations, and developing solutions aimed at meeting those expectations. Commitments to continuous learning and professional development, career and performance management, and customized career-life fit policies and programs are improving the working lives of member firm professionals and helping to In create a differentiated and globally aligned talent experience. Development During FY2015, close to 65,000 Deloitte professionals across the regions experienced Deloitte University, and more than 2,000 member firm partners, principals and directors led Deloitte University programs. 2.4mln e-learning completions are recorded in the learning management system. Flexibility People across the Deloitte network have the flexibility to define success on their own terms. At every stage of their careers, people are encouraged to create the career and life experiences that excite and challenge them. Christmas campaigns The employees of Deloitte Bulgaria organized a Christmas Bazaar on which they sold homemade food and souvenirs and collected funds to support the Christmas campaign of “For Our Children” Foundation. The collected money supported families at risk of abandoning their children. Deloitte employees provided individual Christmas presents for socially disadvantaged children from the specialised homes for children in three towns in Bulgaria. Partners of the initiative was Give a Book Foundation through which Deloitte people provided books for the children. We launched the project in 2012, but we continue together, not only to give books, to provide the necessary furniture and equipment for the children from the home, but also to interact with them, talk about favorite characters from books and favorite sports and games. This project is part of the Deloitte initiatives to support disadvantaged children. Deloitte Bulgaria is an annual participant in the traditional AmCham – Bulgarian Charity Aid Foundation Volunteer Days. Projects: Following its principles for societal impact and economic prosperity, Deloitte supports a number of projects and partners: Supporting the foundations in their programmes and projects: Bulgarian Food Bank Foundation, BNP Paribas Bulgaria, St Nikola Foundation, BCAF, SOS Kinderdorf, Give a book foundation. Supporting the National School of Music, American College of Sofia, Bulgarian theaters and artists, Homes for elderly and homes for children. Diversity Deloitte believes that an organization that is diverse is stronger. This is why strength from cultural diversity is a Deloitte shared value, and why diversity is an integral part of talent and business strategies. It is also why Deloitte fosters a culture in which people have access to opportunities to do their best work and are valued for their contributions, empowered, and are committed to excellence in client service and sustained growth. Deloitte’s focus on diversity and inclusion earned the organization a third-place ranking in Diversity Inc’s Top10 companies for Global Diversity. The Global Retention and Advancement of Women Council, comprising partners, principals, and directors from Deloitte member firms, was charged with driving the global effort to increase the representation of women in leadership. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, policy and goals Environmental Sustainability Deloitte believes that businesses and institutions need to become more sustainable in order to secure long-term prosperity for society and themselves. DTTL and its member firms are committed to minimizing environmental harm from their activities, particularly with respect to the greenhouse gas emissions, which is the major environmental issue of DTTL and the member firm network. Deloitte continues to improve virtual workplace capabilities for their people so they can travel less, and they are working with clients to find modes of providing services that require less travel without compromising the quality of client work. DTTL and its member firms are also engaging with their suppliers to reduce the impacts of procurement and purchasing. Implementation and measurement “Green dot” programme The activities implemented as part of the “Green dot” programme include:  Bins for collecting waste paper  Using recycled printer toners  Using environmental friendly technologies: printers, copiers.  Separate garbage collection  Two-sided printing set as default option for printers  Introducing the message “Please consider environment before printing this e-mail” as an obligatory part of all e-mail signatures  Replaced plastic cups with recycled paper cups  Electricity saving lighting  Building with energy saving systems for heating and cooling  Building matching LEED criteria Environmental policy In line with the environmental policy for GHG reduction Deloitte has implemented and is encouraging among staff the use of:  Video-conference facilities for virtual meetings  On-line training programs  Conference calling facilities  Webinars  Electronic storage of data, work and training materials, archives.  Complete electronic internal communication Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals Deloitte maintains a steadfast commitment to quality and risk management, which supports the member firms’ abilities to serve the public interest and deliver services that consistently meet high standards. DTTL has adopted a global anti-corruption policy that addresses matters such as bribery, facilitation payments, political and charitable contributions, and fits and entertainment. This policy was supported with guidance to member firms on conducting corruption risk assessment and third party due-diligence. During FY2015, in an effort to develop an even stronger voice on the issue, DTTL established a working group composed of more than 20 Deloitte practitioners from across the network who are interested in the policy aspect of anti-corruption work. This policy working group is refining its policies, messaging, and stakeholder engagement plan to make an even greater policy impact. In Bulgaria the country-leader sits in the Anti-corruption committee of the Local Global Compact Network. Our commitment or policy At the heart of our business culture are the Ethical Principles, adopted by each of Deloitte’s member firms and linking directly to our Global Shared Values. These nine principles define the standards of ethical behaviour that unite all the people of DTT’s member firms. In particular, the principles offer guidance about appropriate ethical and professional conduct covering areas that are critically important to the member firms’ clients, their people and society. The principles are: Honesty and Integrity; Ethical Behaviour; Competence; Objectivity; Confidentiality; Fair Business Practices; Responsibility to Society; Respect and Fairness; Accountability and Decision-making. DTTL created our own Anti-Corruption Academy within the Deloitte Global Center for Corporate Governance, with support from member firms’ Financial Advisory practices. The Academy works with member firm governance centers and their anti-corruption and public policy experts to provide education and training on combating corruption, money laundering, and fraud; and to build effective compliance and internal control programs. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. Actions implemented Actions implemented Educational programme on the Ethical Deloitte Ethics Officer helps motivate and Principles of the Member Firms of Deloitte sustain ethical behavior across our organization by offering tools, programs and support to sustain the Ethical Principles and Educational programme on the Ethical strengthen Deloitte Ethics Programmes Principles is mandatory for all our employees. It is an on-line education that uses examples and scenarios from the real life, as well as the resource on ethical business that can be used by our experts around the clock. Deloitte also provides the independence and compliance surveys, ensuring that our business practice is according to the adopted rules and procedures. Independence compliance confirmation Filling the Independence Compliance Confirmation (ICC) on-line system is required for all employees. Maintaining compliance with the Firm’s independence policies is an important part of Deloitte’s professional responsibilities, and is something we take very seriously. Measurement of outcomes Measurable results or outcomes Activity Percentage of participants Ethics education 100% Independence training 100% “Deloitte” is the brand under which tens of thousands of dedicated professionals in independent firms throughout the world collaborate to provide audit, consulting, financial advisory, risk management, tax and legal services to selected clients. These firms are members of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee („DTTL“). Each member firm provides services in a particular geographic area and is subject to the laws and professional regulations of the particular country or countries in which it operates. Each DTTL member firm is structured differently in accordance with national laws, regulations, customary practice, and other factors, and may secure the provision of professional services in its territory through subsidiaries, affiliates, and other related entities. Not every DTTL member firm provides all services, and certain services may not be available to attest clients under the rules and regulations of public accounting. DTTL does not itself provide services to clients. DTTL and each DTTL member firm are legally separate and independent lentities, which cannot obligate each other. DTTL and each DTTL member firm are liable only for their own acts and omissions, and not those of each other. DTTL (also referred to as Deloitte Global ) does not provide services to clients. This communication contains general information only, and none of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, its member firms, or their related entities (collectively, the “Deloitte Network”) is, by means of this communication, rendering professional advice or services. Before making any decision or taking any action that may affect your finances or your business, you should consult a qualified professional advisor. No entity in the Deloitte Network shall be responsible for any loss whatsoever sustained by any person who relies on this publication.
