UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015 – 2016 © ASOS 2016. All rights reserved. ASOS UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 – 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVE STATEMENT OF SUPPORT 25th June 2016 H.E. Ban Ki Moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY10017 USA Dear Mr Secretary-General, ASOS has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2012. Our corporate responsibility programme ‘Fashion with Integrity’ was relaunched in 2015 and further builds on our commitment to the aims and principles of this important initiative. Fashion with Integrity sets out how ASOS will make a positive contribution to raising standards within the fashion industry in the fields of human and labour rights, environmental protection and business integrity. Through our fourth Active level Communication on Progress I welcome the opportunity to express ASOS’ continued support for the Global Compact, and to report on how our policies, programmes and goals actively promote its 10 principles. All ASOS Communication on Progress submissions can also be downloaded from our public corporate responsibility website. We also provide an index for our stakeholders on our website signposting where they can find more information about how ASOS supports each of the Global Compact principles. Our Communication on Progress submissions and Global Compact Index can be found here: http://www.asosplc.com/responsibility/fashion-withintegrity/the-united-nations-global-compact.aspx We are a rapidly growing global business, and while I know there is more for us to do to balance our impacts, I am excited by the progress we are making to advance the development of more sustainable materials and processes within the industry and beyond. Nick Beighton Chief Executive Officer, ASOS Plc 2 © ASOS 2016. All rights reserved. ASOS UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 – 2016 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Principle 2: Businesses should support and respect the protection Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit of internationally proclaimed human rights in human rights abuses ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Assessment and policy • In our human rights statement we publicly commit to • We assess all new suppliers and continue to review supporting the UN Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO existing suppliers, via our supplier scorecards, to ensure Labour Conventions and the UN Guiding Principles on they meet ASOS’ human rights standards. Business and Human Rights. • Our regional Ethical Trade teams regularly visit supplier • Our human rights approach largely focuses on sites, monitor whether they are upholding our standards safeguarding the rights of workers within our global and provide support, where required. supply chain, where we perceive the greatest human • The principles set out in the ASOS Way, our Company rights’ risks for our business to be. values, provide the foundation for job descriptions, our • Our Ethical Trade Strategy sets out our commitment to recruitment, selection and promotion processes. being a responsible retailer, where every worker in our • We pride ourselves on being a fair and supportive supply chain is respected and protected. The strategy’s employer. We do not hire or discriminate on the basis of three year objectives are aimed at ensuring: age, gender, religious belief, ethnicity or nationality, 1. workers in our supply chain have a voice, are free sexual orientation, or disability. from forced labour, employed in safe environments • Our Cultural Sensitivity Guidelines help our design and and have improved financial literacy communication teams to consider indigenous, cultural 2. our sourcing practices are reviewed against our and religious rights when designing and marketing Ethical Standards and are continuously improved products. 3. our suppliers share our ethical trade vision and • We have a country risk assessment process and training work with us to achieve it. programme in place to help ensure the safety of ASOS • We require our suppliers to meet the ethical employees when they are traveling abroad. requirements set out in our Code of Conduct and Ethical Standards document. Our goals • Explore ways to improve worker management dialogue programmes. in factories. • Continue to map our supply chain beyond tier 1 to • Continue to work with suppliers to improve health and better understand and address social impacts. safety standards. • Develop a Modern Slavery Statement and approach • Implement worker wage improvement initiatives. with a focus on continuous improvement. • Regularly review and improve ASOS’ purchasing • Continue to raise internal awareness and provide practices. training to design and communication teams on our • Improve buyer understanding of the impact of Cultural Sensitivity Guidelines. purchasing practices on worker rights. • Increase the support provided to suppliers to help them protect labour rights and advance their ethical trade 3 © ASOS 2016. All rights reserved. ASOS UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 – 2016 IMPLEMENTATION • Our human rights matrix, which includes clear guidelines • We are a member of the Better Cotton Initiative which on the rights of employees, customers, supply chain exists to make global cotton production better for the workers and communities, demonstrates the policies we people who produce it and the environment it grows in. have in place to protect and promote the rights of these • We are one of 17 brands participating in ACT: ‘Action, stakeholders and how we monitor them. Collaboration and Transformation’, an initiative between • Our Corporate Responsibility Leadership Group is international brands, manufacturers and trade unions to responsible for overseeing and regularly reviewing our address the issue of living wages in the textile and approach to human rights. The Group, comprised of garment supply chain. Head of Corporate Responsibility, directors of Sourcing • We use social media to engage with our customers and and People departments, General Counsel & Company the wider fashion industry on issues such as cultural Secretary, Head of Ethical Trade, Fabric and diversity and human and workers’ rights within our Sustainability Manager and Communications Director supply chain. meets regularly discuss emerging risks and to set policies • ‘We’re Listening’, is our confidential independently and standards relating to human and labour rights, operated 24/7 helpline, through which employees can environmental impacts and business integrity. raise any concerns – including about their rights. • All new starters receive a contract, employee handbook Concerns are then passed to our General Counsel for and a set of the company standards, the ASOS Way, investigation and remain strictly confidential at all times. clearly explaining employees’ rights and responsibilities. The helpline is promoted on posters displayed in all of • Our buyers and merchandisers receive regular training our offices. on how to support and promote human rights within the • We also provide a confidential helpline for our UK supply chain. manufacturing sites. • ASOS’ Ethical Trade team conduct regular supplier risk • In 2013 we carried out an internal risk assessment and assessments and visits to identify and monitor human safety review of every country visited by ASOS rights risks and provide support where required. We employees. We sought specific security advice for highalso hold regular supplier workshops focussing on key risk countries and now offer personal security updates issues in each sourcing region. and training for colleagues who plan to visit these areas. ACHIEVEMENTS • We carried out 383 visits to supplier sites between July • We updated our Ethical Code of Conduct to include a 15 and May 2016 in order to assess and monitor statement on migrant labour and produced a set of workers’ rights and to provide support to help meet our migrant labour guidelines to strengthen our position in ethical standards. this area and to help suppliers comply with our • We updated our Ethical Code of Conduct to include a requirements. statement on migrant labour and produced a set of • We set up a cross-functional group to address the migrant labour guidelines to strengthen our position in requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015. The this area and to help suppliers comply with our group’s remit is to ensure that all areas of the business requirements. understand modern slavery risks, to undertake modern • We are a founder brand of Fast Forward, a slavery due diligence and to develop processes and collaborative initiative to build labour standards policies to mitigate these risks. compliance within the UK garment and general • We developed guidelines and held workshops with merchandise retail supply base. retail and editorial colleagues on customer diversity and cultural sensitivity. 4 © ASOS 2016. All rights reserved. ASOS UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 – 2016 LABOUR RIGHTS Principle 3: Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the The effective abolition of child labour effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Principle 6: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment labour and occupation ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Assessment and policy • Our Ethical Trade Strategy sets out our commitment to • We have a Young Worker and Child Labour Policy in being a responsible retailer, where every worker in our place to ensure our suppliers have implemented effective supply chain is respected and protected. The strategy’s systems to check the ages of all recruited employees and three year objectives are aimed at ensuring assess specific young worker risks. 1. workers in our supply chain have a voice, are free • We provide our suppliers with Migrant Labour from forced labour, employed in safe environments Guidelines to ensure they implement effective systems for and have improved financial literacy responsible recruitment of migrant workers. 2. our sourcing practices are reviewed against our • We pride ourselves on being a fair and supportive Ethical Standards and are continuously improved employer. We do not hire or discriminate on the basis of 3. our suppliers share our ethical trade vision and work age, gender, religious belief, ethnicity or nationality, with us to achieve it. sexual orientation, or disability. • We require our suppliers to meet the ethical • The principles set out in the ASOS Way, our Company requirements set out in our Code of Conduct and Ethical values, provide the foundation for job descriptions, our Standards document. Our stance is derived from the UN recruitment, selection and promotion processes. Declaration on Human Rights and the ILO Labour • All new starters receive a contract, employee handbook Conventions, and covers: terms of employment for and a set of the company standards, the ASOS Way, workers at manufacturing sites, including preventing clearly explaining employees’ rights and responsibilities. forced and compulsory labor; freedom of association • We joined the Business Disability Forum in 2012 and and the right to collective bargaining; wages and have aligned our approach with the Forum’s Disability working hours; young workers; maintaining a fair and Standard, a set of ten criteria designed to help all respectful working environment; health and safety. aspects of the business become ‘disability-smart’. • We assess all new suppliers and continue to review • Our Cultural Sensitivity Guidelines help our design and existing suppliers, via our supplier scorecards, to ensure communication teams to consider indigenous, cultural they meet the human rights standards set out in our and religious rights when designing and marketing Ethical Code of Conduct and Ethical Standards products. document. 5 © ASOS 2016. All rights reserved. ASOS UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 – 2016 Our goals • Explore ways to improve worker management dialogue • Hold ethical trade induction sessions for all new buyers in factories. and technicians every two months. • Continue to work with suppliers to improve H&S • Launch a new UK intranet to help maintain good standards. employee relations and continue to build employee trust • Implement worker wage improvement initiatives. and engagement. • Regularly review and improve ASOS’ purchasing • Train employees on our newly developed disability practices. awareness programme. • Improve buyer understanding of the impact of • Further develop our work on cultural sensitivity and purchasing practices on worker rights. diversity, with a focus on increasing access to our • Continue to map our supply chain beyond tier 1 to products and services for customers with disabilities. better understand and address social impacts. • Develop an action plan to improve accessibility of • Increase the support provided to suppliers to help them ASOS’ digital communications to customers with visual protect labour rights and advance their ethical trade impairments, following an RNIB audit of our systems. programmes. IMPLEMENTATION • Our Corporate Responsibility Leadership Group is • All new employees receive information on how we responsible for discussing risks and for setting policies protect their labour rights during induction training, as and standards relating to human and labour rights, well as on our Ethical Trade programme and how we environmental impacts and business integrity. manage supply chain labour standards. In addition, our • Our Sourcing Director is responsible for overseeing and buyers and merchandisers receive ongoing training on regularly reviewing our approach to managing labour how to support and promote labour rights within the practices in our supply chain. Our Procurement & supply chain. Facilities Director is responsible for the health and safety • Every two months we hold review meetings with buying of all our employees. teams to discuss sourcing strategies and to inform them • ASOS’ Ethical Trade programme helps us to ensure that of any new ethical trade projects we are implementing. our products are sourced from manufacturers who • We also send out a monthly sourcing newsletter to our operate in a way that respects workers’ rights, maintains buying teams to inform them of ethical trade updates safe working conditions, upholds local employment laws and best practice. and protects the environment. • We hold regular supplier and factory workshops • We have a UK-based Ethical Trade management team focussing on key issues in each sourcing region. and regional Ethical Trade teams in China, Eastern • We are a member of the Better Cotton Initiative which Europe, India, Turkey and UK, now comprising 19 exists to make global cotton production better for the ethical trade experts. The Ethical Trade team sits within people who produce it and the environment it grows in. ASOS’ sourcing function so that we can put ethical • We are one of 17 brands participating in ACT: ‘Action, considerations are at the heart of supply chain decisionCollaboration and Transformation’, an initiative between making. international brands & retailers, manufacturers, and • ASOS’ Ethical Trade team conduct regular supplier risk trade unions to address the issue of living wages in the assessments and we aim to visit all 503 factories textile and garment supply chain. regularly to assess how they are performing against our • We engage with our customers and the wider fashion standards, monitor labour practices and provide support industry on issues such as cultural diversity and human where required. and workers’ rights within our supply chain through a • We have been a member of an alliance of companies, number of social media platforms. non-governmental organisations and trade unions called • The People Hub, our integrated global human resources the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) since 2009. We IT system, enables us to store, access and analyse more regularly attend ETI meetings and participate in the detailed data about our employees and their careers, following working groups set up to address labour rights and monitor our progress in promoting equality and issues: Apparel and Textiles Group, Medium Companies diversity. 6 © ASOS 2016. All rights reserved. ASOS UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 – 2016 Group, China Forum, UK and Turkey. • We regularly consult our employees on any proposed • Our ‘Celebrating Diversity’ disability programme covers changes to employment terms, working environments a number of areas, including improving website access and our company values. to customers with disabilities, making our • We have internal communications such as Facebook at communications more inclusive and establishing working work and ASOS Home which enable better access to groups in key departments to improve internal ASOS policies and information regarding working awareness and create opportunities for young adults conditions as well as allowing real time feedback from with disabilities. employees. • ASOS worked with the British Paralympic Association • We’re Listening, is our confidential independently (BPA) to design formal and ceremonial wear for operated 24/7 helpline, through which employees can ParalympicsGB. Our Paralympics legacy forms part of raise any concerns, including about employment rights. our Celebrating Diversity programme and seeks to raise • We also provide a confidential helpline for our UK awareness of disability, and to increase accessibility of manufacturing sites. employment opportunities for talented people with disabilities. ACHIEVEMENTS • We carried out 383 visits to supplier sites between July • We developed guidelines and held workshops with 15 and May 2016 in order to assess and monitor retail and editorial colleagues on customer diversity and workers’ rights and to provide support to help meet our cultural sensitivity. ethical standards. • The RNIB carried out an audit of our websites and • We developed a supplier scorecard to enable us to mobile sites to identify ways that we can improve grade suppliers on their ethical trade as well as accessibility for customers with visual impairments. commercial performance. • We are using our relationship as supplier of formal wear • We updated our Ethical Code of Conduct to include a to the ParalympicsGB team as a stimulus to improve our statement on migrant labour and produced a set of awareness of disability. Some of the activities we have migrant labour guidelines to strengthen our position in undertaken this year include: this area and to help suppliers comply with our -working with Paralympian athletes to understand the requirements. fashion needs of people with disabilities • We held ethical trade supplier workshops or -partnering with disability charity SCOPE and donating conferences in UK, China, Turkey and Mauritius. products to raise funds for employment accessibility • We set up a cross-functional group to address the programmes for young adults requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015. The -providing training to employees on disability awareness group’s remit is to ensure that all areas of the business -reviewing the equality of opportunities for potential and understand modern slavery risks, to undertake modern current employees with disabilities. slavery due diligence and to develop processes and policies to mitigate these risks. • We are a founder brand of Fast Forward, a collaborative initiative to build labour standards compliance within the UK garment and general merchandise retail supply base. 7 © ASOS 2016. All rights reserved. ASOS UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 – 2016 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Principle 9: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Encourage the development and diffusion of environmental challenges environmentally friendly technologies Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Assessment and policy • ASOS’ Environmental Policy sets out our approach to • We began measuring our carbon footprint in 2008. We managing our environmental impacts and commitments recently developed a new carbon strategy which defines and covers: continuously improving environmental key ambitions for the business that focus on reducing our performance; reducing pollution; using resources more energy consumption and delivery and packaging efficiently; consider environmental criteria when leasing emissions and increasing our renewable energy usage. and using office buildings and when procuring goods • Our Ethical Trade Code of Conduct and Standards for and services; measuring and cutting our carbon suppliers also include environmental requirements. footprint; managing waste; complying with all Suppliers must assess and manage waste, water energy environmental legislation and requirements. and hazardous substances. Our Business goals • As part of our new carbon strategy to reduce our • Continue to review all of our packaging with our carbon intensity every year until 2020 we have set suppliers to ensure that we are providing the most ourselves key ambitions to increase energy efficiency effective solutions to customers with the least and renewable energy sourcing and to prioritise carbon environmental impact. efficient delivery and packaging partners. • Continue to extend our waste packaging management • Fulfil 90% of European (excluding UK) orders through and compliance programmes to cover additional our German Eurohub to reduce stock and vehicle territories. movements across Europe. Sustainable Sourcing goals • Set further ambitious goals to use more sustainable • Work with womenswear and menswear to develop and materials in our product ranges. implement strategies to increase the use of sustainably • Aim to double the value of our Eco Edit sustainable sourced materials in our own label and branded ranges. product platform by 2020. • Map our supply chain beyond tier 1 to better • Promote the menswear section of our Eco Edit understand and address its environmental impacts. sustainable product platform due to be launched in AW • Continue to work with SCAP to measure our product 2016. lifecycle impacts and collaborate with the sector to find ways to reduce water, waste and carbon emissions. 8 © ASOS 2016. All rights reserved. ASOS UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 – 2016 IMPLEMENTATION Overall • Our Corporate Responsibility Leadership Group meets • Andrew Magowan, General Counsel & Company regularly to discuss risks and to set policies and Secretary is responsible for overseeing and regularly standards relating to human and labour rights, reviewing our environmental management approach. environmental impacts and business integrity. Our Business • Our Corporate Responsibility and Sourcing teams work enabling us to hold more stock and therefore reducing with all areas of the business to manage our the number of miles our vehicles travel by 200,000 environmental impacts, including carbon emissions, per year, saving 250 tons of carbon. Our fulfilment energy, chemicals, packaging, water and waste. centre has been rated ‘excellent’ by BREEAM (the • The biggest contribution to our carbon footprint is Building Research Establishment’s environmental emissions from customer deliveries. We are working with assessment method our delivery partners to minimise these emissions by: installing more efficient lighting systems. continuously reviewing and reducing packaging, purchasing energy using a green energy tariff (this thereby allowing more packages to be loaded onto applies when we directly purchase our own energy). delivery trailers to maximise capacity • Our packaging initiatives include: working in partnership with our third party delivery using lighter packaging to help reduce emissions from partners, who are introducing fuel saving technologies customer deliveries, and increasing recycled content such as route planning software to cut the length of and improving its recyclability journeys and researching low-carbon vehicles and working closely with our waste packaging advisory fuels service to ensure we comply with international including environmental criteria in our tendering regulations on consumer waste process enabling us to award contracts to partners recycling all of the packaging that comes through our who are working to reduce their own emissions returns processing site. -developing a supplier environmental benchmarking • We support community infrastructure in Kenya where scorecard. one of our suppliers is based, by providing drinking • We have established a Eurohub in Germany that fulfils water to over 10,800 local people, through the all of our European orders (excluding the UK), reducing provision of a water rock catchment and tank system stock and vehicle movements across Europe. and 6km pipeline. • The energy efficiency and carbon reduction measures • We monitor our suppliers’ ability to meet our we have put in place in our buildings include: environmental standards through regular visits by our extending our Barnsley fulfilment centre by over 25%, regional Ethical Trade teams. 9 © ASOS 2016. All rights reserved. ASOS UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 – 2016 Sustainable Sourcing • Our Sourcing team helps our buyers and designers to • We are partnering with The Sustainable Clothing Action source materials and products more sustainably, Plan, SCAP, to reduce the water use, carbon emissions providing training, access to new materials and and waste of ASOS own-label products sold in the UK. guidance on supply chain integrity. • As a member of the Better Cotton Initiative, we • We regularly update all of our buying and technical collaborate with suppliers to create demand for Better teams on our Product Sustainability Programme and run Cotton and have secured increased supplier events to inspire more sustainable sourcing. participation season on season. • We are launching a ‘Sustainable Leaders’ programme We are working with strategic men’s and womenswear with the Sustainable Fashion Academy, to deepen suppliers to implement our sustainable sourcing cotton engagement and ownership of sustainable sourcing strategy. among buying, design, technical and marketing teams. • ASOS Marketplace promotes reuse and recycling by • The Eco Edit, launched on Womenswear in 2010 and soon providing a platform to sell and buy pre-owned fashion to include menswear, is a section of our website where our items. customers can find out about and buy our most sustainable • We support Canopy, a global initiative working to fashion and beauty products. phase out the use of endangered forest fibre in fabric. • We tag with a ‘Signpost’ image all products that we sell • We are a member of the Leather Working Group and that have a social or environmental benefit which helps are working with them to map our leather supply chain to promote sustainable fashion to our customers and and identify social and environmental risks. buying teams. ACHIEVEMENTS Our Business • We have reduced carbon intensity, as measured by • We are in the process of replacing all of the lighting at grams per customer order by approximately 4% our Barnsley fulfilment centre to low carbon LED fittings, compared to the previous year. at a cost of £600,000. • We signed off a new carbon strategy which aims to • We carried out a desktop environmental assessment to reduce our energy consumption and delivery and benchmark our top 30 non-stock suppliers with the aim packaging emissions, and to increase our renewable of developing supplier environmental scorecards. energy usage. • We completed an action plan for undertaking energy • 45% of European orders (excluding UK) are now audits of all our UK premises. fulfilled from our German Eurohub, reducing stock and • Our data centre reduced emissions by 43% through the vehicle movements and emissions across Europe, procurement of more energy efficient equipment. • We set up a customer clothes recycling scheme in • Our returns processing site in Selby recycled 106 tonnes partnership with Doddle, a package delivery company of cardboard and sent 181 tonnes of plastic to be and TRAID, a UK charity who are reducing the social transformed into manufacturing pellets. and environmental cost of the textile industry. TRAID will • As part of our community infrastructure programme in receive funds from clothes donated by ASOS customers Kenya we installed a 6km pipeline to bring water to an that are sold in its shops. additional 3800 local people. • We expanded our waste compliance programme to cover a further 10 territories. 10 © ASOS 2016. All rights reserved. ASOS UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 – 2016 Sustainable Sourcing • We strengthened our Sourcing team with two new team tanneries in the Ganges River Delta. members, including a Compliance Manager to ensure • We developed a calendar of inspirational and we continue to develop our approach to chemicals educational events for buying and technical teams to management. help promote more sustainable sourcing. • We implemented a continuous improvement plan for • Our AW16 collections are on track to contain 40% responsible chemicals management. sustainable Better Cotton, including Cotton made in • We successfully relaunched our Green Room sustainable Africa (CmiA). product platform under ‘Eco Edit’, doubling, on • We delivered sewing, technical and management average, customer sales from the platform. training to SOKO employees and to the local community • We set up Eco Edit on Instagram to promote to our where SOKO, our ASOS Africa manufacturer, is based customers the stories behind the featured sustainable so that we can build SOKO’s capacity and extend the brands. ASOS Africa range. • We joined the WWF Leather Buyers Platform, a working group collaborating to map and reduce pollution from 11 © ASOS 2016. All rights reserved. ASOS UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 – 2016 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Assessment and policy • In 2013 we launched ‘Do the Right Thing’, the ASOS • 2014 we rolled out the ASOS Do The Right Thing Code Code of Integrity which promotes integrity, best practice to all of our stock suppliers and our main non-stock and appropriate corporate behaviours across our suppliers. business in the following areas: • We have also developed a set of supplier Ethical complying with laws Standards and Code of Conduct, that all suppliers must prohibiting and combating corruption and bribery sign up to if they want to do business with us, which includes business integrity. dealing fairly in business contracting openly with connected parties ensuring gifts and hospitality are appropriate protecting company assets and information. Our goals • Keep Do The Right Thing as a central tenet of how • Reiterate the purpose of the gifts policy to ASOS ASOS operates, day to day, in all parts of its business. employees, to reinforce their buy-in to the policy and • Improve employee and supplier understanding, improve the level of reporting of all corporate hospitality engagement and compliance with Do The Right Thing so and gifts received and given by ASOS employees. that as we continue our rapid international growth • Increase awareness of We’re Listening, our confidential, business integrity remains part of ASOS’ DNA. independent helpline for employees. • Review the Do the Right Thing business integrity communications strategy. 12 © ASOS 2016. All rights reserved. ASOS UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 – 2016 IMPLEMENTATION • Andrew Magowan, General Counsel & Company • We include information on Do The Right Thing in our new Secretary is responsible for overseeing and regularly intranet, ASOShome, as well as on our integrated global reviewing our business integrity standards and human resources IT system, the ‘People Hub’. performance. • Our buyers and merchandisers receive training on how • Our Corporate Responsibility Leadership Group meets to promote Do The Right Thing and our anti-bribery regularly to discuss risks and to set policies and stance within our supply chain. standards relating to human and labour rights, • As part of a multi-faceted approach to encouraging and environmental impacts and business integrity. enabling anyone connected with ASOS to raise • At the end of each financial year senior managers are concerns, questions and ideas (alongside an open-desk required to confirm any incidences of non-compliance approach from Executives and many email routes), we with ASOS’ Do the Right Thing Code. operate We’re Listening, our confidential independently• We report quarterly to ASOS’ Audit Committee on the operated 24/7 helpline, through which employees can overall level of corporate hospitality and gifts accepted, raise any concerns, including about business integrity. declined and given by each department, to enable any Concerns are then passed to our General Counsel for relevant trends and learnings to be more readily investigation and remain strictly confidential at all times. identified and to assess how appropriately the Code is The helpline is promoted on posters displayed in all of being applied. our offices. • All new starters receive information on Do The Right • We also provide a confidential helpline for our UK Thing when they join ASOS. manufacturing sites. ACHIEVEMENTS • We enhanced our business integrity due diligence • We implemented more detailed reporting on gifts and process for key third party suppliers and service hospitality received and given by ASOS employees. providers in selected countries and industries. 13 © ASOS 2016. All rights reserved.
