COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SHWE TAUNG GROUP January – December 2015 SHWE TAUNG GROUP Chairman’s Statement Dear Stakeholders, I am pleased to share with you the third annual Communications on Progress (COP) report produced by Shwe Taung Group, reaffirming our continued support to strengthen the sustainability of our group of companies by upholding the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Since committing to the UNGC, Shwe Taung Group has been consistently working towards reinforcing our pledge to the ten UNGC principles, specifically in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. This COP report demonstrates the developments we have achieved by way of sustainably reducing our carbon footprint, enhancing labour rights, decreasing and monitoring corruption and upholding a universal standard of human rights across all of our business models. In 2015, sustainability practices remained the focal point of Shwe Taung Group’s long-term business strategy in line with our corporate vision of “Inspiring lives with responsible investment and sustainable development”. This year the COP report discusses our progress towards operating a more sustainable business model and discusses how we are working to develop greater tools to assess and measure our sustainability practices in accordance with the UNGC principles. Further to this, the report highlights the shift Shwe Taung Group is making from traditional corporate social responsibility strategies towards implementing sustainability practices and shared value initiatives with the ultimate objective of reaching the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the future. Our COP report will be shared amongst our stakeholders to ensure our beliefs surrounding the importance of sustainable practices within the private sector are promoted through responsible public reporting. In addition, the COP report will help promote the need for all businesses to shift their corporate visions to foster the principles of sustainable development and work with us to achieve the SDGs and transform the world. Shwe Taung Group acknowledges that the ten guiding UNGC principles promote sustainable business practices to support social and economic development. Therefore, we fully commit to work towards holistically integrating these principles within our business model. It is with great pleasure we support the UNGC in 2015 and we look forward to the advancement of our COP report in the future. Sincerely, Aik Htun Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 1 G4-2 G4-29 G4-3 G4-30 G4-18 G4-31 About the Report G4-28 G4-32 This year we align our COP report to the calendar year 2015, and future COP reports will follow future calendar years. Shwe Taung Group aims to achieve sustainable outcomes across all our projects and business ventures through responsible investment and development. Our business strategy encompasses the UNGC principles to ensure the sustainable development of Myanmar, whilst continually creating value for our stakeholders. Shwe Taung Group is a reputable corporate citizen which always places all stakeholders in the best position to thrive from the value of our work. We focus on Myanmar’s development through enhancing people’s lives, protecting the environment and participating in the country’s overall development. This report builds off our previous two COP reports, with greater detail concerning our sustainability practices as we continue to grow and develop shared value projects which champion community engagement, and inspire others to follow suit. In addition, this report follows the core Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines to help communicate Shwe Taung Group’s progress on the UNGC principles. The GRI G4 guidelines consist of reporting principles and standard disclosures for effective sustainability reporting. The UNGC and the GRI G4 are complementary initiatives and have been incorporated into our COP report in order to ensure our sustainability reporting is of an internationally recognised standard. Shwe Taung Group will continue to report annually and work towards enhancing our sustainability practices each year. In addition to the GRI G4 and UNGC guiding principles, Shwe Taung Group have made a commitment to work towards achieving the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) which were established in 2015. Shwe Taung Group is committed to reaching all SDGs. We care about the communities we work in and we aim to improve the national standard of living through the sustainable development of Myanmar. Our objective is to achieve sustainable outcomes through private public ventures and shared value initiatives. Shwe Taung Group is invested in the communities we work beside, our consumers are our key stakeholders and we strive to support the communities we serve. The COP report will discuss our progress towards achieving the SDGs and in addition highlight the ways in which we have begun to shift our company strategy away from the traditional methods of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategies to focus on more sustainable practices. Data Collection The data collection for this report was overseen by our Corporate Sustainability Team of five sustainability experts who work permanently within Shwe Taung Group. In addition, a representative from each subsidiary company provided detailed materials regarding the sustainability progress and procedures of each company within Shwe Taung Group. This allowed for a holistic approach to gathering the relevant documents and ensures each company has a voice within the COP report. Shwe Taung Group is in the process of implementing an external audit in order to allow for an objective assessment for an improved sustainable development strategy in the future. As a reader of this report and Shwe Taung Group stakeholder, your views are important to us. Please send comments and suggestions to info@shwetaunggroup.com 2 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group United Nations 2015 Sustainable Development Goals 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere. 10. Reduce inequality within and among 2. End hunger, achieve food security countries. and improved nutrition and promote 11. Make cities and human settlements sustainable agriculture. inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well12. Ensure sustainable consumption and being for all at all ages. production patterns. 4. Ensure inclusive equitable quality 13. Take urgent action to combat climate education and promote lifelong learning change and its impacts.* opportunities for all. 14. Conserve and sustainably use the 5. Achieve gender equality and empower oceans, seas and marine resources for all women and girls. sustainable development. 6. Ensure availability and sustainable 15. Protect, restore and promote sustainable management of water and sanitation use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably for all. manage forests, combat desertification, 7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, and halt and reverse land degradation sustainable and modern energy for all. and halt biodiversity loss. 8. Promote sustained, inclusive and 16. Promote peaceful and inclusive sustainable economic growth, full and societies for sustainable development, productive employment and decent provide access to justice for all and build work for all. effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. 9. Build resilient infrastruacture, promote inclusive and sustainable 17. Strengthen the means of implementation industrialisation and foster innovation. and revitalise the global partnership for sustainable development. Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 3 G4-12 G4-19 Shwe Taung Group and Sustainability G4-24 Responsible investment and sustainable development are inherent to Shwe Taung Group’s culture. We aim to provide a high standard of international quality products and services while operating sustainably. To reflect our approach and commitment to sustainable practices and the SDGs, our COP report incorporates the following key processes: Materiality This COP report captures all of Shwe Taung Group’s sustainability efforts to produce significant economic, environmental and social impacts across Myanmar, and will be used as a tool to substantively influence the assessments and decisions of our stakeholders. Reporting mechanisms will be used as a primary tool to measure outcomes of our sustainability practices. Stakeholder Inclusiveness Shwe Taung Group has success-fully identified its stakeholders in order to produce relevant sustainable strategies to respond to their expectations and interests in a reasonable manner. Through effective stakeholder engagement, Shwe Taung Group is able to influence and engage in the necessary dialogue to promote sustainable business practices in a wider context. Sustainability Context Our report aims to highlight Shwe Taung Group’s business performance within the sustainability context by providing details of our corporate objectives, strategies, procedures and outcomes. This report highlights our recent strategic shift from traditional CSR methods to a more sustainable long-term approach of shared value initiatives supporting the community and our business growth. Completeness The COP report provides a complete overview of the measured outcomes concerning our progress towards greater sustainability. We aim to present the significant economic, environmental and social impacts Shwe Taung Group has sustainably contributed to over the past year in an objective manner. The report will cover our performance from January to December 2015. Principled Business The COP report will highlight the ten principles on human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption exclusively in relation to the work of Shwe Taung Group. Strengthening Society Taking action and collaborating with businesses, local and international institutions and civil society in order to advance global challenges. Leadership Commitment Effective long-term change for greater sustainability measures begins with Shwe Taung Group’s leadership in the business realm. Shwe Taung Group is leading the way in Myanmar for sustainable business practices and policies. We continue to act as a role model for local companies to strive to become more sustainable and to implement policies that will ensure Myanmar is working towards reaching the SDGs to transform the world beyond 2030. 4 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group G4-19 G4-25 G4-20 G4-26 G4-24 G4-27 Reporting Progress Transparency in business practice is a critical element for sustainable development. Shwe Taung Group continues to grow its audits, measurement of outcomes, and external evaluations to ensure we reach our highest possible standard of sustainability reporting. We have aligned our COP report to the calendar year 2015, and future COP reports will follow future calendar years. Local Action Shwe Taung Group has over 20 years’ experience operating in Myanmar. This places us at a significant advantage to approach local sustainability solutions through appropriate contextual knowledge of local needs. All of our projects, both urban and rural, focus on the communities near to them in order to measure the impacts and outcomes of our presence in their area. We do this because we care and Shwe Taung Group understands that for our projects to create shared value for us as a business and our consumers as stakeholders, we must understand and accommodate the communities’ needs and motivations. MATERIALITY STRATEGY Sustainability is an ever evolving practice for business developers. In order to ensure Shwe Taung Group remains adaptable and able to manage the challenges of sustainable practice, we have established a set of tools to assess our policies and continually measure our outcomes. STAKEHOLDER INCLUSIVENESS Our key stakeholders are identified as the local and national governments in Myanmar, our consumers, employees and suppliers. We care about including our stakeholders in the development of working towards more sustainable practices and continue to educate them on the importance of sustainability for the benefit of the community. In order to build a strong and healthy community, our stakeholders must benefit from our actions. Shwe Taung Group is a leader in Myanmar at stakeholder inclusivity. Shwe Taung Group’s commitment to sustainability is made public for our business partners and civil society through avenues such as the COP report, our website, contractual agreements, and our soon to be published Code of Conduct. Our business strategy relies on long-term relationships built on trust and confidence. We aim to set a positive example to our stakeholders in order to ensure sustainable development is a widely understood concept that is being actively pursued. Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 5 BUSINESS PARTNERS G4-19 & G4-20 In addition to the long-term value we aim to create within our strategic partnerships, Shwe Taung Group has a set objective to promote responsible business practices that benefit our business partnerships and societal development. Contracts, sustainability policies and practices, company policies SUPPLIERS & CONTRACTORS Shwe Taung Group has established a Code of Conduct for its suppliers to ensure that they comply with Shwe Taung Group’s commitment to the UNGC principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption; with a specific focus on women, children and youth, indigenous peoples, non-governmental organisations, local authorities, workers and trade unions, business and industry, scientific and technological community. Contracts, mutual respect for commitment to UNGC principles CIVIL SOCIETY Engaging with civil society is at the core of our all our businesses’ sustainability practices. We actively work towards improving the lives of Myanmar people for the long-term. Sustainability activities, public private ventures, involvement in community initiativest SHWE TAUNG GROUP EMPLOYEES It is essential for us to ensure our employees are happy in their work environment and their labour rights and needs are met. All of Shwe Taung Group’s businesses maintain a diverse and inclusive workplace where employees are able to feel proud of the work they are a part of. Code of Conduct, skills development, employees surveying and further training CUSTOMERS We are committed to providing our clients with quality goods and services for a fair market price. Our customers are aware of our sustainability practices and it is our job to continue to advocate for consumers to make smart choices and invest their time and money into responsible businesses and products. ISO, best practice customer service, involvement in community initiatives INSTITUTIONS (LOCAL AND GLOBAL) Shwe Taung Group engages in both national and international institutions working to continue the development of responsible business standards at a global and local level. We maintain an open dialogue with such institutions in order to provide feedback on market standards and corporate responsibility in the context of sustainability. Participation in national and international dialogue and conventions GOVERNMENT Shwe Taung Group supports the development of Myanmar through public private ventures. We help to influence the improvement of national policy for country-wide sustainable development. Contracts, participation in national development and sustainability practices Sustainable Development through Shared Value Social Impact Business Created Impact Created Shwe Taung Group innovates to increase scope and scale of social impact 6 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT Myanmar is facing a dramatic period of economic growth and political transition. Over the last decade the country’s GDP has grown at an unprecedented rate, with individual wealth and social development continually on the rise. It is during these years of rapid growth that businesses must implement sustainable policies and practices to ensure long-term goals are met and the development process is sustainable and equitable for all citizens of Myanmar. Shwe Taung Group, as a local company with over 20 years of industry experience, is well placed to lead the way towards achieving greater outcomes for sustainable development goals through a commitment to the UNGC principles. In addition to the positive features of Myanmar’s economic growth such as the creation of resources, jobs, infrastructure and new and advanced technology, there are substantial risks that must be observed and mitigated to ensure this growth period produces long-term wealth and prosperity for the country. Issues such as environmental conservation, community investment, and policy development are all areas of concern for rapid development. In response to this, Shwe Taung Group is developing our sustainability strategy beyond CSR. Under this strategy, our companies are beginning to adopt a more contemporary approach to corporate responsibility known as Shared Value. This initiative involves investing in business opportunities that also result in meeting community needs as a more sustainable way of empowering communities through social and economic development. CREATING SHARED VALUE MEANS BUILDING COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE BY SOLVING SOCIAL PROBLEMS. Shared Value is – Business Policies that enhance the Opportunities competitiveness of a company & Challenges whilst simultaneously advancing the social and economic conditions in the communities in which it operates. Corporate Shared Value is not Social Needs Assets & Sharing the value already created, Expertise balancing stakeholder interests or compliance with local regulations. Shwe Taung Group is currently working on further developing a comprehensive set of tools to measure the outcomes of our sustainability progress and practices. These will include an updated version of our Code of Conduct, which will adhere to newly reformed policies in Myanmar in addition to reflecting upon the principles of the UNGC. We are also in the process of updating a Handbook of Ethical Practices, which will be used as a tool to provide all of Shwe Taung Group’s clients, stakeholders, suppliers and employees with a full understanding of the company’s ethical principles. Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 7 GRI G4 INDICES: The head office of Shwe Taung Group is in Yangon, Myanmar, and is based in the Ahlone Tower downtown. Shwe Taung Group also has three more offices in 132 Thailand, China and Singapore, acting as representative offices. G4-5 & 6 Company’s Vision ongoing operations Inspiring Lives with Responsible Investment & Shwe Taung Group maintains a Sustainable Development wide portfolio of work with 132 operations currently in business across the country. G4-3 SDG 8 G4-56 Shwe Taung Group has operated businesses across different locations in Myanmar since its establishment in 1990. Its activities are dedicated to the Myanmar market, continually driving economic growth in the country. 6,100 employees G4-3 SDG 8 Our supply chain is composed of suppliers, government, business partners and tenants these Shwe Taung Group currently differ across various sectors of employs 6,100 people across all our work. companies. G4-13 G4-9 Shwe Taung Group has been a member of the UNGC since May 2013. This year, we align our COP report to the calendar year 2015, and future COP reports will follow future calendar years. G4-15 8 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS G4-SO1 Shwe Taung currently has a total of 132 ongoing operations across Myanmar and is working towards increasing the number of social and environmental impact assessments (SEIA) undertaken across all of its operations. In 2015 we undertook: 132 7 4 ongoing operations social impact environmental impact across Myanmar assessments (SIA) assessments (EIA) and ongoing monitoring 5 % of the SIAs included gender impact assessments 3 4 4 Public disclosure of Broad based local commustakeholder engagement results of environmental nity consultation, commitplans based on and social impact tees and processes that stakeholder mapping assessments include vulnerable groups 24 1 work councils and occuformal local community pational health and safety grievance process committees were established to deal with impacts Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 9 ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE FOR SHWE TAUNG GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES In order to ensure a company’s sustainability initiatives are consistent in their implementation across all of their enterprises, the organisational structure must encompass a holistic approach to participation from all management levels and maintain a consistent dialogue across their subsidiaries. This includes senior management to front-line employees, all of which must remain accountable for the success of the sustainable outcomes achieved. This necessitates a clear understanding of the roles and responsibilities included in the sustainability practices set out and circulated by the company. At Shwe Taung Group, accountability is distributed through multiple levels of management and across all the company’s businesses, with subsidiary and subcommittee groups operating independently but reporting to the same board of directors. In addition to this, Shwe Taung Group has formed an independent Corporate Sustainability Team that comprises four employees and one member of the Board of Directors who coordinate with each of the subsidiary companies to ensure there is consistency and a high standard of corporate sustainable practices across the company as a whole. The sustainability policies are independently determined by each subsidiary but must follow the direction of the Group’s overarching sustainable policies. This is closely monitored through the Corporate Sustainability Team and the subsequent sustainability working group which was formed in September 2014. The working group is exclusive to the individual Corporate Sustainability Teams of Shwe Taung Group’s subsidiary companies. Monthly meetings allow for the open exchange of information concerning the efficiency of each company’s sustainable practices from their assessment and planning stages, right through to daily implementation and on-going monitoring of operations. The Managing Director of each subsidiary is responsible for maintaining an open dialogue and attending the working group meetings, while other team members help in the preparation of data collection concerning the sustainability-related issues of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Furthermore, in order to maintain consistent financial records of accountant-record expense impacts and ongoing assessments, Shwe Taung Group ensures that auditors from each subsidiary are involved in the sustainability working group to monitor the success and usefulness of the sustainability activities. The Board of Directors (BoD) along with the top management team give guidelines on developing strategies and policies to address the economic, environmental and social impacts of Shwe Taung Group’s varying operations, but ultimately each subsidiary maintains autonomy to implement their own initiatives based on their activities. All operations must respect Shwe Taung Group’s vision of “Inspiring lives with responsible investment and sustainable development”. AT SHWE TAUNG GROUP, ACCOUNTABILITY IS DISTRIBUTED THROUGH MULTIPLE LEVELS OF MANAGEMENT AND ACROSS ALL THE COMPANY’S BUSINESSES. 10 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group G4-17 G4-36 ORGANOGRAM OF SHWE TAUNG GROUP’S G4-34 G4-37 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT G4-35 G4-38 Board of Directors – Board of • Makes final decisions on the Directors overall sustainability guidelines • Passes judgment of policies in place and determines their validity • Reviews the effectiveness of current policies and practices • Approves the final sustainability report Audit and Corporate Sustainability Teams – • Coordinate the activities related Corporate to sustainability initiatives Sustainability Sustainability • Report concerns and feedback to Audit Teams the BoD Teams • Translate the executive strategy into a workable action plan • Collect initiatives from the subsidiary companies and stakeholders • Undertake financial and overall assessments of outcomes from sustainability activities Supply Chain, Subsidiaries and the Sustainability Working Group – • Propose new initiatives Sustainability • Provide practical feedback Supply Chain Subsidiaries Working Group • Implement sustainable policies based on experiences shared Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 11 SHWE TAUNG GROUP OVERVIEW G4-4 Future Energy Shwe Taung Property Future Energy’s first project was Development the Balu Chaung Hydropower Plant, Shwe Taung Group has over 20 years which is located 25km east of Loikaw, in the property development industry, Kayah State, and has an installed with field experience in the design, capacity of 52 MW with an annual development and construction of real production rate of 334 million KWH. estate projects in Myanmar. From 1992 This operation produces energy that until today, the company has developed will be distributed to the national grid over 800 acres of land, including the line and is the first IPP (Independent construction of thousands of residential Power Producers) and BOT (build, units, offices, commercial centres, hotels operate and transfer) based project of and industrial properties. the group. Shwe Taung Cement Shwe Taung Cement’s core activities include quarrying for raw cement materials and the production and distribution of cement. The planned annual production capacity is 600,000 tonnes. In 2014 the company launched Apache Cement who focus on the development of eco-friendly production technologies which consume less energy, sustain resources and reduce pollution. 12 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group G4-4 Shwe Taung Property High Tech Concrete Management HTC manufactures and supplies readyShwe Taung Property Management offers mixed concrete to suppliers from various property management services. Our construction companies operating on portfolio extends over 600,000 sq ft and sites around Myanmar. Its products 300,000 sq ft of retail and office spaces. include low heat concrete, high durable Our management properties include concrete, high early strength concrete, Junction Square, Junction Center Mawtin, waterproofing concrete, self-compacting Junction Center 8 Mile, Junction Center concrete and retarding concrete. HTC is Zawana and Junction Center Nay Pyi Taw. the first ISO 9001:2000 certified company within the ready mixed concrete industry in Myanmar. High Tech Concrete Technology HTCT provides ready mixed Conventional Vibrated Concrete (CVC) and Roller Compacted Concrete (RCC) for commercial and residential buildings, federal government projects, bridge construction and crushing facilities for aggregate production. It is the only supplier of RCC for the Yeywa Hydropower Construction Project, which is the third largest RCC dam in the world. Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 13 SHWE TAUNG GROUP OVERVIEW G4-4 Green River Construction Golden Tri Star and Engineering GTS works in tunnel construction and bored GRCE is an ISO 9001:2008 certified pilling projects providing comprehensive company and has completed more solutions and services in engineering, than 200 projects including landmark technology and construction areas. Its most buildings in Myanmar. The company recent constructions include the Ruby Hall and primarily focuses on construction the Hledan flyover bridge. Prior to these projects, and its core mission is to develop GTS completed many successful projects such as a more modern Myanmar through the Shwegyin Hydropower plant, the Myanmar sustainable innovative design and Economic Bank Project and the Ayeyarwady construction work. River Crossing Tower project. Head Office Address: Golden Tri Star Tolls Ahlone Tower, 1st Floor, River View Garden Housing, GTS manages the toll points of the Yangon-Mandalay Strand Road, Ahlone Township, Highway and the Sagaing-Monya/Shwe Bo Road. Yangon, Myanmar. This includes the implementation and operation http://www.shwetaunggroup.com of computerised weight bridge systems and Maxtol info@shwetaunggroup.com software systems. We currently operate five toll Hot Line (951) 211430, 212704 points across the country. All toll fees are collected Fax (951) 226979, 212217 according to the prescribed rate of the Ministry’s G4-5 & G4-57 public work. 14 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group G4-4 Grand Guardian Insurance Padamyar FM Grand Guardian Insurance provides Padamyar radio first aired on 88.9FM in improved insurance policies to its customers. 2009. With over 15 million listeners, It was also formed to assist in founding a its news and conversations reach more sophisticated insurance sector within people across 12 major locations in Myanmar. We provide financial protection Myanmar. This radio station acts as a against property, health and loss of life. We shared value initiative, as whilst it is a currently have six offices across Myanmar. profitable business through advertising measures, the radio station’s other goal is to educate people on important topics. Shwe Taung Energy Cineplex Shwe Taung Energy operates 15 gasoline Junction Cineplex and Korean company GV and diesel distribution centres across formed a new joint venture company, Myanmar Yangon. These distribution centres are Cineplex. Within this partnership, we have equipped with up-to-date gas pumps, three cinemas featuring the latest technology in computer controlled point-of-sale theatre screening. Each cinema has six screens terminals, digital inventory control and seating capacity to hold more than 1,100 systems and environmentally safe gas customers. storage tanks. Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 15 Our Missions SHWE TAUNG GROUP G4-56 16 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group Our Values G4-56 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 17 Human Rights Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 18 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group Human Rights at a glance Shared 0 No reports of human rights Information abuses and zero incidents • Strive to continue the occurred in 2015 growth of responsible corporate behavior • Participate in sustainability forums, UNGC evenets & workshops 1 Myanmar Percentage of total profits % dedicated to sustainable developements and activities. 10 Shwe Taung Group promotes % universally accessible Percentage of employees 253 282 designs in our receiving training on male female public projects. company’s human rights Human rights policies policies trained personnel Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 19 ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Shwe Taung Group is in full support of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, to which every human being is entitled. As a company we utilise the 30 articles from within the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as a common standard of achievement across all facets of our work. In addition, they act as a foundational guide for the ongoing revision of our code of conduct and employee handbook. As a good corporate citizen, our policies and practices are all based on the protection of human rights including equal chance, the right to life, freedom of speech and religious expression, and security of the person. By maintaining a high standard of human rights protection practices, we aim to support the needs of our employees, stakeholders and beneficiaries, and also set a good example for other companies in Myanmar to follow suit for the betterment of the community at large. IMPLEMENTATION 0 1 Percentage of total profits No reports of human rights abuses and dedicated to sustainable zero incidents occurred in 2015 % developements and activities. Reporting Sustainable Developments In 2015 there were no reports of human rights abuses In line with Shwe Taung Group’s vision and zero incidents occurred. This is largely due to “Inspire lives with responsible investment the effectiveness of the grievance mechanism policy and sustainable development” the company Shwe Taung Group has implemented, in addition to has dedicated one percent of its total profits the extra training all management teams across each to sustainable developments and activities. operation have received in relation to human rights abuse prevention strategies. All of Shwe Taung Group’s suppliers and contractors are expected to maintain the same principles in relation to human rights protection, and the company is working towards making this contractually binding for future partnerships. G4-HR12 Inclusivity Shwe Taung Group promotes universally accessible designs in our public projects, for example, all our Shared Information shopping centres are wheelchair accessible with barrier Shwe Taung Group are engaged with the free washrooms ensuring people with disabilities are not Myanmar UNGC network and in 2015 the group excluded from our new and innovative public buildings. celebrated their second year anniversary. Our CEO participated in a panel discussion, giving a presentation on best practices and lessons learned in regards to Shwe Taung Group’s leading sustainability activities and policies. 20 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 10 Percentage of employees receiving training on company’s % human rights policies Training At present, 10 percent of our employees have been individually trained in the company’s human rights policies, which equates to 253 282 535 trained personnel within Shwe Taung Group (253 male and 282 male female female). Human rights policies trained personnel G4-HR2 & G4-HR7 • In the last 21 years, Shwe Taung Group has dedicated large sums of time and money into our sustainability activities, leading to the development of three hospitals and 85 schools across the country. 19.152 MILLION US$ 22.814 MILLION US$ Contribution to sustainable Total amount invested in development over the last 19 years sustainability projects until 2015 Focus Areas Education, public health and community development 3.662 Focus Areas Infrastructure, community MILLION US$ development, public health, natural Sustainability project disaster relief increase in 2015 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 21 • Shwe Taung Group built a concrete cement road at the Thakayta Industrial Zone to ensure the necessary vehicles could access our on-going projects in the area. In addition, the road has been of great benefit and convenience to the communities who live in the neighbouring areas. This sustainability activity is a shared value initiative benefiting both Shwe Taung Group and the community through the construction of quality public infrastructure. • In March 2015, Shwe Taung Group received intensive training from UNAIDS and the Myanmar Business Coalition on Aids (MBCA) and has recorded no new HIV infections, along with no discrimination or AIDS-related deaths. Our company strongly supports UNAIDS and Myanmar’s national strategic plan to combat the disease. • Amongst the 132 operations Shwe Taung Group undertook or are ongoing, 18 percent of them have been subject to human rights reviews or human rights impact assessments. Shwe Taung Group is committed to raising this number over the years to come. G4-HR 9 18 Percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or human rights impact % assessments • Three times a year Shwe Taung Group have organised the “Give the Gift of Life” campaign, encouraging our employees to donate blood. This event is coordinated by our sustainability working group involving all our subsidiary companies. The group organises the travel for Shwe Taung Group employees to get to and from the blood donation facility and each donor is subsequently entitled to taking a paid rest day after donating blood. 210 employees gave blood three times in 2015 and have volunteered to be on the emergency donor list in periods of blood shortages. 210 number of employees that gave blood three times in 2015 • An Emergency Blood Donation Group was formed in 2014 by the sustainability working groups from Padamyar FM Thein Kyaw Kyaw Co.,Ltd., HTCT Co., Ltd., HTC Co., Ltd., GRCE Co., Ltd., STE Co., Ltd. These groups provide traveling fees or transportation for those who have donated blood. Moreover, they are entitled to take a rest day after donating blood. Shwe Taung Group set up the Emergency Blood Donation Group (made up of internal employees) in December 2015, to help victims of road accidents in the Yangon-Mandalay regions and SagaingMoneYwarShwe Bo road toll gates. Accidents are common in these areas and emergency medical care is needed, our employee’s commitment to this cause helps to save lives. In 2015 from January to December, 141 blood bags have been donated. 22 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group • Shwe Taung Group’s Padamyar FM radio is dedicated to furthering the education of the blind in Myanmar. Releasing an audio book that features over 100 hours of educational radio programmes as part of the Community Give Back Program, this has become an annual feature of Padamyar FM Radio. In addition Padamyar Radio also broadcasts the following educational topics: i) Human Resources – ii) Management Talk – iii) Public Health – discussions about lectures by Prof. Dr Aung doctors discuss public workplace conditions and Tun Thet and U Tin Zan health issues and how to standards in Myanmar. Kyaw. deal with them. iv) Weather forecast v) Environment – vi) Agriculture – by Meteorologist Dr Tun talks on how to care for farmers are given the Lwin. the environment and chance to ask experienced lower Myanmar’s carbon agriculturalists questions footprint. and advice. vii) Information viii) Maternal and ix) Finance and Technology Child Welfare markets – discussions on new IT talks on health, family presenting information in Myanmar and how to planning, infant mortality on relating to business use it. and diseases prevalent in in Myanmar by local children, nutrition. economists. • Shwe Taung Group regularly organises community events for the most vulnerable members of the community. In the past year we ran movie nights and evening entertainment functions (with famous local talent) for children from local orphanages, as well as children suffering from physical disabilities. These events work on community building and are recreational opportunities for children who otherwise would not be able to attend public events. Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 23 • Shwe Taung Group provided travel allowances for 48 university students who were recipients of the President’s scholarship. The yearly stipend programmes help cover the costs of international travel to and from the study abroad destination and also assist with the purchasing of textbooks and stationery. On 24 August 2015, an awards ceremony was held for the selected students at the Ballroom of the Sule Shangri-La Hotel. All recipients were provided with travel to Yangon for the event. • Quality education is a basic human right and as a result the education sector is the largest focus of our sustainability activities to date. Shwe Taung Group donated a Human Resource Development Centre (the HRD Centre) to the Yangon Technical University (YTU). This five story building, equipped with quality facilities and resources is used as a space to bring together faculty staff and students from different disciplines to continue best practice research in shared facilities. • In addition to the HRD Centre, Shwe Taung Group offered free online access for YTU students to undertake selected courses via correspondence (a saving of GBP 500 per student). This academic programme was delivered in partnership with the Oxford Business Group and is the first of its kind in Myanmar. To date, 281 students have enrolled in online programmes. 281 Number of students who have enrolled to online academic programmes, in partnership with Oxford Business Group • Shwe Taung Group runs an internship programme and an excursion programme for young professionals and students to gain practical workplace experience. Shwe Taung Group supports students from all Technology Universities in Myanmar by offering the options to undertake either of the two programmes in order to help them combine their academic skills with practical experience. Currently there are 16 students who have interned through this partnership and 48 students who have participated in excursions. 24 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group • Shwe Taung Group are committed to fire safety and continually provide training to all employees operating within our facilities. In November 2015 one of our biggest developments, Junction Square, had a fire incident and the issue was resolved within 10 minutes. This was due to employees swiftly working together to extinguish the flames and following their fire safety training to ensure everyone was evacuated in a timely manner. All employees who worked to extinguish the fire received medical check-ups and no one was harmed during the incident. Fire safety is a sustainable practice. Reducing the amount or severity of fires can reduce wasted materials, pollution, and save money. During the event of a fire, building materials can be damaged, property lost, water wasted, and pollutants are released into the environment through the air and water. After a fire, materials that were damaged should be transferred to landfills and new materials brought in to replace them. The size and severity of the fire determines the extent of the environmental impact it will have. In addition, it is important to consider the life-cycle of a building when reviewing sustainability concepts. After the fire at Junction Square, we have engaged international experts to investigate the full spectrum of risks and hazards in regards to health and safety concerns as an essential design criteria for our developments. We have now shared the information gathered from the investigation with our building designers, architects, engineers and operators, which highlights the hazards associated with certain sustainable features from our developments. An action plan has been modified to further mitigate the risks caused by fire hazards: 1) Upgraded fire protection systems in all our existing developments beyond local building regulation compliance (such as, enlarging water tanks, installing centralized LPG gas provision systems and placing more fire extinguishers across our building developments) 2) Building designs have been modified to be safer and use the most effective firefighting strategies 3) More education on fire safety and awareness for all the operators and tenants within our buildings has been applied 4) First aid training for the tenants and operators of our buildings was offered 5) Updated emergency procedures including the commitment to undertake two fire drills per year Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 25 • Our participation in International White Cane Day is aimed at encouraging an attitude change in the community toward people living with disabilities – this advocacy event is for people with vision impairment and is attended by both internal employees and the community at large. It is a Yangon City Development Committee (YCDC) led event and Padamyar radio is the biggest promoter of it. Given the radio station’s wide-spread audience, we hope to create a greater impact on the community through public advocacy. • Shwe Taung Group organised a Homage Project where we visit the homes of employees’ parents at Thadingyut who are over the age of sixty, to show respect for our elders. • In accordance with Article 21 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Shwe Taung Group ensured every employee was able to participate in the November 2015 elections. In order to do this an internal holiday was granted for all employees, to ensure everyone was able to reach a voting booth on election day. • At Shwe Taung Group’s Hi-Star Toll Plaza, we allow people working in the emergency health services to cross without payment; this includes ambulances and doctors. Shwe Taung Group pay on their behalf as the toll creates revenue for the government and is ultimately for public use. In addition, all cars heading to religious events are allowed to cross without payment. • Shwe Taung Group has been supporting victims of the landslide that occurred in Phasaung City, Kayah State. We have continuing projects in Kayah State and were strategically placed to assist the community due to our ongoing presence in the affected area. Shwe Taung Group was first on the ground to give aid as the landslide had made it difficult for aid agencies to access the damaged villages. We have continued to give support, including donations of clothing, food and other necessary household items. Shwe Taung Group supports Indigenous People in geographically hard to reach locations in order to provide them with the support they need in the event of a natural disaster. 26 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group Spotlight on Flood Relief In 2015, floods destroyed entire villages, homes and community infrastructure, leaving people displaced in Chin State, Rakhine State, Sagaing Region, Magway Region and Ayeyarwaddy Region. In response, Shwe Taung Group organised a flood relief group who offered immediate aid items such as food, emergency shelter and medicine, with long-term relief groups providing medical aid through ongoing donations of medical equipment and life-saving medicines. Shwe Taung Group offered personnel to help in the reconstruction of schools that had been severely damaged across the different states/regions. Danbi Village Group, Hinthada Township Flooding damage – Ayeyarwaddy Region (Danbi Township) Ayeyarwaddy Region – Health support Food and water support – Ayeyarwaddy Region (Danbi Township) Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 27 SHWE TAUNG GROUP AID RELIEF BENEFICIARIES BY STATE/REGION SAGAING REGION Sagaing Township, Wat Latt Township, Kalay Township, Min Kin Township, Myin Mu Township, CHIN STATE Mhone Ywa Township, Hakha Township A Yar Taw Township. SAGAING REGION CHIN STATE MAGWAY REGION Zaydotehtara Township, Yay Nan Chaung RAKHINE Township, STATE MAGWAY Pwint Phyu Township, REGION Michaungye’ Township, Saku Township. RAKHINE STATE Kyauk Taw Township, Pauk Taw Township, Bu Thi Taung Township, AYEYARWADDY Min Pyar Township, Ann REGION Township. AYEYARWADDY REGION Hinthada Township, Lay Myat Hnar Township 28 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group Food supplies such as rice, cooking oil, salt, noodles, drinking water and donations of gas cylinders and stove tops were distributed along with clothes, blankets and mosquito nets to flood affected victims across the five states and regions. Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 29 Employees from Shwe Taung Group volunteered to help rebuild the affected townships. They assisted with the cleaning of wells, distribution of new water pumps, and gathering of materials to build temporary and permanent latrines. 30 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group AID RELIEF DISTRIBUTION BY STATE AND REGION AYEYARWADDY REGION (HINTHADA DISTRICT) Total Townships 2 Total Village Tracts 42 Total Villages 185 68486 AYEYARWADDY Total Population REGION SHWE TAUNG GROUP PROVIDED PROCUREMENT SUPPLIES TO GAUNG SAE KYUN VILLAGE, MYIN GONE VILLAGE AND GYI PAUK GONE VILLAGE WHERE TRANSPORTATION WAS LIMITED DUE TO DAMAGED TRACKS/ROADS. The Shwe Taung Group aid groups also provided health supplies and check-ups to flood victims. The medical aid was led by doctors from the Asia Royal Hospital in partnership with Shwe Taung Group. Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 31 CHIN STATE Shwe Taung Group donated aid to the CHIN badly affected Hakha Township and contributed to the rebuilding of the STATE local primary school and the many houses that had been destroyed due to severe flood damage. MAGWAY REGION MAGWAY REGION Total Townships 6 Total Villages 84 32 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group RAKHINE STATE RAKHINE STATE Total Townships 5 Total Villages 56 SAGAING REGION Total Townships 7 Total Villages 43 SAGAING REGION SHWE TAUNG GROUP ALWAYS SUPPORTS THE REBUILDING PROCESS AFTER NATURAL DISASTERS OCCUR IN THE COUNTRY BECAUSE WE CARE ABOUT THE COMMUNITY AND WANT TO BUILD A STRONGER, MORE SUSTAINABLE MYANMAR. IN ADDITION TO OUR AID, OUR ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES ARE DESIGNED TO REDUCE THE OCCURRENCE OF NATURAL DISASTERS DUE TO CLIMATE CHANGE. Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 33 WORKING TOWARDS REACHING ALL 17 SDGS Shwe Taung Group is working towards achieving the SDGs by working with the international community to “Transform the World”. Starting with Myanmar, we aim to: educate children, promote good health through greater access to medical facilities, improve social development through gender equality, create equal opportunities for people with disabilities, reduce our carbon footprint by lowering natural resource consumption and reliance, promote economic growth through responsible business practices and promote peace and justice through nondiscriminatory policies. Value of sustainability contribution in USD million for 2015 9% Education Health 13% 41% Water Sanitation and Accessibility 6% Society Sport 12% Infrastructure (roads & bridges) 1% 18% Disaster Response (natural disasters) 34 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group Labour Rights Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 35 Labour Rights at a glance SHWE TAUNG GROUP – STRIVING FOR GENDER EQUALITY IN THE WORKPLACE 92 Percentage of employees return rate after Parental % Leave 10 more women hired in Asset Management services by % Shwe Taung Group 10 more women employed by Shwe Taung Group’s Real X Estate business 36 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Shwe Taung Group understands and gives full support to the International Labour Organisation’s (ILO) Core Conventions and Principles. We operate in compliance with national labour laws and regulations and actively work towards the elimination of all forms of illegal compulsory labour and child labour in Myanmar. We strive to achieve an international standard on labour policies and will continue to develop tools to measure the outcomes of our policies and practices for greater advancement in this area. Shwe Taung Group allows for the participation and formation of trade unions and we recognise the right to collective bargaining. We expect our business partners, suppliers, contractors and stakeholders to uphold an equal standard of labour rights and principles. IMPLEMENTATION Universal Standards G4 HR5 Shwe Taung Group agrees with the universal standard of strictly condemning forced labour in all circumstances. We also incorporate a policy whereby 18 is the strict age limit for employment to ensure child labour cannot occur throughout our operations. Equality of Opportunity Recruitment of employees at Shwe Taung Group remains based on merit, skills, experience, education and ability. We are an equal opportunity employer and have a policy of non-discrimination across all facets of employment from the hiring phase to on-going employment right through to termination or retirement. Shwe Taung Group operates in a fair manner and does not consider race, religion, gender, disability, parental status or age in any matter related to employment. Team Building At Shwe Taung, we believe a healthy work-life balance for employees is imperative to any successful business and the mental and physical well-being of our employees is of the upmost importance to us. In order to balance the work load with sufficient recreational activities, Shwe Taung Group facilitates the formation of company sports teams and group activities/functions outside of work hours in a relaxed environment. We also prioritise family inclusivity and ensure that all of our recreational groups include employees’ family members. Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 37 Shwe Taung Group encourages team building and a healthy work-life balance through the implementation of recreational events within the workplace. Across our subsidiaries Shwe Taung Group celebrates New Year’s Eve with our colleagues at an internally organized event. In addition to this annual celebration we also celebrate our employees’ birthdays by taking time out during the work day to present them with a cake. This is one of the many ways we show our gratitude to the valued employees of Shwe Taung Group. Shwe Taung Group sent 100 employees on an excursion to Octagon Automobile & Machinery Services Co., Ltd (OAMS) to observe the company’s processes and operational activities. This was a skill building exercise as well as a team building event for both employees from Shwe Taung Group and OAMS CO., Ltd. As part of the excursion, one of the OAMS senior employees gave a talk on the global brands Scania and Leibherr to share knowledge of leading international companies. Training – Orientation is provided to all new employees to ensure every employee has full understanding of Shwe Taung Group’s vision of “Improving lives through responsible investment and sustainable development”. This orientation provides employees with details of the company’s policies and practices and also provides them with further skills training in the area of work they are entering. This helps to develop their skill sets for growth within the company and beyond. 38 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group KEY FOCUS AREAS OF IMPLEMENTATION Allowance G4–LA2 Food is provided on worksites where possible, otherwise a food allowance is provided to all employees during work hours. Health and Safety Programme Shwe Taung Group employees attend health and safety trainings and awareness seminars on a regular basis. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) is distributed to employees to ensure their safety during operations. A Lock Out Tag Out (LOTO) procedure has been established for employees to ensure their safety in the event that a machine will unexpectedly start up, either because of stored energy which was not correctly released or through the actions of someone starting the process without realising that it is not safe to do so. The LOTO standard requires that hazardous energy sources be “isolated and rendered inoperative” before maintenance or servicing work can begin. Rules and regulations specific to different operations and projects by Shwe Taung Group are clearly laid out in the workplace in order to effectively communicate our safety measures and precautions to all employees. Penalty fees have been collected from employees who do not follow the rules and regulations, the penalty fees are then used to buy first aid kits and medical equipment. Leave G4–LA3 Appropriate leave is granted for medical, maternity/paternity and emergency needs as well as annual leave and days in lieu for additional working hours. Overtime is paid out above the legal minimum in accordance with the company’s internal policies. 92 Percentage of employees that return after parental % leave Of the total parental leave taken for the year; 97 percent 97% male 85% female of males returned to work at Shwe Taung Group after Percentage of employees their paid paternal leave and 85 percent of females that return after parental returned after their paid maternity leave – a total return leave by gender rate of 92 percent. This statistic reflects the welcoming attitude and adaptable environment Shwe Taung Group offers for employees with families. We are planning to open a Child Care Centre in the coming year. Bonuses Annual bonuses are paid to employees upon performance assessments measured in line with the company’s total revenue growth for the fiscal year. Transport Employees working in remote areas are transported to and from work and transportation fees are taken care of by Shwe Taung Group for all employees who commute. Collective Bargaining G4–HR4 & G4-11 In compliance with the national laws, Shwe Taung Group upholds the right of their employees to practice collective bargaining. At Shwe Taung Group, collective bargaining is encouraged as we believe employees should understand their value to the company and be compensated fairly. Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 39 Spotlight on Health Policies for Employees Shwe Taung Group prioritises equitable access to health care for all of its employees based in the Yangon headquarters and across the country. Health care is a fundamental human right, which is why we make access to adequate healthcare a standard feature of working for Shwe Taung Group. It is our responsibility as an employer to make sure that our working conditions are safe and receive ongoing occupational health and safety testing. In addition, in case of emergencies, we employ doctors to work on remote sites to ensure that medical attention is received quickly. Depending on the requirements of the operation, we make sure our on-site clinics are fully equipped to suit the medical needs of our employees. For example, Shwe Taung Cement has a medical clinic with an oxygen concentrator, to ensure employees working under tough conditions have the appropriate medical care required for a high risk job. As a unique addition, Shwe Taung Group has organised for the Red Cross first aid app to be freely downloaded by all employees and available in Myanmar language. This ensures that a greater number of employees will be able to assist in the event of a medical emergency both in the workplace and in general. 40 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group oupi ShweTaungGr hef soneoft ir stcompani esi nMyanmart opr ovi det hei r per manentemployeeswi thli fei nsurance. TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT COURSES G4–LA10 Type Training and Courses Management • Risk Management Training • Procurement & Warehouse Training • Developing Managerial Skills Programme • Energy Management Training • Energy Management CASO Training • Secretary Training • Product Awareness Engineering • Basic AT Engineering Technology Development Course • Advanced AT Engineering Technology Development Course • Fundamentals Of Engineering Seminar Language • English Language 4 Skills Course • English (4) Skills-Pre-Intermediate Computer & IT • Basic Computer Office Application Course • Advanced Computer Office Application Course • MYOB Premier V13 Software Training Programme • Financial Excel Application Course Sustainability • Sustainability & Environmental Awareness Training • Understanding Local Labour Law in Myanmar • Awarness Of Social Security Board & Employment Contact Program Health & Safety • Certified Occupation Safety and Health Specialist Course • Fire Safety Manager Trainng • Awareness Training of Skills, Quality and Safety of Work • Safety Supervisory Course • Security Training • Safety Awareness • Workplace Hazards & Their Preventive Measure • Lockout/Tagout System Training Personal Development, • Cervical Cancer Awareness Seminar Customer Service and • HIV Awareness Seminar Health • Insurance Awareness Seminar • Personal Grooming • Customer Service Training CODE OF CONDUCT Shwe Taung Group’s code of conduct is critical for outlining the company’s standards, regulations and expectations of staff. The code of conduct protects the rights of our employees by establishing rules and regulations around workplace behaviours. This provides a safe working environment and ensures employees can make the most out of their working days. A code of conduct also institutes equality amongst employees, serving as an official guide to workplace relations. Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 43 Spotlight on training programmes Shwe Taung Group is a top choice of employer in Myanmar by both entry level graduates and professionals. We are renowned for investing in our employees as we understand that their development is the key to our country’s success. We began an in-house up-skilling programme whereby fifteen promising managers/ engineers are selected to partake in further study consisting of four modules over six months. The study includes business administration, management, and workplace conflict resolution subjects, and is designed to strengthen strategic and entrepreneurial thinking by staff members. This programme is a benefit to the work of Shwe Taung Group as it ensures we maintain a strong leadership team and is beneficial for our employees who wish to gain life-long business and management skills. We also run a course for young engineers to help guide them during their early years of professional development. The course is offered for free to recent graduates starting out with Shwe Taung Group and advises them on practical knowledge relating to their engineering studies. The programmes run are: • Basic Engineering 8th Batch • Advanced Engineering 5th Batch Both courses run for a duration of six months. 44 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group GRI G4 HIGHLIGHTS G4–EC5 & G4-EC6 In 2015, new laws in Myanmar enforced and regulated a minimum wage in the country. Shwe Taung Group is committed to upholding these legislative developments and has ensured our wages across all levels are above the minimum wage and remain competitive for employees at all levels and stages of their career. Some of Shwe Taung Group’s operations are seasonal and close over the wet season (May-September). For these operations we transfer staff to regions where operations are ongoing and ensure all relocation costs including accommodation are covered. Currently, Shwe Taung Group monitors wage market values depending on project location in order to remain competitive with local salaries for a private company. Our senior management employees are locally hired with Myanmar nationals filling all management positions. We use public advertising through newspapers, internet and word of mouth to attract new talent. Our management positions are all staffed by people from local communities and at the time of reporting there are 76 management positions held within the company. 76 The number of management positions held by people from local communities within the company. • Health and Safety Assessment: a human rights and environmental challenge – Shwe Taung Group’s products and services have been assessed in order to improve upon the company’s health and safety impacts. Currently there have been no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the assessments undertaken. Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 45 • Shwe Taung Group employees are required to attend the Fire Safety Management Training which is conducted by the Fire Services Department each month. The training equips employees with the knowledge of how to best protect themselves should a fire occur. For the employees who cannot attend the fire safety training, there is a follow up in-house training run by the attendees to convey their knowledge of fire safety measures. • Shwe Taung Group established an Education Support Programme for employees’ children which awards the students who complete the matriculation exam. This initiative started for the 2013-14 academic year and has been on-going. There are 21 students who have been awarded in this 2014 – 15 academic year. The scholarship programme awards the students based on outstanding academic achievement. 21 The number of students who have been awarded scholarships in the 2014-15 academic year for their outstanding achievement. students 46 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group Environment Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 47 Environment at a glance Shwe Taung Group is responding to the challenges of the Urban Heat Island effect by creating Green Roofs and planting vegetation around our developments Working towards Harmony With Nature 48 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS At Shwe Taung Group, we recognise the need to respect the environment and be cautious when conducting projects that may adversely harm the eco-system and bio-diversity of Myanmar. Shwe Taung Group is actively working towards reducing our carbon footprint across all our operations and continues to develop tools to measure the outcomes of our progress in the direction of being more carbon neutral and environmentally sustainable. Shwe Taung Group is aiming to progress to the international standards of ISO 14001:2008, ISO 20121:2012 and ISO 50001:2011 in relation to becoming more resource efficient and to promote cleaner energy production. We strive to achieve greater environmental management and will continue to refer to the UNGC principles and the GRI indices as we continue to develop our environmental policies. SHWE TAUNG GROUP IS AIMING TO PROGRESS TO THE INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS OF ISO 14001:2008, ISO 20121:2012 AND ISO 50001:2011 IN RELATION TO BECOMING MORE RESOURCE EFFICIENT AND TO PROMOTE CLEANER ENERGY PRODUCTION. Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 49 4.Companypolicyi s toswichof t falldevi ces whentheyarenotinuse Spotlight on raising awareness as an industry leader Shwe Taung Group shares responsibility with the company’s stakeholders in promoting awareness about environmental issues. The wider community plays a key role as end-users of Shwe Taung Group’s operations, whether it be natural resources, shopping centres, cinemas or roads, and for this it is important that as a business we ensure the long-term use of these projects follows a sustainable method of practice. This includes educating the public on the consequences of over-consumption of natural resources such as energy, water and non-recyclable materials, to developing shopping centres with appropriate recycling mechanisms and energy efficient electricity throughout. Waste management is of particular importance to Shwe Taung Group and we are leading the movement to implementing sound recycling practices in Myanmar. In all our offices we have educated our employees about separating waste and recyclables to ensure we lower the impacts of consuming nonbiodegradable goods and set a good example of how to care for the environment. Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 51 • Shwe Taung Group runs a ‘one for one’ policy where a tree is planted for every one cut down. This policy is recognised across all of our projects and is honoured by all of our subsidiaries. Tree Plantation Hlawga National Park, Yangon Every year a tree plantation programme is implemented as part of Shwe Taung Group’s sustainability activities. In 2015, 25 acres of trees were planted to prevent the damaging effects of deforestation and natural disasters in Myanmar. The planting of trees around Hlawga Dam has helped preserve the natural environment which will aid in the long-term distribution of water to Yangon City. Industrial Zone and Project Site Tree Plant Since 2012, an annual tree planting project has been carried out by Shwe Taung Group in the areas nearby to our projects. By doing this we are helping to conserve the environments in which we operate in. In 2015, 7,500 trees were planted in the surrounding areas of our project sites. • All of our major Junction shopping centres honour the annual Earth Hour advocacy event and turn off all electricity for one hour in a single day per year. We also advertise for the event throughout our shopping centres to ensure the public understand the aims of Earth Hour and encourage behavioural change in electricity consumption. 52 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group • Shwe Taung Group established the Environmental Awareness Poster Campaign and Practical Usage Programme. Both initiatives target environmental degradation and pollution specific to the Myanmar context. The campaign aims to create awareness around the negative impacts of using betel nut, having poor waste management facilities, and the environmental effects of the over consumption of water and electricity. • Golden Tri Star has begun recycling empty bitumen drums into stone trays, containers for dry goods, boxes, walling or fencing and filters. • HTC has invested in solar lighting systems across seven of their site areas. The solar lights are able to light up 15 square feet and are in use as energy efficient security lighting. • HTC has also established a recycling plant that is capable of producing sand and rocks from solid waste. Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 53 ACTIONS TO IMPLEMENT ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION For all our major developments, Shwe Taung Group performs in-depth Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) to identify environmental threats or opportunities related to the site and its surroundings. Our recycling plant for residual concrete has been a successful recycling project, where we separate ultra-fine particles from cement mixing trucks to be re-used in other projects. It is a priority on each site where major developments are taking place to ensure that any discharged waters are not contaminated before being released into public drains. We have put in place water waste treatment plants to address this environmental issue. Shwe Taung Group also uses rain water harvesting mechanisms where possible to save on our water consumption. 54 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Spotlight on Junction City, Myanmar’s most sustainable building “Junction City is a pioneer in green design and sustainable development in Myanmar.” Aung Zaw Naing CEO Shwe Taung Group Shwe Taung Group undertook a thorough Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) prior to the commencement of building Junction City. The overall design aims to achieve the Green Mark Gold Certification awarded by Singapore’s Building and Construction Authority. This innovative building design will lead the way in Myanmar to ensure developers adopt a more sustainable approach to new construction projects. The integrated development is still currently under construction and is set to be completed in phases from the first quarter of 2017. Junction City will comprise Grade A office spaces, a 5-star luxury hotel, a world-class lifestyle shopping centre, and serviced residences. It will feature a ‘green roof’ which is a sustainable way of controlling extreme heat in cities. We hope more buildings will add this feature in years to come to help manage the effects of climate change in Yangon. More sustainability features include: solar panels for hot water, photovoltaic panels for natural heating, and occupancy motion and daylight sensors for lighting (LED used). Junction City also utilises sustainable building materials where possible and incorporates sustainable construction methods. Once completed, Junction City will be set up to function in a sustainable manner, having adopted environmentally friendly building designs throughout. Water conservation and waste management are priorities and systems will be put in place to ensure rain water tanks are used where possible and that water waste is dealt with so as not to pollute public drains. The water preservation methods implemented are aimed at limiting the need for ground water extraction and to reduce wastage. In addition to the environmental sustainability of the building, Shwe Taung Group ensured all sub-contracting developers signed an anti-corruption contract. This is a progressive move forward to help eliminate corruption from corporate business in Myanmar. Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 55 Spotlight on the conservation of Inle Lake the abundance of hyacinth water, that have led to poor environmental conservation and is damaging the fragile environment of Inle Lake. the objective of improving this situation and provided technical support to the community make the switch from agro chemicals to safe and chemical free plant protectors. We provide consistent training to communities on environmental pollution, hygiene and manage environmental degradation from human interference. In addition, HTCT established a library in the community to ensure people have access to the necessary educational materials to continue their learning on environmental conservation. In 2015, we measured the outcomes of our interventions at Inle Lake through an impact assessment with 10 participants from surrounding villages who have been receiving educational support through HTCT initiatives farmers have incorporated healthier pest-control methods on their local crops. • Environmental and social training courses involving the production of environmentally sustainable liquid soap and shampoo through reducing chemical additives have been successful and some of the trainees are now producing the • The clothes making course for young women has successfully finished and women who have sewing machines have been able to create business from their • Inle people have experienced economic and social development since HTCT began implementing sustainable community-minded initiatives there. SHWE TAUNG GROUP PROVIDES CONSISTENT TRAINING TO COMMUNITIES ON ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION, HYGIENE AND PEST MANAGEMENT IN ORDER TO CREATE A MORE SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITY EXISTENCE AND MANAGE ENVIRONMENTAL DEGRADATION FROM HUMAN INTERFERENCE. Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group Spotlight on the improvement of Industrial Energy Efficiency (IEE) project Shwe Taung Group is actively participating in the IEE project in Myanmar, implemented by the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO). The project seeks to advise both the public and private sectors on how to best manage the energy industry’s consumption and efficiency through the establishment of Energy Management Systems (EnMS). The energy industry accounts for more than a third of the global energy consumption and total greenhouse gas emissions. With this in mind Shwe Taung Group has committed to work towards ensuring the economic growth occurring in Myanmar is not linked with environmental degradation and unsustainable energy practices. The IEE project upholds the international commitment to six key SDGs: 7 clean energy 8 good jobs and economic growth 9 innovation and infrastructure 12 sustainable cities and communities 13 protect the planet 17 partnerships for goals Shwe Taung Group’s cement manufacturing plant and concrete-mixing plant have been selected as host plants for the implementation of EnMS in Myanmar. Our energy company will provide demonstrations and up-scaling of energy saving measures with the support of trained personnel. EnMS standards provide a best practice method to integrate energy efficiency with industry corporate culture. EnMS provides a proven policy-driven market-based tool to aid in the management of energy consumption specific to the energy industry. The policies adopted by Shwe Taung Group aim to regulate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions in line with the SDGs and in turn influence the interest for investing in EnMS training and implementation for all energy companies in Myanmar. In addition to the environmental aspect of EnMS and the IEE project, Shwe Taung Group understands the economic value of greater energy efficiency for both for the public and private sector, as sustainable energy policies prove to be more cost-effective. Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 57 SHWE TAUNG GROUP AS AN INDUSTRY LEADER • We sponsor public debates and platforms relating to the promotion of safety policies in Myanmar. • Fire safety trainings have been put in place across all our companies, operations and projects along with emergency preparedness training. • We run risk assessments in a systemic fashion and mitigate such risks with the economic application of training, equipment and security procedures. ENVIRONMENTAL FORUMS ATTENDED IN 2015 1. Workshop run by Global Environmental Facility (GEF) and UNIDO – promoting sustained greenhouse gas emission reduction in Myanmar industry through the improvement of policy and stricter regulatory frameworks. We discussed institutional capacity development for industrial energy efficiency and the implementation of energy management systems based on ISO 50001. 2. Seminar run by UNIDO – aimed to provide a practical introduction to Resource Efficiency and Cleaner Production (RECP) as well as low carbon industrial development with a particular focus on South East Asia. 3. We continually attend forums on moving Myanmar forward in an environmentally responsible way, with the objective or collaborating with other businesses to build a more sustainable Myanmar. 58 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 59 Anti-corruption at a glance New Information Technology upgrades – Advancing Myanmar’s corporate transparency 0 SHWE TAUNG GROUP IS WORKING IN PARTNERSHIP WITH tolerance LOCAL CIVIL SOCIETY policy on ORGANISATIONS corruption TO HELP REMOVE CORRUPTION FROM MYANMAR 14th Myanmar’s 14th largest tax payer for 2014 (2015 Announcement) 60 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Corporate governance is fundamental to maintaining a successful business. At Shwe Taung Group, we believe that transparency and accountability are necessary to ensure our company maintains a high standard of corporate governance and in turn remains a sustainable business model. We publicly state our commitment to fight corruption at all levels, and in order to manage this commitment, we have implemented an effective system to identify the signs of corruption and eliminate them at their core. In actively working to fight corruption, Shwe Taung Group sends a strong message to our stakeholders that the private sector shares in the responsibility of removing corruption from Myanmar. As a successful Myanmar business, we aim to positively contribute to policy development at the national level in this area. Shwe Taung Group ensures business partnerships are built on trust and that both parties operate with equal respect for ethics, transparency and accountability. SHWE TAUNG GROUP ENSURES BUSINESS PARTNERSHIPS ARE BUILT ON TRUST AND THAT BOTH PARTIES OPERATE WITH EQUAL RESPECT FOR ETHICS, TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY. Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 61 G4-HR12 G4-57 IMPLEMENTATION G4-SO4 G4-58 Shwe Taung Group is actively working towards implementing greater company policies to combat corruption and has so far been ensuring our contractual agreements with business partners have anti-corruption clauses within them. Shwe Taung Group currently has a ‘zero tolerance policy’ on corruption which is clearly stated with our Employee Handbook. The policy states that “it is forbidden to accept or give any kickbacks or bribes from anyone or to anyone”. The punishments for corrupt activity are also clearly stated in the Employee Handbook: corruption leads to termination of contract. Employees are encouraged to report on any behavior that seems corrupt within the business and whistleblowers may remain anonymous. Whistleblowing can be done through internal measures of contacting the senior management staff at the Yangon Headquarters. In addition to this, there are hotlines available and complaint forms that can be filled out in accordance with our grievance mechanism policies. Shwe Taung Group has been engaging with the Myanmar Centre for Responsible Business (MCRB) to continuously improve our internal reporting, and regularly attends workshops and forums relating to the improvement of reporting and transparency in private institutions. At this year’s company management retreat, sustainability was the core theme and a series of presentations and debates were given on the topic of anti-corruption and how greater transparency will lead to improved sustainability. MCRB held a “Workshop on Developing an Effective Yangon” to follow up on their annual transparency report. The workshop focused on what grievance mechanisms were and their importance within the private sector. The similarities and difference between grievance mechanisms and whistleblowing were discussed and good examples of international standards and best practice were shown. 62 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group Spotlight on the protection of Intellectual Property Shwe Taung Group has invested in Microsoft technology in order to achieve greater efficiency, productivity and software security for the company. Given Myanmar’s recent economic development and FDI interest, it is important Shwe Taung Group is equipped with IT that allows us to effectively compete on a global market. Investing in Microsoft technology will improve the company’s ability to collaborate with our subsidiaries, stakeholders and consumers both in Myanmar and globally. Shwe Taung Group’s IT transformation began with the Microsoft Enterprise Agreement which includes a Core Client Access License (CAL), Windows 10 Enterprise and Office 2016 Professional. The software update will allow for greater corporate governance through the adoption of international business practices and the ability to respect intellectual property rights. “As a leading Myanmar company, we aim to set the benchmark for good corporate citizenship in the country and create a positive influence on our stakeholders in our supply chain. We hope our partnership with Microsoft will further encourage our suppliers and contractors to adopt higher standards of business practices.” Aung Zaw Naing CEO Shwe Taung Group Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 63 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Through Shwe Taung Group’s effective internal and external reporting system, Zero cases of bribery and one case of extortion were reported in 2015. Four percent of our operations have received an in-depth corruption assessment this year and our aim is to improve this to 100 percent of our operations over the coming years as policy develops in this area. Shwe Taung Group’s website was named the fourth most transparent website in Myanmar by the MCRB in 2014 and seventh most transparent in 2015. Shwe Taung Development has been awarded fourth “Best Tax Payer” in Myanmar for 2015 by the Internal Revenue Department. This award is not based on the total amount of tax paid by the company but rather on the regularity of tax payments and consistency of amount paid throughout the year. This initiative was put in place to promote the need to pay taxes for public benefit. TOP 100 Myanmar Largest Tax Payers For 2011 (Announcement of 2012) Shwe Taung 14th Development Co., Ltd. TOP 100 High Tech Concrete Technological Co., Ltd. 44th TOP 25 Commercial Golden Tri Star Co., Ltd. 47 th Myanmar Largest Taxpayers For 2011 Tax Payers For 2013 (Announcement of 2012) (Announcement of 2014) Shwe Taung 14th Shwe Taung 3rd Energy Co., Ltd. TOP 25 Development Co., Ltd. High Tech Concrete 14th Myanmar Largest Technological Co., Ltd. Tax Payers For 2012 (Announcement of 2013) Shwe Taung 5th TOP 50 Development Co., Ltd. Outstanding High Tech Concrete 25th Dutiful Taxpayers Technological Co., Ltd. Myanmar Largest Award For 2013 Tax Payers For 2014 (Announcement of 2014) (Announcement of 2015) Shwe Taung Shwe Taung 12th Development Co., Ltd. Development Co., Ltd. (The President’s Excellent Tax Payer Award) Shwe Taung 45th Energy Co., Ltd. 64 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group PUBLIC TENDERS The Tamwe flyover bridge was a public tender won by Shwe Taung Group in the company’s joint venture system of public and private interests promoting shared value. INFLUENCE ON OUR STAKEHOLDERS After successfully winning the tender for the development of Junction City, Shwe Taung Group began strategising how we could ensure that future sub-contractors for this project would uphold the same principles of anti-corruption as we do. On 6 October 2015, Shwe Taung Group invited all of the sub-contractors selected to work on the Junction City and Junction Squares project to participate in a public signing ceremony for their new contracts which explicitly stated policies relating to antibribery and anti-corruption. Government Economic adviser Prof. Dr Aung Tun Thet gave a welcome speech and our CEO U Aung Zaw Naing was a keynote speaker at the event. The ceremony was a public way for Shwe Taung Group to express our zero tolerance policy on corruption. We are committed to adhering to our ISO 26000 policy within our Code of Conduct of eliminating and preventing corruption in all its forms. We hope to act as a role model for all Myanmar companies to follow suit for the benefit Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 65 Thedeci sionboardforShweTaungGr oupi schai redbyAi kHt un,Chairman. Theboardconsi stsof11members,includingtheCEO,t woDeput yCEOs ,two DeputyManagi ngDi rect orsandf iveDi rect ors.Eachmemberoft hedeci sion boar dplaysanexecutiverol ewit hinShweTaungGr oup. GRI G4 Indices G4-1 Provide a statement from the most Chairman’s Statement 1 senior decision-maker of the organisation (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, About the report 2 risks, and opportunities Organisational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organisation About the report 2 G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and Shwe Taung Group Overview 12-15 services G4-5 Report the location of the organisation’s Shwe Taung Group Overview 14 headquarters G4-6 Report the number of countries where GRI G4 Indices 8 the organisation operates, and names of countries where either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and Sustainability Progress, 2&9 legal form About the Report G4-8 Report the markets served (including About Shwe Taung Group 11-16 geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). G4-9 Report the scale of the organisation Sustainability Progress 9 G4-10 Report the total number of employees Labour Rights (Measurement 41 by employment contract and gender of Outcomes) G4-12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain Shwe Taung Group and 4-5 Sustainability Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 67 G4-13 Report any significant changes during the Shwe Taung Group and 4-5 reporting period regarding the Sustainability organisation’s size, structure ownership, or its supply chain, including: Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination G4-14 Report whether and how the All sections precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation G4-15 List externally developed economic, Sustainability Progress 9 environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as See Human Rights, Labour, industry associations) and national or Environment and Anti-corruption international advocacy organisations in sections which the organisation: holds a position on the governance body / Participates in projects or committees / Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership duties / Views membership as strategic Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List all entities included in the Corporate 11 Structure, including the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. Report whether any entity included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report G4-18 Explain the process for defining the About the Report 2 report content and the Aspect Boundaries. Explain how the organisation has implemented the reporting principles G4-19 List all the material aspects identified in Shwe Taung Group and 4-5 the process for defining report content Sustainability 68 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups Stakeholders Inclusiveness 4-5 engaged by the organisation. G4-25 Report the basis for identification and Stakeholders Inclusiveness 4-5 selection of stakeholders with whom to engage G4-26 Report the organisation’s approach to Stakeholders Inclusiveness 4-5 stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that Stakeholders Inclusiveness 4-5 have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or About the Report 2 calendar year) for information provided G4-29 Date of most recent previous report About the Report 2 G4-30 Reporting cycle About the Report 2 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions About the Report 2 regarding the report or its contents G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the Shwe Taung Group and 4 organisation has chosen. Sustainability Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. G4-33 Report the organisation’s policy and Shwe Taung Group and 4 current practice with regard to seeking Sustainability external assurance for the report. Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 69 Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the Organisational Structure 10 organisation, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts G4-35 Report the process for delegating Organisational Structure 10 authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees G4-36 Report whether the organisation has Organisational Structure 10 appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body G4-37 Report processes for consultation Organisational Structure 10 between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body G4-38 Report the composition of the highest Organisational Structure and 10 & 66 governance body and its committees by: Anti-Corruption Executive or non-executive G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest Anti-corruption 66 governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her function within the organisation’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) G4-40 Report the nomination and selection Anti-corruption 66 processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including: Whether and how diversity is considered. Whether and how independence is considered. Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered and whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved 70 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group G4-41 Report processes for the highest Anti-corruption 66 governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum: Cross-board membership Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders Existence of controlling shareholder Related party disclosures G4-42 Report the highest governance bodies Anti-corruption 66 and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organisation’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts G4-43 Report the measures taken to develop Anti-corruption 66 and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics G4-44 Report the processes for evaluation of Anti-corruption 66 the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a selfassessment. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organisational practice G4-45 Report the highest governance body’s Anti-corruption 66 role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes. Report whether stakeholder consultation is issued to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group 71 G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s Anti-corruption 66 role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organisation’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest Anti-corruption 66 governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-48 Report the highest committee or Organisational Structure 10 position that formally reviews and approves the organisation’s sustainability report and ensures that all material aspects are covered. G4-49 Report the process for communicating Organisational Structure 10 critical concerns to the highest governance body. G4-56 Describe the organisation’s values, Mission and Vision 16-17 principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. G4-57 Report the internal and external Anti-Corruption 62 mechanisms for seeking advice on (Implementation) ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organisational integrity, such as helplines or advicelines. G4-58 Report the internal and external Anti-Corruption 62 mechanisms for reporting concerns (Implementation) about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organisational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistle blowing mechanisms or hotlines. For other specific sustainability indicators, please refer to GRI specific standard disclosure (HR, LA, SO, EN and PR) “Shwe Taung Group would like to acknowledge and thank Montrose International and Prodigy Design for compiling our 2015 Communication on Progress report. In addition, we would like to give a special thanks to the Sustainability Team within Shwe Taung Group for their hard work and dedication to furthering our sustainable practices each year.” 72 Communication on Progress Shwe Taung Group This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and supporting broader UN goals. We welcome feedback on its contents.
