MAY 2016 EFICO Group Communication On Progress Year 2015 Based on the COP of the United Nations Global Compact Foreword T he annual communication report or this EFICO Group’s May 2016 edition is based on the Communication On Progress (COP) requests of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). It reflects our corporate engagement with regard to the ten principles and our implemented activities and progress made in 2015. As Global Compact signatory since 2003, EFICO is committed to publicly communicate annually about its progress made in implementing the ten principles. As part of the learning process, we proposed a GC ACTIVE LEVEL. Being a coffee trading company since 1926, EFICO shares its knowhow with its partners, stakeholders and approximately 450 European coffee roasting companies. With offices in Belgium, Germany, Switzerland, Brazil, Ethiopia and Guatemala we operate in an international context. By publicly communicating to our internal and external stakeholders about the progress we made, we want to contribute to the recognition of the UNGC-framework. We share our UNGC engagement in all our communication material and in meetings with our stakeholders. Since we adhere a lot of importance to exchanging ideas with people within the same or other sectors, we also actively participate to the events of the local UNGC Network Belgium and other sustainability events, both locally and globally. Thanks to this cross-polination of thoughts, we can continue learning and improving our dynamic sustainable journey. At EFICO, we embed sustainability within our supply chain approach and create hereby extra tools for clients and suppliers to promote responsible business practices in the coffee sector. The UNGC provides the basis for EFICO’s corporate citizenship model. We developed tools to implement best practices in our company, also with our suppliers and clients. This strategic multi-stakeholder approach improves sustainable entrepreneurship. This new EFICO COP report focuses on the main implemented sustainable activities achieved by the EFICO Group in 2015, but also highlights EFICO’s ambitions with regard to the Sustainable Development Goals, recently launched by the United Nations. EFICO aims to be an ambassador, inspirer and catalysator for other people within the business and beyond. Similar to our previous reports, this COP report is published on www.unglobalcompact.org and on www.efico.com/un-global-compact. i Table of Contents Foreword ..................................................................................................................................................................i Statement of continued support 2015 ................................................................................................................1 EFICO Group’s Ambition, Commitment and Values .....................................................................................2 United Nations Global Compact Principles versus Sustainable Development Goals ...........................4 EFICO’s Implementation UNGC Principles .............................................................................4 EFICO’s Implementation SDGs .................................................................................................5 EFICO .....................................................................................................................................................................10 SEABRIDGE ............................................................................................................................................................16 EFICO FOUNDATION ............................................................................................................................................18 Into the future ......................................................................................................................................................21 ii Coffee picking Huehuetenango, Guatemala Statement of continued support 2015 Dear Partner, Dear Stakeholder, EFICO founded back in 1926 in Antwerp, Belgium is a group of companies with main activities in green coffee trading and logistics. We aim to differentiate in our business through innovation, taking on challenges, optimizing and sharing our knowledge and passion. The long-term approach combined with expertise within the coffee growing communities, trading activities and logistic services, leads to the development of EFICO’s sustainable Green Coffee Supply Chain concept. Within the supply chain, EFICO provides tailor-made solutions “with a personal touch” through innovation and partnerships based on synergies and mutual trust. The EFICO Group subscribed to the ten United Nations Global Compact Principles covering Human Rights, Labour, the Environment and Anti-Corruption since 2003. As mentioned earlier in the Foreword of this report, The United Nations Global Compact Principles are the cornerstones of EFICO’s sustainable entrepreneurship and ethical behavior. Besides the UNGC Principles, the Millenium Development Goals were translated into 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in September 2015. At EFICO, we see both the UNGC principles and the SDGs as essential drivers towards sustainable development and a better world to live in. Being a natural product, coffee is very sensitive and its quality is subject to both ‘terroir’ and preand post-harvest practices. One of today’s biggest challenges is climate change. Extreme weather situations for example droughts and floods already have an impact on the coffee harvest. In combination with the yearly increasing demand for coffee, time is to act now. By investing in combating climate change, we will not only halt global warming but also protect our natural resources, secure supply and drive sustainable development. Besides being proactive within the coffee supply chain, the institutional level also has to be addressed. Together with 75 other Belgian entrepreneurs and organisations, EFICO signed a Letter Of Engagement in September 2015 to urge our Belgian Government to take action and promote an ambitious climate deal during the United Nations Climate Change Conference of the Parties 21 COP21 held in Paris in December 2015. This initiative was set up by The Shift, in alliance with the UNGC Network Belgium. This EFICO Group Communication-On-Progress report reflects our actions taken in 2015 and our ambitions for the future. The continuation of our sustainable journey is mapped out here. We invite you hereby to read our report and welcome your feedback. Michel Germanès Philip Van gestel Managing Director Executive Chairman 1 EFICO GROUP’S AMBITION AND COMMITMENT OUR AMBITION Efico is a green coffee trading company, established in 1926 and ranked among the top-ten European coffee trading houses. With headquarters in Antwerp, Belgium, and offices in Germany, Switzerland, Brazil, Ethiopia and Guatemala, we aim to provide tailor-made services to our clients ‘with a personal touch’. The Efico Group has a longstanding family history and differentiates itself by offering a complete concept throughout the Green Coffee Supply Chain, From Flower to Cup. Tradition and technology go hand in hand. Quality, Food Safety, Traceability and Sustainability are Efico’s cornerstones. The Efico team strongly believes in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Principles, to which we were the first to sign up to in the coffee sector in 2003. Responsible entrepreneurship is part of our ‘Coffee Genes’. Our ambition towards a sustainable coffee supply chain is reflected in the investment in Seabridge, a state-ofthe-art sustainable warehouse and distribution center for green coffee in the port of Zeebrugge, where green and high-qualitative logistics prevail. With the Efico Foundation we make a difference by supporting sustainable multi-stakeholder projects in coffee producing countries with the aim to improve hereby the Efico Headquarters, Antwerp livelihoods of many. OUR COMMITMENT As a business with strong family values, and a passion for coffee, Efico strives for excellence in providing correct and safe products, that are traceable at all times, and a personalized service with consideration for all players in the sector. We are active in a socially, economically and environmentally responsible manner, in line with the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Efico is aware of its impact on the environment and is proactively looking for solutions in-house and on behalf of its customers with regard to waste management, logistics and reducing and compensating CO2-emission levels. Efico remains faithful to its roots and has continued this tradition for a long time, demonstrating how mutual respect and a personalized service are the basis for long-term, sustainable business relations within the supply chain. Because...After all, as already mentioned in our previous Red, Ripe coffee cherries COP reports, sustainable development is an international challenge and cannot be met unless everyone of us contributes. 2 EFICO GROUP’S CORPORATE VALUES INTERNAL CODE OF CONDUCT Efico’s corporate values describe what we strive for and shape the ethical personality of our Group. They guide and determine the way we trade, Integrity the services, the products and the support we provide Tailor-Made to all our stakeholders. Passion Respect They are inspired by the United Nations Global Compact Open minded framework. Values Ensure Quality “IMPROVE” is the compilation of letters that reflect the Efico Group’s values. This internal Code of Conduct defines the principles and expectations our EFICO Team should comply with: V A L U E S I (NTEGRITY) M (TAILOR-MADE) P (ASSION) R (ESPECT) O (PEN-MINDED) V E (NSURE QUALITY) Act respectfully towards internal and external stakeholders. Care for an open and honest communication towards internal and external contacts. I Deliver a trustworthy service. Act consequently in accordance to the EFICO Group company values. Confidentiality and discretion are a requirement. Adjust the offer of services and products to our clients’ needs through continuous dialogue. M Continue to inform clients via a state of affairs, actions and adaptations in order to reachagreed results. In doing so, ensuring an even better service from the EFICO Group towards the client. Express a personal engagement to the Group. Show your commitment towards your own specific professional field. P Keep a drive to explore new insights and opportunities. Permanently improve personal expertise and competences. Address clients on an equal base and with required respect. Accept mutual differences. R Stimulate and value the mix of different talents, visions and experiences. Encourage teamwork through active listening, constructive feedback and a good working climate. Adjust attitude and ideas to changing circumstances in view of improvement and quick response to altering O needs. Help to make colleagues realize challenges in their job function – through dialogue and pro-active actions. Our VALUES are the basis to support each EFICO team member, appreciate and motivate their further V development Continuously improve high professional standards and working methods. E Permanently strive for required quality via a proactive approach. Take on new opportunities and challenges using creative ideas. 3 THE 10 UNGC PRINCIPLES EFICO integrates the ten United Nations Global Compact principles in its strategies and actions: HUMAN RIGHTS Principles based on the Universal Declaration Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of international proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses LABOUR Principles resulting from the International Labour organization’s Declaration Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and recognize effectively the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT Principles derived from the Rio Declaration principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle based on the UN Convention against Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery 4 THE 17 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) The Millenium Development Goal 6 Ensure availability and Goal 15 Protect, restore and proGoals, were transformed into sustainable management of mote sustainable use of terrestrial t h e p os t-2 015 S u s t a i n a b l e water and sanitation for all ecosystems, sustainably manage Development Goals. forests, combat desertification, Goal 7 Ensure access to afforand halt and reverse land degraThe UN Member States agreed on dable, reliable, sustainable and dation and halt biodiversity loss the proposed 17 goals at the UN modern energy for all Summit in September 2015, the Goal 16 Promote peaceful and new framework came into effect Goal 8 Promote sustained, incluinclusive societies for sustainable as from January 2016: sive and sustainable econo development, provide access to mic growth, full and productive justice for all and build effective, These new goals give an overemployment and decent work accountable and inclusive instituview on how to tackle the world’s tions at all levels most pressing problems, including Goal 9 Build resilient infrastrucpoverty, inequality and environture, promote inclusive and sustaiGoal 17 Strengthen the means of mental destruction: nable industrialization and foster implementation and revitalize the innovation global partnership for sustainable Goal 1 End poverty in all its forms development everywhere Goal 10 Reduce inequality within and among countries Goal 2 End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutriGoal 11 Make cities and human tion and promote sustainable settlements inclusive, safe, resilient agriculture and sustainable Goal 3 Ensure healthy lives and Goal 12 Ensure sustainable conpromote well-being for all at all sumption and production patterns ages Goal 13 Take urgent action to Goal 4 Ensure inclusive and combat climate change and its equitable quality education and impacts promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Goal 14 Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and Goal 5 Achieve gender equality marine resources for sustainable and empower all women and girls development 5 ACTIONS & AMBITIONS EFICO GROUP IMPLEMENTATION UNGC PRINCIPLES AND SDGS THROUGHOUT EFICO GROUP’S SUPPLY CHAIN MANUFACTURING PLANTATION PROCESSING TRANSPORT, TRADING WAREHOUSING TRANSPORT SHIPPING & VALUE-ADDED TO CLIENTS SERVICES As Antwerp based company with family tradition, Efico shares and promotes its global strategy locally. By communicating to our internal and external stakeholders about the progress we make, and actively contributing to local and international sustainability fora, sharing our lessons learned, we inspire and engage stakeholders and networks both locally and globally. Efico’s sustainability strategy focuses on 5 SDGs: SDG 12: Responsible Consumption & Production SDG 7: Affordable & Clean Energy SDG 8: Decent Work & Economic Growth SDG 17: Global Partnership for Sustainable Development SDG 4: Quality Education SDG 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION & PRODUCTION // UNGC HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOUR & ENVIRONMENT Sourcing our raw material resToday the sector is challenponsibly is key to Efico. ged to distinguish various certification schemes, in addition Efico’s family tradition of being to company’s private product a medium -sized company requirements and verification empowers us to establish longsystems. term strategies and partnerships based on mutual trust and We actively promote the comrespect. mercialization of sustainable Efico continues to share its coffees, and verify our major know-how on coffee and sustaiThe selection of our business suppliers through an indepennability with its stakeholders. partners has always been a spedent audit to measure their We are convinced that quality cial focus. compliance with the UNGC will generate the ultimate conprinciples. sumer satisfaction for a cup of By implementing a sustainable coffee. sourcing policy, we aim to supAt present, more than 30% of port the long-term supply of Efico’s volume is verified or Through a close dialogue we quality coffee, whilst preserving certified against sustainability support our clients in the selececosystem services for future standards. Our ambition is to tion of the right products and generations. increase this volume up to 40% services, and create added by 2020 and 50% latest by 2025. value in the supply chain. 6 SDG 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH // UNGC HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOUR & ANTI-CORRUPTION At Efico sustainability and ecoBy taking ownership of these nomic growth go hand in hand. values and by implementing an ambitious sustainable approBy using safe, environmentach, Efico supports the UN vision friendly products and sound towards a more sustainable and technologies, we aim to decouinclusive global economy. ple economic growth from environmental degradation. Efico’s ambition is to continue investing in solid and long-term Efico’s internal Code of Conduct business relations and create and corporate values are win-win partnerships within the inspired by the UNGC framesupply chain. work. They guide and determine the way we trade, the services, the products and the support we provide to all our stakeholders. SDG 4 QUALITY EDUCATION // UNGC HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR At Efico, we believe that access decision making, investment in to education provides the basis learning processes, and devefor a sustainable future: lopment of confidence in own knowledge is progress. capacities. Via our Efico Foundation, several The Efico group does not discriprojects focus on training and minate according to gender or education. Herein gender other characteristics. equity is key. By continuing to invest in both By continuing to reinforce internal and external trai empowerment of coffee proning, we can further improve ducing communities, we conour knowledge and personal tribute to sharing of knowledge growth. and responsibilities, democratic 7 SDG 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY // UNGC ENVIRONMENT Efico’s commitment towards affordable and clean energy fits within a broader concept, launched in 2008: CO 2 reduction and compensation within the green coffee supply chain. We are convinced that action should be taken at the place where emissions occur. Leading by example, the Efico Group uses 100% green energy; Today, more than 50% of the green energy is produAdditionally, we focus on energy ced on-site by solar panels at efficiency, recycling of miniSeabridge. mum 95% of all waste streams according to the Cradle-toWe intend to further expand our Cradle principles, green logisown production of green energy tics by transport optimization by 2020 to compensate the total and barge & train transport energy use of the Efico Group. between the Belgian Ports. Via our Efico Foundation we Thanks to this project: Efico’s ambition is to further promote renewable energy in extend these efforts and realiremote areas in coffee countries El Platanillo Farm saves zing a positive impact on both and climate adaptation and 15,080,173 liters of water per daily lives and the environment. mitigation strategies. year, equivalent to the water consumption of 20,660 persons; In 2009, a Pilot Project was initiated by Efico, Rainforest Alliance a n d A n a ca fé :“C l i m a t e The farm emits 1,360 kilograms Friendly Practices at Finca El of CO2 less; Platanillo, Guatemala”. This pionee r p roject was and saves up to 38,327 liters of the basis for establishing a fuel annually in comparison with standard for Climate Friendly a traditional coffee processing Products within the Sustainable station. Agriculture Network (SAN). 8 SDG 17 GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT// UNGC HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOUR ENVIRONMENT & ANTI-CORRUPTION Sustainable development is an To achieve this transition, a It is known as an open initiative, international challenge and multi-stakeholder approach is unique vector and flexible tool cannot be met unless every one needed. to achieving multi-stakeholder of us contributes. participation in our projects. We stimulate our stakeholders Efico therefore fully supports the by exchanging knowledge SDG Framework. and passion, aiming to create added value. On an ongoing basis we attend and actively participate in many The future will only be assured discussions that influence local for those who embrace this and global CSR agendas. philosophy. Being an active member of susWith our Efico Foundation, we tainability initiatives, it is Efico’s federate and stimulate publicambition to be an inspirer within private partnerships. the coffee industry and beyond, by thinking globally and acting locally. “Together, you can achieve more”. Quote Ban Ki-moon: “One of the main lessons learned as UN Secretary-General is that broad partnerships are the key to solve broad challenges.“ 9 YOU CAN ALWAYS LEARN A TRADE, BUT YOU HAVE TO EXPERIENCE PASSION Efico has been trading green coffee since 1926. In that year, the company was established under the name ‘Wuyts & Installé’, in the maritime heart of Antwerp. Over time, the Installé family controlled the company. Love for coffee and knowledge of the business was passed on from one generation to the next. Strengthened by the inspiration and experience of four generations, Efico has developed into a valued partner in the coffee world. Today, Philip Van gestel and Michel Germanès lead a company that belongs to the European top ten in its sector. Permanent attention to quality and respect for a given word are hereby key. A PERSONAL APPROACH TRADING ROOM AS EFICO’S SPECIAL FOCUS ON BUSINESS NERVE CENTRE PARTNERS Efico sources coffee from about 40 coffee producing countries Today, Efico is still a company Efico’s trading team has daily and shares its know-how with where tradition and technology contact with both supplier and its partners, stakeholders and go hand in hand. client side. approximately 450 European If the cupping room is Efico’s A special focus has always been coffee roasting companies. heart, then the trading room the selection of Efico’s business is the ner ve centre. Here, partners. Sustainable relations Efico delivers coffee to both trathe coffee is traded, traced, are embedded in Efico’s ‘roots’. ditional coffee roasters and multiand tracked from order up to nationals. The minimum delivery is delivery. To highlight the importance of one bag of green coffee our choice of business partners, (+/60 kg). Efico’s multilingual traders are Efico implements a Responsible not only excellent negotiators Business Conduct Policy. Our clients often have very spewho thoroughly understand cific requirements and swear by the market. They also know a lot When the Efico Group acquires carefully selected coffee. about coffee. Every day, they raw materials, the choice of our taste the purchased coffee. partner relationships is based Efico can deliver coffee directly Passion for coffee is the soul of upon: from our stock or by special order. their profession. Our clients determine how the Quality, food safety and tracecoffee is delivered. Bags, big ability in a free competitive bags, or bulk delivery everything market is possible. Willingness to improve responsible agriculture practices And every order is completed Well-managed and reliable with the same attention to detail. partners operating ethically The coffee roaster that orders two and following the local and bags receives the same service international legislation and as the company that needs one the standard European Coffee hundred tonnes. Contract of the European Coffee Federation (ECF) 10 Business integrity and transpaOFFICES IN ORIGIN Foundation projects, special rency, that can be used by all our projects following our client’s customers Thanks to Efico’s strategic offisustainable programs, UNGC Openness to welcome all our ces in Central America, Brazil supplier audits and so on. requests and those of our partners and Ethiopia, coffee suppliers and exporters from these regions can be followed and screeUNGC SUPPLIER AUDIT SECURING A RELIABLE ned in an efficient and effective SUPPLY CHAIN way. To promote the principles of the UNGC, Efico has created, Efico can count on several tools, This presence in origin allows us together with Mayacert, its own willingly shared with its partners: to make quick reactions posaudit back in 2004 that measu1. Business integrity sible with regard to the market res each of the ten UNGC prin2. Long-term partnerships with needs. We receive thorough ciples in the field. reliable green coffee suppliers, reporting and detailed inforThis audit takes place minimum customers and partners mation of the market situation, once a year. In 2015, green 3. Special Procedure for new production levels, weather coffee expor ting company green coffee suppliers conditions, stocks and so on. In Cooperativa Cuzcachapa was 4. Offices in producing countries this way, the Efico trading team audited in El Salvador and suc5. Trading of certified sustainacan provide its clients relevant cessfully passed this audit. ble products: Our offices in the market and coffee information. producing countries are actively involved in creating new sustainaOur offices in origin visit the CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT ble supply chains in partnership cooperatives, farmer organiwith our suppliers, through workzations or private exports to Efico’s coffee suppliers are shops, training sessions and oncontinuously improve product monitored and evaluated on field audits. performance and proactively their global performance. When 6. UN Global Compact supplier work on alignment of service necessary, preventive and coraudit, initiated and created by requirements. rective actions for improvement Efico in partnership with Mayacert are taken. This process streng7. Risk Assessment of Suppliers They play an essential role in thens our product performance 8. Quality, Sustainability and selecting the desired coffee and reinsures Efico’s customers. International Relations flavor and also organize visits 9. Rewarding of SEABRIDGE ethiof our team, customers or partEfico focuses on systematic cal and responsible practices ners willing to gain some field analyses of gathered data con(see page 16) experience. cerning claims and complaints 10. Sustainable projects of the from both customer side EFICO FOUNDATION, providing Our offices in origin also followtowards supplier side. empowerment to local produup several sustainability procing communities (see page 18) jects, amongst which Efico A thorough root-cause analysis allows the Efico Group to optimize claims management, monitor KPIs and improve customer satisfaction. On frequent basis, our Trading Team can look into the detailed analyses and action can be taken where necessary. In this way, Efico’s relation towards suppliers and customers can be optimized. Besides claim management, liquidity optimization is key. An accurate follow-up of Efico’s account receivables and full screening of (new) clients allows us to limit possible risks. Efico also disposes of a Risk Manager. Sustainable business relations are the key to growth. 11 THE CUPPING LABORATORY, A STRONG SENSE OF became once Vice-World EFICO’S HEART PERCEPTION EQUALS Champion Cuptasting, in 2009. ADVICE YOU CAN TRUST Coffee quality is the basis for Efico’s buying and selling activiAll Efico’s coffees that are ties. We control this quality syssourced, are cupped at several tematically, from harvest up to moments in the supply chain. delivery. This detailed evaluation by our Efico has two cupping laboraexperienced Quality Control tories for these controls one in and Trade Team includes physiAntwerp and one at SEABRIDGE cal, sensorial and micro-biologiin Zeebrugge, see page 17 cal analysis. where coffee samples from Our range of products is desaround the world are checked cribed in Product Specification and tasted. Sheets, available upon request. Ivan Lamilla Muñoz See photo These cupping and sample above is Agnonomist Engineer rooms are unique in Europe. and Q-Grader from the Coffee Here, samples of all coffee Quality Institute. Recently, he varieties that Efico can deliver became third in the Belgian are stored. Also samples from Championship Cuptasting. previous deliveries are gathered in this coffee library. This library has evolved into a treasure box TRAINING for the coffee connoisseur. Internal trainings are organized to keep the Team up-to-date on WHEN COFFEE IS A PASSION, the knowledge in the different TASTING BECOMES AN ART coffee topics. Our Trading Team has alltogeThe sensorial appreciation that ther about 90 years in-house Cuppings according to the a consumer experiences is very coffee experience. This can SCAA standards or in-house personal. Efico has more than count. cupping sessions with our clients 300 coffee varieties and blends Our Green Coffee Quality around different themes and from different origins to offer to Expert Team is also very qualiorigins are organized to anaour clients. fied. Amongst them is Bart lyze and evaluate cup proVan Sanden See photo files, develop roasting profiles, Next to conventional coffees, middle who became Belgian blends, and so on. our Team selects a wide range Champion Cuptasting 2015 and of ‘Special Coffees’ every day: grown in special climates and distinctive because of their unique flavor and taste. Efico also offers certified or verified sustainable coffee. Throughout the past years, we report a substantial increase of demand in these coffees, also in blends. Efico has close contacts with 4C, Rainforest Alliance, Organic, UTZ, Fair Trade and so on and can provide all. Through the EFICO FOUNDATION, we also support certification and verification programs. As you can read on page 6, Efico has set up an ambition to increase this sustainable coffee volume even more. 12 Cupping laboratory, EFICO Antwerp 13 INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS FOLLOWING THE HIGHEST SEABRIDGE, the logistics serviTo counter the trafficking STANDARDS ces provider within the Group, of drugs and all illegal subalso disposes of an ISO 9001 cers ta n c e s , Ef ico e s ta b l i s Quality and Food Safety are tificate, an ISO 22 000 certificate h ed a M em o ra n d u m of two of Efico’s cornerstones. (Food Safety), including HACCP Understanding with the customs Team, an AEO certificate and authorities in 2001 and in 2011 Since 2003, Efico is ISO 9001 cersucceeded for an Ethical Audit anew with SEABRIDGE. tified for its management sysbased on ISO 26 000 (SMETA). tems (Quality). End September 2015, both Efico Safety and Security are also and Seabridge succeeded for The Efico Group wants to provery important. Therefore the its ISO renewal audits. vide its clients with solutions Efico Group is working to obtain Also Chain of Custody audits and answers towards a more an OHSAS or ISO 45 001 certifisuch as Rainforest Alliance, demanding consumer and cate on occupational health UTZ, BIO and FairTrade resulted legislation. and safety for SEABRIDGE. positively. All Efico Group’s certificates are available on www.efico.com/certifications and www.seabridge.eu/certifications. HUMAN RESOURCES SUPPORT People Management, also known as Human Resources Management (HRM), is a very important factor when it comes to getting the most out of your Team and eventually your company’s success. Motivation, enthusiasm and satisfaction are the main drivers to problem solving and efficiency. Efico is well aware that its Team’s performance and attitude can result in the success or failure of In fact, this yearly evaluaa job is done easier. its business. tion also allows to measure employee satisfaction. Encouragement, People Efico’s Human Resources Empowerment or Coaching are Department is therefore a During the past years, the Efico all part of Human Resources. supportive factor in this process. Group’s internal training proEmployees have to be treated gram has also been re-develoand involved as “Partners in the Yearly, an employee evaluped and ‘Teambuilding’ activiBusiness”. ation is carried out. This evaties integrated. luation process allows Efico’s The good practices of the Management to obtain a clear These tools help to stimulate UNGC are based on transpaview on the efforts and results a healthy cooperation and rency, partnership, dialogue, made throughout the year. understanding of the tasks voluntar y commitment and The Ef ico G roup’s values and problems colleagues face communication. IMPROVE, definition see page when carrying out their jobs. 3, are evaluated with all Efico shares this vision and employees and other topics as After all, “Together Everyone adopts the same approach, Performance evaluation, defiAchieves More”. When one reaone of openness and mutual ning future growth and training lizes he is needed so other colleexchange. needs are discussed. agues can carry out their tasks, 14 EFICO GROUP COMMUNICATION Communication between all Efico also disposes of a ‘Coffee strategy. Via our website departments within the Efico Quality Information & Origins and Social Media Channels Group is key to provide good Library’: Grading sheets, sensoYo ut u b e, F a ce b o o k a n d external communication and rial and organoleptic informaLinkedIn, everyone can follow a good service towards our tion, farm info and so on can be our activities. multi-stakeholders. discovered. Efico also frequently appears in A yea r l y Com m un ication Aside from high-qualitative coffee related magazines and Plan is set-up to monitor and coffees, information, commostays in contact with both natiadjust communication where dity market analysis and hedonal and international press. necessary. ging assistance, we have solid Also blogs are becoming more backgrounds in sustainability and more popular. In 2015, Ef ico also disposes of a programs. Efico was visited by the Belgian Sharepoint platform to share blog ‘Les Carnets de Normann’, information internally. This We guide our partners through who wrote about Efico and ShareIT! tool enhances besides the process of becoming a Seabridge. good internal communication sustainable actor in the coffee also cross-polination of ideas. sector. Efico gives advice on Efico is member of numerous Certification and Verification international, European and Externally, Efico disposes of Programs, EFICO FOUNDATION local organizations and was many different communication projects, Climate Change and also in 2015 present at different tools. other topics. coffee related events, working on coffee and sustainability First of all, our experienced Also Green Coffee Supply related topics. Trading Team keeps up minute Chain training and visits both by minute with the London and in producing countries and in A few examples are the ICO New York commodity futures Europe are possible. (International Coffee and world currency markets, At Efico, we share our knowOrganization), the ECF offering clients the best price at how and coffee passion with (European Coffee Federation), the right time. our stakeholders. SC A A (S p e c i a l t y Cof fe e Association of America), SCAE To keep our clients informed, Tailor-made PowerPoint pre(Specialty Coffee Association Efico sends a ‘Daily Market sentations are provided upon of Europe), The Global Coffee News’ report. This can be downrequest. Additionally, brochures Pl at fo r m, U N G C N et wo r k loaded on our website: including this COP report are Belgium and the Shift. www.efico.com/market-news. given to explain our vision and Trading green coffee since 1926 EFICO FACTS Sourcing from about 40 countries Offering more than 300 coffee varieties and blends of which almost 40% verified/certified coffee to about 450 European coffee roasters Product and market knowledge, ensuring quality at competitive prices Sustainability is in our ‘Coffee Genes’: * Stable and long-term partnerships * Vision and advice on Supply Chain Management Following the highest standards Conform ISO 9001 / 22 000 / HACCP 15 TAKING CARE OF YOUR COFFEE Quality, Food Safety, Traceability and Sustainability are Efico’s cornerstones. We believe it is our duty to deliver a high-qualitative product, whilst limiting our impact on the environment and on society. The Efico Group’s ambition towards a sustainable coffee supply chain is amongst others reflected in the investment in Seabridge, a state-of-the-art sustainable warehouse and distribution center for green coffee in the port of Zeebrugge, where green and high-qualitative logistics prevail. Efico today is still proud of its unique center of excellence, established in 2008. STATE-OF-THE-ART STORAGE 100% of the energy used is The global CO 2 footprint has FACILITY green energy, either produced been further reduced by the by the solar panels on the roof use of barges for incoming conGreen coffee is a natural product or certified green energy injectainers and train instead of truck and very sensitive to different facted from the national grid. transport for outgoing cargo. tors that can influence the deviation of high quality standards: In 2015, this resulted in a CO 2 Temperature & Relative Humidity, reduction of 1,307 tonnes or the QUALITY ASSURANCE Odor & Air Quality, Light, Pests & energy use of about 390 Diseases, Contamination and so families. Product quality, food hygiene on. and security are being assured Seabridge received a Greenthrough a conditioned wareSeabridge is fully and solely dediBuilding Certificate and Award house with temperature and cated to green coffee and offers from the European Commission humidity management system. added value and solutions to the for all these measures. This system is combined with a earlier mentioned problems that unique air-filtering system which can occur. A fur ther focus on waste neutralizes and eliminates bacmanagement resulted in the teria and moulds to prevent The 20,000 m2 warehouse is a solid recycling of 95% of all waste contamination between the construction with state-of-thestreams. coffee lots while they are being art machinery and high-qualitahandled and stored. tive laboratory equipment See photo page 17. All transports within the warehouse are done solely with electric powered forklifts to avoid SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS quality deterioration of coffee by exhaust particles. At Seabridge, we use energy efficient building materials. Seabridge employs trained personnel to identify, control Green energy is produced by the and rework contaminated 4,600 solar panels on the roof. or infested coffee if necessary. This is key to avoid further contamination. 16 HIGH-QUALITATIVE LOGISTICS TRACEABILITY Automatic sampling is made on bag per bag basis and homoGreen coffee beans travel a long Besides the EFICO label marked genized to get a representative way before arriving in Europe. on the coffee bags, and the sample. Efico Group’s Logistics DepartICO number, Efico/Seabridge ment supervises the entire tradisposes of additional devices Trainings are organized interject and makes sure the coffee is to allow traceability. nally to keep the other Green loaded and transported Coffee Quality and Trade collecorrectly. In-house developed software agues up-to-date in the knowand database management ledge on different topics. At Efico’s request, the coffee bags assure an integrated trackare marked with the EFICO label and-trace system, which can Our Green Coffee Quality in the country of origin. This allows be linked to our client’s IT infraExpert Team keeps track of the an additional control. structure via an interface if they traceability of all stock-linked would wish so. samples. The coffee that Efico purchases usually arrives in the port of Every sample has been barcoAntwerp. Efico unloads the coffee ded and part of the laboratory both at Seabridge in Zeebrugge inventory. and at Noordkaai in Antwerp. Samples are stored under the Next to its main activities in the same temperature and relative port of Zeebrugge, Seabridge humidity as in the storage zone, started to operate a second for two years. This allows our wa rehouse in 2013 named customers to recall samples at ‘Noordkaai’ for coffee storage in any time to eventually control the port of Antwerp. This allows their conformity. Seabridge to offer clients more flexibility, with the same qualitative logistic services while increaQUALITY LABORATORY sing efficiency. Seabridge harbours a stateA stronger emphasis on safety of-the-art laboratory offering awareness resulted in less incia customized analysis of green dents. In 2015, Seabridge noted coffee samples on physical and a reduction of 20% compared to sensorial aspects. See photos 2014. For 2016, Seabridge will analyze All green coffee samples are the psycho-technical effects on controlled dai ly following work relations and stress in coostandardized procedures. peration with Cewez VZW. SEABRIDGE FACTS Unique green coffee center of excellence, sharing EFICO’s values Conditioned warehouse; temperature and humidity controlled, clean air Creating added value throughout the supply chain 20,000 m2 4,600 solar panels on roof 100% green energy used = 1,307 tonnes CO2 reduction Recycling of 95% of all waste streams Following the highest standards ISO 9001 / ISO 22 000 / HACCP / AEO ISO 26 000 / ISO 45001 progress 17 COFFEE FOR PEOPLE, PEOPLE FOR COFFEE With the Efico Foundation we make a difference by supporting sustainable multi -stakeholder development projects in coffee producing countries with the aim to improve hereby the livelihoods of many. Established in 2003 as a private foundation, the Efico Foundation is an open initiative, independent, apolitical, philosophically and idealogically neutral. Today, almost 60 projects are supported in 16 producing countries. 60 coffee roasters spread over 7 countries joined, 4 governments participate financially or through their development agencies, together with about 70 different organizations. MULTI-STAKEHOLDER PROJECTS TRANSPARENCY Transparency is also guaranteed through communicaWe work together with various In 2005, the Efico Fund was tion via our website. On www. organizations, including NGOs, established within the King eficofoundation.org there is research institutes, universities, Baudouin Foundation. This fund amongst others an overview of national coffee associations, manages, finances, selects and all projects. local partners, cooperatives or monitors projects based on preproducing countries. determined criteria, through an independent jury of experts. MAIN ACHIEVEMENTS 2015 The Efico Foundation is the only one in Europe to focus on coffee 100% of the generated funds The Efico Foundation projects achieving multi-stakeholder pargoes directly to the selected require close monitoring and ticipation in the development of projects as operational costs of control for the best results, its projects. the structure are financed by which was anew possible the Efico Group. thanks to the support of all our It is therefore a unique vector and project partners, our Team in a flexible tool to allow anyone to This unique and strong model Central America and the KURU contribute to sustainability and guarantees 100% transparency Team in Ethiopia. sustainable development of the and 100% funds allocation to entire supply chain by federating the selected projects. We can say with pride that 2015 the sector and stimulating publicwas anew a year with succesprivate partnership. sful project realizations. Our Foundation is not a certification body, but works in partnerIMPROVING WASTE WATER ship with certification organizatiMANAGEMENT ons, NGOs, public organizations and so on. In 4 coffee communities in Huehuetenango, Guatemala, There is no commercial obligation the construction of a coffee wet between the beneficiary of a mill module considers the right project and Efico. technology for small coffee producers, which reduces the water consumption with 60%. 18 Waste water is processed in an During the second phase of the bee-keeping as an additional evaporation pool and is later on collaboration between Fero income and increase ecosysused for organic fertilizer. Thanks Cooperative, Sidamo Union, a tem services. to the standardization of coffee Dutch coffee roaster and the processing, improved coffee EFICO FOUNDATION in Ethiopia, Bee-hives and bee-keeping quality is obtained. the focus was on upgrading the training are provided for coffee coffee processing plant in Fero’s farmers to increase food secuThanks to reduced water use and main coffee washing station. rity and improve ecosystem clean water, the communities functioning of the coffee forest. directly see and feel the benefits A significant reduction in water The improved bee-keeping in in their daily life: use, a reduction of environmenthe forest diversifies and increcleaner water in the river and tal pollution of waste waters oriases farmer family income by less water use. On the long run ginating from coffee processing delivering honey and derived this leads to an improved health became a fact. Health of the products and by increasing situation. local communities improved. coffee yield through enhanced Processing of a large amount cross-pollination. Training also focuses on prevenof coffee cherries is facilitated tive health and optimization of by alleviating the shortage of a coffee knowledge. soak tank during the peak harALTERNATIVE ENERGY, vest season. PROVIDING EMPOWERThe knowledge on reworking of MENT AND ACCESS solid coffee waste to coffee ferDirectly more than 2,000 memTO ELECTRICITY tilizers also creates a mind shift bers of Fero Cooperative beneamongst the farmers because fit from this project. Indirectly, In Guatemala (in 8 different they are able to produce efficient the neighboring communities, regions), solar panels and fertilizers from the by-products of living close to the river also feel solar lamps were provided to coffee waste. the positive effects. 157 families that did not have access to electricity. The partners in this project are ANACAFÉ, FUNCAFÉ and Cruz TRAINING ON SUSTAINABLE The families benefiting from the Grande Integral Agr iculture AGRICULTURE project are those who work in Cooperative. EFICO Central or around coffee farms. The America provides project followIn Djimmah, Ethiopia, a partaccess to green energy improup and a Danish coffee roasting nership between the Catholic ves the quality of their lives and company is the funding partner. University of Leuven, Jimma creates future development University, Ma’ar (NGO), Maison possibilities. The photo below indicates the Josy Juckem – a Luxembourg beginning of the establishment of coffee roasting company – and This project reaches about 2,000 the wet mill. the EFICO FOUNDATION aims to people. Besides the 157 families, diversify farms and forests by four schools, a church, a health clinic, a community laboratory and an adult school/ child care facility benefit. The children who go to school do not longer have to strain their eyes to do their homework. Families also financially benefit since they no longer have to purchase kerosene oil or extra wood for nighttime light. They also feel safer in their household since sufficient light is provided. Health clinics are also able to be open later due to lighting. The use of this renewable energy does not only have a positive impact on the daily lives of the community but also on the environment. The project is funded by a Dutch coffee roasting company. 19 IMPROVED LIVING EDUCATION FOR A In three years time, an innovative CONDITIONS SUSTAINABLE FUTURE education and training program for young students and graduaIn San Marcos, Guatemala, a new In Coromoro, Colombia, a cootes is implemented that integrates project was set up at El Platanillo, peration between the Collibri the use of IT technologies, pracfocusing on improving the health Foundation, the Regional Coffee tical training on the field, family of 25 adults and 35 children living Grower Committee of Santander; support and certification of techthere. The level of education will t h e Co l o m b i a n Te c h n i ca l nical skills. See photo middle also be increased. The project is Education Plat fo r m (SENA), funded by a Belgian coffee roasFlorentino Gonzales Rural School ter and follow-up is carried out by and the EFICO FOUNDATION was In Alotenango and San Sebastián, EFICO Central America. set up. Guatemala, two education projects are partnered by FUNCAFÉ, ‘Education for the Future’ is a a private civil society organization local initiative to foster capacity founded by Guatemalan coffee building, peaceful coexistence producers and EFICO Central and income generation for 100 America, providing project folyoungsters and their families low-up. The project is funded by a (+/300 family members). Dutch coffee roasting company. In these two projects, education is seen as alternative for the prevention of child labor during the coffee harvest season and for a better development: knowledge is progress. By installing a vegetables production garden See photo above At the Kindergarden at Capetillo’s and wood efficient stoves, the Coffee Farm in Alotenango, intenquality of nutrition increases and sive pre-primary educational serat the same time less resources vices are provided to 30 students. are used to cook. There will be a reduced consumption in kg of At Buena Vista’s Coffee Farm in wood per family, which is good Indirecty, younger students and San Sebastián, the primary edufor the environment too. teachers of the school and 200 cation is strengthened through neighbour farmer families of the the implementation of the Active Increasing the level of educabeneficiaries benefit from the Rural School methodology and tion of the children will give them actions and improvement of edutechnology to increase the perbetter opportunities. cation programs (+800 people). manency of children. EFICO FOUNDATION FACTS Private Foundation, initiated in 2003 Improving the environment and livelihoods of many coffee families Today, almost 60 multi-stakeholder development projects in producing countries 60 coffee roasters spread over 7 countries joined to support Efico Fund within King Baudouin Foundation, initiated in 2005: * Management financial means * Jury of experts 100% of funds go directly to projects 20 INTO THE FUTURE At EFICO, we see both the UNGC Extreme weather situations for To achieve a transition in 2016, principles and the SDGs as essenexample droughts and floods a multi-stakeholder approach tial drivers towards sustainable already have an impact on is needed. Together Everyone development and a better world the coffee harvest. In combinaAchieves More. to live in. It is an international chaltion with the yearly increasing lenge and cannot be met unless demand for coffee, time is to act By exchanging knowledge and every one of us contributes. Efico now. passion, we aim to create added therefore fully supports the UNGC value. & SDG Framework. By investing in combating climate change, we will not only The future will only be assuBeing an active member of sustaihalt global warming but also prored for those who embrace this nability initiatives, it is Efico’s ambitect our natural resources, secure philosophy. tion to be an ambassador, inspirer supply and drive sustainable and catalysator within the coffee development. industry and beyond, by thinking As Ban Ki-Moon states: “ One of globally and acting locally. At Efico, we actively inform our the main lessons learned as UN business partners about this chalSecretary-General is that broad As mentioned earlier, one of lenge, the measures to take, partnerships are the key to solve today’s biggest challenges is cliand we promote sustainable broad challenges.” mate change. sourvcing. www.efico.com www.facebook.com/EFICO-218238252574/ www.youtube.com/eficogroup www.linkedin.com/company/efico 21 This EFICO report is also available on the United Nations Global Compact Website and on www.efico.com/un-global-compact.
