U.N. Global Compact Communication on Progress Oct. 1, 2014 – Sept. 30, 2015 1. Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer February 19, 2016 I am pleased to confirm that AECOM reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects that advance the broader development goals of the United Nations. Sincerely yours, Mike Burke Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2. Descriptions of Actions Human Rights – Implemented new global Code of Conduct which sets forth what is expected of all AECOM employees wherever we conduct business. As related to human rights, the Code of Conduct states: “As part of our commitment to our global community, we uphold individual human rights and follow employment laws in all the locations where we conduct business. In support of this commitment, we provide reasonable working hours and conditions. Further, AECOM has a zero tolerance policy regarding the use of forced labor or human trafficking. We will never knowingly conduct business with subcontractors, business partners, suppliers or third parties who violate these laws.” – Encourage employees to report incidents in which AECOM may be conducting business with an entity engaging in forced labor or human trafficking practices. 2. Descriptions of Actions (continued) Labor – Implemented new global Safety, Health and Environment (SH&E) policy that demonstrates AECOM’s commitment to protecting its people and the environment through continuous improvement in our journey towards a zero incident culture. – Implemented new global SH&E Management System that sets out AECOM’s policies and commitments to ensure that employees, subcontractors and clients of AECOM fully understand, and are themselves committed to, this corporate responsibility. – Celebrated our 3rd annual Safety Week (April 26-May 2) which included locally hosted safety events and a competition in which employees around the world created short, engaging safety training videos. – Actively engaged with all AECOM employees on the implementation and execution of our “Life Saving Principles” which are industry best practices that provide the optimum work environment for our employees. – Continued implementation of AECOM Supplier Diversity Program that demonstrates measurable improvement from year to year and is consistent with recognized industry objectives, applications, and contractual expectations of our clients. 2. Descriptions of Actions (continued) Environment – Implemented new global SH&E Policy and Management System. – Prepared new greenhouse gas emissions baseline inventory (FY2015) inclusive of business acquisitions in 2014. – Publicly committed to further reducing our GHG emissions and to establishing a quantifiable reduction target. – Co-sponsored “Urban SOS: All Systems Go,” an ideas competition that challenged participants to visualize a systemic food, energy or water infrastructure problem and its consequences, as well as realistic opportunities for intervention. AECOM provided US$25,000 and in-kind staff time to support the implementation of the winning prototype. 2. Descriptions of Actions (continued) Anti-Corruption – Continue to implement Global Ethical Business Conduct Policy which was created to establish accountability and provide guidance for employees of AECOM and its subsidiaries to ensure ethical business conduct through compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws, including without limitation, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA); the United Kingdom Bribery Act (2010) (UKBA); and various other countries’ anti-corruption laws. 3. Measurement of Outcomes The reorganization of the company post-acquisition has constrained our ability to accurately gauge year-over-year enterprise performance improvements due to the inconsistency of data between the legacy companies and the new, combined company. As such we have established FY2015 as a new baseline year from which subsequent performance improvements for the indicators provided below will be measured. Relevant performance indicators for each of the four target areas include: – Number of human rights-related incidents reported and resolved – Lost Workday Case Rate – Employee participation rate in annual survey – Total sub-contract awards to small businesses (U.S.) – Percent of annual reduction in GHG emissions below 2015 baseline – Number of employees participating in Anti-Corruption and/or Code of Conduct Training
