©©CSS CSSCorp Confidential Corp| |Confidential www.csscorp.com www.csscorp.com Page11ofofError! Page 6Error! Unknown Unknown switch switch argument. argument. CSS Corp espouses sustainable development and responsibility not only in the wider ecosphere, but also within our operations and organization. Sustainability and CSR are now integrated into our core business strategy and designed to create a positive change among us and our stakeholders. CSS Corp is certified by EcoVadis as Silver Rating for implementing sustainability practices in the organization. Our progress in implementation has been recorded across all verticals and locations. CSS Corp has identified its key strategic areas, viz.,  Ethical business practices  Employee safety  Supply chain  Environment – energy, carbon, paper consumption, business travel  Social factors  People elements – benefits, work culture and work-life balance. Environmental principles Assessment, policy and goals: Consistent and continuing emphasis on reducing energy levels, including monitoring of energy consumption trends, identification of reduction opportunities, technology up gradation and awareness programs for staff are high on the priority list. Implementation: Some such initiatives implemented were:  Efficient lighting – Existing CFL lighting systems were replaced with LED’s at our corporate office, resulting in significant power reduction.  HVAC reduction – Regular maintenance, systematic operation schedules and set room temperatures have brought about HVAC power reduction.  Paper reduction initiative – Some interventions through automated process like performance appraisals, digital signature and pay slips, a centralized printer management system and best in class hardware ensures lower energy, paper consumption and cost management.  Business travel tracking – Internal software was developed to captures the travel Kilo Meters (kM) more accurately for all three modes of travel (road, rail and air). ©©CSS CSSCorp Confidential Corp| |Confidential www.csscorp.com www.csscorp.com Page22ofofError! Page 6Error! Unknown Unknown switch switch argument. argument.  IT operations – We utilize industry best practices for backup and recovery leveraging Cloud model, automation and redundancy capabilities, while implementing an additional layer on premise storage. Outcomes  Carbon: Our Scope I emission levels were reduced drastically from 452.2MT to 419.2MT and scope II emission levels were decreased from 7443.2MT to 7339.6MT and overall reduction 1.8 %. LED lighting initiative has reduced 15 Tons of CO2  Power: YoY power reduction 1.2% ~ 117100 kWh  Paper: YoY paper reduction 300 reams  Business Travel: With the implemented tracking system, we have set a target of 2% reduction on all the travel modes from current levels. Simultaneously, we seek to discourage nonessential travel and encourage alternative technologies such as videoconferencing.  IT operations: Cloud service providers can achieve Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) levels as low as 1.1 to 1.2, which is about 40% higher efficiency than the traditional data centers. Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals: CSS Corp upholds Human Rights principles and applies them uniformly across the organization. At CSS Corp we believe in conducting organizational affairs in a fair and transparent manner by adopting the highest standards of ethics, honesty, integrity and professionalism while developing a culture of high integrity and transparency. The company is committed to create a workplace free from sexual harassment, with zero tolerance towards such violations. Also we value our commitment to society and embark on CSR activities each year. Implementation:  A strong employee grievance redressal mechanism enables employees to voice concerns and have them addressed. Our Whistleblower Policy, already in place, provides an effective mechanism to disclose alleged wrong doings within the ©©CSS CSSCorp Confidential Corp| |Confidential www.csscorp.com www.csscorp.com Page33ofofError! Page 6Error! Unknown Unknown switch switch argument. argument. organization in a responsible and effective manner without any fear of victimization or adverse action.  An anti-harassment and anti-sexual harassment policy and program ensures employees are trained by external experts in the field of sexual harassment at the workplace. The system and the communication is strengthened by Anti-Sexual Harassment Program (ASHP) training across all company locations from all senior management to contract staffs.  Community Engagement – Digital Literacy Program (CSR initiative): A specially designed digital literacy curriculum has multiple benefits including getting students familiar with computers and their use, training in Microsoft Office packages, basic internet and email usage. Outcomes  We have zero tolerance to sexual harassment. Attending Anti-Sexual Harassment Program (ASHP) is mandatory for all new employees. Also, Anti-sexual harassment training program is conducted for housekeeping and contract staffs. In addition, the program was conducted in vernacular languages for the first time in 2016 to ensure 100% understanding and effectiveness. Thus sensitizing 100% employees through email communications on annual basis and 100% coverage of new joiners through induction training or induction manual and also 90% contract staffs within premises in India are being trained on periodic basis.  CSR initiatives: CSS Corp’s Digital Literacy Program with schools aimed at imparting basic knowledge and skills involving computers. Employing around 240 hours of digital literacy training, over 540 students were trained through this program. Labour Assessment, policy and goals:  Rewards & Recognition: CSS Corp believes in recognizing and rewarding achievers through its rewards and recognition programs.  People Development Framework: The people development framework of CSS Corp continues to create a learning organization culture and to address the needs of our growing organization. ©©CSS CSSCorp Confidential Corp| |Confidential www.csscorp.com www.csscorp.com Page44ofofError! Page 6Error! Unknown Unknown switch switch argument. argument. Supplier code of conduct (SCC) Suppliers are significant contributors to our progress. We respect all suppliers and treat them in an ethical manner. We are mitigating supply chain risks through our CSS Corp supplier code of conduct (SCC) guidelines. SCC requires suppliers to adhere to set guidelines which are being implemented with suppliers. Implementation  Recognizing the talent is always an on-going practice at CSS Corp, recognition is categorized on “hats off” – Instant Performance Reward, “hi-flier” – Quarterly Performance Reward and CSS Corp Performers League (CPL) – an annual event, where our achievers from across the globe are recognized.  Training programs well categorized based on Pre-hiring, post hiring & Continuous learning. Pre-hiring training, “Tech Career” that focuses on talent pool that is created in house e-learning platform for final year students.  CSS Corp SPOC will conduct annual sensitization workshop with the key suppliers and raise awareness on SCC guidelines. Suppliers will be categorized on size of the business high, medium & low. CSS Corp will evaluate the performance of the supplier, identify and highlight the findings. Outcome  CPL awards cover top 3% population of the total organization. Apart, we have several recognition platforms such quarterly performers award, function expertise award, etc.,  Training Database Management System & Global Training Portal helps in managing the training in effective way.  As part of the continuous learning program Career Transformation Management Program (CAMP), is a structured intervention that facilitates technical & managerial progression. Additional programs in career mobility, e-tutoring, enhancing training skills are also offered  70% significant suppliers made their commitment by signing the agreement with CSS Corp on “Supplier Code of Conduct”. Suppliers constantly reviewed / interviewed on adherence towards supplier code of conduct ©©CSS CSSCorp Confidential Corp| |Confidential www.csscorp.com www.csscorp.com Page55ofofError! Page 6Error! Unknown Unknown switch switch argument. argument. Anti-corruption Assessment, policy and goals: CSS Corp’s Policy on Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption forbids the giving or taking of bribes in any form to secure business and protects whistle blowers from retaliation. This Policy is regularly reviewed to ensure it reflects any regulatory changes and developments in acceptable standards. Employees are sensitized to identify and avoid situations which are at odds with the policy. Implementation This Policy is regularly reviewed to ensure it reflects any regulatory changes and developments in acceptable standards. Key officers are knowledgeable about it and changes are communicated across the organization via internal portals. Employees are sensitized to identify and avoid situations which are at odds with the policy. Outcome Anti-bribery & anti-corruption policy released and zero incidents has been reported. ©©CSS CSSCorp Confidential Corp| |Confidential www.csscorp.com www.csscorp.com Page66ofofError! Page 6Error! Unknown Unknown switch switch argument. argument.
