AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 AKFEN HOLDİNG UN Global Compact Report 2015 www.akfen.com.tr AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 2 Index 3 About Akfen Holding 4 Akfen Milestones 7 Message from the Chairman 8 Global Compact 2015 9 About the Report 9 Human Rights and Labor Standards 9 Akfen Holding's Human Resources Policy 12 Corporate Social Responsibility 21 Supporting The Universities 22 Our Schools 23 Social Responsibilty 28 Our Sponsorships in 2015 AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 3 About Akfen Holding Acting according to its mission of creating value at each sector in which it operates, Akfen Holding is a leading infrastructure platform in Turkey, effective in the economic development of the country, inducing the emergence of new sectors through its long-term investment decisions in sustainable areas where it sees a potential for growth. Akfen currently operates in sectors such as airport management and operations, construction, port operations, energy, real estate, marine transport, water distribution, and waste water services, and has important corporations as subsidiaries such as TAV Airports Holding, Mersin International Port (MIP), İstanbul Deniz Otobüsleri (IDO), TAV Construction, Akfen Real Estate Investments Partnership, and Akfen Renewable Energy. A solid financial structure as well as a strong human capital at all its corporations and subsidiaries lay at the foundation of Akfen's success. In addition to the qualified workforce raised by the competent management team who has a long-lasting common history, Akfen contributes to the human development of Turkey along with its economic development for 39 years through social responsibility projects, primarily through Human Resources Foundation of Turkey it founded. Akfen has become a reliable business partner both in domestic and international markets due to its capabilities of risk management, its ambition, and its ability to fulfill its obligations, and continues to sustain its steady growth. In the upcoming period, Akfen Holding aims at continuing investments through developing new businesses as it has done in the past, in order to increase employment and contribute to the economic development of the country and to create value for its shareholders. AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 4 History AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 5 History AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 6 2015 Milestones Akfen Holding Akfen Energy IDO MIP TAV Construction TAV Airports Akfen Reit AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 7 Message of the Chairman The global average atmospheric temperatures have increased significantly in the past hundred years with a negative impact on life. For instance, according to the studies conducted by scientists, 12 of the highest temperatures at the global level were observed in the past 20 years. At this stage, climate change continues to threaten our lives in all areas including environment, agriculture, food, clean water, urban life and business life, development and economy, technology, human rights, and health. As stated in the Global Compact Principles, great responsibilities fall on all individuals, primarily on policymakers, public and private sector officials as well as nongovernmental organizations in the areas of global struggle on climate change, human rights for sustainable development, and on issues related to environment, workers' rights, and the struggle against corruption. As Akfen Holding, we undersigned the United Nations Global Compact on 2-Jul-2002 in order to do our part and we are proud to be the first Holding in Turkey to sign the Global Compact in Turkey. We are proud of sharing our Progress Report which we prepare regularly every year in pursuant to the Global Compact with all our stakeholders. As is well known, Global Compact consists of 10 principles on issues of human rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption. These principles are prepared in a guiding perspective in order to reach targets such as increasing productivity, the motivation and commitment of employees, anti-corruption, preservation of environment. As an innovative company competing globally, we will continue to fulfill all our duties and responsibilities not only in economic fields but also in the area of social responsibilities so that the future generations can live in a healthier and more peaceful world. In the presence of all our stakeholders, we will continue to promote the steps toward adopting the principles of sustainability, providing the necessary legal infrastructure and work environment within the scope of Global Compact. Hamdi Akın Chairman of the Board of Directors at Akfen Holding AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 8 Global Compact With the aim of contributing to creating a common culture in the business world around universal principles, Akfen Holding undersigned United Nations Global Compact on July 2, 2002. Global Compact is a voluntary initiative that promotes sustainable development and good corporate citizenship practices, and is a set of universally accepted principles. Based on learning and open to sharing experiences, this forum is also a network that ensures communication between corporations and other shareholders. Akfen Holding became the first Holding in Turkey to have undersigned the Global Compact. 10 Principles of Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Standards Principle 3: the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 9 About the Report This report is the annual declarations of Akfen Holding, published for informing its shareholders about its activities directed at putting into practice the principles of United Nations Global Compact, which Akfen Holding undersigned on July 2, 2002. Human Rights and Labor Standards Businesses should adopt and support the proclaimed Universal Declaration of Human Rights and should abide by the articles of the declaration. Businesses should support the unionization and the freedom of collective bargaining of employees, and should not participate in forced labor or child labor. Businesses should respect Human Rights and Akfen Holding supports and implements all the rules that are included in the declaration of human rights. Akfen Holding respects the personal rights of employees; • Akfen Holding does not discriminate language, religion, ethnicity, gender, social class, and respects differences such as physical impairments and disabilities; • Akfen Holding values and respects the tradition and culture of the village, town, city or country in which it operates; • Akfen Holding provides equality of opportunities to all its employees; • Akfen Holding ensures the implementation of Human Rights rules, and enforces labor discipline and workplace rules in case of a breach. • About all these above mentioned issues, we aim that all our contractors / subcontractors approach their employees according to the same understanding. Human Resources Policy of Akfen Holding As Akfen Holding, the basis of our human resources policy depends on selecting, improving, evaluating and administering human resources according to contemporary criteria and with the principle of equal opportunity for all, through matching the requirements of the job with the skills and competence of employees. Human resources management is obligated to increase the performance of employees and to transform the corporate targets into personal targets by creating an innovative environment that is open to improvement, and thus to support the attainment of the Company’s objectives in an effective and efficient way. Our employee profile is composed of human resources who are open to change and improvement; are highly motivated for success; believe in team work and team spirit; use time and resources properly; and, have a high notion of social responsibility. AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 10 OUR CORPORATE VALUES The foundation stones that will make us a sustainable national corporation are: • All jobs are important; all employees are valuable. • We are dynamic and enterprising. • Honesty is the sign of our quality. • Our investments are both tangible and intangible. • We walk where no one has ever walked before. • We stand by our business and learn something every day. • Our identity is our reputation. Our Principles • To bring together a dynamic, competent and participatory labor force under Akfen Holding that assigns importance to continuous improvement and to adding value. • To maintain our understanding of quality and ethical values at the forefront of all of our business and management processes. • To complete all our business commitments promptly and at the highest quality. • To fulfill our promises to our employees, business partners, shareholders and social stakeholders and to protect their interests. • To maintain the sustainability of transparency and our approach to doing honest business. • Managing risks with an inventive and innovative approach to business when undertaking new initiatives and exploring opportunities. • Investing in people and the community with social responsibility projects. AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 11 Organizational Structure With the aim of maintaining sustainable success and innovativeness, Akfen Holding carries out activities toward structuring the organization according to the needs of business processes and job definitions of human resources, and the systematic revision of its organization, improving, extending and ensuring the sustainability of the targetbased and competence-based human resources systems that promote high performance culture and continuous development. Recruitment Process Akfen Holding is sensitive in recruiting and appointing human resources who create value, are socially responsible, open to novelties and change, are entrepreneurial and dynamic, and who aim at improving themselves and their job. Training Management Akfen Holding regards continuous training an essential factor in creating sustainable values and an integral part of its corporate culture. To that end, the Holding offers various training opportunities to improve staff qualifications and enhance their intellectual capital. In addition to the know-how trainings, orientation programs, and on the job training, the Holding also provides a training program on soft skills and technical knowledge, offered either by internal experts or external consultants. Training programs are determined with the participation of employees and are revised each year in line with demands and necessities. Wage and Personal Rights Management Akfen Holding ensures the administration of related transactions with governmental agencies with the aim of providing wage and other personal rights of its employees within the framework of related regulations. AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 12 Corporate Social Responsibility Akfen Holding delivers its corporate social responsibility under the Turkish Human Resources Education and Health Foundation (TİKAV) founded in 1999 by Akın Family. The foundation aims at creating a benefit for the society it operates in through developing projects towards sustainable success in an effort to raise individuals that adapt to innovations of the constantly-evolving information age, are respectful towards social and universal values, are environmentally-conscious and demonstrate a sense of social responsibility. TİKAV projects are divided into three categories: Local, National and International. LOCAL PROJECTS Personal Development Program Personal Development Program is one of the leading projects implemented locally by TİKAV. The goal of the program is to create equal opportunities for university students with limited access to educational, cultural and personal development opportunities due to socioeconomic reasons in particular. To this end, the foundation provides scholarship to students from freshman year to the senior year to help them enrich their knowledge and skills through a variety of personal development and foreign language and computer training programs, culture & arts and community service programs as well as national and international projects, talks and professional programs. The program was launched in 1999 for the students of Elazığ Fırat University. It was later applied in Van Yüzüncü Yıl University in 2003, Middle East Technical University, Hacettepe University, Ankara University and Eskişehir Osmangazi University in 2006. Adopting the goal of providing equal opportunities in access to educational resources, TİKAV focused on universities older than a decade in Eastern and Southeastern Anatolian Regions in 2009 and launched the project in educational institutions such as Elazığ Fırat University, Van Yüzüncü Yıl University, Şanlıurfa Harran University, Kahramanmaraş Sütçü İmam University and Erzurum Atatürk University. Implemented only for Fırat University students since 2014, the Personal Development Program has reached out to approximately 300 young people since its inception in 1999. AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 13 NATIONAL PROJECTS Projects Carried Out in Cooperation with MIP TİKAV runs regional social responsibility projects in Mersin in partnership with Mersin International Port (MIP), an affiliate of Akfen Holding. Various projects for different target groups in need have been completed so far under the coordination of TİKAV and through funding from MIP. As part of a project entitled “New Customs to Old Villages” launched in 2010, nearly 150 students living in mountain villages received training on computer use and hygiene/ personal care. In 2011 and 2012, 470 mothers received training on hygiene, personal care, nutrition and reproductive health within the scope of the “School for Mothers” project. In 2012, Kazanlı Primary School of Akdeniz District Governorate in Mersin was renovated as part of the “Colors: Our Common Language” project. In 2013, 100 muhtars in Mersin received trainings on Communication Techniques, Effective Leadership, Rules for Official Correspondence and Computer Use through the “Hand in Hand with Muhtars” project. In 2014, 1,000 relatives of persons with disabilities attended seminars on disability rights and the psychosocial needs of the disabled. Furthermore, through the “We Repair for You to Study” program launched in 2012, Vali Sabahattin Çakmakoğlu Middle School of Toroslar District National Education Directorate and Mimar Sinan Middle School of Akdeniz District National Education Directorate were renovated and modernized in 2015. In addition to these projects, public panel sessions on Working Life and Family and Domestic Communication were held in Mersin in 2015. AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 14 My Mother and Me Project Coordinated by TİKAV, “My Mother and Me” Project was supported by members of Ankara Branch of Young Businessmen Association of Turkey (TÜGİAD) and held in Ankara Pediatric Hematology and Oncology Training and Research Hospital between January-December 2015. The project enabled children under long-term treatment at the hospital and their accompanying mothers to engage in social and cultural activities, which they had been unable to attend for some time due to physical reasons. Around 2,500 mothers and 2,500 children attended nine separate organizations throughout the year in events such as birthday celebrations, local puppet shows, clown shows, balloon shows, theatre plays, magician shows, dance and rhythm workshops, talks and hairdressing services. AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 15 INTERNATIONAL PROJECTS The Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award for Young People The international social responsibility project applied by TİKAV is The Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award for Young People. The . The Award Program is run by The Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award-Turkey National Authority under support by Akfen Holding and the representation of TİKAV. The Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award for Young People was first launched in the UK back in 1956 under the name ‘The Duke of Edinburgh’s Award’ with the support of Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh, based on the educational philosophy of Kurt Hahn, a German educator. Regardless of their gender, culture, language, religion, race, political orientation, mental or physical disability, all young people between the ages of 14 and 24 can attend the Award Program, which is implemented in more than 140 countries around the world and considered to be one of the world’s leading youth development programs. Solely run on a voluntary basis, the award program aims at supporting young people in self-discovery and selfdevelopment and in acquiring self-confidence and discipline. The project is specifically considered as a selection criterion in getting accepted by universities in the UK. In Turkey, the Award Program is run in 14 provinces in 65 different schools, universities and non-governmental organizations approved by the Ministry of National Education. Receiving applications from about 2 thousand new participants every year, the Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award for Young People has been attended by more than 12 thousand young people so far. AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 16 The Award Program has a total of 3 separate categories, namely Bronze, Silver and Gold. Under these categories setting the duration of completing the program (6 months, 12 months, 18 months), there are specific sections on Community Service, Physical Recreation, Skills Development and Adventurous Journey and Expedition. Engaging in 1-hour-long activities every week for each section, the participants complete their work. In addition to the activities they deliver under other sections, the participants are asked to live with others under the same conditions in an unfamiliar environment for at least 5 days within the scope of a “Residential Project” when they get to the Gold category. More than 3 thousand young people graduated from the Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award for Young People Program so far, with the total number of young people attending the program from Turkey expected to reach 20 thousand until 2020. The Program reached more than 8 million young people around the world. The 11th National Gold Award Ceremony for the Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award for Young People Program was held on October 14, 2015 in Istanbul. The total of 21 Gold Awardees received their award certificates from Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex, KG, GCVO. Furthermore, a gala dinner hosted by Hamdi Akın, Chairman of the Board of Akfen Holding, and Pelin Akın, Board Member of Akfen Holding, was held on October 15, 2015 in honor of Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex, KG, GCVO. AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 17 PROJECTS REALIZED BY SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES Akfen Holding's subsidiaries and affiliates continued to make important contributions to the preservation of environment and improvement of the society through the social responsibility projects they had put into practice in 2015. Mersin International Port (MIP) Lend a Hand to My Disability Project: As part of social responsibility projects, MIP contributed to the “Lend a Hand to my Disability Project” started by Mersin Hüseyin Polat School for the Mentally Challenged” by building a sports hall, the most urgent need of the school. The area formerly used as a warehouse was used for the construction of the new hall, entirely undertaken by MIP, with sports equipment also provided by MIP. The hall was opened during the activities launched on the occasion of the Week for People with Disabilities. Occupational Health and Safety Themed Painting Contest: Painting Contest” is organized on the occasion of “Occupational Health and Safety Day” to raise awareness among children on occupational health and safety. Children who earn top three places are awarded and their paintings are exhibited. Wheelchair Tennis Teams Championship: MIP sponsored Oğuzhan Güneş who represented Turkish National Tennis Team in the World Wheelchair Tennis Teams Championship. He was one of two top athletes from each country to join the camp organized by ITF in Zurich, Switzerland between August 2 and 7, 2015. Mr. Güneş represented Turkey in the Open ITF Future Tournament in Bucharest, Romania between August 27 and 30, 2015 AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 18 TAV Airports Accessible Airport Project : TAV Airports started to implement the DGCA’s “Accessible Airport Project” in order to offer better access to all terminals for passengers with disabilities. TAV Airports became the first company to obtain the World Disability Union accredited USTAD 2011:2015 certification for the work undertaken to make all services at Atatürk Airport accessible to passengers with disabilities. The Atatürk Airport was cited as a “good model” during the 8th Session of the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities held at the UN Headquarters, New York. Read, Think, Share project : TAV Airports lent its support to the Young Guru Academy for the latter’s libraries and training camps as part of its “Read, Think, Share” project. TAV Airports also continues to provide YGA students with education support. TAV Airports also has the distinction of becoming one of the select few companies to be included in the BIAS Sustainability Index for the November 2015 – September 2016 period. The Index, originally created in 2014 and updated in 2015 to reflect reassessments, lists shares of companies with high performance on corporate sustainability. AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 19 Akfen Energy Akfen HEPP Group carried out plastering, painting and ceiling work for the mosque and guesthouse at Tandır village, Giresun. New roads were built and put into service for the houses that lacked road access. As part of the project, drinking water networks of many neighborhoods were renovated in the village. A new water tank, water pipeline, and fountain were constructed. Other power plants within the HEPP Group also conducted a series of social responsibility projects. These include support for the renovation of the local drinking water mains in Muğla, forestation of the power plant and channel route in Denizli, forestation of the power plant site in Erzurum, forestation of the regulator area in Sivas, support for the Hikmet Kozan Elementary School, and repair of the drinking water mains at Kızılkaya village. IDO Avşa Summer Camp for the Disabled: IDO provided free travel opportunity to the disabled citizens who attended the Disability-Free Summer Camp organized by Turkish Association for the Disabled. A total of 255 passengers travelled with IDO as a group for 11 weeks between June 23 and September 10. 143 passengers travelled free of charge while the remainder of passengers were given promotional tickets. One of the biggest supporters of TURMEPA, IDO collaborates with Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, Kocaeli Metropolitan Municipality and Akfen Water for the collection and disposal of wastes at vessels and terminals. AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 20 Akfen Water Upon the request of the Society of Developing Tourism and Protecting Environment in Güllük, Akfen Water provided the plumbing materials for 35 water bowls which were installed free of charge in order to ensure stray animals have somewhere to drink water. The plumbing system and grid was repaired and renovated, safety fence was procured and installed, roof insulation was applied and external façade was painted at Güllük Primary School, which was constructed in 1920s. Materials and labor were provided for the repair and renovation of WCs and the plumbing system. 75. Yıl Milas State Hospital received aid for renewing office furniture in patient examination rooms. TAV Investment Our Primary School Project Financial support was provided for classroom construction at the Primary School of Adıyaman Yazıbeydilli Village within the scope of “Our Primary School” project led by Boğaziçi University Construction Club. Furthermore, aid extended to the “Earthquake Foundation” in previous years was also sustained in 2015. AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 21 INVESTING IN TURKEY’S FUTURE Supported Universities Abdullah Gül University As of 2011, Akfen Holding has contributed to Abdullah Gül University Support Foundation to help the university reach the position laid down in its vision as soon as possible and to aid the duties of public sector in the field of education. London School of Economics Akfen Holding is a permanent member of the Advisory Board of the “Contemporary Turkish Studies” chair founded with the initiative of Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Turkey in London School of Economics, one of the most prestigious academic institutions worldwide. Pelin Akın, Board Member, fulfills this duty on behalf of the Holding. AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 22 INVESTING IN TURKEY’S FUTURE Our Schools Ülkü Akın Secondary School The school is named after Ülkü Akın, the late spouse of Hamdi Akın, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Akfen Holding, who passed away at a young age due to a sudden illness. The school was opened in Ankara at the beginning of the academic year 19931994, with a protocol signed between the Governorship of Ankara and Hamdi Akın. There are 24 classrooms, 2 preschool classrooms, 1 laboratory, 1 multipurpose room and a library in the school, which has 330 students currently enrolled. Hikmet Akın Secondary School Hikmet Akın Secondary School opened its doors at the beginning of the 2004-2005 academic year in Hamidiye Neighborhood of Düzce. Mr. Hamdi Akın, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Akfen Holding, commissioned the construction of Hikmet Akın Secondary School in the memory of his mother, the late Mrs. Hikmet Akın. The school currently has 355 students AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 23 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Turkish-English Tatlıdil Forum Turkish-English Tatlıdil Forum was founded in 2011 in an effort to enlarge political and economic relations between Turkey and the UK in other areas, primarily business and trade. The Turkish branch of Tatlıdil Forum is run by Pelin Akın, member of DEİK (Foreign Economic Relations Board) English Business Council and member of the Board of Directors of Akfen Holding. WOMEN Turkish Businesswomen Association (TİKAD) A member of the Board of Directors of the Turkish Businesswomen Association (TİKAD) and of the Board of Directors of Akfen Holding at the same time, Pelin Akın extends support to projects run by TİKAD, which observes a mission to assume responsibility in the democratization of Turkey and the integration of the country with the modern world. HeForShe Project Hamdi Akın, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Akfen Holding, and Pelin Akın, Member of the Board of Directors of Akfen Holding, support HeForShe, a global movement of solidarity for gender equality. AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 24 Turkish Enterprise and Business Confederation (TÜRKONFED) A member of the Board of Directors of the Turkish Enterprise and Business Confederation (TÜRKONFED) and of the Board of Directors of Akfen Holding at the same time, Pelin Akın works at the Committee of Women in Business World and extends support to the project on the Multidimensional Empowerment of Women. Akfen Holding Signs the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) Established in 2010 as a result of collaboration between the UN Global Compact and the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women), the WEPs platform offers the private sector the key points to be considered in workplaces, markets and within the society as a whole in order to ensure gender equality. Akfen Holding is the first holding in Turkey to sign the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs), which aim at raising awareness to strike a gender balance in the business world as established under the collaboration of the UN Global Compact and the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women). Signed by more than 900 companies around the world, the initiative has 47 signatories in Turkey. AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 25 YOUTH Support to Youth and Young Entrepreneurs In an effort to contributing to the economic growth of Turkey and inspire young entrepreneurs and managers, Akfen Holding Executives, specifically Hamdi Akın, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Akfen Holding, delivered speeches in conferences and summits across different cities of our country in 2015. Following are some of the events attended by the executives of Akfen Holding: • TOBB University – Entrepreneurship and Leadership Panel • MÜSİAD (Independent Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s Association) Elazığ Branch Young Entrepreneurs Meeting • İTÜ MBA – Competitive Advantage Panel • Capital Magazine – Young CEO Meetings • Soroptimist International 20th International Panel on Women and Success Stories in Turkey • Okan University Management and Research Community Leader’s Corner Panel • TİM (Turkish Exporters Assembly) Innovation Week / Adana • Bilkent University 8th Brand Summit of Turkey • TAİDER (Family Businesses Foundation) 3rd National Family Business Summit • G-3 Forum AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 26 The Business 20 / B-20 Pelin Akın, Member of the Board of Directors of Akfen Holding, served on the Infrastructure and Investment Taskforce of The Business 20 (B-20) Executive Committee, which is the business pillar of the G-20 presided by Turkey in 2015. The Business 20 is represented by the private sector representatives who turn the economic wheels of 20 countries which can reflect the diversity to represent the world in terms of population and geography. Bringing together international business leaders, the B-20 works to develop and implement new strategies for a balanced and sustainable growth in global markets. AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 27 FOREIGN ECONOMIC RELATIONS BOARD Foreign Economic Relations Board (DEİK) is in charge of carrying out foreign economic relations of the Turkish private sector, primarily in foreign trade, international investments, services, contracting and logistics. The board also engages in looking into national and international investment opportunities, contributing to raising exports by Turkey and coordinating similar business development activities. Founded in 1986, DEİK acquired a new and consolidated status following Law No. 6552 adopted on September 11, 2014, thereby completely taking over the responsibility “to carry out the foreign economic relations of the Turkish private sector.” As of December 2015, DEİK has 103 founding organizations, 130 business councils, more than 1,000 member companies forming these councils, with approximately 2,000 representatives by member companies within the Board. Europe In 2015, senior managers of Akfen Holding continued their representation of Turkey in various working groups of DEİK. Accordingly, Pelin Akın, Member of the Board of Directors of Akfen Holding, continued to serve in the Turkish-Spanish Business Council and the Turkish-English Business Council while Mustafa Sani Şener, Member of the Board of Directors of TAV Airports and Chairman of the Executive Board, continued to serve as Chairman of the Turkish-French Business Council of the Foreign Economic Relations Board (DEİK). Far East Süha Güçsav, Akfen Holding CEO, is the Chairman of the DEİK Turkish-Singapore Business Council. As of October 2014, Güçsav was additionally named Turkish Honorary Business Representative of the International Enterprise Singapore (IESingapore), an agency of the Singapore Ministry of Industry and Commerce, and continued to serve in this position in 2015. AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 28 Sponsorships • STEAM Geopolitical Energy Arena Conference • 6th World Forum on Energy Regulation / Istanbul • Akfen 40 Plus Sailing Team • PPP Healthcare Summit • EBRD Business Forum / Georgia A Friend of AKUT (Search and Rescue Association) Through donations under the scope of its AKUT Friendship Program, Akfen Holding became a close friend to AKUT, the first and leading local search and rescue group voluntarily helping out people facing disasters not only in Turkey but also abroad, wherever it can and solely by its own means; organizing operations saving 1,428 lives in 1,055 incidents of earthquakes, floods, landfalls and in the mountains, seas, route accidents, naturals disasters since its foundation. AKFEN HOLDİNG UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2015 AKFEN HOLDİNG A.Ş. Headquarters Koza Sok. No:22, Gaziosmanpaşa 06700 Ankara / Turkey T: +90 312 408 10 00 F: +90 312 441 07 82 İstanbul Office Levent Loft, Büyükdere Cad. No:201, Kat:11, Levent 34394 İstanbu /Turkey T: +90 212 319 87 00 F: +90 212 227 23 91 www.akfen.com.tr
