Report 2014 Energiewende. Safe. Hands on. Key performance indicators of the EnBW Group Key financial and strategic performance indicators1 in € million 2014 2013 Change in % External revenue 21,002.5 20,544.8 2.2 Adjusted EBITDA 2,167.4 2,224.7 -2.6 Share of the adjusted EBITDA accounted for by the Sales segment in € million/in % 230.6/10.6 227.1/10.2 1.5/– Share of the adjusted EBITDA accounted for by the Grids segment in € million/in % 886.3/40.9 961.8/43.2 -7.8/– Share of the adjusted EBITDA accounted for by the Renewable Energies segment in € million/in % 191.4/8.8 220.2/9.9 -13.1/– Share of the adjusted EBITDA accounted for by the Generation and Trading segment in € million/in % 899.5/41.5 839.0/37.7 7.2/– Share of the adjusted EBITDA accounted for by Other/Consolidation in € million/in % -40.4/-1.8 -23.4/-1.0 -72.6/– EBITDA 2,137.3 1,999.7 6.9 Adjusted EBIT 1,290.5 1,339.5 -3.7 EBIT 0.1 1,024.1 – Adjusted Group net profit 2 479.4 462.3 3.7 Group net profit/loss2 -450.7 51.0 – Earnings per share from adjusted Group net profit2 in € 1.77 1.71 3.7 Earnings per share from Group net profit/loss2 in € -1.66 0.19 – Cash flow from operating activities 1,775.7 1,919.1 -7.5 Free cash flow 330.2 1,168.2 -71.7 Adjusted net debt3 7,982.6 7,271.3 9.8 Dynamic leverage ratio 3.68 3.27 12.5 Capital expenditures 1,956.7 1,108.3 76.5 Return on capital employed (ROCE) in % 10.0 9.7 3.1 Weighted average cost of capital (WACC) before tax in % 7.2 8.5 -15.3 Average capital employed 13,473.0 14,972.7 -10.0 Value added 377.2 179.7 109.9 Key non-financial performance indicators 2014 2013 Customers goal dimension EnBW/Yello Brand Attractiveness Index 43/36 42/38 EnBW/Yello Customer Satisfaction Index 114/145 111/148 SAIDI (electricity) in min/year1 15 21 Employees goal dimension Employee Commitment Index (ECI)4 56 58 LTIF1,4 4.3 3.7 Environment goal dimension Installed output of renewable energies (RE) in GW and the share of the generation capacity accounted for by RE in % 2.6/19.1 2.6/19.1 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 2 In relation to the profit/loss attributable to the equity holders of EnBW AG. 3 Includes investments held as financial assets. 4 Variations in the group of consolidated companies. Navigation 2014 EnBW decided at an early stage: We want to This integrated report brings together asTable of contents L Corporate bodies Service 2 EnBW Report 2014 About this report The first integrated report EnBW recognised the importance of integrated reporting, which the company and underline the importance of being compretakes into account ecological and social dimensions as well as hensively oriented towards our performance and stakeholders. economic aspects, at an early stage. We actively pursued the The corporate performance of EnBW is thus not only measured realignment of our corporate reporting within the framework by financial results, as the shortto long-term success of the of the pilot programme run by the International Integrated company is also dependent on what decisions EnBW takes in Reporting Councils (IIRC) with the aim of achieving a holistic response to the constantly changing economic, ecological and representation of the performance of the company. social conditions. In this first integrated report for EnBW, which is based on the This integrated report contains the combined management rerecommendations of the IIRC, we have linked together the conport of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG for the 2014 financial year, tents of the financial and sustainability reports, further reduced as well as the condensed version of the consolidated financial the size of the report and placed a special focus on explaining statements for the EnBW Group without the notes to the finanthe performance of the company in a clear and comprehensible cial statements. We publish the complete consolidated financial manner. This represents a further milestone on our path towards statements and other documents relating to these financial stateproviding more concise, transparent and comprehensive reportments at www.enbw.com/report2014-downloads. ing to meet the increased demands of stakeholders for more information and to increase the capabilities of EnBW when entering The contents of this report exclusively serve to provide inforinto dialogue. The most important information on sustainability mation and do not constitute an offer or an investment recomis included in the integrated report, while more detailed informamendation. Please take this into consideration and also refer to tion on sustainability has been prepared and made available on the other important notes on page 119. the EnBW website at www.enbw.com/verantwortung. More about integrated reporting at EnBW can be found at On the basis of the EnBW 2020 strategy, integrated reporting www.enbw.com/integrated-reporting. A version of the reimplies for EnBW the highly integrated management of the comport that can be configured according to the interests of pany. By presenting financial and non-financial corporate goals the individual reader is available on the EnBW website at – the achievement of which is measured using key performance www.enbw.com/report2014-downloads. indicators – we are seeking to promote integrated thinking within Factors influencing the integrated EnBW Report 2014 1 German accounting standards (DRS) German Commercial Code (HGB) International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 1 GRI Level Check will be carried out after the editorial deadline for the report. The result refers to the 2013 financial year. EnBW Report 2014 3 Basis for the presentation of the report Independent auditing and evaluation The information about the results of operations, net assets and The condensed financial statements for the 2014 financial year financial position of the EnBW Group is based on the requirethat form part of the integrated report do not include the notes ments of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), to the consolidated financial statements. The complete conand, where applicable, German commercial law and German acsolidated financial statements – including the notes to the concounting standards (DRS). Internal control mechanisms ensure solidated financial statements – and the combined management the reliability of the information presented in this report. Furtherreport for the company and the Group for the 2014 financial year more, this integrated report is based on the recommendations were audited by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, who for reporting principles and reporting elements contained within were elected as the auditor and Group auditor by the Annual the IIRC framework. An overview of the current implementation General Meeting of EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG on status for these recommendations can be found on page 112 f. 29 April 2014. Based on its audit, KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft arrived at the overall conclusion that the audit did The materiality analysis that was conducted for the first time in not lead to any reservations and issued an unqualified audit 2013 with the assistance of central stakeholders of EnBW and an opinion. The complete consolidated financial statements and the internal survey conducted amongst the senior management of combined management report for the company and the Group EnBW formed the main foundations for the selection and level for the 2014 financial year, as well as the unqualified audit opinion of detail given to the topics described in this report. Important issued by the auditor, are accessible to the public on the website financial and non-financial topics for this report were identiof EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG at www.enbw.com/ fied and explained in detail based on this investigation and an report2014-downloads. internal questionnaire. The goal is to develop strategies to handle potential opportunities and risks at an early stage. The resulting In addition, KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft once materiality matrix thus reflects the importance of the topics for again carried out an assurance engagement on selected nonboth external and internal stakeholders ( page 33 f.). financial information and performance indicators relating to the company's sustainability for the purpose of achieving greater The reporting of sustainability issues for the 2014 financial year process reliability. This process was conducted in accordance with has been carried out in accordance with the G3.1 guidelines the relevant standards for providing assurance for sustainability issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), including the reporting: the International Standard on Assurance EngageElectric Utilities Sector Supplement. EnBW plans to use the new ments (ISAE) 3000 and the International Standard on Assurance G4 guidelines issued by the GRI for the next reporting year. Our Engagements (ISAE) 3410. The report on the limited assurance sustainability reporting also complies with the “Communication engagement of the sustainability information is available at on Progress” requirements for the UN Global Compact. www.enbw.com/assurance-engagement. Information and performance indicators included in the scope of the assurance All data and calculation methods used for this report are based engagement are highlighted accordingly. on German and international standards for financial and sustainability reporting. The responsible specialist units applied The GRI confirmed that the EnBW Report 2013 complied with representative methods in each case for the collection of all data the A+ level of the GRI guidelines (version 3.1). The GRI stateand information for the reporting period. The reporting period comment can be found at www.enbw.com/gri-index. The GRI Level prises the 2014 financial year. We took into account all relevant Check for 2014 will be carried out after the editorial deadline for information up to 19 February 2015. Along with EnBW AG, with its the report. Information on the fulfilment of other sustainability headquarters in Karlsruhe, Germany, the group of consolidated standards is available on the EnBW website at www.enbw.com/ companies of EnBW for its financial reporting also includes all weitere-kennzahlen. of its important subsidiaries. The reporting limits for the nonfinancial performance indicators correspond to the scope of consolidation for the financial reporting, unless otherwise stated. More information about the Global Reporting Initiative is available at www.globalreporting.org and at www.enbw.com/gri-index. 4 EnBW Report 2014 Financial publications All our published reports for the reporting year 2014 are available for you to read and download on our websites www.enbw.com/report2014 and www.enbw.com/report2014-downloads. Magazine “Moving ahead” Our magazine to accompany the EnBW Report 2014, which features a variety of articles about EnBW and its stakeholders, is available in print, in PDF format and also as an interactive version online. EnBW Report 2014 Financial statements of Report on the The EnBW Report 2014 is pubthe EnBW Group 2014 reports lished in print, in PDF format This document is published of EnBW AG The quarterly reports and also as an interactive verin PDF format and contains This report is published are published online sion online. It contains the comthe complete consolidated in PDF format and conat www.enbw.com/ bined management report of financial statements includtains the annual financial financial-publications. the EnBW Group and EnBW AG, ing the notes to the financial statements of EnBW AG. as well as the condensed verstatements. The report is only available sion of the consolidated finanin German. cial statements. Table of contents 6 99 For our stakeholders of the EnBW Group Letter to shareholders 6 The Board of Management 8 Income statement 99 Report of the Supervisory Board (condensed) 10 Statement of comprehensive income 100 Balance sheet 101 Cash flow statement 102 Statement of changes in equity 103 14 Information on the result of the audit of the consolidated financial statements and the Combined management report combined management report of the company of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG and the Group for the 2014 financial year 104 Fundamentals of the Group 14 Business model 14 Strategy, goals and management and control system Corporate governance 20 29 106 In dialogue with our stakeholders 32 Corporate bodies Research and innovation 35 Procurement 37 The Supervisory Board 106 Offices held by members of the Board of Management 108 Business report 39 Other offices held by members Economic and political environment 39 of the Supervisory Board 109 The EnBW Group 47 EnBW AG 67 Overall assessment of the economic situation of the Group Report on risks and opportunities 73 74 112 Forecast 84 Remuneration report 88 Implementation status of the integrated reporting 112 Disclosures pursuant to Secs. 289 (4) and Multi-year overview 114 315 (4) German Commercial Code (HGB) and Glossary 116 explanatory report of the Board of Management 95 Important notes 119 Significant events after the reporting date 97 Financial calendar 120 Our locations 121 6 For our stakeholders » Letter to Shareholders EnBW Report 2014 Letter to Shareholders Without energy nothing is possible. Not only is this a plain and simple fact but also an urgent call for action. Future-oriented energy companies must have their own high level of momentum in order to actively exploit opportunities on the market. This places great demands on both management and employees. Having the closest possible proximity to customers, innovative products and services, strong sales in intensively competitive markets, flexibility, agility and a focus on performance are what is required – in addition to the traditional strengths of this company. EnBW has been rigorously and confidently following a clear strategy for two years: “Energiewende. Safe. Hands on.” is our guiding principle. We are countering the falling earnings from conventional generation and trading by expanding generation from renewable sources of energy, extending the stable grids business and engaging in an innovation and service-based campaign to promote business in the area of “customer proximity”. We want to maintain EnBW as an integrated energy company that is involved in activities along the entire value chain. In the process, we are supported by our regional roots in Baden-Württemberg and by a stable group of shareholders, who like us are pursuing long-term goals. My message is clear: EnBW is on the right course – irrespective of the turbulence being experienced, for example, on the oil markets. And we want to stay ahead – because, when it comes to the reorientation of our company, we set our new course early and have picked up speed quickly. Extensive investment in growth drives the implementation of our strategy To put it simply: We are investing heavily in our growth areas. And as a result we are strengthening the future viability of our company. We are financing this investment first and foremost through the sale of non-strategic investments and through participation models on a partnership basis. The second source of financing comes from increasing our efficiency in all areas. We have invested nearly 2 billion euros in 2014. A large proportion was invested in the Renewable Energies segment, while almost as much was invested in the expansion of the grids. Other main areas of investment were the new power plants RDK 8 in Karlsruhe and Lausward in Düsseldorf. In addition, we have purchased the remaining 50 percent share of GasVersorgung Süddeutschland GmbH and terranets bw GmbH. We have continued with the implementation of our divestiture programme with almost half a billion euro of divestitures in 2014, and can thus continue to make sufficient investment funds available to enable us to play an active role in shaping the Energiewende. We have also made significant progress in increasing our levels of efficiency in 2014. Since the beginning of the year, we are operating as a new, leaner structure: as ONE EnBW. The impact of the “Fokus” efficiency programme was already felt in 2014 – one year earlier than expected – with a yearly saving of more than 750 million euros. The operating result of the EnBW Group fell in 2014 by 2.6 percent. In view of the drop in electricity prices and spreads on the wholesale market and the warm weather conditions, this was an achievement by the EnBW team. Yet despite this success and the progress we have made in the implementation of our strategy, the 2014 financial year was not “good”. EnBW Report 2014 For our stakeholders » Letter to Shareholders) 7 Dr. Frank Mastiaux Chairman of the Board of Management This was due to unscheduled write-downs on the generation portfolio and increased provisions for onerous contracts for electricity procurement agreements to a total amount of 1.3 billion euros. These actions resulted from poor expectations regarding long-term electricity price developments. The bottom line is that EnBW experienced a Group net loss last year. In addition, we were forced to increase pension and nuclear power provisions due to the low interest rate. Without energy nothing is possible This is not only true for EnBW – this rallying cry also applies to the necessary acceleration of political decisionmaking processes. The goal is clear even if there are still lots of discussions about how to achieve it. These discussions must be concluded as quickly as possible, because those companies involved in the energy industry require planning security. Our planning horizon stretches – as a result of the immense volumes of investment – over decades, not for a quarter of a year nor even for a government's term of office. We need decisions to be made now that reconcile the themes of security of supply, economic viability and environmental and climate protection. We stand ready to put these policies into practice. Yours sincerely, Dr. Frank Mastiaux Chairman of the Board of Management 88 An Forunsere our stakeholders Stakeholder › Der › The Board Vorstand of Management EnBW-Bericht EnBW-Report 2014 The Board of Management … EnBW-Report 2014 EnBW-Bericht 2014 An unsere›Stakeholder For our stakeholders The Board of› Management Der Vorstand 99 … out in the field in the “New Working Worlds” Employees The working environment at EnBW is adapting to meet new demands: The “New Working Worlds” project was set up to create open office environments which promote direct interaction between employees. Dr. Bernhard Beck LL.M. born 1954 in Tuttlingen Member of the Board of Management Chief Personnel Officer since 1 October 2002 Appointed until 30 September 2017 Stuttgart at the Innovation Campus Customers New and innovative products are being developed in an unconventional environment at the Innovation Campus – not just for our customers but also together with them. The first products are already being launched on the market in 2015, after only a few months of development. Dr. Frank Mastiaux born 1964 in Essen Chairman of the Board of Management Appointed until 30 September 2017 Karlsruhe at the Capital Market Day 2014 Shareholders / Although this event was only being held for the second time, the Capital Market Day was Capital market given an enthusiastic reception from investors and analysts. Key topics: current financial developments and discussions directly between stakeholders and EnBW. Thomas Kusterer born 1968 in Pforzheim Member of the Board of Management Chief Financial Officer since 1 April 2011 Appointed until 31 March 2019 Ettlingen on the way to our partner Borusan Joint venture We have invested a great deal in the expansion of renewable energies in Turkey together with partners our partner Borusan. The output from wind and hydropower currently totals around 186 megawatts. Further wind farms are currently at the planning stage or under construction. Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer born 1958 in Merzig Member of the Board of Management Chief Technical Officer since 1 January 2012 Appointed until 31 December 2016 Steinfeld (Pfalz) 10 For our stakeholders » Report of the Supervisory Board (condensed) EnBW Report 2014 Report of the Supervisory Board (condensed) The Supervisory Board performed all of the tasks incumbent on it in the 2014 financial year as required by law and the Articles of Association. It regularly advised the Board of Management on its management of the company and accompanied and monitored all important management measures. In the process, the Supervisory Board was involved in all decisions of fundamental importance to the company and the Group. The Board of Management regularly, comprehensively and promptly informed the Supervisory Board about all significant aspects of the business development, business policies and economic performance of the company and the Group, as well as the risk situation, corporate strategy and planning, risk management, internal control system and compliance. Any discrepancies between the actual development of business and the set plans and targets were all discussed and explained in detail. Key topics of the discussions at the plenary meetings of the Supervisory Board In the past financial year, the Supervisory Board dealt extensively with the reports and proposals for resolutions issued by the Board of Management at its five ordinary meetings on 6 March 2014, 6 June 2014, 9 July 2014, 26 September 2014 and 4 December 2014, two extraordinary meetings on 9 April 2014 and 28 April 2014, as well as through written resolution procedures. In addition, it requested reports and information from the Board of Management on individual topics, which were immediately and comprehensively provided in each case. The discussions and resolutions at the plenary meetings of the Supervisory Board focused on the following issues: › Regular and detailed reports by the Board of Management on the development of business and the profitability of the company and the Group, especially on the latest developments relating to revenue and earnings and the net assets and financial position, as well as reports on HR development and significant risks for the Group and individual Group segments › In-depth consultations and discussions with the Board of Management about the strategic positioning of the company › Examination of the package of measures proposed by the Board of Management for improving the company's operating result, as well as for the ongoing optimisation of the operating processes of the EnBW Group › Examination and consideration of the German government’s energy policy and its effect on EnBW, including, in particular, the resulting financial burden and deterioration in the general economic conditions in the energy industry › Resolution on the issuing of new senior and/or hybrid bonds to secure the financial flexibility of EnBW to the total amount of up to 2 billion euros › Regular reports on the status of the divestiture projects › Discussion and deliberation on the company's engagement in Turkey (Joint Venture Borusan EnBW Enerji A.S.) › Approval of the sale of OSD SCHÄFER GmbH to the KÖTTER Group › Approval of the purchase of a further 50 percent of the shares in EnBW Gas Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH (formerly EnBW Eni Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH) and thus indirectly a further 50 percent of the shares in both GasVersorgung Süddeutschland GmbH and terranets bw GmbH › Approval of the sale of 49.89 percent of the shares in the offshore wind farm EnBW Baltic 2 to the Australian financial investor Macquarie Capital › Approval of a binding bid made by EnBW Operations GmbH as a participant in a number of negotiations for the “award of contracts for grid services” and for “shared services grids and agency activities” › Regular reporting on major investment projects, particularly the progress of the construction of the RDK 8 hard coal power station in Karlsruhe and the offshore wind farm EnBW Baltic 2 in the German Baltic Sea, as well as other projects that form part of the generation strategy › Discussion and deliberation on the decommissioning strategy for the nuclear power plants owned by the EnBW Group, as well as the issues of interim and ultimate storage EnBW Report 2014 For our stakeholders » Report of the Supervisory Board (condensed) 11 Dr. Claus Dieter Hoffmann Chairman of the Supervisory Board › Resolution on the decommissioning of the hard coal units 5 and 6 at the location in Heilbronn › Examination and consideration of the situation regarding the transmission grids, particularly the issues of system security and grid expansion › Detailed examination of the topic of concessions in Baden-Württemberg and other cooperation opportunities with municipal partners › Extensive consultation and discussions on current sales issues › Detailed consultation and resolution on the redesign of the remuneration system for the members of the Board of Management › Approval of the budget for the 2015 financial year and acknowledgement of the medium-term planning for the period from 2015 to 2017 consisting of the income statement, balance sheet and cash flow statement Aside from the meetings, the Supervisory Board was informed in writing by the Board of Management about all business transactions of particular importance for the company or the Group. In addition, there was ongoing communication with the Board of Management, particularly with the Chairman of the Board of Management, in order to discuss issues relating to the strategic positioning, planning, business development, risk situation, risk management, compliance, important individual transactions and pending decisions. The majority of the members of the Supervisory Board attended all meetings of the Supervisory Board. No member of the Supervisory Board participated in less than half of the meetings. 12 For our stakeholders » Report of the Supervisory Board (condensed) EnBW Report 2014 Work of the committees In order for the Supervisory Board to optimally perform its functions, the committees it set up once again met regularly in the past financial year. The respective members of the committees are listed on page 107 of this report. Detailed reports on the work of the committees were provided at the beginning of every meeting of the Supervisory Board. Corporate governance The Supervisory Board again paid special attention to the various issues relating to corporate governance in the 2014 financial year. These issues are described in detail in the corporate governance report. The corporate governance report is part of the declaration of conformity, which the company has made available to the public on its website in accordance with Section 289a (1) sentence 2 of the German Commercial Code (HGB) on its website at www.enbw.com/corporate-governance-page. Audit of the annual and consolidated financial statements Following a thorough examination by the audit committee, the Supervisory Board undertook a detailed review of the annual financial statements and consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2014 that were audited and issued with an unqualified audit opinion by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, the combined management report for the 2014 financial year and the Board of Management’s proposals for the appropriation of retained earnings for the 2014 financial year. The final results of its own reviews did not lead to any reservations on behalf of the Supervisory Board. It approved the audit results of the independent auditor, endorsed the annual financial statements prepared by the Board of Management as of 31 December 2014 – which have thus been ratified – and the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2014, as well as the combined management report for the 2014 financial year, and agreed with the Board of Management’s proposal for the appropriation of retained earnings for the 2014 financial year. Reference to the complete version of the report of the Supervisory Board Further details on the topics “Work of the committees”, “Corporate governance”, “Audit of the annual and consolidated financial statements” and “Personnel changes at the level of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board” can be found in the full version of the report of the Supervisory Board made available to the public on the company's website at www.enbw.com/corporate-governance-page. Karlsruhe, 16 March 2015 The Supervisory Board Dr. Claus Dieter Hoffmann Chairman EnBW-Bericht 2014 Konzernlagebericht » Business model 13 Combined management report of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG Fundamentals of the Group 14 Business report 39 Business model 14 Economic and political environment 39 Business principles 14 General conditions 39 Value added for our stakeholders 15 Economic environment 39 Business radius 15 Political and regulatory environment 43 Customers, products and services 16 Development of the sector and the Our operative segments 17 competitive situation 46 Strategy, goals and management and control system 20 The EnBW Group 47 Strategy 20 Financial and strategic performance indicators 47 Goals 23 Non-financial performance indicators 61 Management and control system 27 EnBW AG 67 Corporate Governance 29 Corporate management 29 Overall assessment of the economic Management and supervision 29 situation of the Group 73 Compliance 30 Report on risks and opportunities 74 In dialogue with our stakeholders 32 Principles of the integrated risk and Our stakeholders 32 opportunity management system 74 Materiality matrix 33 Structure and processes of the integrated risk and EnBW as part of society 34 opportunity management system 75 Structure and processes of the accountingResearch and innovation 35 related internal control system 76 Risk and opportunity position 76 Procurement 37 Overall assessment by the Group management 83 Forecast 84 Expected trends in financial and strategic performance indicators 84 Expected trends in non-financial key performance indicators 86 The management's overall assessment of anticipated developments 87 Remuneration report 88 Board of Management remuneration 88 Supervisory Board remuneration 93 Disclosures pursuant to Secs. 289 (4) and 315 (4) German Commercial Code (HGB) and explanatory report of the Board of Management 95 Significant events after the reporting date 97 The cross-references marked with orange icons do not form part of the audited management report. 14 Management report » Business model EnBW Report 2014 Fundamentals of the Group Business model Business principles Business model Our driving incentive: “Energiewende. Safe. Hands on.” Our plan: EnBW 2020 strategy – “Customer proximity” and “Engine room of the Energiewende” Our values: We work with Sustainable supply We help our customWe are active for We offer our strength, competence reliability for people ers to profit from the our customers customers quality and passion for is particularly new opportunities and partners and and ingenuity from the success of the important for us in offered by invite them to Baden-Württemberg. Energiewende. this context. future energy. become involved. Our activities: Integrated energy group active at every value-added stage Transmission / Electricity Generation Trade / procurement Sales distribution Import contracts / Trading / portfolio Transport / Gas Storage Sales infrastructure management distribution As an integrated energy supply company, EnBW operates in orientation for defined quality levels to ensure the efficient and Germany along the entire energy industry value chain in four safe operation, construction and decommissioning of energy segments: Sales, Grids, Renewable Energies, and Generation supply plants. and Trading. EnBW has a diversified business portfolio, but still maintains a balanced risk-return profile. The new ONE EnBW management model saw the complexity of the EnBW Group reduced considerably through the merger of We have also closely analysed future revenue sources in the important Group companies. EnBW now largely corresponds to energy industry to further develop our business portfolio. the model of an integrated company, managed through According to our estimations, revenue flows in the energy business and functional units. Core operating activities will be industry will shift considerably. Renewable energies, grids and concentrated in the business units. The functional units will the decentralised solution business are growing in importance assume Group-wide support and governance tasks. These ( p. 39 ff.). On this basis, we have developed the EnBW 2020 streamlined structures have simplified processes and accelstrategy governed by the guiding principle “Energiewende. erated procedures. As a consequence, EnBW has gained in Save. Hands on.”, “Energiewende” being the new energy conflexibility to enable it to adapt rapidly to changing market cept in Germany. This strategy charts the course for the future conditions. Further information on the organisation structure development of our business model and strengthens the future can be found in the chapter “Corporate governance” under viability of the company. The driving issues of “Customer “Management and supervision”( p. 29). proximity” and the “Engine room of the Energiewende” are at the core of the EnBW 2020 strategy. Customer proximity puts With strength, competence and passion, EnBW is committed the customer at the heart of our activities to an even greater to the success of the Energiewende and guarantees a sustaindegree through a focused orientation towards the core able and reliable supply at all times. We invite our customers elements of innovation and cooperative partnership models. In and partners to join in shaping the future energy landscape the “Engine room of the Energiewende”, we focus in particular on operational excellence and a strict efficiency and cost EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Business model 15 and profiting from new opportunities. We convince our We define value added as the cash-relevant business performcustomers through quality and creativity and are acutely ance of EnBW in the past financial year minus cash-relevant aware of our responsibility towards our employees. costs. Value added created in the EnBW Group amounted to 20.9% in the reporting year (previous year: 23.2%). Alongside We are active along the entire electricity and gas value chain. its use for active and former employees in the form of wages We also enjoy an extremely favourable position under general and salaries, as well as for pension payments, a significant conditions which have fundamentally changed as a result of share is dedicated to payments to the state in the form of the Energiewende, thanks to our comprehensive and profound income taxes, electricity and energy taxes and nuclear fuel system competence. We have anchored customer orientation rod tax. Following consideration of all stakeholder groups, the firmly in our company, as we anticipate a significant growth in retained cash flow in the EnBW Group is an expression of our the importance of the solution business, due to increasing internal financing strength which is available to the company decentralisation in the energy system. Our current activities for future investments without a need to obtain additional are governed by the fostering of dialogue, the principle of outside capital ( p. 56). partnership and solution orientation. Business radius Value added for our stakeholders Our core market is Baden-Württemberg, where we are posiThe value added statement indicates the degree to which EnBW tioned as market leader. Beyond our core market, we operate contributes to the prosperity of society and further economic throughout Germany and in Europe. We supply customers all development, particularly in Baden-Württemberg. This obserover Germany through our subsidiaries Yello Strom GmbH and vation clearly demonstrates the value we create for our Sales & Solutions GmbH. Energiedienst Holding AG, in which stakeholders through our business activities. Further inforEnBW is a majority shareholder, supplies customers in south mation on the exchange with our stakeholders is summarised Baden and Switzerland. Stadtwerke Düsseldorf AG, a further in the chapter “In dialogue with our stakeholders” ( p. 32 ff.). company in which EnBW holds a majority stake, supplies customers in Düsseldorf, the capital of North Rhine-Westphalia, Value added of EnBW Group¹ in € million while EWE Aktiengesellschaft, in which EnBW is a minority shareholder, supplies Oldenburg in Lower Saxony. A share in Pražská energetika a.s. (PRE), the third-largest electricity supply Creation of value Use of value company in the Czech Republic, means that EnBW is also active on the Czech market. We participate in the growth market of Turkey through our joint venture with the Borusan Group. Value creation 4,828 Active and former Moreover, we are also active in Austria. (PY: 5,207) 35% employees: wages and salaries (PY: 34%) 7% Outside investors: interest (PY: 6%) 27% State: tax Suppliers and 18,264 (PY: 28%) service providers: Shareholders material and 5% dividends other operational (PY: 6%) expenditure² (PY: 17,229) 26% EnBW Group retained cash flow (PY: 26%) Cash-relevant Value creation business performance 23,092 4,828 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 2 Includes interest and dividends received. 16 Management report » Business model EnBW Report 2014 Business radius and significant investments outside Baden-Württemberg Rostock/ 100.00%¹ Baltic Sea EnBW Baltic 2 GmbH & Co. KG Oldenburg 26.00% EWE Aktiengesellschaft Germany Düsseldorf 54.95% Stadtwerke Düsseldorf AG CZ 69.84% Czech Pražská energetika a.s.² Republic BadenCologne 100.00% WürttemYello Strom GmbH berg AT CH 66.67% Switzerland Energiedienst Holding AG Frankfurt 100.00% Sales & Solutions GmbH 50.00% Turkey TR Borusan EnBW Enerji yatirimlari ve Üretim A.S. 1 A contract for sale of 49.89% of the shares to Macquarie Capital was signed. Transfer of these shares is expected in the summer of 2015 following approval under antitrust regulations and the complete commissioning of EnBW Baltic 2. 2 Directly and indirectly held shares. www.enbw.com Customers, products and services agriculture, and the B2B (business-to-business) customer group which, for example, encompasses major commercial enterprises, EnBW supplies in total around 5.5 million customers with energy. industrial customers and redistributors, municipal utilities, local We differentiate here between two customer groups: The B2C authorities and public entities. With its strong brands, EnBW (business-to-customer) customer group, which includes private enjoys a close relationship with customers and responds to their customers, commercial enterprises, the housing industry and needs with efficiency and quality. Regional and national market development with strong brands Private and commercial customers (B2C) and business and industrial customers (B2B) Regional market ¹ Private and commercial customers (B2C) Business and industrial customers (B2B) National market 1 Operations in the Düsseldorf region. EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Business model 17 As an active partner for the sustainable future of electricity, gas, services (e.g. operation of grids for third parties) and the district heating and drinking water, EnBW is visible on the supply of water. Value added in the Grids segment is based on market under the EnBW brand ( www.enbw.com). This offering the existing infrastructure and process know-how which focuses on Baden-Württemberg. EnBW primarily sells electricity enables us to operate and expand this efficiently. In addition, and gas to private and commercial customers throughout value added is anchored in existing relationships with local Germany through the Yello brand ( www.yellostrom.de). The authorities and citizens. We will further expand our grid needs of ecologically oriented customers are addressed all over business at all voltage levels as part of the Energiewende, thus Germany with green electricity products under the Naturcontributing to supply reliability. For example, our subsidiary EnergiePlus brand ( www.naturenergieplus.de). In addition, TransnetBW GmbH is currently involved in planning with its the strategic orientation of EnBW's B2C brands is focused on the partners for two high-performance north-south connections future-oriented energy solutions market. based on high-voltage DC transmission technology (HVDC). Partnerships will also play a more important role in the In B2B sales, EnBW is represented throughout Germany with the distribution grid in future as we efficiently manage our EnBW, Watt and GVS brands. In addition to commodity customers' grid installations and infrastructures and prepare supplies, this range also includes energy, efficiency and them to meet the latest requirements. system services ( www.enbw.com/geschaeftskunden). EnBW is one of the largest providers of energy and environmental Renewable Energies segment services in Germany. Another focus is on the development of our cooperation with municipal utilities and local authorities in The company's activities in the area of power generation from Baden-Württemberg. renewable energy sources – above all using wind power and hydropower – are combined under the Renewable Energies segment. We will expand renewable energies considerably in Our operative segments the context of our business model and broaden our activities along the value chain. The principle of partnership plays a Sales segment central role in this context, and we will attract the involvement of potential investors such as local authorities The Sales segment encompasses the distribution of electricity and private citizens in a targeted manner with the aid of and gas and the provision of energy-related services such as appropriate models. The value we add encompasses project invoicing services and both energy supply and energy-saving development, construction, the efficient operation of plants contracting. We exploit our broad energy industry and process and repowering of plants in future. know-how in particular here and existing relationships with our customers. We have already participated successfully in the Generation and Trading segment growing readiness of, for example, local authorities and other grid operators to outsource invoicing services to third parties. The Generation and Trading segment encompasses the generWe will demonstrate even greater flexibility and speed in future ation and trading of electricity, the gas midstream business, in fulfilling the wishes of our customers (e.g. through the modudistrict heating, environmental services and decommissioning larisation of our existing and new contracting services). of power plants. This business is primarily based on the generation of electricity and heat from our thermal power We will differentiate ourselves from competitors through plants (coal, gas and pumped storage power plants without a innovative products, close proximity and a spirit of partnership. natural flow of water, nuclear power plants) and our operating Our innovation management system ( p. 35 f.), which we and optimising competence. We ensure the sustainable established in 2014, will enable us to develop new products and procurement of fuels (particularly coal) through the aid of a solutions in a more targeted and accelerated manner. We will Corporate Social Responsibility committee ( p. 37 f.). Due to involve customers in the product development process at an falling wholesale prices and spreads ( p. 41 f.), we will be early stage in this context to address their needs in the best reducing our power plant capacities in thermal generation. possible manner. Proximity will be achieved through strategies Some of the power plants will remain on the market, while including a rigorous orientation of the organisation towards others which were earmarked for decommissioning will remain our customer groups. The B2C and B2B customer groups will be available as system-relevant in the context of the German addressed on a one-stop shop basis through dedicated business Reserve Power Plant Directive (ResKV). Taken together, these units (i.e. business units oriented towards customer groups). power plants ensure supply reliability in Baden-Württemberg. Moreover, we intend to exploit the growth opportunities Grids segment present by the Energiewende with greater intensity in this segment. As equal partners, we will support our customers with The Grids segment encompasses the transmission and distriour services and know-how (e.g. in the area of direct marketing) bution of electricity and gas, the provision of grid-related during the integration of their plants in the market. 18 Management report » Business model EnBW Report 2014 Segment overview Sales Grids Tasks Tasks Sale of electricity, gas and other products; providing of Transport and distribution of electricity and gas; providing energy-related services; advisory service; “Sustainable of grid-related services; water supply City” project development; support for local authorities; collaboration with public utilities Significant results 2014 Significant results 2014 › The range of services will be expanded further, e. g. in › SuedLink: Cooperation agreement conclude between the area of energy-related payment and settlement sertransmission grid operators TenneT and TransnetBW vices in the “Operations” business unit › ULTRANET: The search for a converter location in the › The “Municipal relationships” unit means that EnBW context of grid expansion project pre-planning will be regional representation is even stronger and it has estabcompleted by early 2015 lished central contacts for local authorities and EnBW › Stadtwerke Stuttgart and Netze BW will operate the involvement in municipal utilities and grid companies Stuttgart electricity and gas grids together in future › 300th specialist conference of the EnBW Energy Efficiency › EnBW is pooling its telecommunication activities in Network, saving realised of 107,000 t CO₂ per annum NetCom BW (as of 31/12/2014) › Takeover of Eni Group’s 50% share in terranets bw › Takeover of Eni Group’s 50% share in GVS › terranets bw will start construction of the new North › Development of Qivicon smart home platform in Black Forest Pipeline for gas transmission in Badencooperation with Deutsche Telekom Württemberg Sales in 2014 Grid lengths 2014 47.0 billion kWh 153,000 km Electricity (B2C / B2B) Electricity transmission and distribution grid 71.1 billion kWh Gas (B2C / B2B) 17,000 km Gas transmission and distribution grid Number of customers (B2C) Transport volume in 2014 5.2 million 65.8 billion kWh 24.3 billion kWh electricity gas Key figures 2014 Key figures 2014 3,322 € 230.6 million 7,824 € 886.3 million employees (as of 31/12/2014) adjusted EBITDA in 2014 employees (as of 31/12/2014) adjusted EBITDA in 2014 € 76.4 million 10.6 % € 521.6 million 40.9 % investments in 2014 share in adjusted EBITDA in 2014 investments in 2014 share in adjusted EBITDA in 2014 Development of adjusted EBITDA Development of adjusted EBITDA 0.8 1.0 0.4 € 0.2 +100% € +25% € € billion billion billion billion 2012 2020 2012 2020 EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Business model 19 Segmentübersicht Segmentübersicht Renewable Energies Generation and Trading Tasks Tasks Project development and management, construction Advisory service, construction, operation and decommisand operation of power plants generating power from sioning of thermal generation plants; electricity trading; renewable energies risk management of market-related risks; development of gas midstream business, district heating; waste management / environmental services Significant results 2014 Significant results 2014 › Construction of EnBW Baltic 2 in the German Baltic Sea › Commissioning of the RDK 8 hard coal unit in Karlsruhe is progressing successfully with an efficiency of over 46% and gross electrical rated › Acquisition of the Albatros wind farm project with approval capacity of 912 MW. In addition, over 200 MW of district for 79 wind turbines in the North Sea and consequent heat is extracted and fed into the Karlsruhe grid. addition of about 400 MW to the offshore portfolio › Construction of the Lausward Combined Cycle Gas Turbine › EnBW investment models for 17 onshore wind farms in Düsseldorf with an efficiency of over 61% (net) and successfully implemented district heat extraction of up to 300 MWth is progressing › EnBW starts operating the largest solar park › The Marbach and Walheim power plants were contracted in Baden-Württemberg in Königsbronn in the as grid reserve power plants Heidenheim district › Opening of solar parks to third parties: EnBW sells the Königsbronn solar park to municipal partners Generation portfolio 2014 ¹ Generation portfolio 2014 ¹ 6,109 GWh 1,094 MW 51,189 GWh 12,548 MW generation installed output generation installed output Key figures 2014 Key figures 2014 519 € 191.4 million 5,432 € 899.5 million employees (as of 31/12/2014) adjusted EBITDA in 2014 employees (as of 31/12/2014) adjusted EBITDA in 2014 € 610.8 million 8.8 % € 476.5 million 41.5 % investments in 2014 share in adjusted EBITDA in 2014 investments in 2014 share in adjusted EBITDA in 2014 Development of adjusted EBITDA Development of adjusted EBITDA 0.7 1.2 -80% 0.3 +250% € € € 0.2 billion billion € billion billion 2012 2020 2012 2020 1 Total generation and installed capacity indicated in the Renewable Energies and Generation and Trading segments is not identical to EnBW Group totals. Part of the generation plants is assigned to other segments. Total EnBW Group generation is 57,778 GWh, of which 7,163 GWh or 12.4% is generation based on renewable energies. Total EnBW Group installed capacity is 13,748 MW, of which 2,632 MW or 19.1% is from renewable plants. Total Group generation and installed capacity is illustrated in detail in chapter “The EnBW Group” on page 64. 20 Management report » Strategy, goals and management and control system EnBW Report 2014 Strategy, goals and management and control system Strategy According to our long-term assessment of the sub-markets examined, the total comprehensive income of the energy Market conditions and structures industry in Germany will increase slightly in nominal terms up to 2020. However, the aforementioned trends result in Market conditions in the energy sector are currently experiensignificant shifts in earnings between individual value-added cing profound change, with efforts to achieve autonomy and stages. The contribution to earnings of overall thermal decentralised energy generation and falling energy consumpgeneration in Germany will fall considerably up to 2020. The tion due to improved energy efficiency leading to a change in a growth in earnings in renewable energies (in particular demand and consumption patterns on the part of customers. onshore/offshore wind and photovoltaic) and grids – An increase in price and cost awareness and a continued strong particularly as a result of the major expansion of transmission orientation towards sustainability support this development. networks – offsets this development. The distribution business Cities and communities also play a role in this change. involving standard products is under pressure, particularly as a result of the continued increase in own energy production The trend towards decentralisation benefits from technoand energy efficiency. However, a slight overall growth in the logical progress which has led to a massive decline in the costs market is anticipated up to 2020 due to a clear rise in demand associated with decentralised energy generation, particularly in the decentralised solution business. with regard to photovoltaic power plants, but also those relating to combined heat and power plants (CHP) and wind Strategy process power plants. The role of centralised electricity generation is being fundamentally transformed as a result, leading to Development of strategy at EnBW is governed by a uniform considerably fewer operating hours in power plants. Nuclear and structured process. Initially, our vision is governed by the power generation will be phased out by 2022, with plants guiding principle “Energiewende. Save. Hands on.” with which being successively and safely decommissioned. we describe our long-term objective. The corporate strategy describes our strategic positioning and differentiation from As a consequence, new business models and a revitalising of our competitors. We shape the composition and strategic corporate culture will be required in energy supply companies development of our business portfolio in our portfolio ( p. 14 f.). When it comes to providing services, technologies strategy, clarifying and achieving our strategic goals in a final such as dialogue-oriented communication tools, digitalisation step through the structuring of our business, investment and and increased cooperation with partners are becoming areas functional strategies. of focus for energy supply companies. Strategy process Guiding Long-term objective of EnBW principle Corporate Strategic positioning and differentiation strategy of company to competition Level of detail Composition and strategic development Portfolio strategy of the business portfolio Business strategies Clarifying and operationalization of strategic goals (per business unit) (per business unit) Functional strategies Support / enabling of strategic goal achievement (per functional unit) (per functional unit) Uniform structured process for strategic goal achievement EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Strategy, goals and management and control system 21 Guiding principle and corporate strategy The EnBW 2020 strategy Energiewende. Safe. Hands on. Customer proximity Engine room of the Energiewende › End-customer business › Wind onshore, offshore and hydropower in electricity and gas › Conventional generation located mainly Where › From the region of › Energy-related services / energy in Baden-Württemberg shall Baden-Württemberg efficiency (defined B2C, B2B seg› Transportation and distribution grid we play? into Germany, Austria, ments, increasingly for local authority infrastructure managed from Switzerland and Turkey and municipal utilities) Baden-Württemberg into neighbouring › Trading and origination regions (also as service provider) › Operational excellence › System competence of energy › Stringent performance › Infrastructure in the energy industry How can › Innovative capability and management innovation management › Regulatory management we win? › Partnerships and › Strong brand portfolio fostering of dialogue › Active opportunities for third parties to invest and participate What › Maximum efficiency › Simple and functional › Stringent cost orientation for should our › Building up of an innovation campus management with defined quality level (target costing) structure › Acquisition of / joint-venture with simple structures, be? › Simplicity and standardisation energy-related companies flat hierarchies and lean processes › Technological development partnerships The EnBW Group strategy developed under our guiding Engine room of the Energiewende: Safety, simplicity and principle encompasses two operative and complementary flexibility are the criteria that count when operating systemmodels encapsulated in the EnBW Strategy House: relevant infrastructure. EnBW relies on operational excellence, a strict focus on efficiency and cost-orientation to achieve Customer proximity: Customers are the focus of the EnBW defined quality standards and standardisation. Partnerships 2020 strategy to an even greater degree. Targeted innovation formed in the area of technological development serve to management and short development times for new products minimise costs and risks. In addition, EnBW actively offers the and services will become key components. The objective is to opportunity to invest in grids and power plants, especially to expand cooperation with municipal utilities and local local authorities. In the “engine room of the Energiewende”, authorities, primarily on the basis of partnership cooperation EnBW’s competence ensures the reliable supply of energy models. EnBW aims to establish advantages over its which must also be guaranteed during work on conversion of competitors through the use of customer segment-specific the energy environment. system and turnkey solutions and a strong brand portfolio. An innovation campus supports swift forward-looking product Portfolio strategy development. It is distinguished by characteristics ranging from market proximity and concentration of the necessary Realigning the business portfolio expertise in research and development right up to sales, EnBW aims to more than double its share of renewable flanked by entrepreneurial thinking. In the area of energyenergies in its generation portfolio, raising it from a current related services, in particular, select company acquisitions will level of 19% (based on the reference year of 2012) to more complement existing know-how and complete the range of than 40% in 2020. Our capacities derived from onshore wind products and services ( p. 35 f.). farms will be increased significantly in the target markets of Germany and Turkey. Offshore wind power represents a further opportunity for growth. By investing extensively in grid expansion, we will be making a substantial contribution to the energy system infrastructure which is needed and, consequently, supply reliability. Innovative products and 22 Management report » Strategy, goals and management and control system EnBW Report 2014 services will form another important pillar of the company's Examples of business and functional strategies business. By 2020, a significant share of our earnings (the target value of adjusted EBITDA is between €2.3 and The business and functional units have developed their €2.5 billion) is to be raised from strategic initiatives. At the individual strategies and specific initiatives and measures on same time, the overall share of adjusted EBITDA accounted the basis of the corporate and portfolio strategy. A few for by the regulated grid business and renewable energies examples of significant business and functional strategies are will increase from a current level of approximately 40% illustrated below: (based on the reference year of 2012) to around 70% in 2020. This will improve the risk-return profile of EnBW. Sales strategy The main focus at EnBW is on the customer, and our solutions Extensive investments and divestitures and products meet the specific needs of our differing EnBW intends to invest €14.1 billion in total by 2020 (based on customer groups in terms of efficiency and quality ( p. 16 f.). the reference year of 2012). In this context, the focus will be Of decisive importance for the achievement of sales success is placed on expanding wind and hydropower on an industrial an understanding of customer requirements, coupled with scale. Moreover, we will also concentrate on the expansion and intelligent product development and operative implemenretrofitting of our transmission and distribution grids right tation excellence. Beyond the provision of products which through to so-called smart grids. From a regional point of address commodity and commodity-related needs, EnBW view, and beyond our core market of Baden-Württemberg, we supports its customers in both the management and optimiwill be focusing our investment activities on Germany, Switzersation of decentralised energy systems and in the areas of land, the Czech Republic and Turkey. To obtain the financial energy efficiency, smart worlds and sustainable mobility. headroom required for these extensive investments, we have The product range varies in this respect for different customer considerably extended our divestiture programme, involving segments (B2C and B2B) and is differentiated according to our conventional divestitures and cash flow from participating brands. Operation services for other energy supply companies investment models and the disposal of assets and subsidies, to in Germany are also part of our offer. EnBW contributes its around €5.1 billion (based on the reference year of 2012). system expertise in the energy sector to the customer relationship in this respect, acting rapidly and reducing the Investments and divestitures as part of the in € billion complexity for the customer. portfolio streamlining Generation strategy for renewable energies In the area of generation of renewable energies, we focus on 14.1 5.1 onshore/offshore wind technologies and energy generation Participation models, from hydropower. We plan to achieve strong growth in the sales and other area of renewable energies by 2020, a target which will also be 9.0 achieved through cooperation with partners such as financial Already 7.0 approved investors, municipal utilities, local authorities and private capital expenditures citizens ( p. 17). For example, the cornerstone was laid in and maintenance Turkey in September 2014 for a further five onshore projects with a total capacity of around 207 MW. We will also expand our involvement in the area of offshore wind power further EnBW 2020 7.1 following the successful commissioning of EnBW Baltic 1 in 2011. Our second wind farm, EnBW Baltic 2, has been erected since mid-2013 approximately 32 kilometres north of the Total Divestitures Net island of Rügen. The 80 wind turbines will be fully operational investment investment in the summer of 2015 with a total output of 288 MW. A contract for the sale of approximately half the shares in this wind farm was signed in January 2015. EnBW acquired the Of the overall investments planned up to 2020, around Albatros offshore wind farm project in December, involving an €3.9 billion have already been realised up to the 2014 reporting approval for 79 wind turbines in the North Sea. This date, while approximately €1.3 billion of our divestiture acquisition means that EnBW has increased its existing programme was implemented up to this date. offshore portfolio by approximately 400 MW. EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Strategy, goals and management and control system 23 Innovation strategy initiatives and measures at regular intervals in the coming The innovation strategy pursues the goal of developing models years, and identify possible requirements for action under for new business segments and advancing their rapid changing general conditions. This goes hand in hand with the commercialisation. Group-wide management of the innovation necessary further development of our organisation, processes process through which the development of skills and processes and performance orientation – key topics in the next few years. for ideas, piloting and scaling are enabled plays a significant role This transformation is not confined to structural changes, but in this respect. An agile innovation culture should be also encompasses a new, agile corporate culture and new established at EnBW in the long term. At the centre of our management logic. We will significantly reduce our decisionactivities are the development of a pipeline of growth issues and making paths, thereby ensuring the requisite response speed management of the innovation portfolio. These activities will be within a constantly changing market environment. accelerated through partnerships, the involvement of third parties and the acquisition of and involvement in start-up enterprises with innovative business ideas ( p. 35 f.). Goals Personnel strategy Key performance indicators The personnel strategy has been developed through three main thrusts: management, competence and an effective and We will ensure the implementation of our 2020 strategy efficient HR policy. Leadership, performance and diversity are through a holistic goal and performance management system. among the areas at the heart of our management focus. Our This system is an expression of an overall appraisal of company competence encompasses expertise management and HR performance and strengthens integrated thinking within EnBW. development. Significant activities which ensure an effective At the same time, it underpins the comprehensive and and efficient HR policy are recruiting for business growth areas, transparent performance and stakeholder orientation of our personnel restructuring and process optimisation ( p. 62 f.). company. We have defined financial and non-financial factors in five dimensions (finance, strategy, customers, employees and Environmental strategy the environment) for our goal and performance management Three significant areas of action for environmental protection system – the key performance indicators. These performance are derived from Energiewende issues and our corporate indicators enable us to measure the degree to which goals are strategy: “Expansion of renewable energies”, “Enhancing achieved and contribute to the management and control of our energy efficiency, including at customer facilities” and the company. A review of management relevance during 2014 led to “Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions”. In order to achieve an adjustment of the target matrix when compared to 2013. In these goals permanently in the long-term at all levels, both in particular, we expanded the target matrix through the addition our power plants and the private households of customers, we of a strategic dimension to clarify our EnBW 2020 strategy. On continually work on the development of our certified the other hand, key indicators were dispensed with in the target environmental management system. This is the only way to matrix which no longer had any management relevance in 2014, improve processes, set quantitative goals and measure the these being the avoidance of CO2 emissions, the CO2 intensity degree to which goals are achieved ( p. 63 ff.). of own electricity production, the sickness and absence rate and the number of employees trained with regard to corruption and Corporate strategy outlook violations of antitrust law. Data on these key indicators will nevertheless continue to be recorded and they belong to the EnBW rigorously and confidently implements its 2020 strategy other performance indicators of the EnBW Group. Through the as an integrated energy supply company – as ONE EnBW. That reorientation of EnBW ( p. 14 f.) towards increased renewable which has been achieved to date confirms the robustness and energies, the grid business and business embodying customer correctness of our strategic orientation. The derivation of proximity, with clearly defined, quantitative goals for 2020, we strategies for business and functional units from our corporate will become the first point of contact for energy issues and strategy enables us to create a basis for the achievement of our ensure the continued competitiveness of EnBW through clearly formulated and ambitious goals for 2020. We will strive convincing products, an improved risk-return profile and even to check the implementation progress of our clearly defined stronger regional anchoring. 24 Management report » Strategy, goals and management and control system EnBW Report 2014 Financial and non-financial key performance indicators and targets Finance goal dimension Goal Key performance indicator 2014 Target in 2020 The operating result is to return to the average level Securing Adjusted EBITDA achieved before the Energiewende. The total regulated 2.2 2.3 – 2.5 profitability in € billion business (Grids and Renewable Energies segments) together contributes around 70% to this result. In proportion to the operating result, leverage remains within narrow boundaries. The unchanged goal is Safeguarding the Dynamic leverage ratio 3.68 < 3.3 to ensure good creditworthiness controlled via the good credit rating dynamic leverage ratio which, at < 3.3 currently, corresponds to an A rating. Return on capital employed (ROCE) is higher Raising the ROCE in % 10.0 8.5 – 11 than the cost of capital. EnBW creates value for Group’s value its stakeholders. Financial performance indicators Report on risks and opportunities Expected trends in financial performance › page 49 and 58 ff. › page 77 ff. indicators › page 85 f. Strategy goal dimension Goal Key performance indicator 2014¹ Target in 2020 The operating results of the Sales segment double Share in results Share in adjusted from €0.2 billion (reference year: 2012) to €0.4 billion of “Customer EBITDA (total) 0.2 / 11 0.4 / 15 in 2020 and represents around 15% of Group proximity” / Sales in € billion / in % operational results. Innovations make this possible. The operating results of the Grids segment rise by 25% Share in adjusted from €0.8 billion (reference year: 2012) to €1.0 billion Share in results EBITDA (total) 0.9 / 41 1.0 / 40 in 2020, thus represents around 40% of Group operaof Grids in € billion / in % tional results. The share of the stable regulated business is expanding. The operating results of the Renewable Energies Share in results Share in adjusted segment multiply by 250% from €0.2 billion (referof Renewable EBITDA (total) 0.2 / 9 0.7 / 30 ence year: 2012) to €0.7 billion in 2020, contribution Energies in € billion / in % to around 30% of Group operational results. EnBW is more sustainable. The operating results of the Generation and Trading Share in results Share in adjusted segment fall due to changed general conditions by 80% of Generation and EBITDA (total) 0.9 / 42 0.3 / 15 from €1.2 billion (reference year: 2012) to €0.3 billion Trading in € billion / in % in 2020 and only contribute to around 15% of Group operational results. Strategic performance indicators / Report on risks and opportunities Expected trends in strategic performance strategy › page 49 › page 77 ff. indicators › page 85 f. 1 The Other / Consolidation segment contributes a total of -2% to adjusted EBITDA. EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Strategy, goals and management and control system 25 Segmentübersicht Customers goal dimension Goal Key performance indicator 2014 Target in 2020 EnBW and Yello are regarded as attractive brands Increasing brand Brand Attractiveness 43 / 36 44 / 40 by consumers, supporting sales and customer attractiveness Index EnBW / Yello acquisition. EnBW and Yello customers are satisfied customers with a high level of customer loyalty. EnBW and Yello Customer Customer Satisfaction 114 / 145 > 136 / >159 are organisations strongly oriented towards the cusproximity Index EnBW / Yello tomer and which meet the needs and wishes of their customers through tailored solutions and products. EnBW regards the maintenance of supply quality to its customers as its chief priority. The high degree of SAIDI (electricity) Supply reliability 15 < 25 supply reliability in the EnBW grid area is based on in min / year comprehensive investment in grids and plants and our distinctive system competence. Non-financial performance indicators / Report on risks and opportunities Expected trends in the customer area customers › page 61 › page 78 and 81 f. › page 86 Employees goal dimension Goal Key performance indicator 2014 Target in 2020 The commitment our employees feel to EnBW is Employee Employee Commitment 56 65 very strong, and there is faith in the future viability commitment Index (ECI) of the company. The number of occupational accidents and resulting Occupational ≤ priorLTIF¹ 4.3 days of absence remains at a sustained, stable level health & safety year figure or falls. Non-financial performance indicators / Report on risks and opportunities Expected trends in the employees area employees › page 61 f. › page 78 and 81 f. › page 87 Environment goal dimension Goal Key performance indicator 2014 Target in 2020 Installed capacity of RE The share of renewable energies in EnBW’s generation Expand renewable in GW and the share of capacity has doubled compared with 2012. Onshore 2.6 / 19.1 5.0 / > 40 energies (RE) the generation capacity and offshore wind power and hydropower are at the accounted for by RE in % forefront in this respect. Non-financial performance indicators / Report on risks and opportunities Expected trends in the environment area environment › page 63 f. › page 81 f. › page 87 1 Variations in the group of consolidated companies. 26 Management report » Strategy, goals and management and control system EnBW Report 2014 Interaction of key performance indicators Naturally enough, the key performance indicator of the share of renewable energies in adjusted EBITDA for its part profits We are convinced that, in addition to illustrating the from improvements in the environment dimension – namely economic, ecological and social context, an appraisal and the absolute installed output from renewable energies and the analysis of interaction in these areas is necessary to convey a share of renewable energies in the generation capacity. comprehensive picture of the company. Integrated reporting also necessitates this linking of information to the varied A high frequency and intensity with regard to interaction is dimensions of business activities, encouraging an approach also indicated by the key performance indicator of customer involving holistic corporate management and control within satisfaction. It is governed by an index determined by an EnBW and positioning us as a responsible and sustainable external service provider through customer surveys relating company with a viable future when viewed externally. to the Group's two core brands, EnBW and Yello. In our estimation, an improvement of this key indicator also leads to In order to illustrate this interaction, EnBW exploits the key an increase in the key performance indicator of the share of performance indicators of its goal and performance managesales in adjusted EBITDA through sustained customer loyalty. ment system, encompassing financial and non-financial For example, the goal of supply reliability which EnBW factors in the finance, strategy, employees and environment guarantees its customers to a high degree has a significant dimensions. In an initial step, we conducted an internal survey influence on customer satisfaction. in 2014 in the relevant specialist areas on the interaction between individual key performance indicators. Both the The key performance indicator of employee commitment is of frequency and intensity of interaction between the key further central importance relative to the frequency and indicators was examined in this context. Four key indicators intensity of interaction. The Employee Commitment Index demonstrated the greatest frequency and intensity with (ECI), compiled in the context of regular employee surveys, regard to interaction: expresses the degree to which employees identify with EnBW. Through their commitment and dedication, employees make › Adjusted EBITDA a significant contribution to the generation of the operating › Share of renewable energies in adjusted EBITDA results (adjusted EBITDA) of EnBW. Inversely, employee › Customer satisfaction commitment is encouraged if the competitiveness and future › Employee commitment viability of the company is positively influenced through an increase in the company's value (return on capital employed, The adjusted EBITDA illustrates the operating results of EnBW ROCE). without considering one-off or extraordinary effects. For example, it directly contributes to the dynamic leverage ratio The selection on the basis of our initial survey in 2014 of these which, in turn, significantly influences the credit rating of EnBW. four key performance indicators with a particularly high The operating results for their part are very strongly determined frequency and intensity regarding their interaction does not by our capacity to bind existing customers to us (key reduce the importance of other key performance indicators. performance indicator of customer satisfaction) and acquire new The recording and analysis of the interaction between these customers (key performance indicator of brand attractiveness). performance indicators will be expanded and refined on a continual basis by EnBW in the coming years. The goal is to As a key performance indicator, the share of renewable achieve a comprehensive depiction of all significant interenergies in adjusted EBITDA measures the share of the actions between financial and non-financial key performance Renewable Energies segment in the Group operating results. indicators. The greater we expand this share – including in terms of the Energiewende – the better we can compensate for the decline Moreover, the complete report contains numerous other of the share of the Generation and Trading segment in the indications of interactions between different dimensions and results and achieve the 2020 target for adjusted EBITDA. aspects of the business activities of EnBW. EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Strategy, goals and management and control system 27 Interaction of key performance indicators Employees › Employee Commitment Index (ECI) › LTIF Strategy › Share of “Customer proximity” / › Share of grids Sales in adjusted EBITDA in adjusted EBITDA Customers Finance › EnBW / Yello Brand › Adjusted EBITDA Attractiveness Index › Dynamic leverage ratio › Customer Satisfaction Index: EnBW / Yello › ROCE › SAIDI (electricity) › Share of Generation and Trading › Share of Renewable energies in adjusted EBITDA in adjusted EBITDA Environment › Installed capacity of renewable energies (RE) and share of RE in generation capacity Management and control system framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). The integrated EnBW report available for 2014 Performance management system incorporates the financial and non-financial aspects of our business activities. The management and control system was primarily aligned with the company’s financial goals up until the end of 2012. Definition of key performance indicators Since 2013, the corporate management and control has been continually expanded through the addition of financial and The financial and strategic key performance indicators within non-financial goals and now also encompasses the strategy, the PMS are the adjusted EBITDA, the total shares of segcustomers, employees and environment dimensions. The ments in adjusted EBITDA, the dynamic leverage ratio and centrepiece of this integrated corporate management and the ROCE. control is the performance management system (PMS). As of 2015, the PMS will encompass all instruments used in strategic The adjusted EBITDA is the adjusted earnings excluding extraand operational management and control. Group targets will ordinary items before interest, tax and amortisation ( p. 49 be broken down in 2015 through consistent target agreements and 85 f.). The key performance indicators of the strategy goal at all management levels and the achievement of goals dimension, which describes the share of individual segments in evaluated at the end of the year in a comparison with adjusted EBITDA, are derived directly from this key performance competitors. Over the course of 2013, quarterly performance indicator of the finance goal dimension. The dynamic leverage reviews conducted at Board of Management level were already ratio is the ratio of the adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA and gradually being implemented and were revised in 2014 to is the most significant performance indicator for ratings and of provide an analysis of the current status and measures taken financing capacity ( p. 58 and 86). The ROCE (return on capital to achieve financial and non-financial goals. This instrument employed) is the ratio of achieved operational results (conwill be rolled out successively in 2015 to encompass further siderably influenced by the adjusted EBITDA) to the capital management levels. As regards external communication, the employed and forms the basis for determining the value added PMS feeds into integrated reporting on the financial and nonreflecting the development of the company's value from a financial performance of EnBW based on the reporting financial point of view ( p. 59 f. and 86). 28 Management report » Strategy, goals and management and control system EnBW Report 2014 In addition to financial key performance indicators, the PMS The Employee Commitment Index (ECI) and LTIF (Lost Time was also expanded through the inclusion of non-financial key Injury Frequency) are drawn upon as control indicators in the performance indicators. employees goal dimension ( p. 61 f. and 87). The Employee Commitment Index (ECI) expresses the degree to which The customers goal dimension encompasses the Brand employees identify with EnBW. The ECI is compiled through Attractiveness Index, the Customer Satisfaction Index and the employee surveys and based on standardised questions which SAIDI (System Average Interruption Duration Index) ( p. 61 address the degree to which employees identify with their and 86). As a key performance indicator, the Brand Attractivecompany, including satisfaction with their employment ness Index, which is compiled by an external provider, measures contract, attractiveness of the employer, identification with the consumer’s perception of the attractiveness of our brands. It the company, motivational climate, competitiveness and incorporates ten different facets. This key indicator reflects future viability. The ECI is regularly compiled for selected consumer appreciation in terms of their emotional attraction companies in Germany: every two to three years in the and understanding of and their behavioural patterns with regard context of an overall survey and in the intermediate periods to the brands, thereby encompassing all aspects relevant to through representative random surveys. The LTIF is calculated attitude-oriented brand strength. This key indicator is compiled on the basis of LTI (Lost Time Injuries) which denotes the for the Group’s two core brands, EnBW and Yello. The Customer number of accidents during working hours which have Satisfaction Index key performance indicator reflects an occurred exclusively as a result of a work assignment from the integrated analysis of retail end-customer satisfaction which is company and result in at least one day of absence. LTIF directly linked to customer loyalty. It is compiled and derived indicates how many LTIs have occurred relative to one million from customer surveys carried out by an external provider. We working hours performed. This key indicator takes into compile this key indicator for the Group’s two core brands, EnBW account all employees, except temporary agency workers, at and Yello. SAIDI serves as the key performance indicator of those companies controlled by the Group. supply reliability. It expresses the average length of supply interruption in the electricity grid experienced annually by each The installed output of RE in GW and the share of the generconnected customer. SAIDI includes all unscheduled downtimes ation capacity in % accounted for by RE is a key performance with supply interruptions lasting more than three minutes indicator determined in the environment goal dimension experienced by the consumer. The calculation methodology is ( p. 63 f. and 87). This is a measure of the expansion of based on regulations issued by the VDE (German Association for renewable energies. It represents the installed output of plants Electrical, Electronic & Information Technologies) for reporting using renewable energies rather than the volume of electricity on supply interruptions in electricity grids. produced by these facilities. EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Corporate governance 29 Corporate governance Corporate management sequently approved the company’s declaration of compliance pursuant to Sec. 161 German Stock Corporations Act (AktG). Responsible and transparent corporate management is the basis and leading principle underlying our activities. We are The declaration of compliance can be accessed along with the convinced that good corporate governance strengthens the corporate governance report and statement of compliance at trust and confidence that customers, capital providers, www.enbw.com/corporate-governance-page. employees and the general public invest in the company, thereby contributing to its long-term success and profitability. The remuneration report is included as part of the manageThe Board of Management and Supervisory Board seek to ment report on p. 88 ff. of this report. manage and supervise management of the company above and beyond mere compliance with statutory provisions, in accordance with recognised benchmarks of good corporate Management and supervision governance and in harmony with the principles of a social market economy, guaranteeing the continued existence of the Board of Management company and ensuring a sustainable increase in its enterprise value. EnBW therefore meets all the recommendations of the At the end of his contractual term on 30 September 2014, German Corporate Governance Code. Dr. Dirk Mausbeck stepped down from the Board of Management at EnBW AG which, as of 31 December 2014, consists of As in previous years, Dr. Bernhard Beck, the Board of Managefour members. Sales and grid tasks previously realised at Board ment member responsible for corporate governance, monitored level were distributed among the remaining four management conformity with the German Corporate Governance Code at remits. The Board of Management conducts the business of the EnBW and reported extensively to the Board of Management and Group in joint responsibility. In addition to the responsibilities Supervisory Board on all topical matters pertaining to corporate of the CEO, Board of Management tasks are structured into the governance. Both boards acknowledged his report and subremits of finance, personnel, law and technology. Allocation of responsibilities at Board of Management level (as of 31/12/2014) CEO Finance Personnel / Law Technology Dr. Bernhard Beck Dr. Frank Mastiaux Thomas Kusterer Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer (Chief Personnel Officer) › Corporate develop› Accounting / tax › Executives management / › Generation (renewable, ment / strategy › Controlling personal development conventional, nuclear) › Economics and policies / › Finance / Investor Relations › Labour / collective › Waste management / sustainability bargaining policy environmental services › Risk management / ICS › Corporate communications › Law › Transmission grids › Energy sector › Transformation / IT / › Compliance management / › Distribution grids procurement / infrastructure › Mergers and acquisitions data protection › Grid technology › Research and development / › Trade › Occupational medicine › Occupational safety, innovation › Regulatory management environmental protection, › Sales (B2C / B2B and › Investment management crisis management municipal relations), (particularly for following marketing and operations investments: PRE, SWD, › Escalation: Risk manageED, ZEAG, ODR) ment trading › Boards / shareholder relationships › Audit www.enbw.com/board-of-management 30 Management report » Corporate governance EnBW Report 2014 Supervisory Board Shares of EnBW AG are listed on Deutsche Börse’s General Standard. A stake of 46.75% in EnBW’s share capital is held by The Supervisory Board consists of 20 members in accordance the federal state of Baden-Württemberg through NECKARPRIwith Sec. 8 (1) of the Articles of Association. In accordance with Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH and by Zweckverband Oberthe German Co-determination Act (MitbestG), an equal schwäbische Elektrizitätswerke (OEW) through OEW Energienumber of members represent shareholders and employees. Beteiligungs GmbH. Overall, the shareholder structure is Three employee representatives are nominated by the ver.di unchanged as of 31 December 2014 when compared to the trade union. previous year. The Supervisory Board appoints the members of the Board of Management and advises them in their managerial activities. Compliance It discusses business development, planning and company strategy together with the Board of Management at regular Compliance as an expression of all measures to comply with intervals and ratifies the annual financial statement. The statutory regulations and internal guidelines is regarded as an Supervisory Board is always involved in decisions of essential management and supervisory task at EnBW. A fundamental importance to the company. Legal transactions Compliance Management System (CMS) was set up and and measures subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board implemented throughout the Group in the last five years to are defined in its by-laws. In order to carry out its tasks in the avoid liability and reputational losses. The system serves to best-possible manner, the Supervisory Board has formed the minimise risk, while also enhancing efficiency through following standing committees: a personnel committee, a coordination of existing compliance activities. It is designed finance and investment committee, an audit committee, a specifically to address priorities and risks in the energy industry, nomination committee and a mediation committee in aligned to corporate strategy and encompasses all controlled accordance with Sec. 27 (3) of the German Co-determination companies managed by staff. The focus is on prevention, Act (MitbestG), as well as an ad-hoc committee. detection and the sanctioning of corruption and violations of competition legislation, antitrust law and data protection. Further information on the Board of Management and Supervisory Board can be found in this report under the The Board of Management and Supervisory Board comsection on corporate bodies ( p. 106 ff.) and in the declaramissioned an efficacy audit of the Group's CMS in 2013. The tion of compliance, the corporate governance report, and audit marked the conclusion of the CMS development phase the Supervisory Board report ( www.enbw.com/corporateand encompassed the specific areas of corruption prevention governance-page). and antitrust law pursuant to the Institute of Public Auditors in Germany (IDW PS 980). EnBW received an unqualified audit Annual General Meeting opinion: The principles and measures of the EnBW CMS are appropriate for detecting risks of significant violations of Shareholders exercise their rights in company matters at the applicable regulations for the specific areas mentioned in good Annual General Meeting. The Annual General Meeting passes time and with a sufficient degree of certainty and, also, to resolutions on the discharge of Board of Management and prevent violations of this nature. Supervisory Board members, the appropriation of earnings and selection of the auditor. Resolutions of the Annual 22 (95.7%) of a total of 23 controlled Group companies General Meeting only require a simple majority of votes in managed by staff were included in the CMS in the reporting most cases. Each bearer share is equivalent to one vote. year. Detailed structuring of compliance goals is realised in the Further information on the Annual General Meeting is compliance programme which defines Group-wide centralised available at www.enbw.com/annual-general-meeting. and specific decentralised preventive compliance measures. It is based on comprehensive risk assessments which examine Equity holders of EnBW AG corruption, antitrust law, fraud and data protection risks annually and were conducted in 21 controlled Group companies managed by staff (91.3%) in 2014. Shares in %1 Reporting and central processing of indications and suspicious OEW Energie-Beteiligungs GmbH 46.75 incidents have been realised since 2011 through a regulated NECKARPRI-Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH 46.75 and communicated procedure. Whistle-blowers can avail of Badische Energieaktionärs-Vereinigung 2.45 both an internal and external reporting channel. Use of reporting channels has increased significantly since this Gemeindeelektrizitätsverband Schwarzwald-Donau 0.97 procedure was set up. EnBW received 30 indications of compliance infringements and suspicious incidents in the Neckar-Elektrizitätsverband 0.63 reporting year, two of which were submitted to the EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG 2.08 ombudsman. Five of these incidents were processed by the Free float 0.39 compliance committee task force, with disciplinary measures being taken in three cases. 1 The figures do not add up to 100% due to rounding differences. EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Corporate governance 31 Number of compliance breaches and suspected cases A significant component of the preventive compliance orientation is the advisory service. The compliance hotline received 1,132 enquiries in the reporting year relating to the focal issues of subsidies, donations and sponsoring, and further topics such as 2010 7 6 13 business partner auditing. Sensitising of employees and managers with regard to compliance issues has consolidated on a 2011 4 13 17 significant level. 2012 7 23 30 Applicable requirements pursuant to the German Money Laundering Act (GwG) were investigated for EnBW in the reporting year. Subsequent to this risk assessment conducted 2013 9 24 33 throughout the Group, preventive measures and inspections were defined with the units involved which were fully realised 2014 5 25 30 by the beginning of 2015. Material breaches (addressed by the task force) Effective and understandable guidelines limited to fundaImmaterial breaches and unsubstantiated suspected cases mental principles are a prerequisite for efficient structures and processes. The contents of guidelines were streamlined and Specific training campaigns are conducted at EnBW as a simplified in 2014 as planned, and this optimising led to a significant prevention measure to tackle corruption and deal significant reduction in the number of Group guidelines and with antitrust law risks. Different target groups receive standards. training in this context according to a defined training plan. In contrast to 2013, the focus in the reporting year was on A minor percentage of consolidated revenue from the point of sensitive specialist areas, particularly advising local authorview of compliance (3.3%) was generated in the Czech Republic ities, construction coordination, procurement and sales. which, according to CPI, is one of the countries most Required compliance knowledge has been imparted to around susceptible to corruption. Nevertheless, the Group considers 1,270 employees in face-to-face training seminars. Realisation that the compliance organisation implemented at the Group of an E-learning course or participation in face-to-face training subsidiary Pražská energetika a.s. (PRE) takes appropriate is obligatory for new employees. The e-learning and manager account of this risk factor. training campaign conducted throughout the Group in 2013 and face-to-face training and other measures this year saw a The focus of activities relating to data protection shifted in the total of 92.8% (previous year: 86.9%) of employees and reporting year to support in terms of data protection managers being trained and sensitised in the area of legislation during the development of new products ( Smart compliance in 2014, corresponding to the annual planning and Home, Smart Grid) and new business areas such as the forecast for an aspect which was a key performance indicator third-party market business and citizen participation portal. in the previous year. The development which sees IT services being sourced from external providers (so-called software as a service and cloud Participants in compliance training events services) increased advisory complexity and intensity considerably, particularly with regard to structuring of order data processing in line with legislation. The number of advisory enquiries remained at an equally high level in 2014. 2010 130 692 267 1,089 20 The EnBW Group faced neither antitrust law penalty 2011 935 189 1,144 procedures nor third-party antitrust lawsuits in the 2014 41 financial year. The Baden-Württemberg antitrust authority 2012 934 73 1,048 initiated abuse proceedings under antitrust law in 2014 against EnBW on the grounds of allegedly excessive water prices in Stuttgart. EnBW regards these allegations as unfounded and 2013 481 267 190 938 has taken appropriate legal steps. In addition, no penalties due 38 to infringements of legal regulations were imposed on the 2014 1,274 162 1,474 company due to any other significant matters. Managers Law enforcement agency investigations of individual emSensitive areas ployees and former company members relating to the so-called New managers / employees Russian business and so-called sales tax carousel in CO2 allowance trading continue. An end to or any results of these investigations are not yet in sight. 32 Management report » In dialogue with our stakeholders EnBW Report 2014 In dialogue with our stakeholders Our stakeholders the largest energy supply companies in Germany and Europe, we are acutely aware of our responsibility and welcome active A continuous systematic exchange with our internal and dialogue. In the exchange with our stakeholders, we listen external stakeholders is an important component of our carefully to their interests and expectations of EnBW and take business activities. These include shareholders and the capital these into account in the context of the strategic orientation market, employees, customers, local authorities, municipal of our company and in our business decisions. At the same utilities, society, suppliers and the political community. One time, we inform all stakeholders about the company’s needs basis of dialogue with stakeholders is the identification and and the necessary prerequisites for an efficient, reliable and prioritising of stakeholder groups in terms of strategically sustainable supply of energy. Mutual understanding, social significant and current issues, particularly with regard to the acceptance and trust are increased further through the Energiewende, the new energy concept in Germany. This purposeful exchange of insights and perspectives. In addition, dialogue is conducted through a variety of dialogue formats, central developments and key topics are also identified at an ranging from conferences to social media platforms. As one of early stage in this manner. EnBW and its stakeholders Banks Rating agencies Non-government Analysts organisations Investors Interest groups EU and trade associations German lders and capital ma government hareho rke S t Employer Parliaments associations s Unions International Po ee lit oy organisations ics pl Em Competitors Industry associations Private Market customers partners Industrial Cus S u p p l ie Environmental customers tomers associations rs Trading Business customers partners Contractual ti e s Commercial partners and agricultural ut ili ic customers Research So u bl institutions c ie ty an dp it i e s Public entities M u nic i p al Citizens Universities Citizens energy Schools cooperatives Media Social Journalists networks EnBW Report 2014 Management report » In dialogue with our stakeholders 33 In dialogue with our stakeholders (examples) Stakeholder Opportunity for dialogue Main themes Further information › EnBW quarterly and › Corporate economic development www.enbw.com/financial-publications annual financial reports › Discharge Board of Management / Supervisory › Annual General Meeting www.enbw.com/annual-general-meeting Board, resolution on appropriation of earnings Shareholders › Banking Day and and capital › Strategy and business development www.enbw.com/investor-update Capital Market Day market › Investor update › Continuous contact with investors › Current information / issues and dialogue › EnBW Intranet forums (e. g. Team Blog) › Information and discussion platform › Management forum for managers Employees › EnBW news › Regular dialogue event with employees › EnBW online customer centre › Service offerings www.enbw.com/privatkunden › Online information on › Information on current outages and disruptions www.netze-bw.de/stoerungen power outages Customers › Energy efficiency networks › Network meetings www.enbw.com/geschaeftskunden › Kooperationsnetz › Pooling of know-how and resources Baden-Württemberg e. V. for the Energiewende › Online portal for › Services for local authorities www.enbw.com/geschaeftskunden local authorities › Energy Days for local authorities › Energy industry discussion forum www.enbw.com/kommunaler-energietag Municipalities and public › Sustainable City › Citizen dialogue events www.enbw.com/nachhaltige-stadt utilities › Innovations addressing issues such as stable › Smart Grid Day 2.0 www.smartgrids-bw.net electricity supply, energy efficiency › Open days and › Dialogue with citizens and information service www.enbw.com EnBW InfoCenter › Social media channels and › Dialogue platforms such as the blog, www.dialog-energie-zukunft.de Energiewende blog Facebook, Twitter, YouTube www.facebook.com/EnBW › Citizen Involvement › Participation options during development Society www.buergerbeteiligung.enbw.com online platform of renewable energies › “Köpfe dieser Zeit” › Series of events with important personalities (Great Minds of Our Time) and lateral thinkers › International specialist › Responsible approach to coal mining www.enbw.com/kohlebeschaffung conference in Colombia in Colombia Suppliers › EnBW Energy and Business › Exchange on issues such as market design Club (EWC) or innovation › Debates by Energy and Climate › Issues such as global energy perspectives www.energieundklimaschutzbw.de Protection Foundation and global climate protection Politics › Sustainability Days › Open day in Schopfloch, participation events www.nachhaltigkeitstage-bw.de Baden-Württemberg 2014 in the EnBW Shop Materiality matrix holders regarding the relevance of issues which have been classified as very important correspond to the greatestEnBW conducted a systematic materiality analysis for the first possible extent. The issues of future prospects, the time in 2013 which involved a survey of the most important contribution to the Energiewende, renewable energies and the EnBW stakeholder groups. The result of this analysis is a decentralised supply of energy in particular are judged to be materiality matrix which provides an overview of central significant. The result of the survey validates the corporate EnBW issues. An issue is deemed to be of particular strategy through which we will significantly increase our share significance if regarded as being extremely important by both in renewable energies by 2020 and provide our customers our stakeholders and EnBW and, consequently, appears in the with innovative products and services. Correspondingly, upper-right quadrant of the materiality matrix. The survey implementation of the strategy is at the core of our business indicated that estimations of internal and external stakeactivities, opening up new future prospects as a result. 34 Management report » In dialogue with our stakeholders EnBW Report 2014 Materiality matrix (as of 31/12/2013) not highest priority important veryy important p Strategic goals Future prospects New products very important Corporate strategy Company Contribution to Importance for internal stakeholders (top management) Customer situation Company values and goals satisfaction Renewable the Energiewende energies Corporate management Company Decentralised energy supply performance Opportunities Forecast and risks Customer energy efficiency ffi i E Energy prices i Supply S l Sustainability strategy reliability Organisational structure Stakeholder dialogue Product quality important Research and development Decommissioning of Sustainable raw materials procurement nuclear energy Demographic change Environmental protection Women in managerial positions Nuclear power Fossil energies plant safety Sustainable supply chain Climate change New forms Conservation of mobility of resources Digitalisation of everyday life / Satisfaction with data protection not highest Urbanisation Remuneration Donations and priority sponsoring Important for external stakeholders (investors, shareholders, NGOs, informed customers) Individual discussions with different stakeholder groups EnBW particularly welcomes this contribution. For example, confirm the results of last year's survey. Consequently, we EnBW apprentices and trainees in the “Energy-Lädle” junior plan to repeat the stakeholder survey every three to five enterprise have demonstrated their commitment for the last years. This will ensure that we can follow the positions of 35 years with their own stall at the Stuttgart Christmas market, stakeholders with regard to the relevance of particular issues where they offer products they have made themselves. Social on a continual basis. institutions in the greater Stuttgart area profit from sales’ proceeds, with 80 donations amounting to €250,000 being raised over the years. EnBW as part of society An overview of EnBW sponsoring (examples) EnBW is acutely aware of its responsibility towards society. Through its commitment to addressing the concerns and interests of society, it conducts its business in close customer Key issues Example projects Further information proximity and aligns its activities to the target groups of end customers, business partners and local authorities. It is chiefly Popular sport EnBW-Oberliga www.enbw.com/ involved within its primary business sphere of influence in Junioren oberliga Baden-Württemberg in this regard. Support for superordinate Art/Culture release and art in social issues is concentrated on the core areas of popular sport, support of release www.enbw.com/ art and culture, education, social issues and the environment. e. V. (help with drugs) kunst EnBW has considerably reduced the number of its sponsoring Education energy@school: www.enbw.com/ commitments and the overall outlay dedicated to this purpose Energie für Ideen energyatschool in recent years, a move which also reflects the economic Social issues ECHT GUT! Das situation of the company. For example, promotion of top-class Ehrenamt in Badenwww.enbw.com/ sport was reduced considerably and particular attention Württemberg ehrenamt directed towards popular sport. Beyond the company's Environment Amphibian protection financial sponsoring measures, EnBW employees also programme “Impulse www.enbw.com/ für die Vielfalt” biodiversitaet demonstrate their own personal commitment to society. EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Research and innovation 35 Research and innovation Objectives and guidelines An example of a new cooperation across different areas and the embracing of new business worlds is the 1492@EnBW EnBW develops models for new future business areas through format initiated in November 2013. Mirroring a voyage of its research and innovation activities. The goal is to identify discovery analogous to that of Christopher Columbus who new revenue sources in the altered energy landscape and discovered America in 1492, the goal is to develop ideas in an illustrate ways of exploiting these. Innovation management interdisciplinary fashion without any hierarchy. The initial creates transparency in all innovation projects in the EnBW phase saw 64 employees cooperating creatively and Group. Research develops technical solutions which can be constructively in four 1492 projects. Results have confirmed marketed as new products for use by our customers. the effectiveness of this method. Not only the idea for Important elements in this context are an innovation board intelligent street lighting was born of this initiative, but also a and centres of excellence which contribute to the speedy marketable online platform for citizen involvement in wind identification of new trends and market opportunities and farms. The second phase was started in September 2014 with their implementation in product solutions. Research and four new topics. The 1492@EnBW initiative won the HR Award innovation represent an important driving force in the in December in the employee commitment category, an transformation of the company, changing of the corporate honour bestowed by the “Human Resources Manager” trade culture and for future economic success. magazine for outstanding projects in the HR area. Structure The innovation process at EnBW Research and innovation Opening to the outside world: Internal business development new ventures › Campus projects › EnBW as a strategic › Impulses for innovation investor in business for › Implementation portfolio development Business units / Joint venture / Spin-off Start-ups Functional units Expansion of core business / › Technology transfer Technology and skills New products › Speedboats Innovation portfolio The innovation process is divided into two main thrusts. On companies with attractive products or ideas and enter into the one hand, the area of research and innovation promotes partnerships. In addition, EnBW works together increasingly the internal generation of new business ideas and provides with external partners in terms of open innovation. An active new impulses for business and functional units. An important exchange will occur between both main thrusts to ensure that platform of this internal process for the development of ideas start-ups benefit from ideas created internally in the company is the innovation campus, which commenced its work in the and these small and innovative companies in turn provide summer of 2014 to promote new business ideas for all business and functional units with new impulses through customer segments. The second thrust is the opening of EnBW their know-how. The first results were achieved from this new to the outside world under the heading of new ventures. EnBW structure in 2014. will increasingly act as a strategic investor for start-up 36 Management report » Research and innovation EnBW Report 2014 SM!GHT – the intelligent infrastructure Code_n (GFT Group) as strategic EnBW partner The SM!GHT team joined the innovation campus in July 2014 Under the motto of “Future Mobility”, the GFT Group in as the first project. In only four months, an innovative Stuttgart utilises Code_n SPACES to promote the networking contribution derived from modified street lighting was turned of selected start-ups with industrial partners and their into the modern infrastructure of a smart city – the city of resources, already existing initiatives and other stakeholders tomorrow. This innovative new technology involves intein education and politics. The establishment of a start-up gration of WLAN hardware in an existing street lighting post. southern axis in terms of innovation will be developed The official market launch will take place in April 2015. Pretogether with EnBW as a strategic partner. In addition, EnBW testing has already been conducted in Baden-Württemberg will be presenting innovative projects in the Code_n Hall at with a total of nine pilot municipalities. The multifunctional CeBIT 2015. post will be developed up to the serial production stage in the innovation campus in 2015. Focal areas and selected results Main thrusts for research and innovation Key issues Examples 2014 Decentralised generation Heating and electricity with Heating supply for private BrennstoffzellePlus contracting package customers fuel cells with innovative, low-maintenance technology Heating and electricity with Efficiency was further enhanced in cooperation with manufacturers in the case micro gas turbines of low-maintenance technology for customer power plants (businesses, local authorities) Bruchsal geothermal Continuous operation, development of know-how to support local authorities power station in the exploitation of their own geothermal energy resources Bioenergy efficiency Concepts for customers to increase their level of self-sufficiency in terms of supply based on biogas, sustainable provision of biogas and replacement of fossil fuel natural gas Hydrogen Exploitation and storage tested in EnBW fuelling station in Stuttgart, supply of fuel to public service buses Energy management Electromobility E-mobility solutions for companies, local authorities and suppliers from various research projects (roaming capability of charging plants and charging cards, billing included in test) Energy manager Simple and user-friendly solutions for consumption transparency and energy efficiency, including electricity storage Virtual power plant Boxberg pilot scheme Regional utilisation of surplus green electricity in 150 heat flow plants in Boxberg (northern Baden-Württemberg) and other regions, simultaneous stabilising of electricity grids Expenditure and personnel The EnBW Group spent €27.9 million (previous year: €26.7 million) on research and innovation in the 2014 financial year. EnBW received a government research grant of Expenditure for research and innovation in € million €3.1 million (previous year: €4.5 million). 38 people were employed in 2014 in the area of research and 0.4 (PY: 0.5) 0.3 (PY: 2.5) innovation (previous year: 37). This involves employees in Other Grids research, the development of new energy solutions and innovation management – supported by numerous students. 2.4 (PY: 5.1) Generation, conventional In addition, 131 employees were involved in research and development projects as part of their operational work. 3.3 (PY: 6.5) 11.9 (PY: 5.3) E-mobility and hydrogen 27.9 Generation, in total renewable 9.6 (PY: 6.8) Customers EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Procurement 37 Procurement Securing potential Enhancing efficiency during Following conclusion of the “Fokus” efficiency project and the cooperation with suppliers associated centralisation of the procurement organisation, the focus in 2014 was on securing and the further development of With a view to making EnBW’s procurement processes even more the potential developed and further intensification of efficient and transparent, we are developing an integrated cooperation with the specialist units. purchasing platform and working on the introduction of automated order processes. On the supplier front, this integrated It proved possible to further expedite development of valid purchasing platform encompasses standardised pre-qualification, product group strategies throughout the Group as a result of this participation in invitations to tender and the submitting of offers, cooperation. Additional savings were realised for the Group recording of services rendered and an efficient option for inforthrough the harmonisation of specifications and bundling of ming our suppliers of any changes. All processes can be accessed requirements based on strategic framework agreement partners. centrally by our business partners through ePortal.enbw.com. Operative and strategic procurement activities were compleAs part of the system launch, we will be rolling out the tendering mented by rigorous continuation of support for major projects platform implemented in the reporting year on a broad scale in and the opening up of new business areas from project idea to 2015. Our business partners will therefore be able to avail of an project conclusion by Project Procurement/Claims Manageefficient option for the electronic submission of offers and ment. Contract management and training of specialists were interaction with the Central Procurement Department. intensified to avoid contractual risks and reduce the level of retroactive claims from suppliers. Sustainable raw materials procureProcurement will continue to promote its positioning as a value-adding partner within the Group in 2015. We wish to ment using coal as an example make a continuing and measurable contribution to company success in cooperation with the specialist units. Origin of coal deliveries Hard coal will continue to play an important role in future at Sustainable procurement EnBW in ensuring a reliable and economic supply of electricity. Power station coal is procured from major trading companies Sustainable procurement begins with the careful selection of and coal producers, with 5.7 million t of coal being delivered to our business partners. EnBW has established a Group-wide, EnBW power stations in 2014. This corresponds to a standardised and optimised pre-qualification process in a procurement volume of €321 million. Coal was sourced from company-wide project coordinated by our Central Procureseven producing countries. Part of this originated from ment Department. Our prospective suppliers must undergo a Australia again for the first time since 2009. pre-qualification process in which they demonstrate sustainable measures which they take in the areas of data Origin of coal deliveries to EnBW in millions of tons protection, quality management, environmental management power plants as well as occupational health and safety, and how these are developed further. Centralised documenting of certifications enables us to ensure that all the necessary prerequisites are 0.1 (PY: 0.3) 0.1 (PY: 0.0) currently met for awarding a contract. Germany Australia 0.4 (PY: 0.8) Procurement at EnBW has pledged to ensure system-based USA documentation of pre-qualification by the end of 2015 0.5 (PY: 0.7) encompassing all significant suppliers and all product groups. Poland 2.1 (PY: 0.8) Over 660 suppliers already successfully passed pre-quali5.7 South Africa fication in 2014 during the start-up. 1.2 (PY: 2.0) in total Russia 1.3 (PY: 2.3) Columbia 38 Management report » Procurement EnBW Report 2014 EnBW places importance on maintaining a balanced proObservance of these principles will be agreed in future in our curement portfolio to avoid dependence on individual raw materials procurement contracts through the inclusion of producing countries, producers or traders. EnBW covers a larger appropriate contractual clauses. In addition to regular auditing part of its coal requirements through contracts with trade of the sustainability performance of business partners, a intermediaries which usually define quality standards but not multi-stage auditing process will come into force in the event where the coal originates from. The countries from which the of suspected breaches of the principles which can lead to coal deliveries originate only become apparent to us on termination of the business relationship or exclusion from delivery. In addition, direct business relationships exist with our procurement process. selected coal producers which were further intensified in 2014. You can access more information on coal procurement by Implementation of the rules of conduct EnBW on our website at www.enbw.com/kohlebeschaffung and in our Energiewende blog at www.dialog-energieImplementation of the rules of conduct is ensured through zukunft.de/infografik_kohle/. numerous measures. The sustainability index database for coal producers is currently being revised so that substantial Introduction of rules of conduct requirements and developments on the part of producers can be integrated more effectively in the decision-making process EnBW strives to structure the generation of electricity from of the CSR committee for sustainable raw materials procurehard coal in as sustainable a manner as possible across the ment. The CSR committee met on six occasions in 2014 to entire value chain. The rules of conduct governing the discuss all significant supplier companies on the basis of responsible procurement of hard coal and other raw existing knowledge and findings from the sustainability index. materials adopted by the EnBW Board of Management in July In addition, options for on-site involvement in Colombia, a 2014 form the basis for our activities ( www.enbw.com/ sourcing country, were the subject of intensive discussion and verhaltenskodex). a variety of options were debated. Moreover, responsibilities and process steps were defined in an implementation guide We have laid down the requirements to be met by suppliers which edited internal processes in a clear manner for all areas and business partners in these rules of conduct. EnBW expects involved in the CSR committee and simplified and clarified observance of the rules of conduct and respect of the consideration during decision-making. principles underlying these in all areas of their business activities, including their own business relationships. On-site involvement in Colombia Adherence to the rules of conduct will contribute to the improvement of the living and working conditions of people EnBW has gradually expanded its on-site activities in along the value chain and better management of legal, Colombia, one of the most important sourcing countries for operative and reputational risks associated with coal hard coal. For example, EnBW gained first-hand impressions of consumers and producers. The principles of these rules of mining and living conditions in the coal mining regions of conduct governing responsible business behaviour are based Cesar and La Guajira in March 2014 during a fact-finding on recognised international guidelines and standards for the mission which included members of the Board of Manageprotection of human rights, ensuring the rights of indigenous ment. It also held numerous discussions with producers and peoples, improving conditions for employees, environmental a variety of stakeholder groups. EnBW has established a protection and guaranteeing good corporate management presence in Colombia since June 2014 to intensify the dialogue and compliance. We expect our suppliers and business with stakeholders and examine further measures. The Board partners to acknowledge the standards defined in the rules of of Management decided in December 2014 that EnBW conduct and take measures to implement these. In particular, involvement in Colombia should be strengthened further the responsibility of companies to acknowledge and respect through technical offers. In addition, it was decided to conduct these standards according to the Guiding Principles on a fact-finding mission in the first half of 2015 together with Business and Human Rights of the United Nations applies to representatives of the political community and civil society. every company on an international level. This will enable the strengthening of core measures for business partner auditing and stakeholder management in a targeted manner through on-site involvement ( p. 32 f.). EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Economic and political environment 39 Business report Economic and political environment General conditions Economic environment A wide variety of external factors such as developments in the Macroeconomic trends macroeconomic, political and regulatory environments, as well as the market prices for primary energy sources, CO2 The global economy grew in 2014 by 3.3% which was on a level allowances and electricity, have a significant influence on the with the previous year. Economic growth in the industrialised business performance of EnBW. Demand from industry for countries accelerated a little; although the rate of economic electricity and gas is strongly influenced by phases of growth recovery was significantly slower than had been expected at and decline in the macroeconomic environment. In contrast, the beginning of the year. Numerous political disputes – prithe energy consumption of private households develops largemarily in the Middle East, Africa and the Ukraine – and their ly independent of the economy. In addition, gas sales depend negative economic effects had an adverse effect on growth. In heavily on weather conditions. contrast, a drastic fall in the price of crude oil in the second half of the year provided impetus for growth in the global economy. Political decisions at a European and national level – particularIn Germany, economic growth accelerated from 0.1% in 2013 to ly market and competition-based regulations – have an influ1.6% in 2014. The driving force for this growth was domestic ence on the energy sector. The sociopolitical will, for example, demand, led by private consumption. The number of people in to strengthen the area of climate protection or preserve natural employment reached a new high of 42.7 million, while gross resources, shapes the political and regulatory requirements wages and salaries increased noticeably and consumer prices and the extensive legislative intervention into the energy only increased at a moderate level. Other foreign economies sector. As a result, EnBW constantly faces new challenges, that are relevant for the business activities of EnBW also largely which it tackles with flexible and sustainable concepts. experienced positive economic growth. In terms of costs and income, market prices for fuel and CO2 Development of gross domestic product (GDP) allowances, as well as those on the electricity wholesale market, influence the business performance of EnBW: The key factors determining the variable costs of producing electricity in % 2013 2014 2015 in power plants are the prices of primary energy sources and CO2 allowances, which must be procured in the context of the World 3.3 3.3 3.5 European Emissions Trading System for the CO2 emissions Eurozone -0.5 0.8 1.2 generated during the production of electricity. Alongside fuel Germany 0.1 1.6 1.7 and CO2 prices, the continuous growth in the supply of renewable energies is a factor exerting an increasingly strong influAustria 0.2 0.3 0.7 ence on wholesale electricity prices, which are decisive for the Switzerland 2.0 1.6 1.8 profitability of the power plants operated by EnBW. EnBW Czech Republic -0.7 2.6 2.4 strives to reduce the uncertainty in the generation margin Turkey 4.1 3.5 3.5 that can arise as a result of price trends for primary sources of energy, CO2 allowances and electricity on the wholesale markets. The quantities of primary energy sources and CO2 allowIn 2015, the rate of growth in the global economy is expected ances required for generating electricity are thus procured in to increase slightly to 3.5%. The eurozone will benefit from the advance on the forward market. We sell the planned eleccontinued expansive monetary policy and the depreciation of tricity production on the forward market and through the the euro – as well as from lower oil prices. Economic growth in sales channels utilised by EnBW. Consequently, the terms and Germany is expected to be 1.7%. A further increase in private conditions of the supply contracts agreed upon in previous consumption should be increasingly accompanied by a years formed the basis for the costs and income in 2014. On recovery in the level of investment. A low rate of inflation and the other hand, the development of prices on the forward the continued favourable state of the job market round off this market in the 2014 financial year will impact earnings in folpositive situation. In the foreign markets important to EnBW, lowing periods. This relationship is also true on the sales side stable or improved macroeconomic conditions are also of the business for the quantities of electricity procured from expected. However concerning Switzerland, it remains to be the company on the forward market. seen to what extent the massive appreciation of the Swiss 40 Management report » Economic and political environment EnBW Report 2014 franc, after the cap on its value against the euro was previous year. In contrast, the electricity generated by hydroabandoned in January 2015, will have a dampening effect on power (without pumped storage) fell by 9%. According to ineconomic growth. formation from the German Association of Energy and Water Industries (BDEW), domestic electricity consumption in GerDemand for energy many fell by 3.8% from 599.4 billion kWh in the previous year to 576.3 billion kWh. According to preliminary calculations by the German Working Group on Energy Balances (Arbeitsgemeinschaft EnergiebilanGlobal energy consumption is set to increase by 41% between zen, AGEB), energy consumption in Germany in 2014 was down 2012 and 2035 according to the BP Energy Outlook 2035. While 4.8% on the previous year. The most important reason for this yearly growth rates during this period should reach an average fall in consumption was a lower demand for heating as a result level of 2.3% in the emerging and developing economies, enof the warm spring and mild winter. Despite a moderate level ergy consumption in industrial countries is set to virtually of economic growth, energy consumption adjusted for weather stagnate with a yearly growth of 0.2%. In Germany, primary conditions declined by around 1%. The consumption of mineral energy consumption and economic output have become oil in 2014 was 1.3% below the figure for the previous year. The largely decoupled in recent years. In the event of economic demand for heavy heating oil fell by 8% and for light heating oil growth in the medium and long term of 1% per year, a study in by 14%, while fuel consumption increased by 3%. Gas consumpJune 2014 commissioned by the German Federal Ministry for tion fell by 14.0%. This decrease was caused by lower gas usage Economic Affairs and Energy predicts a fall in primary energy for heating purposes and in combined heat and power consumption of 1.5% per year in the period between 2011 and plants, as well as by declining production levels in the chemical 2020 and 1.2% per year in the period between 2011 and 2050. raw materials industry. The consumption of hard coal deProductivity based on primary energy consumption will thus creased by 7.9%. This was primarily due to the lower use of hard increase significantly. The proportion of renewable energies in coal in power plants for generating electricity and heat. The primary energy consumption is estimated to rise from 10.8% consumption of brown coal, which is mainly used for generatin 2011 to 18.4% in 2020 and 34.5% by 2050. ing electricity, fell by 2.3% in 2014 because the electricity production from brown coal power plants decreased by around 3% Electricity generation and export as a consequence of the overhaul of a number of power plants. The share of nuclear energy in overall energy consumption fell According to the BDEW, electricity generation in Germany stood by a further 0.3%. This was in contrast to an increase of 1.4% in at 610.4 billion kWh in 2014, which was 3.6% below the level in the share accounted for by renewable energies. The proportion 2013 (633.2 billion kWh). In 2014, German electricity exports of renewable energy sources in primary energy consumption exceeded imports by around 34.1 billion kWh. The largest net increased to 11.1% (previous year: 10.4%). Electricity generated suppliers of electricity in 2014 were France and the Czech by photovoltaic power plants was almost 14% and by wind Republic; the highest export surpluses were primarily power a little more than 1% up on the respective figures in the attributable to the Netherlands, Switzerland, Austria and Poland. Gross electricity generation according to energy source 2014¹ in Germany in % 25.8 (PY: 24.1)² 0.2 (PY: 0.1) 18.0 (PY: 19.2) 9.6 (PY: 10.7) Wind power offshore Hard coal Natural gas 1.0 (PY: 0.9) 0.8 (PY: 1.1) Household waste³ Mineral oil products 3.4 (PY: 3.6) Hydroelectric power⁴ 5.8 (PY: 4.9) Photovoltaics 15.9 (PY: 15.4) Nuclear power 7.0 (PY: 6.5) Biomass 25.6 (PY: 25.4) 4.3 (PY: 4.1) Brown coal Other energy sources 8.4 (PY: 8.0) Wind power onshore Renewable energies 1 Preliminary data, partially estimated. 2 Deviation in the first decimal place due to rounding differences. 3 Only generation from the biogenic part of household waste (approximately 50%). Source: AGEB, 4 Generation in run-of-river / storage power plants, as well as generation from pumped storage power plants using the natural flow of water. As of: December 2014 EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Economic and political environment 41 Gas procurement to the generally good supply situation on the world market, high stock levels and rumours of imminent restrictions on Long-term procurement agreements form the basis of gas Chinese coal imports. imports to Germany. According to preliminary data from the BDEW, 38% of Germany's natural gas supply was sourced from The forward market prices are currently in contango and have Russia in 2013 (previous year: 33%), 20% from Norway thus pointed since the third quarter of 2014 to an expectation (previous year: 25%) and 26% from the Netherlands (previous of moderate increases in coal prices in the future. However, year: 26%). The share of domestic production in relation to this market expectation is subject to risk: The growth in detotal supply amounted to 10% in 2013 following 11% in the mand in important countries such as China and India is above previous year. As an alternative to transmission via pipelines, all dependent on the rate of growth in these economies. Furimporting liquefied natural gas (LNG) can open up access to ther devaluations of the currencies in emerging countries gas producing regions that are not linked by pipeline to the would also tend to have a negative effect on coal prices. AnEuropean market. This alternative means of procurement is other factor that could lead to falling prices are plans by the increasingly gaining importance as new import terminals go American and Chinese governments to reduce or limit the into operation. emissions caused by coal-fired power generation. Furthermore, demand from Japan will fall due to the gradual return to Price trends for primary sources of energy, the use of nuclear energy. Finally, a significantly higher price CO2 allowances and electricity for CO2 allowances in Europe due to backloading will result in a fall in demand and thus to lower prices for coal. The spot In the 2014 financial year, the average prices for oil, coal, gas price at the end of 2014 was US$66.89/t (previous year: and electricity on the spot market were below the level in US$82.59/t). The front year price stood at US$66.91/t (previous the previous year. The price for CO2 allowances in 2014 year: US$82.35/t). fluctuated significantly below the level in the previous year. Development of prices on the oil and coal markets Oil market: Oil prices (front month) fluctuated within a range of US$115/bbl to US$57/bbl in 2014. Despite the continuing geopolitical tensions, there was only lateral movement up to Average 2014 Average 2013 the middle of June within a relatively small range at around the same level as in the previous year. In the second half of Crude oil (Brent) front month 2014, oil prices fell significantly against the background of a (daily quotes in US$/bbl) 99.45 108.70 strongly appreciating US dollar, the subdued global economy Crude oil (Brent) annual price and the associated restrained growth in the demand for oil, front month (daily quotes in the abundant reserve capacities of OPEC and the considerable US$/bbl) 98.72 103.14 expansion of oil production in the USA. The gradual reversal of Coal – API #2 annual price front the expansive US monetary policy was also reflected in a year in US$/t 75.24 81.67 reduction of long positions held by speculative market participants. As a result, the price of oil fell strongly in the Gas market: Long-term gas import contracts form the primary second half of 2014. The decision by OPEC to nevertheless keep basis of Germany’s gas supply. Prices primarily track the oil production levels constant had an additional downward effect price trends with a time lag. The border price index for natural on prices. The average price of oil fell in 2014 to US$99.45/bbl, gas published monthly by the German Federal Office for Ecocompared to US$108.70/bbl in the previous year. The price nomic Affairs and Export Control (BAFA) stood at €23.52/MWh trend on the forward markets largely followed the price flucin November 2014, which was 13% below the December 2013 tuations on the spot market. As a result of the current overfigure (€27.03/MWh). The wholesale markets, such as the supply on the global oil market, forward market prices are Dutch Title Transfer Facility (TTF) and the trading point of the experiencing contango and point to the fact that market NetConnect Germany (NCG) market area, are other important participants expect higher oil prices again in the future. The sources of natural gas. front month price at the end of 2014 was US$57.33/bbl (previous year: US$110.80/bbl). The front year price stood at 2014 was the warmest year in Germany since records began, US$62.71 /bbl (previous year: US$102.88/bbl). The expectation which was reflected in a significantly lower consumption of of higher prices in the future reflected in the contango point gas. As a result, the average spot and forward prices on the TTF to the fact that market participants also anticipate a more fell significantly in 2014: In 2014, the average spot price stood equal balance between supply and demand in the future. €6.15/MWh below and the forward price for the 2015 calendar year €1.70/MWh below the prices in the previous year. FollowCoal market: The mild winter 2013/2014 in Europe and China, ing the warm winter, there were high gas storage levels in the devaluation of numerous currencies against the US dollar spring/summer 2014 and the demand from the gas storage in emerging economies and slower growth in the demand for market remained slow. In addition, the conflict in the Ukraine coal in China led to a drop in price on the spot market for coal led to a moderate risk premium on the spot and futures marin 2014. Tensions in the Ukraine and a slight increase in freight kets throughout spring/summer. Nevertheless, the average prices led to a moderate increase in prices at the beginning of forward price for deliveries in 2015 remained lower than the the third quarter, which was quickly corrected, however, due level in the previous year. 42 Management report » Economic and political environment EnBW Report 2014 Development of prices for natural gas on the Development of prices for emission allowances/ TTF (Dutch wholesale market) daily quotes in €/MWh Average 2014 Average 2013 in €/t CO2 Average 2014 Average 2013 Spot 20.88 27.06 EUA front year 5.96 4.69 Front year 24.36 26.58 CER front year 0.17 0.47 Market participants are expecting slightly higher prices over the Electricity wholesale market: In 2014, the average price of next few years on the gas market; gas prices between the 2016, €32.76/MWh for the immediate delivery of electricity ( base 2017 and 2018 calendar years are in contango. However, load product) on the spot market of the European Energy stable or falling prices are more likely in the short term as the Exchange (EEX) stood at around €5/MWh or 13% lower than gas storage facilities in Germany are well stocked. Moreover, the average price of €37.78/MWh in the previous year. Four further expansion in renewable energies will also induce a lower factors were primarily responsible for this development: a structural demand for gas in Europe, since such expansion will lower demand for electricity due to the weather in the first primarily reduce the periods when gas power plants are utilised. quarter, significantly higher feed-ins from wind and solar power sources of renewable energy, the commissioning of new CO2 allowances: Under the European Emissions Trading coal power plants and the lower prices for fuels – particularly System, proof must be provided of allowances for the amount short-term prices for coal – in the reporting period compared of CO2 emissions from power plants. After the price of to the same period in the previous year. emission allowances fell significantly during the course of 2013 due to the oversupply of these allowances, the prices for CO2 Forward market price trend of electricity (EEX) in €/MWh allowances ( EU Allowance – EUA) rose sharply during the Daily price quotations course of 2014 to over €6/t CO2 after the EU resolution on backloading. The mild winter, however, also had an effect on the market for CO2 allowances. Lower electricity consumption 55 and a tighter Clean Dark Spread led to reduced demand for EUAs. The average price for EUAs stood at €5.96/t CO2 in 2014, 50 which was around 27% above the average price for the same period in the previous year of €4.69/t CO2. In general, the price 45 of Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) trades largely in parallel with the price of the EUAs. As a result of the limited 40 validity of CERs in the EU Emissions Trading System, demand is, however, lower and prices are generally below those for 35 EUAs. CER prices have remained considerably below €1/t CO2 since the end of 2012 and reached a new record low of 30 €0.07/t CO2 in 2014. The future development of prices for CO2 allowances will be influenced mainly by the volumes of fossil fuels used and the resulting emissions, as well as by political Jan. Apr. July Oct. interventions into the market mechanism such as by limiting the supply through the introduction of a Market Stability Peak 2015 Reserve (MSR). On the demand side, there is currently no Base 2015 Source: EEX indication of a significant increase in the use of fossil fuels. Any developments in the supply of these allowances is dependent, amongst other things, on when and to what extent Forward market prices for electricity for 2015 and 2016 at the a Market Stability Reserve is introduced. end of 2014 stood at €33.44/MWh and €32.87/MWh, respectively – compared to an average spot price in 2014 of €32.76/MWh. This forms the basis for the expectation that there will be roughly comparable earnings from the sale of electricity in later years. On the supply side, this expectation is supported, on the one hand, by an expectation of slightly higher coal prices in the future and, on the other hand, by the expansion of renewable energies and the commissioning of new conventional power plants. An increased demand for electricity due to economic developments – especially from industry – is only expected to have a minor effect on the stabilisation of electricity prices. EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Economic and political environment 43 Clean Dark Spreads (base) in €/MWh Average electricity price in ct / kWh for a 3-person household (annual consumption of 3,500 kWh) 8 29.14 28.84 6 2.05 2.05 4 6.24 5.28 1.66 1.66 2 4.65 4.60 6.64 6.63 Jan. Apr. July Oct. 7.38 7.91 2015 2016 2017 Standard power plant, degree of efficiency 36% 2014 2013 The energy generation spreads ( Clean Dark Spreads – CDS) Procurement, sales VAT Other allocations Network user charges inFranchise fees Electricity tax for standard coal power plants resulting from the forward cluding measurement, billing, EEG cost allocations¹ prices for electricity, coal and CO2 – based on an efficiency metering station operation level of 36% – indicated a period of backwardation with an 1 Use of the German Compensation Mechanism Source: BDEW, annual average of €5.77/MWh for the 2015 delivery year and Ordinance (AusglMechV) since 2010. As of: October 2014 only €2.79/MWh for the 2017 delivery year. Therefore, the CDS in the reporting period for the 2015 delivery year was slightly above the average value for 2013. In contrast, the CDS for the Political and regulatory environment 2016 and 2017 delivery years was below the level in the previous year; the decrease was particularly high for the 2017 European energy policy delivery year at around 40%. The new EU Commission under Commission President JeanElectricity and gas prices for retail and industrial Claude Juncker officially started its term of office on 1 Novemcustomers ber 2014. The newly merged department of Energy and Climate Action, headed by Energy Commissioner Miguel Arias According to an analysis of electricity prices by the German Cañete from Spain, is responsible for energy policy. The ViceAssociation of Energy and Water Industries (BDEW) published President for Energy Union, Maroš Šef ovi from Slovakia, has in December 2014, the average monthly electricity bill for a the task of ensuring the European energy policy is coordinated household with an annual consumption of 3,500 kWh in 2014 with other policy areas. One of the main focuses here is to came to €84.99 compared to €84.13 in the previous year. Taxes improve the external security of supply. In an analysis of the and levies accounted for more than half of this amount. As a situation regarding security of supply, a gas stress test demonresult of lower procurement costs, EnBW was able to keep strated that an interruption to supply would have a serious electricity and gas prices relatively stable for most customers impact, which could however be significantly reduced using in 2014. Heat transfer applications were an exception and cooperation mechanisms between the member states. prices rose in this area by between 2.1% and 2.4% at the turn of the year 2013/2014. European Internal Energy Market: The EU Commission published state aid guidelines at the beginning of April 2014. In the case of industrial customers receiving a medium-volFor Germany, this did not require any additional amendments tage supply, the average electricity price including electricity to the German Renewable Energies Act (EEG) above and taxes increased according to calculations made by the BDEW beyond the reform already intended. Any concerns held by the by 1.1%, from 15.11 ct/kWh in the previous year to 15.28 ct/kWh European Commission that imported green electricity would in 2014. be burdened by the EEG cost allocation system without at the same time benefiting from any financial support offered According to calculations by the German Federal Statistical by the EEG were allayed. In return, the European Commission Office, natural gas prices for private households in 2014 rose by approved the EEG 2014. The European Commission has also 2.6% compared to the value in the previous year; in contrast, now ended the state aid proceedings initiated in December the price of natural gas for industrial customers fell by 4.6%. 2013 against the EEG 2012. The commission regards it as state 44 Management report » Economic and political environment EnBW Report 2014 aid but aid that has been approved. The informal agreement Financial services legislation: The legislative procedure for reached calls only for small, symbolic sums to be repaid. the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID 2) was concluded in the first half of 2014. It was possible to agree The new European Commission is expected to issue a statesome positive fundamental provisions here, particularly in ment on the retail energy market and the future role of distriterms of exemptions for the energy sector, although they still bution grid operators in the second quarter of 2015. It will need to be specified in more detail in the subsequent legislaprobably focus on necessary changes to the existing design of tive process. Another central issue is the still outstanding the market and regulatory requirements, such as the ongoing question of when electricity and gas transactions are to be debate in Germany about the capacity markets. classified as financial instruments. This will have a significant impact on both the scope of the MiFID and on the regulation Energy and climate strategy: At the end of February 2015, the governing the trading of OTC derivatives (EMIR), as well as European Commission will present its energy and climate on the ordinance governing energy market integrity and policy goals including a concrete plan of action for the next transparency (REMIT). A number of legislative processes are few years. Special focus will be placed on the security of supply still also ongoing here to define how this regulation will be and external energy policy and also on the actual impleimplemented in law, particularly when it comes to reporting mentation and broadening of the rules within the internal obligations, which will have a significant impact both on costs market, improvements to energy efficiency and the expansion and business operations. of renewable energies. Nuclear liability and insurance: A non-legislative statement Framework for climate and energy policy 2030: The agreement on liability and off-site emergency preparedness in the nuclear reached at the summit meeting on 23/24 October 2014 by the EU sector is expected in the first quarter of 2015. The objective heads of state and government on the climate and energy policy is to introduce European-wide standards in both fields. is extremely welcome in the view of EnBW, particularly the Depending on the standards agreed, this could change the agreement on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within liability and insurance costs for EnBW. the EU by at least 40%. However, it will only be possible to evaluate the effects of the detailed arrangements in the agreements German energy policy made to satisfy the demands of industry and above all the Eastern European states once they take concrete form. The target for Energiewende/amendment to the German Renewable Energies the expansion of renewable energies at an EU-wide level is disapAct (EEG): The amended EEG came into force on 1 August pointing at only 27%. Despite the binding nature of this target, 2014. It includes improved control of volumes generated for the EnBW nevertheless considers it to be insufficient to guarantee further expansion of renewable energies and prepares the way that all member states contribute reliably and with equal effort. for changing the method of funding for renewable energies to an In addition, a non-binding target of an increase in energy effiauction system by 2017 at the latest. Some initial experience with ciency of at least 27% with a possible increase to 30% after a rethe system will be gained during a pilot auction for open-field view in 2020, as well as increased efforts to expand cross-border photovoltaic plants. The corresponding ordinance was agreed by interconnection capacities between member states, were agreed. the German Federal Cabinet on 28 January 2015. It stipulates that However, the policy will continue to be reviewed, particularly in the German Federal Network Agency will carry out the first auclight of the results of the United Nations Climate Change Confertions on 15 April 2015. EnBW was involved in the preceding conence in Paris at the end of 2015. Concrete legislative proposals for sultation process and plans to participate in the auction. the implementation of the 2030 strategy will not follow until 2015 or 2016. Reserve power plants: As a result of the general economic conditions, conventional power plants are being increasingly Emissions Trading System: The proposed amendment to the forced into becoming permanently unprofitable and must Emissions Trading Directive, which was already negotiated durtherefore be gradually decommissioned. In order to prevent ing the legislative procedure, to include the introduction of a the closure of system-relevant power plants, the law intends to Market Stability Reserve (MSR) is generally to be welcomed. In obligate operators to maintain the operational readiness of order to provide substantial support for emissions trading in the these facilities as reserve power plants. In this context, the short term, however, the complete removal of at least 1.4 billion power plant operator has a right to be reasonably reimbursed emission allowances would be required in the view of EnBW, for the costs that arise as a result of this obligation. For power or at the very least – as also called for by the German government plant operators, the reimbursement of the full costs, including and a growing number of member states – the early introduction the returns on their invested capital, will be necessary because of the MSR with the immediate adoption of the reduced quantity the financial burden will soon become unsustainable for of allowances as a result of backloading. However, the outcompanies in the sector. EnBW will be unable to make further come of this process, which is not anticipated to end before the investment decisions until there is sufficient confidence about summer of 2015 at the earliest, cannot yet be predicted despite future energy policy conditions. the positive signs in terms of the position held by EnBW. In order to prepare for a further reform of the Emissions Trading DiDesign of the electricity market: The German government rective for implementing the 2030 strategy, the European Compublished a “Green Book” of proposals for the future design of mission already initiated a consultation on the subject in the the electricity market at the end of October 2014. It contains middle of December 2014. various options for the future design of the electricity market. EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Economic and political environment 45 The public consultation will then be followed by a white paper expansion of the building renovation programme, the introin May 2015 that will contain concrete legislative proposals. duction of an energy-efficient tendering model (with the focus The German government has made it clear that they will in on electricity) and the expansion of the guarantee provisions any case reform the Energy-only-Market (EOM 2.0) and for contracting agreements. introduce a capacity reserve. More detailed questions are still to be clarified. This is welcomed by EnBW. There is currently Basic Supply Ordinances for Electricity and Gas (StromGVV, no need for a complete reorientation of the design of the GasGVV): The Basic Supply Ordinances for Electricity and Gas market in the sense of introducing capacity markets. We view came into force on 30 October 2014. Despite the large number the introduction of a reserve and the reform of the EOM as a of grids, the current version of the reform means that EnBW low risk and inexpensive option for continuing to ensure a will still just about be able to implement these new, extended secure supply by strengthening market forces. requirements for transparency in practice without any significant additional costs. Ultimate storage: A government/federal state commission has continued its work on the selection of sites. Criteria for an Renewable Energy Heating Law for Baden-Württemberg ultimate storage site for highly radioactive waste are due to be (EWärmeG BW): The Council of Ministers approved the reform of defined on the basis of the Site Selection Act by 2016. In addEWärmeG BW in the German Federal Cabinet on 9 December ition, transports from the reprocessing plants to the Gorleben 2014. The parliamentary procedure for EWärmeG is due to be interim storage site are to be discontinued. Therefore, the concluded during the first half of 2015. The law is due to come German government has reached an agreement with France into force on 1 July 2015. The inclusion of non-residential builthat the return of the waste stored at the La Hague reprodings, an increased level of openness for technology and the cessing plant will not take place before 2016. integration of an individual renovation schedule into the law could additionally promote some of the business models Climate Protection Action Programme 2020: The Climate Propursued by EnBW. tection Action Programme was approved by the German Federal Cabinet on 3 December 2014. It envisages, amongst other things, Increase to the water extraction charge (WEE BW) in Badenfurther reductions in CO2 emissions from conventional power Württemberg: The two-stage increase to the WEE BW was plants to the amount of 22 million tonnes of CO2 by 2020. A law, approved by the state parliament of Baden-Württemberg on whose key points will be presented in the first half of 2015, is 12 December 2014 as part of a law accompanying the state expected to finalise the details – with its content linked to the budget. The State of Baden-Württemberg intends to use the decisions being made about the future design of the electricity money raised in order to finance measures in the area of flood market. Without this action programme, Germany is in danger protection. The water extraction charges will be increased on of missing its national greenhouse gas reduction target of 40% 1 January 2015 for public water supplies and on 1 January 2019 by 2020 (compared to the reference year of 1990), according to a for, amongst other things, the extraction of water for cooling projection report commissioned by the German government, purposes. In addition to the law accompanying the state and will only achieve a figure of between 32 and 35%. This shortbudget, the state parliament decided that the state governfall is to be plugged by a programme of measures to be applied ment will assess the second stage of the increase to the WEE across the energy sector. The largest contribution will be made BW in good time before 2019 to take into account the general by energy-efficiency measures. EnBW welcomes this initiative conditions in the energy industry at that time. but nevertheless supports above all the idea of exploiting the untapped potential for reducing greenhouse gases outside of Regulation of the electricity and gas markets the ETS sector (Emission Trading System): Alongside a rapid and ambitious reform of the ETS, EnBW believes that increasing Network charges for electricity: The second regulatory period the electrification of heating and mobility, in combination with began on 1 January 2014. As a result of the still outstanding settlestrong incentives for energy conservation, is key to achieving ment of the regulatory account, not all of the electricity distriGermany’s climate protection goals. bution system operators have received their final notification on the upper revenue limits from the German Federal Network National Energy Efficiency Action Plan: The German governAgency (BNetzA). Therefore, there may still be slight differences ment adopted a National Energy Efficiency Action Plan on between the preliminary and the final upper revenue limits. 3 December 2014. It will be used to implement central requirements of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive to improve energy Electricity Network Development Plan (NDP) 2014/2015, efficiency in Germany, as well as for the achievement of the Offshore Network Development Plan ( O-NDP) 2014/2015 and German efficiency targets (20% less primary energy consumpthe Federal Requirements Plan: The network development tion by 2020 in comparison to 2008). The main focus of this plans describe the necessary expansion of the electricity grids action plan will lie in reducing final energy consumption, parand the expansion plans for the connection lines for the ticularly in the heating sector. Furthermore, the German govoffshore wind farms in the North Sea and the Baltic Sea in the ernment plans to introduce other initiatives to stimulate the coming 10 and 20 years, respectively. These plans are created on market for energy services. The key measures in the action an annual basis by the four German transmission system programme include, in particular, tax incentives for the renooperators (TSO). Considering the views of the interested general vation of buildings to make them more energy efficient, an public is a integral part of this process. 46 Management report » Economic and political environment EnBW Report 2014 The current draft version of NDP Electricity 2014 takes into Smart metering systems: The introduction of smart metering account the new version of the Renewable Energies Act ( EEG) systems is anchored in law in Germany. A cost-benefit analysis that has been in force since August 2014. On this basis and carried out by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs according to calculations made by the TSO, there is a and Energy (BMWi) calls for the installation of smart metering requirement for 3,800 km of new transmission routes and for systems in certain cases. The details are due to be finalised in the the reinforcement of around 5,300 km of existing routes. In the form of a package of ordinances. As part of this package of process, the great necessity for the transmission of electricity ordinances, the EU notification procedure for the metering between north and south Germany should be fulfilled through system ordinance was concluded in the autumn of 2013. There high-voltage direct-current transmission lines (HVDC) or have been no further draft ordinances presented by the BMWi direct-current lines (DC). Our grid subsidiary TransnetBW is for discussion since then. The BMWi currently plans to present responsible for the optimisation and expansion of the highthe ordinances to the German Federal Cabinet in April 2015 and voltage grids in Baden-Württemberg and is involved, for for them to be read in the German Bundesrat in June 2015. example, in the HVDC projects ULTRANET and SuedLink. Therefore, the package of ordinances is not expected to be made law until the third quarter of 2015 at the earliest. The expansion requirements for the offshore grid are dependent on the predicted additional output from wind power plants at sea. According to the draft O-NDP 2014, the requireDevelopment of the sector and the ment is between 1,055 km and 2,555 km. competitive situation The draft NDP and O-NDP developed by the TSO will be examined by the BNetzA and are subject to a new public consultation. The energy sector is undergoing a period of radical change. In The assessment by the authorities is not, however, expected Germany, the Energiewende is fundamentally changing the before February 2015. A new Federal Requirements Plan must be political and regulatory conditions, while the structure of the drafted by the BNetzA at the latest on the basis of the NDP 2015 market and the competition are in a state of flux. In the area of and the O-NDP 2015. The associated framework scenario, which generation, the rise in renewable energies is reshaping the acts as the foundations for these network development plans, energy landscape. On the sales side, competition in business was confirmed by BNetzA on 19 December 2014. with private and industrial customers remains acute in both the electricity and gas sectors: The number of suppliers from Network Development Plan (NDP) Gas 2014/2015: In April outside the sector is increasing and customers have a very high 2014, the German transmission system operators (FNB) level of price sensitivity. Many cities and communities are also submitted to the BNetzA the draft of the NDP Gas 2014, which pursuing the re-municipalisation of their electricity, gas and envisages in total more than 50 measures for the expansion of water supplies. In this challenging environment, companies in the national gas infrastructure over the next ten years. The the sector need to review their business models and orientate volume of investment for the planned expansion comes to themselves to the new market conditions ( p. 14 f. and 20). around €1.8 billion up to 2019, and will rise to a total of €3.1 billion by 2024. In particular, major expansion measures The competitive environment in the B2C sector is dominated are planned in the south-east and north-west of Germany. The by companies such as Vattenfall Europe, E.ON Bayern and authorities listened to the opinions of all current and potential Süwag Energie, discounters such as Extraenergie, Eprimo or users of the network on the plan and approved it on Stromio, as well as a large number of public utilities. In 17 November 2014 complete with a relevant request for a addition, we are more strongly engaged in competition with change. This obligates the FNB to remove 5 of the 56 companies that do not belong to the traditional energy supply previously proposed network expansion measures from the companies, such as Deutsche Telekom. NDP Gas 2014 because the assumed increases in consumption were not plausible in the view of the authorities. The largest competitors in the B2B sector are E.ON, RWE and Vattenfall including their subsidiaries, as well as regional The process for compiling the NDP 2015 began in July 2014 with suppliers, redistributors and public utilities. Furthermore, the publication of the framework scenario on which it is based. international companies such as GDF Suez, Enovos, Shell, Total In November 2014, the BNetzA confirmed the basic scenarios and Wingas also operate nationwide. The already fierce they received together with a request for changes. The changes competition is further intensified by solution-based products call for the development of criteria for a method to model temsuch as energy advisory services or contracting. Moreover, perature-dependent fixed capacities for storage tanks and for competition for prestigious customers is also very dynamically changing capacities for power plants. In addition, it pronounced. Decentralised energy systems are considered to should be highlighted in this context that a variant should also be the most important market in the field of energy services, be used to model the requirements of the downstream grids, in closely followed by measures to enhance energy efficiency. contrast to the proposals of the transmission system operators, The areas of “Smart World” and “Electromobility” offer which is based on the plausible long-term forecasts of the distrigreat potential in the medium term. Owing to enormous bution system operators. A first draft of the NDP 2015 based on differentiation possibilities in conventional business fields, the scenarios is expected from the FNB in February 2015. competition is tough in this strongly fragmented market. EnBW Report 2014 Management report » The EnBW Group 47 The EnBW Group Financial and strategic performance indicators Results of operations Trading activities drive electricity and gas sales Electricity sales by the EnBW Group in billions Sales Grids Renewable Generation and Total Change of kWh Energies Trading in % 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Retail and commercial customers (B2C) 15.8 17.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 15.8 17.2 -8.1 Business and industrial customers (B2B) 31.2 33.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 2.2 31.2 36.3 -14.0 Trade 0.6 0.6 12.1 12.8 4.0 3.6 74.5 57.5 91.2 74.5 22.4 Total 47.6 51.7 12.1 12.8 4.0 3.8 74.5 59.7 138.2 128.0 8.0 As a result of higher trading volumes, the electricity sales of decline. The cause of this fall in sales was primarily the mild the EnBW Group in the 2014 financial year were higher than temperatures in the spring and winter of 2014, as well as the the value achieved in the previous year. The effects of this persistently challenging competitive environment and increase in sales in the trading sector on the earnings potential growing levels of energy efficiency. Due particularly to the of the company are however limited. The sales volumes in unforeseeable mild weather conditions, the fall in sales in both both business with retail and commercial customers (B2C) and sectors was greater then expected (forecast 2014: 0% to -5%). with business and industrial customers (B2B) continued to Gas sales of the EnBW Group in billions of kWh Sales Generation and Trading Total Change in % 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Retail and commercial customers (B2C) 8.7 10.1 0.0 0.0 8.7 10.1 -13.9 Business and industrial customers (B2B) 62.4 57.6 0.0 0.0 62.4 57.6 8.3 Trade 0.7 0.9 44.7 31.4 45.4 32.3 40.6 Total 71.8 68.6 44.7 31.4 116.5 100.0 16.5 48 Management report » The EnBW Group EnBW Report 2014 The gas sales of the EnBW Group increased significantly business with private customers, the sales volumes fell in compared to the previous year. The expansion of the contrast to our forecast (forecast 2014: 0% to +5%). These sales company's trading activities and higher sales to business and were especially affected by the higher average temperatures in industrial customers contributed to this increase. In the B2B spring and winter compared to the previous year. After sector, it was possible to particularly increase sales to large adjustments for temperature, B2C sales were higher than in redistributors. Overall, business in the B2B sector developed in the previous year and thus in line with our forecast. line with our expectations (forecast 2014: +5% to +10%). In External revenue increased due to growth in trading activities and higher EEG revenue External revenue of the EnBW Group by segment in € million1, 2 2014 2013 Change in % Sales 9,066.8 9,568.4 -5.2 Grids 6,230.5 5,707.6 9.2 Renewable Energies 407.4 372.3 9.4 Generation and Trading 5,290.1 4,888.3 8.2 Other/Consolidation 7.7 8.2 -6.1 Total 21,002.5 20,544.8 2.2 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 2 After deduction of electricity and energy taxes. Sales: The fall in revenue in the Sales segment was especially a write-up on the same investment had resulted in a positive due to the lower sales volumes for electricity. effect in the previous year. The improvement in the financial result by €317.6 million to €-635.4 million was mainly Grids: Revenue in the Grids segment grew significantly mainly contributed to by lower ongoing interest expenses for pension as a result of higher EEG revenues. provisions and lower interest expenses for the payment of tax arrears in comparison to the previous year. Furthermore, there Renewable Energies: The increase in revenue in this segment were lower interest expenses from an adjustment to the interest was due, on the one hand, to the sale of two solar parks that rate for provisions relating to nuclear power compared to the had been planned and constructed by EnBW. In addition, the previous year. While the interest rate fell from 5.4% to 5.0% in the increase in sales also had a positive effect. previous year, the adjustment in the reporting period was only 0.2 percentage points (from 5.0% to 4.8%). Earnings before tax Generation and Trading: In the Generation and Trading segment, (EBT) fell overall in comparison to the figure from the previous revenue increased principally as a consequence of growth in year from €170.7 million by €780.4 million to €609.7 million. trading activities in the electricity and gas businesses. You can find the complete consolidated financial statements at www.enbw.com/report2014-downloads. Material developments in the income statement The positive balance from other operating income and other Earnings fall significantly operating expenses stood at €173.2 million in the 2014 financial The Group net loss attributable to EnBW AG shareholders for year in comparison to the level achieved in the previous year of the 2014 financial year was €450.7 million, compared with a €12.9 million. This was primarily due to a write-up on generation Group net profit of €51.0 million in the previous year. Earnings facilities in the second half of 2014, caused predominantly by the per share for 2014 stood at €-1.66 (previous year: €0.19). development of market interest rates. An increase in the cost of materials by 2.5% to €17,511.7 million was mainly due to an Adjusted earnings and non-operating result increase in Group revenue. In addition, these items included The sustainable profitability of operating activities is of increased provisions for onerous contracts for long-term particular importance for the internal management and electricity procurement agreements in comparison to the external communication of the current and future earnings previous year. The significant increase in write-downs from potential of EnBW. The operating result is disclosed in the €975.6 million in the previous year to €2,137.2 million in the form of adjusted EBITDA – earnings before interest, tax, reporting year was primarily the result of impairment losses on depreciation and amortisation and adjusted for extraordinary the generation portfolio in the first half of 2014. The investment items – which we use as a key reporting indicator. The extraresult of €25.6 million was primarily influenced by a write-down ordinary items are presented and explained in the section on our associated company in Turkey in the reporting year, after “Non-operating result”. EnBW Report 2014 Management report » The EnBW Group 49 Adjusted EBITDA and the share of the adjusted EBITDA accounted for by the segments Adjusted EBITDA of the EnBW Group by segment in € million1 2014 2013 Change Forecast in % 2014 Sales 230.6 227.1 1.5 +10% to +20% Grids 886.3 961.8 -7.8 -5% to -15% Renewable Energies 191.4 220.2 -13.1 -5% to -15% Generation and Trading 899.5 839.0 7.2 0% to -5% Other/Consolidation -40.4 -23.4 -72.6 – Total 2,167.4 2,224.7 -2.6 0% to -5% 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. Share of the adjusted EBITDA accounted for by the segments conditions, and the associated declining income from the use in the EnBW Group of the grid, had a negative effect on the result. However, this was offset by positive earnings effects due to lower prices for operating reserves and transmission losses. Accordingly, in % 2014 2013 the share of the adjusted EBITDA for the Group accounted for by this segment fell. Sales 10.6 10.2 Grids 40.9 43.2 Renewable Energies: Contrary to our original forecast (+5% to +15%), the adjusted EBITDA for the Renewable Energies segment Renewable Energies 8.8 9.9 in 2014 was below the level in the previous year, although still in Generation and Trading 41.5 37.7 line with our revised forecast made during the year. The revised Other/Consolidation -1.8 -1.0 forecast was mainly due to the delay in ramping up our offshore Total 100.0 100.0 wind farm EnBW Baltic 2, which will only start operating in 2015. In comparison to the previous year, lower electricity generation and lower electricity prices had a predominantly negative effect The adjusted EBITDA for the EnBW Group fell slightly in the on the earnings of our run-of-river power plants. These effects 2014 financial year in line with our expectations. had an impact on the share of the adjusted EBITDA for the Group accounted for by this segment, which fell in comparison Sales: The adjusted EBITDA for the Sales segment stood to the previous year. slightly above the level in the previous year but was lower than forecast. The positive development in the area of Generation and Trading: In the Generation and Trading electricity sales resulted from optimisation measures in the segment, the adjusted EBITDA improved compared to the customer portfolio as part of the implementation of the EnBW previous year against our expectations. It was possible to 2020 strategy, as well as from cost-efficiency measures. In compensate for the lower base prices in electricity contrast, the result for gas sales was below the level for the production from nuclear power and brown coal power plants previous year due to the exceptionally mild winter. In due to the following positive effects: addition, our expected earnings from the increased marketing of decentralised solutions did not materialise, particularly in › The commissioning of RDK 8 with a significant rise in the last quarter of 2014. These effects were also the reason why efficiency made it possible – despite the falling Clean we were not able to achieve our forecast. The segment's share Dark Spread on the market – to improve the margins in of the adjusted EBITDA for the Group increased slightly in comparison to the previous year comparison to the previous year. › The reimbursement of costs in the second half of 2014 as part of the reserve power plant legislation Grids: In the Grids segment, the adjusted EBITDA fell › The absence of the extraordinary upgrading measures for compared to the previous year as expected. This was due, on French nuclear power plants from the previous year the one hand, to the start of the second regulatory period, › The significantly higher earnings effects from efficiency which resulted in the discontinuation of extraordinary items measures in comparison to those forecast from the first regulatory period in the distribution grid that had a positive effect in the previous year. In addition, lower As a result, the share of the adjusted EBITDA for the Group distribution volumes in the gas business due to weather accounted for by this segment increased. 50 Management report » The EnBW Group EnBW Report 2014 Adjusted earnings indicators Adjusted earnings indicators of the EnBW Group in € million1 2014 2013 Change in % Adjusted EBITDA 2,167.4 2,224.7 -2.6 Amortisation and depreciation -876.9 -885.2 -0.9 Adjusted EBIT 1,290.5 1,339.5 -3.7 Adjusted investment result 73.4 118.2 -37.9 Adjusted financial result -542.8 -681.7 20.4 Adjusted income taxes -251.7 -214.5 -17.3 Adjusted Group net profit 569.4 561.5 1.4 of which profit/loss shares attributable to non-controlling interests (90.0) (99.2) -9.3 of which profit/loss shares attributable to the equity holders of EnBW AG (479.4) (462.3) 3.7 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. This decline in the adjusted investment result is primarily due to interest expenses for the payment of tax arrears in comparison the transfer of shares in associated companies into a Contractual to the previous year and higher earnings from the sale of Trust Arrangement (CTA) at the end of 2013. The shortfall in the securities in the reporting period. The adjusted tax rate adjusted financial result was less than in the previous year. The amounted to 30.7% in the reporting period, compared with 27.6% reason for this change was primarily lower interest expenses for in the previous year. ongoing pension provisions in the reporting period, lower Non-operating result burdened by unscheduled write-downs Non-operating result of the EnBW Group in € million1 2014 2013 Change in % Income/expenses relating to nuclear power -30.1 -119.4 74.8 Income from the release of other provisions 36.4 126.3 -71.2 Result from divestitures 96.3 34.6 – Addition to the provision for onerous contracts relating to electricity procurement agreements -433.6 -211.0 -105.5 Earnings from write-ups 350.3 0.4 – Restructuring -45.0 -13.7 – Other non-operating result -4.4 -42.2 89.6 Non-operating EBITDA -30.1 -225.0 86.6 Unscheduled write-downs -1,260.3 -90.4 – Non-operating EBIT -1,290.4 -315.4 – Non-operating investment result -47.8 -18.6 – Non-operating financial result -92.6 -271.3 65.9 Non-operating income taxes 473.8 166.1 – Non-operating Group net loss -957.0 -439.2 -117.9 of which profit/loss shares attributable to non-controlling interests (-26.9) (-27.9) 3.6 of which profit/loss shares attributable to the equity holders of EnBW AG (-930.1) (-411.3) -126.1 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. EnBW Report 2014 Management report » The EnBW Group 51 The improvement in the non-operating EBITDA was primarily Another important aspect of financial management is to due to write-ups on the generation portfolio resulting from manage financial assets ( asset management) in order to the market interest rates. In addition, expenses in the area of cover the corresponding obligations to make provisions. nuclear power fell in the reporting period; the approval of the German Site Selection Act had led to an increase in the Treasury previous year. The result from divestitures included, amongst The treasury controls all processes in all business entities that other things, earnings from the sale of the electricity and gas are consolidated in full, or with which EnBW AG has a profit networks to the state capital of Stuttgart as part of the reand loss transfer agreement. Liquidity management is based on municipalisation in the reporting year. This was offset by a rolling liquidity planning system and applies within the scope higher provisions for onerous contracts for long-term of validity defined above. The treasury is also responsible for electricity procurement agreements which no longer cover the central management of credit lines and bank guarantees, costs in comparison to the previous year. The increase in the issuing of guarantees and letters of comfort, as well as restructuring expenses of €31.3 million was related to the interest rate risk and currency management. “Fokus” programme and phased retirement arrangements in the Group. The increase in unscheduled write-downs of Interest rate risk and currency management €1,169.9 million in comparison to the previous year was Interest rate risk and currency management involves the primarily attributable to the generation portfolio, whose management and monitoring of interest-bearing and interestcarrying amount had to be adjusted due to considerably sensitive assets and liabilities. The consolidated entities worsening expectations regarding long-term electricity price regularly report on the existing risk position via the rolling developments. The non-operating investment result for the liquidity planning system. An interest rate risk strategy is reporting year primarily contained write-downs on the project devised based on an analysis conducted every quarter on an planning costs for an investment in a foreign operation. The aggregated basis. The purpose is to limit the impact of non-operating financial result in the 2014 financial year was fluctuations in interest rates and interest rate risks on the primarily influenced by the adjustment to the discounting results of operations and net assets. rate for nuclear power provisions from 5.0% to 4.8% to the amount of €141.2 million; the higher burden in the previous The interest rates on the financial liabilities of the EnBW year was the result of the reduction in the discounting rate Group are predominantly fixed. Through interest derivatives, from 5.4% to 5.0%. The tax relief from non-operating income the relationship between fixed and variable interest rates is taxes in comparison to the previous year stood at €307.7 able to change within predefined limits. This can have an million, which was primarily related to write-downs on the effect on the interest result of EnBW. The risk potential is generation portfolio. Overall, the non-operating Group net determined on the basis of current interest rates and potential loss attributable to the shareholders of EnBW AG increased by changes in these interest rates. €518.8 million compared to the previous year. Generally, currency positions resulting from operations are Financial position closed by appropriate forward exchange contracts. Overall, currency fluctuations from operating activities do not have Financial management of EnBW any major effect on the operating result of EnBW. Any foreign Basis and objectives exchange risks are monitored on a case-by-case basis within Financial management is responsible for securing the existing the framework of the currency management system. financial assets of the EnBW Group and their development, as well as for guaranteeing a sufficient level of liquidity reserves. Asset management This ensures that the Group is able to meet its payment Our aim is to cover the Group’s non-current pension and obligations at all times without restriction. The financial nuclear power provisions within an economically feasible transactions permitted by the Board of Management of EnBW, period of time by means of appropriate financial assets. EnBW and the specified scope within which they may be carried out, uses a model based on cash flows to determine the effects on define the treasury guidelines of the EnBW Group. The the balance sheet, income statement and cash flow statement guidelines are applicable to all business entities that are either over the next 30 years. This takes into account actuarial consolidated in full or with which EnBW AG has a profit and valuations of pension provisions and external expert reports loss transfer agreement. The guidelines also act as basic on nuclear power provisions. This model also allows principles for all other business entities. The centralised simulations of various alternative scenarios. financial management system serves to minimise risks, provide transparency and optimise costs. We strive to reach the defined investment targets with minimum risk. We also continued our efforts to optimise the In the operating business, derivatives are generally deployed risk/return profile of the financial assets throughout 2014. Cash for hedging purposes only: for example, for forward contracts and cash equivalents are transferred from the bonds issued to in electricity trading, or in trading with primary energy sources. the cover funds. The investment volume as of 31 December 2014 This also applies for foreign exchange and interest rate totalled approximately €9 billion (previous year: €6.7 billion) derivatives. Propriety trading is only permitted within narrow, and falls into nine asset classes. The financial assets are bundled clearly defined limits. in four master funds with the following investment targets: 52 Management report » The EnBW Group EnBW Report 2014 › Risk-optimised investments, with returns in line with › Commercial paper (CP) programme for a total of €2.0 billion market trends (undrawn as of 31 December 2014) › Risk optimisation › Syndicated credit line of €1.5 billion with a term until 2019; › Minimisation of the effects on the balance sheet and Extension options exist in 2015 and 2016 for an additional income statement year in each case (undrawn as of 31 December 2014) › Broad diversification of the asset classes › Bilateral short-term credit lines (€352 million, undrawn as of › Reduction of costs and simplification of administrative 31 December 2014) processes › Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) programme with a €7.0 billion line (€4.2 billion drawn as of 31 December 2014) Financing facilities › Measures to strengthen equity and issuing of special In addition to the Group’s internal financing capabilities from products the free cash flow of €330.2 million in 2014 (previous year › Project financing and low-interest loans from the European restated: €1,168.2 million) and its own funds, the EnBW Group Investment Bank (EIB) has the following instruments at its disposal to cover its overall financing needs: There were no bonds due during the 2014 financial year. EnBW is endeavouring to reduce net debt further. The EnBW bonds have a well-balanced maturity profile. Maturity profile of EnBW bonds in € million 1,0001 1,0003 1,000 1,000 8332 750 700 500 500 500 1384 832 100 50 2015 2016 2017 2018 2021 2023 2025 2026 2034 2038 2039 2044 2072 2076 1 First call date: hybrid due in 2072. 2 Includes CHF 100 million, converted as per the reporting date of 31/12/2014. 3 First call date: hybrid due in 2076. 4 Nominal with conversion as per the reporting date of 31/12/2014. Documentation of short-term and long-term borrowings on the opportunity to extend the credit line in 2015 and 2016 by the capital market under the established EMTN and CP one additional year each up to July 2021 at the latest. programmes, as well as all other credit documentation with banks (e.g. syndicated lines of credit) includes internationally In the 2014 financial year, EnBW financed projects above all in standard clauses. The issuing of a negative covenant, as well as the wind sector, e.g. for onshore wind projects of our Turkish a pari passu clause, to all creditors forms a key element of joint venture Borusan. Furthermore, a low-interest project the financing policy of EnBW. The use of undrawn credit lines loan from the EIB was utilised for the offshore wind farm is not subject to restrictions. EnBW Baltic 2. The existing syndicated credit line was reduced to €1.5 billion In March 2014, EnBW successfully issued a hybrid bond with a on 21 July 2014 and has been initially extended until July 2019. total volume of €1 billion. The subordinated bond has a term to In addition, extension options have also been agreed, giving maturity of approximately 62 years and includes the option EnBW Report 2014 Management report » The EnBW Group 53 for EnBW to make early repayment of the bond. Based on its will be repaid from cash flow. As it can make sense to issue a terms and conditions, the bond will be partially recognised as bond in a favourable capital market environment when taking equity by the rating agencies. This supports the good credit into account corresponding opportunity costs, EnBW standing of EnBW. The bond reduces the cost of capital for EnBW constantly analyses and assesses capital market trends with and thus strengthens the capital structure of the company. The regard to the current interest rate environment and to any issue date was 18 March 2014 and the final repayment date is potentially favourable refinancing costs. 2 April 2076. The first interest payment date is 2 April 2015. EnBW has the right to repay the bond early, for the first time on 2 April Details on liabilities are presented in note 24 and explanations 2021 and then every five years afterwards. The bond has been on other financial commitments are presented in note 28 initially given a coupon of 3.625%. EnBW also has the option of of the notes to the consolidated financial statements at suspending interest payments. However, these interest www.enbw.com/report2014-downloads. payments must be subsequently paid if EnBW pays dividends or redeems other hybrid bonds. The bond is subordinate to all other Rating and rating trends financial liabilities but has an equal ranking with the existing Maintaining a good credit standing remains the key objective hybrid bond. of the financing strategy of EnBW. For this purpose, EnBW uses the dynamic leverage ratio to guide its internal management. EnBW then issued a bond with a volume of €500 million and a The target of < 3.3 currently corresponds to the “A” ratings term to maturity of twelve years at the end of May 2014. The issued by the rating agencies. EnBW has always satisfied the bond was given a coupon of 2.5% and will be used to prerelevant criteria since the rating agencies Standard & Poor’s finance future maturities due on the capital markets. The bond (2000), Moody’s (2002) and Fitch (2009) started issuing credit was significantly oversubscribed. In addition, EnBW made ratings for the company. However, the rating agencies have three private placements with a total volume of €250 million adopted a more critical appraisal of energy policy conditions in the period between June and August 2014. in the German energy utilities sector since 2011, ascribing it a weaker business risk profile. EnBW has largely withstood the EnBW is endeavouring to reduce net debt further. Bonds due sector-wide negative rating trend to date. during the 2015 financial year to the amount of €750 million Overview of the ratings for EnBW – rating/outlook 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Moody’s A3/negative A3/negative A3/negative A3/negative A2/stable Standard & Poor’s A-/stable A-/stable A-/stable A-/stable A-/negative Fitch A-/stable A-/stable A-/stable A-/stable A/stable The rating agencies confirmed their ratings during the course of 2014: Assessment by the rating agencies Moody’s (15/12/2014) Standard & Poor’s (10/12/2014) Fitch (15/08/2014) The conventional generation market remains Strong competitive position on the regional Strengthening of the future business profile challenging, the EnBW 2020 strategy aims to market due to a focus on growth in the area of compensate for the negative effect of the renewable energies and the regulated grids changes to the market business EBITDA mix subject to a low risk, increasing Increasing share of low-risk regulated Strong liquidity position, access to capital share of stable profit streams activities, lower volatility for future market and financial flexibility with regards operating cash flow to investments and dividends Continuous implementation of measures to Unfavourable market conditions, Better coverage of provisions than German retain creditworthiness particularly in the area of electricity competitors due to earmarked financial generation investments Provisions for the nuclear power sector and Coverage ratio for pension and nuclear Structural challenges in area of electricity pensions covered by more than 70% by power provisions of more than 70% generation, risks in the implementation of the financial investments company's strategy and increasing costs for the decommissioning and dismantling of nuclear power plants 54 Management report » The EnBW Group EnBW Report 2014 The current ratings reflect the transparent vision of By maintaining its good credit standing, EnBW endeavours to restructuring the EnBW portfolio towards low-risk activities. continue to: The EnBW 2020 strategy was designed to ensure that the EnBW Group satisfies the requirements expected by the rating › offer first-class opportunities for financing partners with no agencies in order to retain a good credit standing. The restrictions in the financing options available following aspects, amongst others, contribute to this goal: › be regarded as a reliable business partner for trading activities › the planned increase in the share of EBITDA accounted for › achieve the lowest possible capital costs by regulated business (Grids segment and Renewable › implement an appropriate number of projects and thereby Energies segment) to around 70% by 2020 maintain the future viability of the company. › a solid financial profile › a conservative financial policy with flexible mechanisms for distributing dividends › a stable shareholder composition › an asset liability management model based on cash flow for covering the pension and nuclear power provision obligations of EnBW Investment analysis Net cash investments of the EnBW Group in € million1 2014 2013 Change in % Sales 76.4 56.8 34.5 Grids 521.6 462.0 12.9 Renewable Energies 610.8 316.5 93.0 Generation and Trading 476.5 207.4 129.7 Other/Consolidation 19.1 17.5 9.1 Total capital expenditures on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 1,704.4 1,060.2 60.8 Cash paid for the acquisition of subsidiaries,entities accounted for using the equity method and interests in joint operations 40.8 39.2 4.1 Cash paid for the acquisition of investments 2 13.6 8.9 52.8 Cash paid for changes in ownership interest without loss of control 197.9 0.0 – Total investments 1,956.7 1,108.3 76.5 Cash received from disposals of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment -194.1 -172.4 12.6 Cash received from construction costs and investment subsidies -79.9 -72.6 10.1 Cash received from the sale of subsidiaries, entities accounted for using the equity method and interests in joint operations3 -108.9 -18.3 – Income from the sale of equity investments 2 -21.2 -12.5 69.6 Cash received for changes in ownership interest without loss of control -89.7 0.0 – Cash received from participation models -35.6 -16.2 119.8 Total divestitures -529.4 -292.0 81.3 Net (cash) investments 1,427.3 816.3 74.8 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 2 Excluding investments held as financial assets. 3 Does not include cash and cash equivalents relinquished with the divestiture. These amounted to €0.0 million in the reporting period (previous year: €8.4 million). The investment volume of the EnBW Group as part of the investment in the offshore wind farm EnBW Baltic 2, the implementation of the EnBW 2020 strategy significantly Renewable Energies segment achieved the highest proportion increased in the 2014 financial year by €848.4 million in of the investments made by the Group. Investment in the comparison to the value in the previous year. Grids segment primarily involved further expansion to upgrade the grids and to connect of plants for the generation The largest proportion was invested in intangible assets and of energy from sources of renewable energy. These account for property, plant and equipment. Primarily as a result of the 30.6% of the entire investment in intangible assets and EnBW Report 2014 Management report » The EnBW Group 55 property, plant and equipment. In the Generation and Trading mbH, Karlsruhe, from the Italian energy group Eni S.p.A., and segment, which accounts for 28.0% of the investment, the with it indirectly a 50% share in both GasVersorgung Südfocus lay on the major projects of RDK 8 and the construction deutschland GmbH, Stuttgart, and terranets bw GmbH, Stuttgart. of the Lausward Combined Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) power plant. The remaining 5.6% of the investment was primarily The investments in growth projects – primarily the construcused for strengthening sales. tion of the offshore wind farm EnBW Baltic 2, the Lausward CCGT power plant and the hard coal power station RDK 8 – Capital expenditures on intangible assets in % accounted for a proportion of around 77% of the investments and property, plant and equipment by segment1 in the reporting year. The proportion of investments in existing facilities stood at around 23% and was primarily allocated to the grid infrastructure. 4.5 (PY: 5.4) 1.1 (PY: 1.7) Sales Other It was possible to finance around 27% of the gross investment volume through divestitures in the reporting year. These 28.0 (PY: 19.5) primarily comprised the sale of grids as part of reGeneration and municipalisation. In addition, this included divestitures from Trading 35.8 (PY: 29.9) Renewable the successful realisation of participation models, mainly in Energies the area of onshore wind. Capital commitments for the acquisition of intangible assets 30.6 (PY: 43.5) Grids and property, plant and equipment amounted to €984.9 million as of 31 December 2014 (previous year restated: €1,038.8 million). Commitments to acquire entities totalled 1 Figures for the previous year have been restated. €549.4 million (previous year restated: €494.3 million). The The financial investments in 2014 primarily included the investment commitment is financed from current funds from purchase of the 50% share of EnBW Gas Verwaltungsgesellschaft operations (FFO). Liquidity analysis Free cash flow of the EnBW Group in € million1 2014 2013 Change in % Cash flow from operating activities 1,775.7 1,919.1 -7.5 Change in assets and liabilities from operating activities -254.7 -318.1 -19.9 Interest and dividends received 323.5 368.0 -12.1 Interest paid for financing activities -338.6 -303.7 11.5 Funds from operations (FFO) 1,505.9 1,665.3 -9.6 Change in assets and liabilities from operating activities 254.7 318.1 -19.9 Capital expenditures on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment -1,704.4 -1,060.2 60.8 Cash received from disposals of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 194.1 172.4 12.6 Cash received from construction costs and investment subsidies 79.9 72.6 10.1 Free cash flow 330.2 1,168.2 -71.7 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. Cash flow from operating activities and funds from operations influenced by EEG matters and lower receivables from the (FFO) both fell in comparison to the level in the previous year. sales businesses compared to the previous year. This effect was This decrease was due, amongst other things, to the fall in more than compensated for by the change in the net balance adjusted EBITDA in comparison to the previous year. The of other assets and liabilities, which was mainly caused by the reduction in the net balance of assets and liabilities from application of the reverse charge procedure. As a result of the operating activities was less in comparison to the same period significantly increased investments in intangible assets and in the previous year, but made a positive contribution to the property, plant and equipment compared to the previous year, development of the cash flow in both reporting periods. The free cash flow was significantly below the level in the previous net balance of trade receivables and payables fell significantly year, but nevertheless remains positive. here in comparison to the previous year. This was mainly 56 Management report » The EnBW Group EnBW Report 2014 Retained cash flow of the EnBW Group in € million1 2014 2013 Change in % Funds from operations (FFO) 1,505.9 1,665.3 -9.6 Dividends paid -261.8 -310.8 -15.8 Retained cash flow 1,244.1 1,354.5 -8.2 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. As a result of the fall in the FFO, retained cash flow also fell. to the company for future investments without the need to This was offset by lower dividend payments. The retained cash raise additional debt ( p. 15). flow reflects our internal financing capabilities; it is available Capital flow statement of the EnBW Group in € million1 2014 2013 Change in % Cash flow from operating activities 1,775.7 1,919.1 -7.5 Cash flow from investing activities -2,776.6 -572.4 – Cash flow from financing activities 1,760.9 -1,509.4 – Change in cash and cash equivalents2 760.0 -162.7 – Net foreign exchange difference 0.3 -1.2 – Change in cash and cash equivalents2 760.3 -163.9 – 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 2 Includes cash and cash equivalents from assets held for sale. Cash flow from investing activities increased significantly in bond with a volume of €1 billion, four bonds with a total comparison to the previous year. This growth is attributable, on volume of €750 million and a loan from the European the one hand, to significantly increased investments in Investment Bank (EIB). In the previous year, there were also intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. In addition, repayments made for a €750 million bond. The Group’s cash there was also significantly higher investment in securities in and cash equivalents thus increased by €760.3 million in the comparison to the previous year. The funds for this investment reporting period. came primarily from an increase in financial liabilities. The solvency of the EnBW Group was ensured at all times Cash flow from financing activities returned an inflow of cash, throughout the 2014 financial year due to the company's while in the previous year there was still a cash outflow. This available liquidity, a continued positive free cash flow and the change is mainly attributable to a significant increase in external sources available for financing. The company’s future financial liabilities, primarily due to the issuing of a hybrid solvency is secured by its solid financial position ( p. 52 ff.). EnBW Report 2014 Management report » The EnBW Group 57 Net assets Condensed balance sheet of the EnBW Group in € million1 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 Change in % Assets Non-current assets 27,382.6 25,507.9 7.3 of which intangible assets (1,783.0) (1,844.1) -3.3 of which property, plant and equipment (13,681.7) (14,069.7) -2.8 of which entities accounted for using the equity method (1,941.0) (1,927.4) 0.7 of which other financial assets (8,513.4) (6,399.9) 33.0 of which deferred taxes (430.0) (257.8) 66.8 Current assets 10,825.0 10,160.1 6.5 Assets held for sale 104.5 90.3 15.7 38,312.1 35,758.3 7.1 Equity and liabilities Equity 4,545.6 6,082.7 -25.3 Non-current liabilities 24,146.7 21,086.9 14.5 of which provisions (14,302.2) (12,450.7) 14.9 of which deferred taxes (648.9) (955.7) -32.1 of which financial liabilities (7,187.1) (5,547.4) 29.6 Current liabilities 9,571.3 8,556.1 11.9 of which provisions (1,151.6) (1,391.6) -17.2 of which financial liabilities (1,078.5) (224.7) – Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 48.5 32.6 48.8 38,312.1 35,758.3 7.1 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. As of the 31 December 2014 reporting date, the total assets of an increase in non-current provisions in the area of nuclear the EnBW Group increased by €2,553.8 million. On the assets energy and for pension obligations. In addition, non-current side, there was an increase of €1,874.7 million in non-current financial liabilities increased due to the issuing of a hybrid and €664.9 million in current assets. In the area of nonbond, four further bonds and the disbursement of an EIB loan current assets, other financial assets increased in particular for the offshore wind farm EnBW Baltic 2. This was offset by due to the purchase of securities for investment purposes and the reclassification based on the maturity date of a €750 increases in stock prices on securities by €2,113.5 million. In million bond due in 2015 from non-current to current addition, deferred taxes increased by €172.2 million. In liabilities. Current liabilities thus increased as a result by a contrast, property, plant and equipment fell by €388.0 million total of €1,015.2 million. due primarily to write-downs on the generation portfolio. The increase in current assets was predominantly the result of Adjusted net debt higher cash and cash equivalents from the issuing of bonds, as The increase in financial liabilities and current financial assets, well as the higher market value of derivatives in the other as well as – due to the partial investment of the funds received – current assets. non-current securities, was mainly attributable to the issuing of a hybrid bond with a volume of €1.0 billion, the issuing of four The reduction in equity as of 31 December 2014 was mainly bonds with a total volume of €750 million and the disbursedue to the fall in revenue reserves as a result of the Group net ment of an EIB loan to the amount of €500 million. As 50% of loss and the dividend payments, as well as an increase in the nominal value of the hybrid bond is classified as equity and losses in other comprehensive income on equity as a result of is thus recognised as a deduction by the rating agencies the adjustment of the discount rate for pension provisions. Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s, the hybrid bond has led to a The equity ratio fell to 11.9% as of the end of 2014, compared to reduction in the adjusted net debt of €500 million. In addition, 17.0% as of the 31 December 2013, as a consequence. Nonthe positive free cash flow reduced the adjusted net debt. This current liabilities increased in comparison to the previous was offset by increased pension provisions due to the reduction year by €3,059.8 million. This increase was mainly caused by of the discount rate from 3.75% at 31 December 2013 to 2.20% at 58 Management report » The EnBW Group EnBW Report 2014 31 December 2014, the increased nuclear power provisions, also in the adjusted net debt as of 31 December 2014 of €711.3 million due to the reduction in the discount rate, as well as by cash compared to the reporting date in the previous year. outflows for dividend payments. These effects led to an increase Adjusted net debt of the EnBW Group in € million1 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 Change in % Short-term cash and cash equivalents -3,939.5 -3,154.0 24.9 Short-term cash and cash equivalents of the special funds and short-term investments to cover pension and nuclear power provisions 1,282.1 1,083.9 18.3 Adjusted short-term cash and cash equivalents -2,657.4 -2,070.1 28.4 Bonds 6,225.6 4,466.7 39.4 Liabilities to banks 1,813.1 1,002.3 80.9 Other financial liabilities 226.9 303.1 -25.1 Financial liabilities 8,265.6 5,772.1 43.2 Recognised net financial liabilities 2 5,608.2 3,702.0 51.5 Pension and nuclear power provisions 14,959.8 13,308.1 12.4 Fair value of plan assets -1,102.4 -1,068.6 3.2 Long-term investments and loans3 -8,320.5 -6,235.7 33.4 Cash and cash equivalents of the special funds and short-term investments to cover pension and nuclear power provisions -1,282.1 -1,083.9 18.3 Other -68.5 -73.9 -7.3 Recognised net debt3 9,794.5 8,548.0 14.6 Market value of CO2 allowances purchased for planned future electricity generation 0.0 -33.9 – Non-current receivables associated with nuclear power provisions -675.4 -623.9 8.3 Valuation effects from interest-induced hedging transactions -136.5 -118.9 14.8 Adjusted for 50% of the nominal amount of the hybrid bonds4 -1,000.0 -500.0 100.0 Adjusted net debt3 7,982.6 7,271.3 9.8 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 2 Adjusted for valuation effects from interest-induced hedging transactions and 50% of the nominal amount of the hybrid bonds, net financial liabilities amounted to €4,471.7 million (31/12/2013 restated: €3,083.1 million). 3 Includes investments held as financial assets. 4 The structural characteristics of our hybrid bonds meet the criteria for half of the bond to be classified as equity, and half as debt, by the rating agencies Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s. Dynamic leverage ratio Dynamic leverage ratio of the EnBW Group in € million1 2014 2013 Change in % Adjusted net debt 7,982.6 7,271.3 9.8 Adjusted EBITDA 2,167.4 2,224.7 -2.6 Dynamic leverage ratio 3.68 3.27 12.5 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. The dynamic leverage ratio increased to 3.68 as of 31 De( p. 57 f.). The dynamic leverage ratio developed in line with cember 2014. The reasons for this were the fall in adjusted our forecasted range of between 3.4 and 3.8. EBITDA ( p. 49 f.) and the increase in the adjusted net debt EnBW Report 2014 Management report » The EnBW Group 59 ROCE and value added ment of the operating result but above all on the invested The cost of capital before tax represents the minimum return capital. Large-scale investments tend to significantly increase on capital employed (average capital employed). Positive value the capital employed in the early years, while the effect on is added when the return on capital employed (ROCE) exceeds income that boosts value, however, only filters through over a the cost of capital. The cost of capital is determined based on the lengthier period of time, often long after the investments were weighted average of cost of equity and debt together. The value initially made. This is especially true of investments in of equity is based here on a market valuation and thus deviates property, plant and equipment relating to the construction of from the value recognised in the balance sheet. The cost of new power plants, which do not have any positive effect on equity is based on the return of a risk-free investment and a the operating result of the Group until after they are company-specific risk premium. The latter is calculated as the commissioned. Investments in power generation facilities, on difference between a risk-free investment and the return for the the other hand, are already taken into account in the capital overall market, weighted with a company-specific beta factor. employed during the construction phase. In a comparison of The terms according to which the EnBW Group can obtain longindividual years, the development of ROCE and value added is, term debt funding are used to determine the cost of debt. to a certain extent, cyclical in nature, depending on the investment volume. This effect is therefore inherent in the system There are various factors that influence value added. The level and results in a lower ROCE in phases of strong growth or of ROCE and value added depend not only on the developphases of investment. Value added to the EnBW Group for 2014 by segment Sales Grids Renewable Generation Other/ Total Energies and Trading Consolidation Adjusted EBIT including investment result in1 in € million 169.5 571.4 127.9 529.9 -51.2 1,347.5 Average capital employed in € million 856.1 4,868.7 2,261.8 3,350.3 2,136.1 13,473.0 ROCE in % 19.8 11.7 5.7 15.8 – 10.0 Cost of capital in % 8.5 6.2 7.9 8.7 – 7.2 Value added in € million 96.7 267.8 -49.8 237.9 – 377.2 1 Adjusted investment result excluding income from investments held as financial assets to the amount of €40.4 million and adjusted for taxes (adjusted investment result/0.71 adjusted investment result (with 0.71 = 1 tax rate 29%)). Value added to the EnBW Group for 2013 by segment1 Sales Grids Renewable Generation Other/ Total Energies and Trading Consolidation Adjusted EBIT including investment result in2 in € million 162.4 646.0 157.9 495.7 -6.3 1,455.7 Average capital employed in € million 977.5 5,659.4 1,863.1 4,152.1 2,320.6 14,972.7 ROCE in % 16.6 11.4 8.5 11.9 – 9.7 Cost of capital in % 9.6 7.6 9.2 9.7 – 8.5 Value added in € million 68.4 215.1 -13.0 91.3 – 179.7 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 2 Adjusted investment result excluding income from investments held as financial assets to the amount of €82.5 million and adjusted for taxes (adjusted investment result/0.71 adjusted investment result (with 0.71 = 1 tax rate 29%)). Despite the continued difficult market and industry market interest rates. At the same time, the ROCE improved by conditions, the positive value added generated by the EnBW 0.3 percentage points because the average capital employed Group more than doubled in the 2014 financial year compared fell more strongly than the adjusted EBIT including the to the previous year to €377.2 million. This increase in value investment result. This effect also led to the ROCE exceeding added was primarily due to the fact that the cost of capital fell our expectations for the 2014 financial year to reach a level of by 1.3 percentage points as a result of the development of the 10.0% (forecast 2014: 8% to 9%). 60 Management report » The EnBW Group EnBW Report 2014 Sales: Value added in the Sales segment increased in 2014 by previous year. This decrease was due, on the one hand, to the €28.3 million. This improvement was contributed to both by fall in adjusted EBIT including the investment result in the fact that the cost of capital fell by 1.1 percentage points and comparison to the previous year. On the other hand, the capital the ROCE increased by 3.2 percentage points. The increase in base in the reporting year increased further due to investments the ROCE is primarily due to a reduction in the average capital in the offshore wind farm EnBW Baltic 2 and the expansion of employed as it was possible to reduce current trade rethe onshore wind portfolio. The ROCE for this segment fell by ceivables as part of an improved working capital management 2.8 percentage points because the plants still under consystem. struction have still not made any contribution to earnings. Grids: Value added in the Grids segment increased in the Generation and Trading: The Generation and Trading segment reporting year by €52.7 million in comparison to 2013. This was achieved an increase in the value added of €146.6 million in due to the fact that the cost of capital fell by 1.4 percentage the 2014 financial year. This segment benefited from the points and the ROCE increased by 0.3 percentage points in developments in the market interest rates; the cost of capital comparison to the previous year. The increase in the ROCE fell in comparison to the previous year by 1 percentage point. resulted from a decrease in working capital and the disposal of At the same time, the capital base fell primarily as a result of assets as part of concession losses. unscheduled write-downs on the generation portfolio and due to a significantly lower level of working capital. In addition, it Renewable Energies: The Renewable Energies segment rewas possible to increase the adjusted EBIT including the corded a €36.8 million lower value added compared to the investment result by €34.2 million. EnBW Report 2014 Management report » The EnBW Group 61 Non-financial performance indicators SAIDI: The duration of supply interruptions per connected customer fell in 2014 compared to the previous year – in line Customers goal dimension with our forecast – from 21 minutes to around 15 minutes. The reason for this improvement was the return to normal levels of Key performance indicators supply interruptions compared to those experienced due to the severe weather conditions in 2013. We rank at a very good Key performance indicators level on a German national comparison as a consequence. 2014 2013 Forecast Employees goal dimension 2014 Key performance indicators Brand Attractiveness Index for EnBW/Yello 43/36 42/38 42/38 Key performance indicators Customer Satisfaction Index for EnBW/Yello 114/145 111/148 114/150 2014 2013 Forecast 2014 SAIDI1 (electricity) in min/year 15 21 15 Employee Commitment 1The figures for the previous year have been restated. Index (ECI)1 56 58 60 LTIF 1.2 previous-year 4.3 3.7 figure Brand Attractiveness Index: It was possible to increase 1 Variations in the group of consolidated companies. the attractiveness of the EnBW brand slightly in 2014; we 2 The figures for the previous year have been restated. anticipated a stable level of brand attractiveness in our forecast for 2014. In particular, there were gains for the aspects Employee Commitment Index (ECI): The first short of sympathy and positive differentiation from other energy survey for monitoring the ECI – the MAB-Blitzlicht (Employee suppliers. The new EnBW strategy is thus having an impact Flashlight) – was carried out between 22 September and more quickly than expected and has led to a positive image of 10 October 2014. This survey comprised just twelve questions the company amongst the general public. The reasons for this and was carried out as part of a representative sample. As in development are primarily the measures to improve public the previous full employee surveys (MAB), it collected relations and advertising activities in the area of sales. The information on the level of commitment of the employees to attractiveness of the Yello brand fell slightly in 2014; we also the Group and to their respective business entity. predicted here an unchanged level of brand attractiveness in our forecast. The aspect sympathy declined the most. In a The results of the MAB-Blitzlicht show a slight fall in the ECI hard-fought, price-dominated competitive environment with from 58 to 56 points. Although it was not possible to achieve the diverse advertising measures undertaken by national desired increase in the index to 60 points, the result can be suppliers, it was not possible to maintain the attractiveness of considered to be satisfactory against a background of numerous the Yello brand. changes in the reporting year: the major reorganisation toward ONE EnBW, the streamlining of the management levels, the Customer Satisfaction Index: Customer loyalty is based further realisation of ambitious savings goals and the resolute on high customer satisfaction. It was possible to once again advancement of our optimisation programmes. In addition, the increase the satisfaction of the customers of EnBW slightly in market environment continued to exert a heavy burden. Our 2014 in line with our expectations. In the reporting year, EnBW main objective from the last employee survey in 2013 was to ranked far ahead of E.ON and Vattenfall, level with RWE and convince the workforce of our new strategy, the combelow the municipal utilities and regional suppliers. The petitiveness and especially the future viability of EnBW and to increase in the satisfaction of the customers of EnBW is due, further deepen the level of trust in the company. The measures amongst other things, to a positive perception of the that were introduced have borne fruit at a management level; company's image. This image had a very high influence in the their assessment of this topic has developed positively. The task current reporting year on customer loyalty, whereas the for the Board of Management and the management team is now importance of the performance categories of price and tariffs to also achieve this positive development amongst the declined, which are traditionally rated lower. The satisfaction employees. This will involve explaining the positive effects of of the customers of Yello fell slightly in 2014 against our the changes introduced at the company in a way appropriate for expectations. This was due to the competitive environment, in the target group and making the successes – both externally on which Yello was not able to distinguish itself as positively as in the market and internally within the company – more tangible. the previous year. Nevertheless, customer satisfaction still ranked highly in the competitive environment, clearly above LTIF: The LTIF (Lost Time Injury Frequency) is an indicator all other competitors except the municipal utilities, which of occupational safety. It changed slightly in 2014 in comachieve the same level. parison to 2013 from 3.7 to 4.3 and continues to remain at a stable level. The average days of absence per accident did fall from 12.5 in 2013 to 10.5 in 2014. This means that there was a decline in the average severity of the accidents. 62 Management report » The EnBW Group EnBW Report 2014 Safety at work is extremely important to us. We endeavour to given in emergency situations. The “InA” (Occupational Safety constantly improve the safety of working conditions. The Initiative) that was started in 2013 was completed in 2014. In Board of Management of EnBW ensures it is kept informed the reporting year, information events were held for all continuously about the situation regarding accidents employees and management personnel at the grid companies occurring within the Group. It receives weekly reports about and they were thus made more aware of occupational safety any extraordinary events within the company. Besides and health protection. Further activities included, for example, accidents with serious consequences or fire-related events, a road show on fire protection and information events on this also includes incidents of a positive nature, such as aid personal protective equipment. Other performance indicators Employees of the EnBW Group1,2 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 Change in % Sales 3,322 3,461 -4.0 Grids 7,824 7,487 4.5 Renewable Energies 519 485 7.0 Generation and Trading 5,432 5,436 -0.1 Other 2,995 2,975 0.7 Total 20,092 19,844 1.2 Number of full-time equivalents3 18,524 18,378 0.8 1 Number of employees excluding apprentices/trainees and excluding inactive employees. 2 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 3 Converted into full-time equivalents. As of 31 December 2014, the EnBW Group employed 20,092 Through the leadership and young talent conferences, those people. As a result of the continuation of our recruitment policy employees with potential, who are ready for their first in 2014 – essentially limited to strategic growth areas of EnBW – management position or an expanded management role, are the number of employees stood slightly above the level at the accompanied through their development. For example, end of the 2013 financial year. The reduction in the number of candidates have the opportunity to test themselves against employees in the Sales segment is mainly due to the practical challenges as part of management workshops. deconsolidation of a minor business entity. The growing Managers and personnel development officers are able, in their importance of regulated business is reflected in the increase in role as observers, to witness the candidates taking part in a wide the number of employees in the Grids and Renewable Energies range of activities and so they are able to base development segments. The number of employees in the Generation and plans for the candidates on secure foundations with Trading segment remained largely unchanged. The reason for corresponding expertise. the change in Other/Consolidation is primarily the movement of employees from the Grids segment as a result of restructuring Safeguarding and promoting expertise: As a result of the start within the Group. of our trainee programme in June and the educational and training year in September 2014, as well as through the Further key performance indicators for personnel: Further key creation of apprenticeships and university places for 2015, we performance indicators for personnel can be found on our are securing young talent to suit our requirements and thus website at www.enbw.com/weitere-kennzahlen. These include, responding to demographic change. Our target-groupfor example, the regional distribution of our employees, the oriented funding programmes also create the best-possible proportion of women in the workforce and in management opportunities for students to enter the world of employment. personnel, or the proportion of disabled people in the workforce. In order to further develop the expertise and skills of employees and open up career perspectives, two important The three focal points of our HR policy building blocks have been established in the area of personal Executive management: For our new strategic alignment, we development: the Personal Development Plan (PDP) and the require management personnel who can confidently lead the Personal Development Campus (PD Campus). The PDP replaces company in a success-oriented way during this period of the previous development plan and, alongside agreements on radical change in the energy environment. In the area of targets and the delegation of responsibility, represents an management expertise, we offer our management personnel important part of the annual employee appraisal. Employees development modules that are targeted towards this group. can use their own initiative to discuss their PDP with management personnel and colleagues. Management personnel and EnBW Report 2014 Management report » The EnBW Group 63 employees can receive information about further education exercise programme this year to make employees aware of the and training opportunities on the new PD Campus online theme of health and exercise. The goal of the “EnBW Running platform. This platform not only makes it possible to directly Programme” (EnBW-Laufbewegung), one of our numerous book traditional events such as seminars and training courses, company sports groups, was also to exercise together and but also to call up thematic, electronic teaching material such remain fit in everyday life. Thus more than 200 employees as e-training courses or bibliographic references on demand. took part, for example, in the Baden Marathon in Karlsruhe in September 2014. Effective and efficient HR policy: Developing new ideas in projects, promoting innovation and quickly and effectively In recognition of its holistic concept for an occupational tapping into new sources of income – these are important health and safety management system, EnBW was honoured factors for the future success of EnBW. It is particularly with the “Dekra Award 2014” in the category health. For many important to find the right employee in the company for these years, an important focus of this concept has been preserving new topics. This is precisely what the introduction of the mental health, especially with regard to the prevention of Project Job Market aims to achieve: It is designed to bring occupational burnout. Qualified psychologists in the areas of those projects requiring personnel for a limited period of time occupational medicine and health management provide a together with interested employees. comprehensive level of expert support for individual issues, training measures and the development of the corporate By implementing new “New Working Worlds” at four locations culture, as well as being responsible for the overall concept of run by EnBW, the Group is pursuing both cultural and “mental health” at EnBW. This work was honoured for the first economic goals. While the “New Working Worlds” aim, on the time this year with the “Soul@Work Award”. one hand, to create the prerequisites for further consolidation of the property portfolio and thus achieve significant cost Sickness ratio: The sickness ratio fell more steeply than reductions, open office spaces promote, on the other hand, expected in 2014 compared to the previous year from 4.5% to communication and interaction between employees and 4.1% (forecast 2014: 4.3%) and is thus once again at the levels management personnel, as well as between the different achieved in previous years. specialist departments. Especially in light of the realignment of the company's business model, EnBW is striving to not only Environment goal dimension develop efficient structures and processes, but also to create a working atmosphere that promotes openness, flexibility and Key performance indicator dialogue – entirely in the spirit of “Space for ONE EnBW”. Employees had moved into allocated pilot areas at the location Key performance indicator in Stuttgart and Karlsruhe by the end of 2014. Other specialist departments will be moved in the next two years so that the 2014 2013 Forecast workplaces for EnBW employees will be concentrated in future 2014 at central Group locations. Installed output of RE in Along with flexible working hours, childcare facilities and GW and the share of the special family and health-related vacations, employees also generation capacity in % 2.7–3.0/ enjoy access to extensive advisory services – for example, for accounted for by RE 2.6/19.1 2.6/19.1 19–20 advice on care issues. As a result, our employees can achieve the optimal balance between their private and professional Installed output of renewable energies (RE) and the share of lives. EnBW AG and Energiedienst AG have been awarded the the generation capacity accounted for by RE: In the 2014 “work and family” (berufundfamilie) certificate for this reason. financial year, the installed output of renewable energies and The attractiveness of EnBW as an employer has also been the share of the generation capacity accounted for by renewable confirmed in the reporting year by the receipt of the “Top energies remained constant in comparison to the previous year Employer 2014” award. In particular, the jury for this at 2.6 GW and 19.1%, respectively. The forecasted increase to a certification programme were impressed by the provision of value of between 2.7 and 3.0 GW could not be achieved mainly so-called secondary, non-monetary benefits. due to delays in the progress of our project for the offshore wind farm EnBW Baltic 2 and connecting it up to the grid. Health management The promotion of health is an important topic within the EnBW Group. Our employees can participate in a range of different health courses such as stress management, giving up smoking and back exercises. Energiedienst AG conducted an 64 Management report » The EnBW Group EnBW Report 2014 Generation portfolio of the EnBW Group Breakdown of the generation portfolio of the Own generation of the EnBW Group1 by EnBW Group1 (as of 31/12) primary energy source Electrical output2 in MW 2014 2013 in GWh 2014 2013 Renewable Energies 2,632 2,642 Renewable Energies 7,163 7,476 Run-of-river power plants 947 978 of which subsidised under the German Renewable Energies Storage/pumped storage power Act (EEG) 519 670 plants using the natural flow of water2 1,322 1,322 Run-of-river power plants 5,466 5,699 Wind onshore 194 186 Storage power plants/pumped storage power plants using the Wind offshore 48 48 natural flow of water 829 974 Other renewable energies 121 108 Wind onshore 308 292 Thermal power plants3 11,116 11,160 Wind offshore 196 191 Brown coal 875 1,034 Other renewable energies 364 320 Hard coal 4,776 4,249 Thermal power plants2 50,615 51,072 Gas 1,191 1,177 Hard coal 16,401 18,209 Other thermal power plants 396 822 Brown coal 6,563 7,062 Gas 742 759 Pumped storage power stations that do not use the natural flow Other thermal power plants 295 321 of water2 545 545 Pumped storage power stations Nuclear power plants 3,333 3,333 that do not use the natural flow of water 1,528 1,494 Installed output of EnBW Group (without standby reserve) 13,748 13,802 Nuclear power plants 25,086 23,227 of which renewable in % 19.1 19.1 Own generation of the EnBW Group 57,778 58,548 of which low CO2 in % 4 12.6 12.5 of which renewable in % 12.4 12.8 1 Own generation includes long-term procurement agreements and generation from of which low CO2 in %3 3.9 3.8 partly owned power plants. 2 Capacity values irrespective of marketing channel, for storage: generation 1 Long-term procurement agreements and partly owned power plants are included capacity. in own electricity production. 3 Including pumped storage power stations that do not use the natural flow of water. 2 Including pumped storage power stations that do not use the natural flow of water. 4 Excluding renewable energies; only gas power plants and storage power stations 3 Excluding renewable energies; only gas power plants and storage power stations that do not use the natural flow of water. that do not use the natural flow of water. Adjustments to the portfolio in the area of renewable energies, portfolio of EnBW is well balanced in its mix of energy sources the commissioning of the Rheinhafen-Dampfkraftwerk RDK 8 and the age structure of the facilities. As a result of the lower in Karlsruhe (hard coal), the transfer of power plant capacities water levels (run-of-river plants and storage power plants) in to the grid reserve (hard coal and other thermal power plants) 2014 compared to 2013, the share of own generation accounted and other adjustments to the portfolio in the area of thermal for by renewable energies was only just able to reach the level power plants – such as the expired electricity supply contract in the previous year but not exceed it. Even the increase in with the Buschhaus power plant (brown coal) – are responsible production from wind energy and other renewable energies for the slight reductions in installed output to 13.7 GW and could not compensate for this effect. own generation to 57.8 TWh in 2014. The thermal generation EnBW Report 2014 Management report » The EnBW Group 65 Other performance indicators information here about our wide ranging environmental In addition to the key performance indicators in the area of activities relating to energy efficiency, the conservation of the environment, EnBW utilises a broad range of further biological diversity, and the protection of nature and species, environmental indicators for measuring, controlling and such as our EnBW amphibian protection programme or bird reporting. The table below includes the most important protection activities in the grids sector. In addition, you can indicators. A comprehensive presentation of the environalso find further information relating to the Global Reporting mental performance indicators for EnBW can be found on the Initiative (GRI 3.1) on the Internet. Internet at www.enbw.com/umweltschutz. You will also find Environmental performance indicators1, 2 Unit 2014 2013 Carbon footprint Direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1)3 millions of t CO2eq 19.6 22.7 Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2) 4 millions of t CO2eq 1.2 1.2 Other indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 3) 5 millions of t CO2eq 16.9 16.6 CO2 emissions avoided6 millions of t CO2eq 5.1 5.3 CO2 intensity of own electricity generation7 g CO2/kWh 363 403 CO2 intensity of business journeys and travel8 g CO2eq/km 231 245 Energy consumption Total final energy consumption9 GWh 2,824 3,149 Proportion of renewable energies in final energy consumption % 44 24 Energy consumption of buildings per employee (MA) kWh/MA 9,728 10,843 Environmental protection expenditure10 Capital expenditure on environmental protection € million 450 322 Current environmental protection expenses € million 268 286 1 Unless otherwise indicated, the data reflect the business entities and facilities of the consolidated group. 2 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 3 Preliminary data. 4 Includes greenhouse gas emissions due to electricity grid losses and through electricity consumption of plants in the gas and electricity grid, water supplies and buildings. 5 Includes greenhouse gas emissions through consumption of purchased electricity volumes by customers, consumption of gas by customers, fuel provision and business travel. 6 Includes avoided CO2 emissions through the expansion of renewable energies, through energy efficiency projects with customers/partners and through the generation and sale of biogas. 7 Long-term procurement agreements and partly owned power plants are included in own electricity production. 8 Includes all business travel and business activities (Scope1 and Scope 3). 9 Includes final energy consumption of production including pump energy, energy consumption of grid facilities (electricity, gas and water) excluding grid losses, energy consumption of buildings and vehicles. 10 Pursuant to the German Environmental Statistics Act (UStatG) and BDEW guidelines on the recognition of investment and ongoing expenditure relating to environmental protection (April 2007). Carbon footprint: Direct CO2 emissions are determined mainly In comparison to the value in the previous year of 403 g by the usage of fossil fuel power plants. Accordingly, the CO2/kWh the CO2 intensity of own electricity generation fell decrease in fossil fuel-based electricity generation is also the by around 10% to 363 g CO2/kWh. The reason for these low reason for the fall in direct CO2 emissions from 22.7 to emissions is the reduced level of electricity generated from 19.6 million t CO2eq. The indirect Scope 2 CO2 emissions refossil fuels compared to the previous year and especially mained constant at 1.2 million t CO2eq. As a result of increased because of the expired electricity supply contract with the gas sales, the Scope 3 CO2 emissions rose slightly. Numerous Buschhaus brown coal power plant. This is also the reason for EnBW activities also avoid CO2 emissions: primarily that of the deviation from the value forecast for CO2 intensity last generating electricity from renewable energy sources. The year of around 410 g/kWh. The CO2 intensity of EnBW small decrease in this area in 2014 led to a slight fall in the CO2 continues to remain significantly below the overall German emissions avoided compared to the previous year and thus national figure of 511 g CO2/kWh in 2013. also to a deviation from the value forecast for last year of 5.8 million t CO2. 66 Management report » The EnBW Group EnBW Report 2014 CO2 intensity of own electricity production1 in g/kWh consumption is mostly influenced by pump energy and the company’s own requirements, plus the operating consumption of the generation plants. The main reasons for the fall in final energy consumption by almost 10% from 3,149 363 GWh in 2013 to 2,824 GWh in the reporting year 2014 are a 2014 reduced need for pump energy and falling own consumption 511 in the power plants due to the reduction in electricity 403 generated from fossil fuels. 2013 522 The proportion of renewable energies in the final energy consumption increased from 24% in 2013 to 44% in 2014. This 2012 369 was due to the use of green electricity for pump energy in the pumped storage power plants operated by Vorarlberger Illwerke. 503 We have introduced the energy consumption of our buildings EnBW Group per employee for the first time as a new performance indicator. Federal average in previous year2 This indicator fell from 10,843 to 9,728 kWh/employee. The 1 Own generation comprises own and partially owned power plants, as well as long-term causes were the mild winter and the wide range of measures for supply contracts. 2 The federal average of the respective reporting year is only available in autumn of the increasing energy efficiency. next respective year. The comparison is therefore made against the national average of the previous year. Environmental protection expenditure: We report environmental expenditure in line with the requirements of the Energy consumption: The total final energy consumption statistical offices and using the guidelines published by our includes the consumption of final energy for the business sector association – the BDEW. Environmental protection activities of EnBW. It does not include conversion and expenditure increased from €322 million to €450 million in transportation losses such as primary energy sources for 2014. This growth primarily reflects higher investment in electricity generation or grid losses. The total final energy climate protection through the expansion of generation using renewable energies. EnBW Report 2014 Management report » EnBW AG 67 EnBW AG The companies EnBW Trading GmbH (ETG), EnBW Operations Results of operations of EnBW AG GmbH (EOG) and EnBW Systeme Infrastruktur Support GmbH (SIS) were merged with EnBW Erneuerbare und Konventionelle EnBW AG reported an annual net profit of €1,249.4 million. Erzeugung AG (EZG) with retroactive effect to 1 January 2014 A loss from ordinary activities to the amount of €1,005.4 following the notarial execution of merger contracts on million was offset by extraordinary merger gains to the 18 March 2014 and entry in the Commercial Register on amount of €2,237.2 million. 30 April 2014. The companies EZG and EnBW Vertrieb GmbH (VTR) were also merged with EnBW AG with retroactive effect The operating result of EnBW AG is largely determined by the to 1 January 2014 following the notarial execution of merger generated revenue from electricity and gas sales, as well as by contracts on 18 March 2014 and entry in the Commercial the corresponding cost of materials. Register on 30 April 2014. The mergers were completed at the fair value of the shares of the absorbed companies ( p. 14). The revenue (after the deduction of electricity and energy taxes) of €24,106.6 million primarily includes revenue from The Annual General Meeting of EnBW AG approved the change electricity sales to the amount of €13,419.4 million and gas in the purpose of the company on 29 April 2014. This change sales to the amount of €9,873.6 million. means that EnBW AG is no longer purely a holding company. Therefore, the sequence of items included in the income Of the electricity sales totalling 254.7 billion kWh, 7.6 billion statement has changed in comparison to the previous year and kWh were attributable to the retail and commercial customer the income statement has been structured in accordance with sector (B2C), 3.4 billion kWh to the business and industrial Sec. 275 of the German Commercial Code (HGB). customer sector (B2B) and 243.7 billion kWh to the energy trading sector. As a result of the merger process, the balance sheet and the income statement cannot be directly compared with the figures Of the gas sales totalling 377.0 billion kWh, 3.5 billion kWh were from the previous year. An additional column titled “01/01/2014” attributable to the retail and commercial customer sector has been added to the balance sheet in order to illustrate the (B2C), 1.1 billion kWh to the business and industrial customer effects of the mergers. The column “31/12/2013” shows the values sector (B2B) and 372.4 billion kWh to the energy trading sector. for EnBW AG from the 2013 financial statements. In the income statement, values from the 2013 financial statement have been These sales are offset by the cost of materials totalling stated in accordance with the new structure. €23,323.4 million, which primarily comprises costs for electricity procurement to the amount of €10,538.5 million and The financial statements of EnBW AG have been prepared in costs for gas procurement to the amount of €9,787.4 million. accordance with the regulations in the German Commercial Code (HGB), the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and the Alongside scheduled amortisation and depreciation, the writeGerman Electricity and Gas Supply Act ( EnWG). The downs include unscheduled write-downs of power plants to regulations for large corporations apply. the amount of €320.3 million. The financial statements as audited by the KPMG AG The financial result primarily includes revenues from profit Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Mannheim, as well as the and loss transfers to the amount of €528.7 million and management report of EnBW AG contained in the Group income from investments to the amount of €213.9 million. management report, will be published in the German Federal This is offset by the write-downs of financial assets to the Gazette (Bundesanzeiger). The full financial statements of amount of €280.0 million. In addition, interest expenses EnBW AG are available for download at www.enbw.com/ accrued for non-current provisions in the nuclear power report2014-downloads. sector and for pensions and similar obligations to the amount of €834.1 million, and from internal Group settlement For statements that are not explicitly described in the transactions as part of the centralised financial and liquidity following sections, especially those relating to the strategy of management to the amount of €259.9 million are included. the company and economic and political conditions, please refer to the information provided for the EnBW Group. The annual net profit which indicates the company's ability to pay a dividend is an important performance indicator for EnBW AG. 68 Management report » EnBW AG EnBW Report 2014 The full amount of the extraordinary result comprises profits We will propose to the Annual General Meeting on 29 April from the merger of subsidiaries. 2015 that a dividend of €0.69 per share be distributed from the retained earnings of EnBW AG. As of 31 December 2014, a total The taxes exclusively contain current taxes as no deferred of 270,855,027 shares were entitled to a dividend. If the Annual taxes were accounted for due to the active surplus of deferred General Meeting approves this proposal, the total amount tax assets. The option of recognising deferred tax assets was distributed by EnBW AG for the financial 2014 year will be not exercised for the active surplus of deferred tax assets. €186.9 million. Condensed income statement of EnBW AG in € million1 2014 2013 Revenue 24,106.6 0.0 Cost of materials -23,323.4 0.0 Amortisation and depreciation -712.7 -2.9 Other operating result -384.3 33.4 Operating result -313.8 30.5 Financial result -691.6 -853.4 Extraordinary result 2,237.2 235.6 Tax 17.6 -186.1 Annual net profit/loss 1,249.4 -773.4 1 In accordance with German commercial law. Net assets of EnBW AG The impairment of loans to affiliated companies results mainly from the loss of loans from EnBW AG to the merged companies Merger effects as of 1 January 2014 to the amount of €1,545.7 million. In contrast, an addition in loans to the amount of €276.1 million was recorded. The mergers of EOG, ETG, EZG, SIS and VTR had significant effects on the balance sheet of EnBW AG as of 1 January 2014. The increase in securities held as non-current assets to the The most important effects of the mergers on the balance amount of €761.1 million is attributable to the takeover of sheet will be presented below: shares in investment assets. Non-current assets increased by a total of €2,632.8 million. A The current assets of EnBW AG increased in total due to the total of €1,301.3 million is attributable to intangible assets. mergers by €3,521.5 million. A total of €2,406.6 million is atThese primarily include customer bases to the amount of tributable to receivables and other assets and €913.8 million to €592.7 million, electricity procurement agreements to the inventories. amount of €427.2 million and goodwill to the amount of €230.1 million. Trade receivables primarily concern accruals for electricity and gas deliveries not yet invoiced and receivables from the sale of In the case of property, plant and equipment, the increase of emission allowances. The increase in other assets mainly re€2,280.8 million mainly results from additions from the genfers to cash securities and services paid to the EEX and ICE eration sector. A total of €711.8 million of these additions was from variation margins. These significant changes in the two attributable to technical equipment and machines, €655.9 balance sheet items result from the takeover of the trading million to payments on account and fixed assets under conbusiness. The additions to inventories mainly comprise nuclestruction and €623.5 million to land and buildings. ar fuel, coal, gas and other raw, auxiliary and operating materials from the generation and trading sector. The decrease in financial assets to the amount of €949.3 million is primarily due to the impairment of shares in affiliated The increase in prepaid expenses to the amount of €239.6 entities to the amount of €568.7 million. This impairment million is mainly attributable to 2014 earnings components relates to the fall in the carrying amount of the merged comfrom EEX futures for the trading sector to the amount of €138.1 panies to the amount of €2,189.4 million and was offset to million. In addition, emission allowances for delivery in 2013 some extent by the takeover of shares in affiliated companies have been rolled into the emission allowances for delivery in to the amount of €1,620.7 million. 2014 to 2018, for the use in power plants in subsequent years. EnBW Report 2014 Management report » EnBW AG 69 In terms of the resulting earnings components, active prepaid At the end of the financial year, EnBW reported shares in expenses to the amount of €70.5 million were accrued by affiliated entities to the amount of €11,981.3 million, securities 31 December 2013, which were reported for EnBW AG on from non-current assets to the amount of €4,781.4 million and 1 January 2014. equity investments to the amount of €2,300.3 million. Equity increased by €2,179.0 million. This is due to the retained Trade receivables to the amount of €1,709.2 million mainly earnings that contain the merger result of the same amount. comprise receivables for consumption accruals for electricity and gas deliveries not yet invoiced. Provisions increased by €8,473.2 million, which comprises the following main items: The liquidity of EnBW AG mainly consists of positive bank balances, which are invested as fixed-term deposits to the Provisions in the nuclear power sector (less the payments amount of €1,615.0 million. made) arising due to public law obligations and requirements in the operating licences as well as contractual nuclear obligaProvisions for the nuclear power sector to the amount of tions, which will primarily cover the costs of intermediate €6,238.1 million are recorded for EnBW AG, which arise due to storage, personnel costs and the cost of decommissioning and public law obligations and requirements in the operating dismantling the plants, to the amount of €5,722.0 million were licences. taken over due to the mergers. Alongside these obligations, provisions in the generation sector that were mainly attributFurthermore, provisions for pensions and similar obligations able to provisions for uncertain liabilities to the amount of to the amount of €3,549.6 million combine obligations from €423.3 million and obligations for CO2 allowances to the the company pension scheme and other company agreements amount of €96.5 million were also taken over. made by major subsidiaries and EnBW AG. The resulting annual expenses for retirement benefits are paid by the Provisions for outstanding invoices to the amount of €1,864.9 subsidiaries concerned in each case. million were also added, of which €1,827.9 million is attributable to the trading sector. In addition, provisions from the Of the liabilities totalling €14,275.6 million, €7,669.4 million trading sector for onerous contracts to the amount of €173.4 have a term of more than one year. Overall, there are liabilities million were also taken over due to the mergers. of €9,973.3 million to affiliated entities, which primarily result from internal Group settlement transactions within the Liabilities decreased in total by €4,934.0 million. While the framework of the centralised financial and liquidity manageliabilities from bonds and to banks have not changed, the ment, as well as from loan agreements. increase in trade payables to the amount of €64.1 million, for received payments for orders to the amount of €50.7 million Non-current liabilities exist to the amount of €4,196.8 million and other liabilities to the amount of €676.3 million offset to to the Dutch financing subsidiary EnBW International Finance some extent the clear decrease in liabilities to affiliated comB.V. as part of the EMTN programme, to the amount of €2.0 panies to the amount of €5,725.1 million. This decrease relates billion from the issuing of two hybrid bonds and to the to the liabilities that existed on the part of EnBW AG to the amount of €1.0 billion from loan agreements with credit merged subsidiaries. institutions. The increase in passive prepaid expenses to the amount of The non-current provisions from the nuclear power sector and €667.3 million primarily comprises the 2014 earnings compofor pensions and similar obligations to the amount of €9,787.7 nents from EEX futures to the amount of €483.4 million for the million are mainly offset by shares in investment assets, which trading sector, a one-off payment for a waste disposal contract are recorded as securities for non-current assets. These two to the amount of €59.4 million and advance payments for mixed funds focusing on assets in the eurozone countries are electricity supply contracts to the amount of €52.6 million. mainly direct or indirect investments in fixed-interest securities and shares. After €1,550.0 million was invested in Net assets as of 31 December 2014 the funds in the reporting year, the total carrying amount of the funds on the reporting date was €3,796.0 million. FurtherAfter the completion of the mergers, the net assets of EnBW AG more, these long-term obligations are offset by directly held as of 31 December 2014 will be significantly influenced by its fixed and variable interest securities for the non-current non-current assets, particularly the financial assets, its receivassets, as well as in other investments, which had a total ables and other assets, as well as by cash and cash equivalents. carrying amount on the reporting date to the amount of This is primarily offset by provisions from the nuclear power €1,696.8 million. sector and for pensions and similar obligations, as well as noncurrent liabilities. 70 Management report » EnBW AG EnBW Report 2014 The goal is to cover these non-current pension and nuclear The liquidity of EnBW AG to the amount of €1,850.3 million on power provisions with appropriate financial assets within an the reporting date guarantees the solvency of the company for economically feasible time period. Overall, the non-current the payment of dividends and current liabilities from the assets to the amount of €23,825.7 million are offset by longoperative business. term debt to the amount of €17,457.1 million. Balance sheet of EnBW AG in € million1 31/12/2014 01/01/2014 31/12/2013 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 1,225.0 1,305.0 3.7 Property, plant and equipment 1,855.7 2,287.1 6.3 Financial assets 20,745.0 17,859.8 18,809.1 23,825.7 21,451.9 18,819.1 Current assets Inventories 834.0 913.8 0.0 Receivables and other assets 3,651.4 4,143.9 1,737.3 Securities 921.8 857.8 670.8 Cash and cash equivalents 1,850.3 1,494.5 1,480.4 7,257.5 7,410.0 3,888.5 Prepaid expenses 193.2 267.4 27.8 Surplus from offsetting 35.1 0.5 0.1 31,311.5 29,129.8 22,735.5 Equity and liabilities Equity Subscribed capital 708.1 708.1 708.1 Treasury shares -14.7 -14.7 -14.7 Issued capital (693.4) (693.4) (693.4) Capital reserve 776.0 776.0 776.0 Revenue reserves 1,161.5 761.5 761.5 Retained earnings 849.5 2,366.0 187.0 3,480.4 4,596.9 2,417.9 Extraordinary items 8.8 8.8 0.0 Provisions 13,097.6 12,853.8 4,380.6 Liabilities 14,275.6 10,992.1 15,926.1 Prepaid expenses 449.1 678.2 10.9 31,311.5 29,129.8 22,735.5 1 In accordance with German commercial law. EnBW Report 2014 Management report » EnBW AG 71 Financial position of EnBW AG Overall assessment of the economic The liquidity of EnBW AG increased by €369.9 million from situation of EnBW AG and the €1,480.4 million to €1,850.3 million in comparison to the development of EnBW AG previous year. In our judgement, the development of the asset, financial and The most significant business transactions that had an effect earnings situation of EnBW AG as of 31 December 2014 is on the financial position of EnBW AG in the reporting year will satisfactory. The 2014 annual net profit stands at be summarised below. €1,249.4 million and is, as expected, significantly influenced by extraordinary items. Significant extraordinary items included Liquidity increased due to the issuing of a hybrid loan with a merger gains to the amount of €2,237.2 million offset by higher volume of €1.0 billion that matures on 2 April 2076 and interest expenses for non-current provisions to the amount of includes repayment rights for EnBW AG every five years, €661.9 million, as well as unscheduled write-downs on starting on 2 April 2021. property, plant and equipment and financial assets to the amount of €600.9 million in total. The net annual profit Furthermore, bonds with a total volume of €750.0 million and adjusted for extraordinary items stands at around €330 million with terms from 2026 to 2044 have been issued via the Dutch and is thus above the expected result of around €200 million. financing subsidiary EnBW International Finance B.V. as part This deviation was due to improved business operations and of the EMTN programme. lower tax expenses in comparison to the forecast. Interest for the EMTN programme to the amount of The ability of EnBW AG to pay a dividend for the 2014 financial €173.2 million was paid via EnBW International Finance B.V. year is thus guaranteed. Payments to the amount of €213.7 million were made for In 2015, we expect an annual net loss in the region of between investments in intangible assets and property, plant and €1.1 billion and €1.3 billion. The reason for this annual net loss equipment. will be higher interest expenses for non-current provisions. A seven-year average interest rate is applied to the pension and The financial assets included investments of €1,550.0 million nuclear power provisions. As a result of the low-interest phase, in fund assets made in the reporting year. the average interest rate will fall in the future. In 2015, we expect a resulting impact on earnings of between €1.3 billion Significant additions to the shares in affiliated entities led to a and €1.5 billion. After it has been adjusted for this impact on cash outflow to the amount of €286.4 million, while earnings, the annual net profit will be around €150 million. €233.7 million was paid for the acquisition of investments in the reporting year. In 2016 and 2017, we expect further negative effects on earnings due to the falling average interest rate, which will The company paid €289.0 million in relation to the nuclear however decrease each year. fuel rod tax. As part of the dividend payments, a total of €186.9 million was Risks and opportunities distributed to the shareholders of EnBW AG. As the business performance, economic situation and risks and The other cash flows resulting from the operating business of opportunities relating to the future development of EnBW AG EnBW AG and its subsidiaries balance payments in and out of do not deviate from the business performance, economic the bank accounts of EnBW AG as part of the internal Group situation and risks and opportunities relating to the future cash pooling system within the framework of the central development of the EnBW Group, the management report of financing and liquidity management. EnBW AG is combined with that of the EnBW Group ( p. 74 ff.). 72 Management report » EnBW AG EnBW Report 2014 Comments on reporting EnBW share and dividend policy The consolidated financial statements of EnBW AG are prepared As a result of the small proportion of EnBW shares in free float in accordance with Sec. 315a (1) of the German Commercial code ( www.enbw.com/shareholder-structure), events on the fi(HGB) using the International Financial Reporting Standards nancial markets and the development of the DAX generally (IFRS) set by the International Accounting Standards Board have no influence on the development of the EnBW share (IASB), the adoption of which is mandatory in the EU as of the price. Nevertheless, the energy policy conditions remain reporting date. challenging for German energy supply companies due to the Energiewende. Accordingly, the price of EnBW shares was As a vertically integrated energy supply company in the sense €26.18 at the start of 2014 yet fell by the end of the year to of the EnWG, EnBW AG engages in other activities within €25.60 ( www.enbw.com/stock-chart). the electricity sector, other activities within the gas sector and other activities outside of the electricity and gas sectors in The trust placed in EnBW by capital market participants is accordance with Sec. 6b (3) sentence 3 and sentence 4 of the based on the value generated by the company. Against this EnWG. backdrop, EnBW pursues the goal of disclosing a positive free cash flow in each financial year and refraining from building up any additional net debt. The amount of the dividend is Dependent company declaration based on the earnings performance of the company, the scope of the investment programme, as well as the volume of net Pursuant to Sec. 312 of the AktG, the Board of Management of debt and the dynamic leverage ratio. Depending on these EnBW AG prepared a dependent company report for the 2014 parameters, EnBW strives to always pay out between 40% and financial year. This report details relationships with affiliated 60% of adjusted Group net profit. If the Annual General entities, and closes with the following declaration: “In the legal Meeting approves this proposal, the dividend payout ratio for transactions listed in the dependent company report, and the 2014 financial year will be 39.0%. according to the circumstances that were known to us when those legal transactions were performed, our company received appropriate consideration for each legal transaction and was not placed at a disadvantage. We did not take, or refrain from taking, any reportable actions motivated by or in the interest of the controlling companies or their affiliated entities.” EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Overall assessment of the economic situation of the Group 73 Overall assessment of the economic situation of the Group The energy market in Germany is experiencing a period of were issued on the market in 2014 were very well received. Due profound change. This is affecting the political and regulatory mainly to the increased pension provisions as a result of a environment, the structures of supply and demand, as well as reduction in the interest rate, the adjusted net debt of the the technological demands placed on the entire energy system. Group as of 31 December 2014 increased by 9.8% to The energy landscape in Germany is becoming more €7,982.6 million compared to the figure one year earlier. The decentralised and sustainable. Accordingly, EnBW has aligned dynamic leverage ratio increased from 3.27 to 3.68. The equity its strategy based on the motto “Energiewende. Safe. Hands ratio fell from 17.0% to 11.9% compared to the previous year's on.” and adapted its business model to these new demands in reporting date. All three important rating agencies confirmed order to secure the future viability of the company and tap into the A rating issued to EnBW in 2014. this potential for growth. The expansion of renewable energies, restructuring of the grids and the customer-oriented extension As part of the implementation of the EnBW 2020 strategy, of the service portfolio are the hallmarks of this strategy. EnBW utilises a goal and performance management system across the five dimensions finance, strategy, customers, In the 2014 financial year, EnBW has resolutely pushed ahead employees and environment ( p. 23 ff.). It defines clear and with its EnBW 2020 strategy. This can be clearly observed, for measurable goals for the year 2020. In the 2014 financial year, example, in the significant increase in investment, of which EnBW made important decisions to lay the foundations for the largest proportion was attributable to investments in the achieving these goals. In the customers goal dimension we Renewable Energies segment. Operating activities have largely achieved the targets set for 2014. However, our brand developed as expected at the Group level: The adjusted Yello is performing below our expectations due to the EBITDA for the EnBW Group fell in 2014 compared to the competitive market. In the employees goal dimension we were previous year by 2.6%. At the segment level, the performance not able to achieve our forecasted targets for either of the key of the company fell short of some forecasts. The situation was performance indicators. Based on the key performance also impacted by considerable extraordinary expenses. As a indicator for the environment goal dimension, it was not result of the significantly poorer prospects for the long-term possible to achieve the predicted increase due mainly to development of electricity prices, it was necessary during the delays in the progress of our project for the offshore wind course of the year to make unscheduled write-downs on the farm EnBW Baltic 2 and connecting it up to the grid. generation portfolio and increase provisions for onerous contracts for electricity procurement agreements which no From the perspective of the Board of Management of EnBW, longer cover costs. In total, there was a Group net loss the 2014 financial year can be evaluated on three levels: attributable to EnBW AG shareholders for the 2014 financial year of €450.7 million, compared with a net profit of › In view of the challenging environment, EnBW performed €51.0 million in the previous year. well in terms of its operating activities. › Extraordinary items placed a heavy burden in 2014 not only The financial position of the company remains sound. The on the operating result, due primarily to impairment losses solvency of the EnBW Group was ensured at all times on the generation portfolio, but also on the adjusted net throughout the 2014 financial year thanks to the company's debt, mainly caused by the reduction in the discounting rate available liquidity, a positive free cash flow and the external applied to pension provisions and nuclear power provisions. sources available for financing. EnBW is an attractive issuer on › EnBW made considerable progress in the implementation of the capital market: A hybrid bond and four other bonds that its strategy. 74 Management report » Report on risks and opportunities EnBW Report 2014 Report on risks and opportunities Principles of the integrated risk and well as to ensure the appropriateness and functionality of opportunity management system related processes. Risk management involves measures for avoiding, reducing or transferring risk, as well as measures for managing or tolerating risk in the financial statements. EnBW The integrated risk and opportunity management system defines a risk/opportunity as an event that might cause a (iRM) is based on the internationally established COSO II potential non-attainment/over-attainment of strategic, framework standard for risk management systems that span operational, financial and compliance goals in the future. In entire companies. The iRM system aims, through a holistic and order to identify and categorise risks and opportunities, the integrated approach, to effectively and efficiently identify, risk and opportunity map that is anchored throughout the evaluate and manage risks and opportunities (including Group is utilised. monitoring) and report on the risk/opportunity position, as Risk and opportunity map Strategic Operational Financial Compliance Business Mankind and Financial Infrastructure Market Lending Liquidity activity environment reporting Plants/ Personnel/ Market price Financial Active Governance Models grids/ labour Counterparties Cash flow in general accounting corruption storage market Market Occupational development/ Business Locations/ health and Convertibility Passive Interest Countries Tax society trends processes buildings safety/ health into cash corruption protection Refinancing IT Environmental Technology Operations Margin Issuers for own Debtors Antitrust law management protection account Forecast Products/ Information Contaminated Data Politics (volume/ Collateral Creditors contracts security sites protection structure) Weather/ Asset Competition Projects natural Confidentiality accounting phenomena Approvals/ Criminality/ Clusters/ licenses/ sabotage/ Consolidation General fraud concentration patents terrorism Legislation/ M&A/ Service Financial regulation/ investments billing fraud litigation Procurement fraud EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Report on risks and opportunities 75 Structure and processes of the is determined in each case based on quantitative and quaintegrated risk and opportunity litative criteria for each of the four dimensions: strategic, operational, financial and compliance. management system In this process, the probability of occurrence is firstly defined based on six levels. Structure and processes of the iRM system iRM levels for the probability of occurrence Audit committee (Supervisory Board) Full Board of Management of EnBW AG Description Level for the probability of occurrence Supervisory body Risk committee Very low 0–10% where necessary Low 10–30% Managers of Central Risk Management Medium 30–50% business entities / units & ICS functional unit High 50–70% iRM managers of Very high 70–90% business entities / units Almost certain 90–100% Risk owner The risks and opportunities allocated to relevance class five or Formal reporting Coordination of Group reporting above are generally included in the Group risk report. Insofar as a financial evaluation is possible, this corresponds to a value of The structures and processes of the iRM system are anchored €50 million within the medium-term planning period. Longthroughout the Group in all relevant business entities, term risks and opportunities that are of particular importance business units and functional units. The central Risk are then added. The reports are submitted on a quarterly basis Management & ICS functional unit is responsible for in standardised form. In the case of any significant change in specifying methods, processes and systems for the whole the risks, a special report is immediately issued. Group, determining the risk and opportunity position of the Group and for reporting. The central steering body is the risk Those risks relevant to the Group risk report are generally committee, which – with the involvement of specially selected evaluated using quantitative methods (e.g. scenario business units/entities – is responsible for clarifying relevant techniques and distribution functions) for the purpose of issues from various Group perspectives, as well as for stochastic modelling. Any possible effects on the adjusted determining selected top risks/opportunities. EBITDA (with any associated impact on the dynamic leverage ratio and the ROCE) and the adjusted net debt iRM relevance filter (with any associated impact on the dynamic leverage ratio) are considered. Alongside these financial effects, risks and opportunities can also have an impact on the other key Relevance class Effects on the strategic, operational, performance indicators ( p. 23 ff.). financial or compliance goals Any risks with a probability of occurrence of up to 50% are 0 none subject to an individual review to determine whether they Area/departmental level should be taken into account in the next planning session. 1 very low Risks with a probability of occurrence of over 50% are generally taken into account in the planning process and, as 2 low far as possible, appropriate accounting measures are taken in Business entity/unit level the consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS. 3 medium 4 high The iRM is regularly checked by the Group Auditing Department and a report presented to the Supervisory Board. Group reporting level 5 very high The project to further interlink risk management – from an 6 significantly organisational, methodological and process standpoint – with the internal control system (ICS) that is anchored within the For the purposes of evaluation, all risks and opportunities are company's business processes was pursued further in the firstly assessed with the help of the iRM relevance filter before financial year with the launch of a pilot scheme involving a and after consideration has been taken of both implemented new IT solution designed to support the iRM. and envisaged management instruments. The relevance class 76 Management report » Report on risks and opportunities EnBW Report 2014 Structure and processes of the Group, as well as procedures and deadlines for the individual accounting-related internal accounting processes. An annual control cycle monitors whether the documentation is up to date and also checks the control system appropriateness and functionality of the controls; in addition, it identifies and evaluates any control weaknesses that may General arise. Along with the ICS that is anchored within the company's A risk-based selection process defines relevant business business processes via the iRM, an accounting-related ICS was entities/units, significant items in the financial statements established at EnBW that is designed to ensure proper and and processes including their associated control measures. reliable financial reporting. In order to guarantee that this ICS This selection process is based on quantitative and qualitative is effective, the appropriateness and functionality of the risk indicators. Group-wide control mechanisms are tested regularly at an individual business entity and Group level. If any existing Phases of accounting-related ICS weaknesses are identified in the control system and considered relevant to the financial statements, they are promptly remedied. This accounting-related ICS methodology 6. Declaration on 1. Selection is based on the COSO II standard – an internationally accepted ICS 1 and reporting procedure framework for internal control systems. Once the control mechanisms have reached a standardised and monitored degree of maturity, and no material control 5. Consolidation 2. Compilation, weaknesses are identified, the accounting-related ICS is deemed of results documentation to be effective. The materiality of control weaknesses is measured as the probability of occurrence and the extent to 4. Evaluation of 3. Assessment of which there could be a potential misstatement in connection to control shortcomings control activities those financial statement items concerned. The accountingrelated risk management system defines measures for identifying and assessing risks that jeopardise the preparation of comThe defined processes and controls are recorded in a central pliant financial statements as part of the accounting-related ICS. documentation system. The effectiveness of the various control activities is then assessed. This includes analysing Despite having established an ICS, there is no absolute whether the control activities are generally appropriate for the certainty that it will attain its objectives or that it will be purpose of reducing the risk of erroneous financial reporting. complete. In exceptional cases, the effectiveness of the ICS can In addition, regular monitoring of the implementation of the be impaired by unforeseeable changes in the control environcontrols and their documentation is carried out to review the ment, fraud or human error. functionality of the defined controls. If any control weaknesses are identified, their effect on the financial Structure statements is evaluated. The results are reported at both a business entity/unit and Group level. Furthermore, the Group The accounting-related ICS at EnBW is organised at both a Auditing Department performs ICS reviews as part of its riskcentralised and decentralised level. All important business oriented audit planning. entities, business units and functional units have an ICS officer. These officers monitor the effectiveness of the ICS and evaluate any control weaknesses that may arise. A report on Risk and opportunity position the effectiveness of the ICS is prepared on an annual basis, which is approved by the management of the business entity The following diagram illustrates how the risk and opportunity or unit. The ICS officer at Group level assists the business position is reported to the Board of Management and the audit entities/units with the implementation of standardised committee of the Supervisory Board. On the basis of the procedures and also consolidates collected data. individual evaluation of the top risks/opportunities and a subsequent quantitative aggregation of data, the diagram Processes illustrates how these themes correlate with each other and what effects they could have – based on the relative level of Standardised procedures ensure completeness and consistency risk/opportunity at a high probability of occurrence – on the in the preparation of the financial statements and financial adjusted EBITDA and/or the adjusted net debt relative to the reporting. The accounting-related ICS defines controls designed current planning period. The risks are depicted after the risk to ensure compliance with the accounting policies used by the limitation measures have been implemented. EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Report on risks and opportunities 77 Top risks / opportunities (as of 31/12/2014) Containing risks Managing opportunities / risks 1 Divestitures High 2 Improvements in efficiency 3 Company pension scheme 5 4 Market prices for financial investments 5 Discount rate applied to pension provisions 3 6 Competitive environment (electricity and gas) 2 7 Year-end balance on the EEG bank account 12 8 New construction project EnBW Baltic 2 9 Nuclear power provisions – ultimate storage 6 Risk continuum 10 Nuclear power provisions – interim storage 11 Availability of power plants 13 12 Changes to interest rates on nuclear power provisions 8 14 13 Hedging 1 14 Margin payments 15 15 Long-term gas agreements 11 Sales 10 4 Grids 9 Renewable Energies 7 Generation and Trading Other / Consolidation Screening Seizing opportunities Opportunities continuum Newly added in 2014 Low High The following top risks and opportunities were added in 2014: impact on the key performance indicator dynamic leverage ratio. We currently identify a relatively low to medium level of risk and › Improvements in efficiency (top risk/opportunity): In the opportunity in this area. 2014 financial year, Group-wide projects designed to make further improvements in efficiency were initiated: the Operational risks and opportunities achievement of their goals is still currently subject to risk. 2 Improvements in efficiency: EnBW aims to introduce › EU sanctions against Russia: As a result of the conflict in further measures for creating more efficient structures and the Ukraine, the EU imposed sanctions against Russian processes and to achieve an improvement in earnings in the institutions, companies and individuals during the course mid three-digit million euro range by 2020. These measures of 2014 could have a negative impact on the business will already take effect to a large extent in 2017. However, there activities of EnBW. is currently still a risk in the mid double-digit million euro › Price adjustment regulations in the Basic Supply range in the financial years 2015 and 2016 that the structural Ordinances: As a result of decisions taken by the European and value chain projects forming part of these measures fail to Court of Justice (ECJ), there may be risks associated with fully achieve the planned earnings improvement in the key sales in the retail customer sector. performance indicator adjusted EBITDA. The level of risk will › Health, Safety, Security, Environment – HSSE: In the 2014 decrease as the conditions for realising these earnings financial year, there were, as in previous years, no relevant improvements are established. Therefore, we currently still risks from a Group perspective, this topic has nevertheless identify overall a rather higher level of risk than opportunity. been included for the first time for the purposes of establishing an integrated, external reporting standard. EU sanctions against Russia: In the Generation and Trading segment, these sanctions could have a negative impact on Further details about the top risks/opportunities presented in existing business relations with Russian companies. In the the diagram and their potential effects on the relevant Grids segment, it is not possible to completely exclude the risk performance indicators are listed in the following section. that EnBW will no longer be able to supply gas due to an extended interruption in the delivery of gas from Russia. In the Cross-segment risks and opportunities Sales segment, there is an increased risk of default by German (Other/Consolidation) companies that are active in the Russian Federation due to a possible drop in sales and also the possible risk of shortfalls in Strategic risks and opportunities electricity and gas deliveries as a result of corresponding 1 Divestitures: Based on past experience, our divestiture cutbacks in production. In terms of the financial assets of portfolio is subject to uncertainties with respect to the realisation EnBW, the broad level of diversification means that there is of reduced or surplus revenue, as well as to time delays for the currently a very low probability at most of an increase in the completion of these transactions. If the proceeds from these risk of default on isolated bonds from German, Austrian and divestitures do not meet our medium-term planning goals, this Russian issuers of the overall portfolio of EnBW. could have an effect in the mid double-digit million euro range on the adjusted net debt in 2016, as well as having an associated 78 Management report » Report on risks and opportunities EnBW Report 2014 Legal risks: With respect to our contractual relationships with Personnel risks: There is a risk that the EnBW will not have a customers, business partners and employees, EnBW is currentsufficient number of employees at its disposal with the ly engaged in some legal proceedings and other legal disputes. necessary qualifications or skills. When recruiting in the To a lesser extent, we are also conducting legal proceedings relevant target groups, for example, this risk is primarily due relating to topics in the area of corporate law. Adequate to competition from other companies on the labour market. accounting provisions have been made for these risks in In addition, this risk is exacerbated by demographic developcoordination with the specialist departments concerned and ments and the stricter conditions facing the energy industry. the legal department. As a consequence, there is also an On the basis of ongoing analyses, we receive information on opportunity of positive effects on earnings if the provisions areas in particular need of action. We believe that regular made for these legal risks can be released once again. A risk to anonymous employee surveys are an important tool for the amount of €1,620.3 million, which is reported under seizing opportunities early in the areas of employee contingent liabilities and other financial obligations, exists for development and employee loyalty ( p. 61 ff.). The Employee claims legally made against EnBW where it is predicted that Commitment Index (ECI) is used as a key performance the counterparty has little chance of winning the case. In indicator within the employees goal dimension. addition, various court cases, official investigations or proceedings and other claims are pending against EnBW. The Health, Safety, Security, Environment – HSSE: chances of these actions being successful is, however, considered very remote and thus they are not reported under › Health and occupational safety: In order to appropriately contingent liabilities and other financial obligations. Major combat risks in the areas of occupational safety and health disputes currently include: care and to protect employees as well as possible against any adverse consequences, the EnBW Group utilises a › EWE/VNG claims for damages: In May 2013, EWE submitted comprehensive set of organisational and procedural an arbitration request to the German Institution of measures such as workplace-specific risk analyses. EnBW also Arbitration against EnBW in which it is making a claim for views these measures as an opportunity to preserve the damages of around €500 million plus interest of approxicapacity of its employees to do their work and to maintain the mately €339 million. The justification for this claim is the position of EnBW as an attractive employer. Occupational assertion that through its behaviour EnBW prevented the safety is measured in the form of the key performance Annual General Meeting of VNG giving approval to a share indicator LTIF within the employees goal dimension ( p. 61). transfer in December 2011. In the opinion of EnBW, there is › Safety: Those risks caused by external and internal factors no basis for the claims made by EWE and thus there is only a are counteracted by EnBW using an emergency and crisis low probability in 2015 that this risk will have negative management system that has been implemented effects on the adjusted net debt with any associated impact throughout the Group and includes a comprehensive level of on the key performance indicator dynamic leverage ratio. organisational and procedural measures. Despite this functioning management system, it is not possible to com› 3 Company pension scheme: Legal proceedings are still pletely prevent crisis and emergency situations occurring pending before the relevant labour courts in relation to the (with their associated damage). EnBW ensures that the risks reorganisation of the company pension scheme at EnBW. posed by crisis and emergency situations are combated There is a general risk in the mid three-digit million euro quickly, effectively and with a coordinated approach through range that the legal proceedings could go against EnBW and the use of regular crisis management exercises and other this could have a negative impact on earnings. The chances measures. All of these measures have a positive effect on the of success are very positive according to appraisals by EnBW key performance indicator supply reliability (SAIDI) in the and those lawyers advising the company. The chances of customers goal dimension ( p. 61). success have been taken into account in the medium-term › Environmental protection: Risks in the area of environmental planning, which has identified a low level of opportunity protection are countered by EnBW using an environmental and a high level of risk. Overall, there is only a low promanagement system certified according to ISO 14001 and bability in 2015 and 2016 that this high level of risk will have implemented on a Group-wide basis ( p. 63 ff.). Through its negative effects on the adjusted net debt with any numerous activities for the protection of the environment, associated impact on the key performance indicator nature and species, EnBW also aims to take advantage of the dynamic leverage ratio. opportunities offered by climate protection and resource efficiency. These measures should also have a positive effect on the key performance indicator increasing brand attractiveness in the customers goal dimension ( p. 61). EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Report on risks and opportunities 79 Financial risks and opportunities markets as they do not ensure customers are informed in good 4 Market prices of financial investments: The financial time about the reason, conditions and scope of price changes investments managed by the asset management system before they come into force. In the case of future price changes, are exposed to price changes and other loss risks as a result of the legislators have implemented the requirements for the volatile financial market environment ( p. 51 ff.). If these transparency stipulated under European law as part of the risks lead to a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value reform to the GVV (Transparency Ordinance) – which came of these assets, this needs to be recognised in the form of into force on 30 October 2014. The ECJ did not limit its ruling write-downs on those securities affected. In the 2014 financial just to future events. It is now the responsibility of the German year, impairment losses stood at €1.2 million (previous year: Federal Court of Justice (BGH) to clarify the legal consequences €7.5 million). As far as the market prices of financial under German law and the effects at a customer level. These investments are concerned, we currently identify a high level issues have sector-wide significance because until this new of opportunity and only a low level of risk due to broad legal regulation was issued, all basic suppliers were obligated to diversification across various investment classes. The value use the regulations in the Basic Supply Ordinances that have at risk determined per security as of the reporting date is €70.5 now been challenged by the ECJ. A decision by the BGH is million (95%/10 days). This value stood at €48.6 million in 2013 expected in the middle of the current financial year. In terms of (95%/10 days). This could also have a positive impact on the any possible related risks to sales in the retail customer sector, key performance indicator dynamic leverage ratio in 2015 and it is necessary to wait for further developments. 2016 through corresponding effects on adjusted net debt in the very high three-digit million euro range. Financial risks and opportunities 6 Competitive environment: Customers are very willing to 5 Discount rate applied to pension provisions: At the end of switch suppliers. Price and margin risks exist in the low the 2014 financial year, the discount rate was 2.20%, which was double-digit million euro range if energy costs (such as EEG down 1.55 percentage points on the interest rate at the end of cost allocations) cannot be passed on to customers. In this the previous year (3.75%). This resulted in the present value of context, we currently identify a low level of opportunity and a the defined pension benefit obligations increasing by rather high level of risk. This could also negatively impact the €1,465.0 million. The uncertain future development of interest key performance indicator adjusted EBITDA in both 2015 and rates with its impact on pension provisions may have either a 2016. As part of its EnBW 2020 strategy, EnBW identifies good positive or negative effect on the adjusted net debt. In this long-term opportunities in the development of Customer context, we currently identify a low level of opportunity and a segment-specific system and complete solutions. Alongside high level of risk. This could also have a negative impact on the the traditional supply of electricity and gas to customers, key performance indicator dynamic leverage ratio in 2015 and EnBW also sees future opportunities in offering additional 2016 through effects on the adjusted net debt in the mid to innovative solutions such as energy technology in the home, very high three-digit million euro range. corporate energy efficiency and electromobility, with corresponding earnings contributions for EnBW. This could Impairment risks: For investments that are to be stated at also have a potentially positive impact on the key performarket value using share prices, a risk of impairment exists if mance indicator adjusted EBITDA. share prices fall. In contrast, there is a possible opportunity that the value of these investments will increase due to Grids segment positive developments in share prices. Therefore, this could have either a positive or negative impact on the key Strategic risks and opportunities performance indicator dynamic leverage ratio in 2015 if such High-voltage DC transmission technology projects (HVDC): investments are held within the reserve funds. Our transmission system operator (TSO), TransnetBW GmbH, plans to set up new high-voltage DC transmission lines with Rating: We identify a general risk that the rating agencies may other TSOs. In these projects (ULTRANET up to 2019 and downgrade the credit rating of EnBW if the economic and SuedLink up to 2022), there is currently a high risk of potential political conditions deteriorate further or EnBW cannot fulfil delays and additional costs after 2015, as well as the risk that the expectations of the agencies ( p. 53 f.). The credit standing the necessity for these transmission lines might no longer be of EnBW is measured using the key performance indicator confirmed in a new Network Development Plan (NDP). dynamic leverage ratio. Operational risks and opportunities Sales segment Price controls under cartel law: In September 2014, EnBW received a price reduction order for the water prices in Operational risks and opportunities Stuttgart from the EKartB with retroactive effect back to Price adjustment regulations in the Basic Supply Ordinances August 2007 and, as a result, adjusted its provisions on the for Electricity and Gas (GVV): The European Court of Justice balance sheet for the Group entity responsible for this (ECJ) decided in two rulings on 23 October 2014 that the business – Netze BW GmbH. If the price reduction order previous price adjustment regulations in the Basic Supply becomes legally binding, this could also have other negative Ordinances for Electricity and Gas (GVV) did not conform to effects on the adjusted net debt in the low three-digit million European law. They violate the requirement for transparency in euro range and an associated impact on the key performance the European directives for the internal electricity and gas indicator dynamic leverage ratio. 80 Management report » Report on risks and opportunities EnBW Report 2014 Water concession in Stuttgart: In the court proceedings 10 Interim storage: As a result of the planned transfer of dealing with the takeover of the water concession, the City of nuclear fuel rods from Obrigheim to Neckarwestheim, there is Stuttgart and EnBW are striving to reach an amicable a risk, on the one hand, of delays to the implementation of the settlement. The responsible chamber of the Regional Court project and, on the other hand, of the possible failure of the presented a proposal to both sides in January 2015 to be used project. In addition, there is a risk of a delay in the return of as the basis for the settlement negotiations. The court waste to the interim storage facilities with possible additional proceedings have been suspended for the duration of these costs as a result of the waste being stored for a longer period of negotiations. Therefore, there remains a risk of losing the time in Great Britain and France, as well as the risk of further concession without receipt of adequate compensation. costs for approval and authorisation procedures. We currently identify a low level of opportunity and risk in this area. Financial risks and opportunities However, this could also have negative effects in 2015 and 2016 7 Year-end balance on the EEG bank account: As of the on the adjusted net debt in a high double-digit million euro reporting date on 31 December 2014, a net surplus in the mid range with an associated impact on the key performance three-digit million euro range existed on the EEG bank indicator dynamic leverage ratio. account, which temporarily relieved the net debt of EnBW. We continue to identify a relatively high level of opportunity and Nuclear energy in France: The nuclear power plant in a low level of risk in this area due to the EEG cost allocations Fessenheim in France could be finally removed from the grid defined for 2015. As a result, this could have a positive effect in at the end of 2016. There is a general risk that EnBW will have 2015 on adjusted net debt in the mid three-digit million euro to share the costs of decommissioning the power plant. In the range and thus also on the key performance indicator opinion of EnBW, however, the power plant operator is not dynamic leverage ratio. legally entitled to claim for these costs. The matter is currently being clarified. The risk of possibly having to invest in the Renewable Energies segment modernisation of the power plant and any resulting higher electricity procurement expenses for EnBW continues to exist, Operational risks and opportunities just as it does for the power plant at Cattenom. 8 New construction project EnBW Baltic 2: Regarding the offshore wind farm EnBW Baltic 2 that is currently under Operational risks and opportunities construction, there is a risk of increasing costs and further 11 Availability of power plants: Exogenous and endogenous delays to commissioning beyond the summer of 2015. Overall, factors have an influence on the availability of power plants. we currently identify a low level of opportunity and a medium We strive to counter these risks using preventive measures. level of risk due to a large number of exogenous and endoDepending on their duration, interruptions to the operation of genous factors. As a result, this could have a negative effect in the power plants can significantly impact the operating result. 2015 on the key performance indicator adjusted EBITDA in the We currently identify rather a medium level of opportunity mid double-digit million euro range. and risk in this area. This could have a negative effect in the low double-digit million euro range on the key performance Generation and Trading segment indicator adjusted EBITDA in 2015 and 2016. However, there is also the opportunity of additional earnings on a comparable Strategic risks and opportunities scale in 2016. 9 Ultimate storage: The costs for identifying storage sites must be borne by the companies using nuclear power such as Operation and decommissioning of nuclear facilities: There EnBW. The legal obligation of operators to bear the costs of are possible opportunities and risks in a wide range of finding an alternative site to Gorleben is in dispute. Therefore, different areas that could have an impact on the key the possibility cannot be excluded that the costs for finding performance indicators in the finance goal dimension. These ultimate storage sites and constructing the ultimate storage include the risk of missed deadlines due to delays in receiving itself could have negative effects after 2017 on the adjusted net approval for transport and storage, as well as risks from delays debt and an associated impact on the key performance to decommissioning projects due to a change in conditions or indicator dynamic leverage ratio. In this context, we currently planning premises. This is offset by opportunities arising from identify a low level of opportunity and risk for the key the potential to accelerate the completion of the work. performance indicators in the planning period. EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Report on risks and opportunities 81 Nuclear fuel rod tax: After the nuclear fuel rod tax for the identify a medium level of opportunity and risk due to the fact years 2011 to 2014 was announced, EnBW submitted lawsuits for that electricity prices have fallen and remain at a low level and each year to the Freiburg Finance Court on the basis that the tax due to rising fuel and emission allowance prices on the breached German Constitutional and European law. The nuclear wholesale market. Therefore, this could result in both a positive fuel rod tax that is due to be reported for 2015 and 2016 or negative effect in 2016 on the key performance indicator wasincluded as a burden on the operating result in the mediumadjusted EBITDA in the low double-digit million euro range. term planning. The question of whether the nuclear fuel rod tax Further information can be found in the section “Accounting for breaches European law is currently pending before the ECJ. The financial instruments” in the notes to the consolidated financial Advocate General took the position in his plea on the 3 February statements ( www.enbw.com/report2014-downloads). 2015 that the nuclear fuel rod tax does not breach European law. The legal proceedings before the German Federal Constitutional 14 Margin payments: As a result of unfavourable developCourt are independent of the proceedings before the ECJ and ments on the market, margin requirements for stock market focus on other legal issues. It is expected that both the ECJ transactions and bilateral margin agreements can lead to proceedings and those before the German Federal Constishort-term cash outflows. These are settled again at the latest tutional Court will be concluded in 2015. when the underlying futures transactions are fulfilled. This liquidity risk is constantly monitored using stress tests. We Moratorium lawsuit: EnBW AG filed a lawsuit at the Regional currently identify a medium level of opportunity and risk in Court in Bonn against the State of Baden-Württemberg and this area. As a result, this could have corresponding effects in the Federal Republic of Germany on 23 December 2014 for the 2015 and 2016 on adjusted net debt in the low three-digit payment of damages by liable public authorities. The million euro range that may impact on the key performance background to the lawsuit is the order issued by the Ministry indicator dynamic leverage ratio. for the Environment of Baden-Württemberg on the request and in agreement with the German Federal Ministry for the 15 Long-term gas agreements: As part of its gas strategy, Environment for the temporary three-month suspension of EnBW aims to establish a long-term gas procurement operations at GKN I and KKP 1 in the aftermath of the events at portfolio. The associated opportunities and risks due to falling Fukushima. In legal proceedings held in the State of Hesse, it summer-winter spreads and lower volatilities lie in the low was legally established that an identical order issued in this double-digit million euro range. Therefore, we currently state was unlawful. If the lawsuit for damages is successful, this identify a low level of opportunity and risk in this area. As a could have a positive effect on the adjusted net debt. result, this could have either a positive or negative effect on the key performance indicator adjusted EBITDA in 2015 and Financial risks and opportunities 2016. 12 Changes to interest rates on nuclear power provisions: The discount rate is a key factor influencing the present value Electricity procurement agreements and power plants: As a of nuclear power provisions. A reduction in the discount rate result of the still unfavourable market prices at the present will have a negative effect on the level of adjusted net debt, time and the considerably worsening expectations regarding while an increase in the discount rate could have a long-term electricity prices, EnBW increased its provisions for correspondingly positive effect on adjusted net debt. The onerous contracts for electricity procurement agreements interest rate stood at 4.8% on the reporting date (previous which no longer cover costs during the course of 2014. In year: 5.0%). In this area, we identify a high level of risk and a addition, impairments have been carried out on our power low level of opportunity. For this reason, there could be plants. In addition to these burdens on the company's negative effects in 2015 and 2016 on the adjusted net debt in earnings, there is also the risk of other unscheduled writethe low three-digit million euro range with an associated downs stemming from the inspection of the profitability of impact on the key performance indicator dynamic leverage conventional power plants that may result in the early ratio. decommissioning of individual plants. 13 Hedging: Despite its hedging strategy, when selling Link to the key performance indicators generated electricity volumes, EnBW is exposed to the longterm risk of falling electricity prices and the risk of the Alongside the top risks/opportunities, there are a wide variety unfavourable development of fuel prices in relation to of different risks and opportunities facing the Group that are electricity prices. The concept underlying the hedging strategy allocated to relevant risk categories on the risk and also involves the exploitation of opportunities. The hedging opportunity map and evaluated with the aid of the iRM instruments utilised in 2014 were forwards, futures, swaps and relevance filter. These items could also have an effect on the options. As of 31 December 2014, the nominal value of all energy key performance indicators in the financial, strategy, derivatives totalled €28,754.7 million. The market value of all customers, employees and environment goal dimensions. As a energy derivatives was €-625.0 million. The EnBW Group has result of their relatively minor level of relevance in exposure to foreign exchange risks from procurement and comparison to the top risks/opportunities, they are not, hedging of prices for its fuel requirements, as well as from gas however, listed in the external reports for reasons of clarity. and oil trading. Where the hedge is concerned, we currently 82 Management report » Report on risks and opportunities EnBW Report 2014 Linking the top risks / opportunities with the key performance indicators Financial indicators Strategic indicators Non-financial indicators 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 1 Divestitures 2 Improvements in efficiency 3 Company pension scheme 4 Market prices for financial investments 5 Discount rate applied to pension provisions 6 Competitive environment (electricity and gas) Top risks / Opportunities 7 Year-end balance on the EEG bank account 8 New construction project EnBW Baltic 2 9 Nuclear power provisions – ultimate storage 10 Nuclear power provisions – interim storage 11 Availability of power plants 12 Changes to interest rates on nuclear power provisions 13 Hedging 14 Margin payments 15 Long-term gas agreements Key performance indicators Sales 1 Adjusted EBITDA 6 Share of the overall adjusted 9 EnBW / Yello Customer Grids 2 Dynamic leverage ratio EBITDA accounted for by Satisfaction Index Renewable Energies Renewable Energies 10 SAIDI (electricity) 3 ROCE Generation and Trading 7 Share of the overall adjusted 11 Employee Commitment Index (ECI) 4 Share of the overall adjusted EBITDA accounted for by 12 LTIF Other / Consolidation EBITDA accounted for by Generation and Trading “customer proximity”/ Sales 13 Installed output of RE and the 8 EnBW / Yello Brand 5 Share of the overall adjusted share of the generation capacity Attractiveness Index accounted for by RE EBITDA accounted for by Grids Compared with the previous year, the following risks and construction of Block 9 at the large-scale power plant in opportunities were either eliminated or were removed from Mannheim. the Group reports due to their low level of relevance: › Investment in EWE: If the acquisition of the EnBW shares in 2011 by the federal state of Baden-Württemberg were to › Political and regulatory environment: Relevant risks and represent a change of control over the company, there is opportunities will no longer be covered generally but rather still the now very improbable risk that EnBW would be listed separately. obliged to sell its shares in EWE to the other municipal › Uranium supply agreements: As a result of the shutdown of shareholders of EWE at a price lower than the current nuclear power units, there was a risk that compensation carrying amount of the investment reported by EnBW. payments would have to be made to suppliers for lower › Renewable Energies Act (EEG) state aid proceedings: The purchase volumes, which has now been taken into account European Commission reached its decision on the EEG 2012 on the balance sheet. on 25 November 2014 and largely approved the state aid. It › Renewal of concession agreements: The cooperation model also ordered a partial repayment for the years 2013 and 2014 between the EnBW subsidiary Netze BW GmbH and the for some particularly electricity-intensive companies. The Stadtwerke Stuttgart for the future operation of the electricity residual risk of liquidity difficulties or insolvency amongst and gas networks in Stuttgart has been implemented. The risk the customers of EnBW (default risk) is now only evaluated of losing this concession thus no longer exists. as being very low. › Profitability of investments: The new hard coal unit RDK 8 at › Counterparty default risk (credit risk): In the 2014 financial the Karlsruhe location has commenced commercial operation. year, there were, from a Group perspective, no relevant There are only very slight residual risks concerning the new counterparty default risks from customer transactions and business or in the over-the-counter (OTC) market due to EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Report on risks and opportunities 83 numerous organisational safeguards implemented through damage as the operator of transnational and long-distance the credit risk management system. transmission grids for the electricity and gas sectors. › Regulation of system services: The risk of costs arising However, the legislators have specified certain limitations on from possible non-recognition is only considered to have a the company's liability so that from a Group perspective there very low probability of occurrence. remains only a very small residual risk. › Abuse proceedings relating to operating reserves: Al› Grid utilisation: There is only a small residual risk due to though the BNetzA has not yet concluded its abuse prochanges in the Incentive Regulation Ordinance and the ceedings against the German TSOs, the risk of the possible associated revenue caps and network user charges within a non-recognition of expenditure on operating reserves that regulatory period. has resulted to date is, however, considered to have a very › “Fokus” efficiency programme and the new management low probability of occurrence. model “ONE EnBW”: The projects have been successfully › System responsibility: Should irregularities or interruptions concluded. to supply occur, EnBW will be generally liable for any resulting Overall assessment by the Group management Development of the risk situation in 2014 Development of the opportunities situation in 2014 Sales Sales Grids Grids Renewable Energies Renewable Energies Generation and Trading Generation and Trading Other Other Overall assessment Overall assessment « Amelioration Deterioration » « Decline Increase » The risks facing the entire energy supply industry have This has resulted in far-reaching consequences for the intensified since 2011. Framework conditions are changing operating business of the EnBW Group and had a negative significantly as a consequence of the Energiewende in effect on earnings. The euro debt crisis caused a period of Germany. The overall risk situation facing the EnBW Group sustained volatility on the international financial markets. For remains considerably tense with regards to 2015. Numerous this reason, it may be necessary to make further impairment factors could jeopardise the achievement of our economic losses on our financial assets and other assets. The current goals. At the same time, the Energiewende also offers a diverse competitive and market risks could influence the operating range of opportunities to develop new models for future result, financial positions, net assets and liquidity situation of business segments, which we are pursuing through our new the EnBW Group. EnBW 2020 strategy that was approved in 2013. The implementation of this strategy aims to secure the future Although some risks were reduced or eliminated during the viability of the company and tap into this potential for growth. course of 2014, several additional risks for EnBW either emerged or were exacerbated. No risks currently exist that The political decision for Germany to phase out the use of might jeopardise the EnBW Group as a going concern. nuclear power has reduced planning certainty and harbours a large degree of risk in the future. 84 Management report » Forecast EnBW Report 2014 Forecast In our forecast we take a look, as far as possible, at the pilot plants have already been realised), as well as for the expected future growth and development of EnBW for the universal introduction of smart meters. years 2015 to 2017. Around one third of the overall investment is attributable to In contrast to previous reports, the expected economic, the Renewable Energies segment. This includes investments in political and regulatory conditions, as well as developments in project planning for further offshore projects and the the sector, are now included in the chapter “Economic and realisation of onshore wind farms that form part of our political environment” ( p. 39 ff.). comprehensive pipeline of projects. In addition, investment will be made in the completion of the offshore wind farm Potential factors influencing the forecast are described in EnBW Baltic 2 in 2015. The at-equity consolidated activities in detail in the “Report on risks and opportunities” ( p. 74 ff.). Turkey are reflected in the investment programme based on their proportional share of equity. Expected trends in financial and Around half of the investment will flow into the Grids strategic performance indicators segment. In order to make the transport of renewable energies from the north to the south of Germany possible, investment will be made in the transmission grid to realise two corridors Implementation of the strategy for a three-year that are part of the network development plan in which our period subsidiary TransnetBW is involved. In the planning period, this primarily involves the ULTRANET project, whereas the An extensive €4.0 billion investment programme is planned investment in SuedLink is expected to take place mainly after for the 2015 to 2017 period to ensure the company can continue 2017. To ensure security of supply and in order to cope with to play an active role in structuring the Energiewende. These the increased loads due to the decentralised feed-in of investments are split into €2.7 billion for growth projects and electricity into the grid, extensive investment will also be €1.3 billion for investments in existing plants. This also includes made into the distribution grid for the expansion and the planning costs for further offshore projects. Due to the fact upgrading of the existing network. that the conditions upon which the profitability of an offshore wind farm is dependent have not yet been clarified and thus In accordance with our strategy, only around one twelfth of the time schedule is subject to a degree of uncertainty, there the overall investment will be made in the Generation and are no investments included that go above and beyond those Trading segment. As a result of a lack of profitability in this covering the project planning costs. segment, no further growth investments, exception for replacement investments, will be made after the completion Gross investments 2015–2017 in % of the Lausward Combined Cycle Gas Turbine in Düsseldorf. This programme of investments thus reflects our strategy for 7.8 49.8 massively expanding renewable energies and ensuring Generation and Trading Grids security of supply in the regulated areas of the transmission and distribution grids. 9.3 Sales Divestitures 2015–2017 in % 24.7 28.1 Other disposals and construction Conventional divestitures 33.1 cost subsidies Renewable Energies Around one tenth of the investment will be made in the Sales segment. In contrast to the traditional plant-intensive business carried out by energy supply companies, less investment is required to grow as a supplier offering decentralised solutions. A significant proportion of the 47.2 Participation models investment has been allocated for biogas plants (successful EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Forecast 85 In order to finance this volume of investment totalling around the onshore sector are also planned in the future, which will be €4 billion, divestitures amounting to €1.9 billion are planned based on an already successfully implemented participation in the years 2015 to 2017, which corresponds to around 50% of model from 2014. A quarter of the divestitures will result from the investment programme. In summer 2015, the participation the sale of property and the receipt of construction cost model for EnBW Baltic 2 will be realised – for which the subsidies. Around €0.6 billion will be attributable to the sale of contracts were signed at the beginning of 2015. Divestitures in investments. Adjusted EBITDA and the share of the adjusted EBITDA accounted for by the segments Development in 2015 (adjusted EBITDA and the share of the adjusted EBITDA accounted for by the segments)1 compared to the previous year Earnings performance Development of the share of the (adjusted EBITDA) compared to the adjusted EBITDA accounted for by the previous year segments in the EnBW Group 2015 2014 2015 2014 Sales +10% to +20% €230.6 million 10% to 15% 10.6% Grids 0% to -10% €886.3 million 35% to 40% 40.9% Renewable Energies more than 20% €191.4 million 15% to 20% 8.8% Generation and Trading -15% to -25% €899.5 million 30% to 35% 41.5% Other/Consolidation – €-40.4 million – -1.8% Adjusted EBITDA, Group 0% to -5% €2,167.4 million 100.0% 1 Segments adjusted for changes in the consolidated companies. We expect that the Sales segment will deliver a growth in the onshore wind energy sector will also result in an increase earnings in 2015. Our planning is based – in contrast to the in earnings. We will more than double the installed output in above-average temperatures in the previous year – on there the area of wind energy. As a result of this positive being average temperatures in 2015. As a result, we anticipate development, the share of the adjusted EBITDA for the Group higher earnings in both the electricity and gas sales sectors. accounted for by this segment will increase significantly. After the growth area dealing with the supply of decentralised solutions in the energy sector developed unsatisfactorily in The adjusted EBITDA for the Generation and Trading segment 2014, we will successively refine our goals and are thus confident will fall significantly in 2015. This continues to be due primarily of being able to achieve positive growth effects as part of our to the noticeably falling prices and spreads on wholesale growth strategy for 2015. The first contracts for our invoicing electricity markets during preceding periods in which we services were successfully concluded in 2014 and these will agreed on fixed sales prices for quantities of electricity to be continue to have a positive effect on earnings over the years. We supplied in 2015. Our efficiency improvement measures can expect a slight increase in the share of the adjusted EBITDA only partly cushion these negative influences in this segment for the Group accounted for by this segment. in 2015. As a result, the share of the adjusted EBITDA for the Group accounted for by this segment will fall significantly. The adjusted EBITDA for the Grids segment is expected to fall slightly in 2015. As the weather conditions caused the revenue As things currently stand, changes to the companies that are cap for the gas distribution grid to be exceeded in 2013, the included in the consolidated financial statements will not revenue cap for 2015 will be lower than in 2014. Furthermore, have any effect on earnings in 2015. the new contract arrangement with the City of Stuttgart will have a negative effect on earnings. We expect a slight decrease The adjusted EBITDA at a Group level in 2015 will thus be in the share of the adjusted EBITDA for the Group accounted between 0% and -5% below the 2014 level. This is mainly due for by this segment. to falling wholesale prices and spreads. The commissioning of our offshore wind farm EnBW Baltic 2, as well as our other The adjusted EBITDA for the Renewable Energies segment will growth and efficiency projects, will not be able to fully increase significantly in 2015. The drop in the wholesale compensate for these negative effects. market price for electricity and the accompanying negative effects on earnings from our run-of-river power plants will be Group earnings trends in the years 2016 and 2017 will decisively more than compensated for by the expected full depend on the results of the hedging process and the commissioning of our offshore wind farm EnBW Baltic 2 in the realisation of the network development plan. The realisation of summer of 2015. It will remain fully consolidated even after the network development plan would already have a positive the sale of 49.89% of the shares. In addition, the expansion of effect on the contributions to EBITDA made by the area of 86 Management report » Forecast EnBW Report 2014 transmission grids during the investment phase. Against the Expected trends in non-financial key background of uncertain energy policy conditions for 2016 and the resultant wholesale market prices, as well as the uncertain performance indicators length of time required for the implementation of the network development plan, we are expecting – based on the status as of Expected trends in the customers dimension today – a drop in earnings of between -10% and -20%. Key performance indicators Dynamic leverage ratio 2015 2014 Key performance indicator Brand Attractiveness Index for 2015 2014 EnBW/Yello 44/38 43/36 Customer Satisfaction Index for Dynamic leverage ratio 3.2–3.6 3.68 EnBW/Yello 120/150 114/145 SAIDI (electricity) in min/year 15 15 We expect an adjusted net debt of between €7.0 billion and €7.5 billion in 2015. Based on the earnings forecast, we are Brand Attractiveness Index: It was possible to increase the expecting a dynamic leverage ratio of between 3.2 and 3.6. attractiveness of the EnBW brand slightly in 2014. As a result of We are thus confident that we can retain our current rating continuous communication and sales activities, we aim to level as a result. As already mentioned, we are continuing with increase the attractiveness of the brand further in the coming our divestiture strategy, which will have a positive effect on year to a target figure of 44. The attractiveness of Yello needs our adjusted net debt particularly in 2015 due to the sale of to be improved further using sustainable brand commushares (49.89%) in EnBW Baltic 2. Therefore, we also expect our nication following a slight fall in 2014; we aim to achieve an adjusted net debt to fall further in subsequent years. The index value of 38 in 2015. uncertain future development of interest rates with its impact on pension and nuclear power provisions may have either a Customer Satisfaction Index: The satisfaction of the positive or negative effect on our adjusted net debt. The customers of EnBW grew in 2014. A decisive factor in this pending judgement on nuclear fuel rod tax is also subject result was a positive perception of the company's image, to a degree of uncertainty, which may have a positive effect, which currently has a high level of influence on customer but has not yet been taken into account in our forecast. loyalty. EnBW will continue to introduce a series of new, attractive products and services to the market for both ROCE business customers and private customers, and establish ourselves even more strongly as a partner for our customers. Key performance indicator Therefore, there is a chance that the index value can be further increased by a significant amount in 2015 to 120. The 2015 2014 satisfaction of the customers of Yello fell slightly in 2014, yet remains at a high level. The aim will be to increase the Customer Satisfaction Index for Yello in 2015 to 150 through ROCE in % 8.5–9.5 10.0 the implementation of appropriate measures. Capital employed is mainly influenced by investments and writeSAIDI: EnBW has always ensured a high quality of supply downs. In 2015, we expect a slight increase in capital employed throughout its grid area and for its customers. The relevant due to a continued high level of investment activities; therefore key performance indicator SAIDI, which states the average we expect a ROCE of between 8.5% and 9.5%. As a result of our duration of supply interruptions per connected customer per strategy, we also expect a high level of investment despite falling year, reached a value of 15 minutes in 2014. In the 2015 earnings in subsequent years, which at the beginning of the financial year and also in subsequent years, we expect that this investment activity will lead to a fall in ROCE. value will consistently remain at this very good level. EnBW Report 2014 Management Report » Forecast 87 Expected trends in the employees dimension felt through to 2016. One initiative that is part of the EnBW 2020 corporate strategy is the “New Working Worlds” project, Key performance indicators in which modern and open office structures are realised. The goal is to promote communication, interaction and networked 2015 2014 styles of working. During the course of 2014, the first units moved into their “New Working Worlds” and empirical data and experience is now available that can flow into the Employee Commitment Index (ECI)1 58 56 implementation of the next stages of the project. previousLTIF1 year figure 4.3 Expected trends in the environment dimension 1 Variations in the group of consolidated companies. Key performance indicator Employee Commitment Index (ECI): The main task is to 2015 2014 transfer the positive development in the level of trust that has been achieved at a management level to an employee level. Installed output of RE in GW and Measures have been developed for this purpose to make the the share of the generation positive effects and successes of the changes introduced at the capacity in % accounted for by RE 3.0/22.1 2.6/19.1 company transparent, tangible and above all perceptible for the appropriate target group. All management personnel are Installed output of renewable energies (RE) and the share encouraged to enter into dialogue with their employees to of the generation capacity accounted for by RE: In 2015, we achieve this task. As both the level of identification amongst expect a clear increase in the installed output from renewable staff with the Group and the motivational climate continue to energies of around 15%, particularly as a result of the full remain high, we believe that there is a realistic chance of commissioning of the offshore wind farm EnBW Baltic 2. achieving a turnaround in 2015 and to once again increase the Accordingly, the share of the generation capacity of the Group ECI to 58 points. accounted for by renewable energies is predicted to increase to more than a fifth. LTIF: The key performance indicator LTIF (Lost Time Injury Frequency) measures the occupational safety in our company. It goes without saying that we are committed to continuously The management's overall improving occupational safety within the company for both our own and third-party employees. Numerous accident assessment of anticipated prevention measures serve this purpose. In 2015, we are developments striving to reduce this indicator for occupational safety below the figure for the previous year. In comparison to 2014, we expect a largely stable business performance at a Group level in 2015. Our financial key Further significant developments: In view of the difficult performance indicators will still remain under pressure in conditions, it will be important over the coming years to 2015. Nevertheless, we are well on the way to achieving our realise further improvements in efficiency across the entire 2020 targets. We will continue to implement our divestiture Group. There will be a moderate increase in the number of programme and can thus continue to make sufficient personnel in the areas of Decentralised Solutions (Product investment funds available to enable us to play an active role Innovations) and Grids as part of the restructuring of our in structuring the Energiewende. At the same time, we also business portfolio. This will be offset by further measures to aim to reduce our net debt in order to retain our credit rating. optimise processes across the entire company with a focus on With respect to our non-financial key performance indicators, centralised areas and the area of thermal power plants. At the we expect them to continue to develop positively in 2015 as a same time, the effects of the “Fokus” efficiency enhancement further step on the way to achieving our 2020 targets. programme, which will include minor personnel losses, will be 88 Management report » Remuneration report EnBW Report 2014 Remuneration report The remuneration report encompasses the principles significant which corporate targets are met in the two subsequent years. in determining the remuneration of Board of Management Interest of 3% per annum is paid on these shares, which are members and explains the structure and level of both Board of paid out following ratification of the respective financial Management and Supervisory Board remuneration. statements for the subsequent years 1 and 2. › Value appreciation bonus (long-term incentive – LTI): The The remuneration report takes the recommendations of the value appreciation bonus consists of a basic LTI and a German Corporate Governance Code and the German Accouncompetition component. The basic LTI is determined by the ting Standard (DRS) 17 (amended in 2010) into consideration in accumulated contribution to value derived from the threethis respect. It also contains disclosures required by German year mid-term planning. It is calculated from the difference commercial law and the supplementary provisions of the between the ROCE and WACC (weighted average cost of German Act on the Appropriateness of Management Board capital) multiplied by the average capital employed. The Remuneration (VorstAG) included in the notes pursuant to Sec. competition component measures the relative performance of 314 German Commercial Code (HGB) and the management the Group in the respective three-year performance period report pursuant to Sec. 315 German Commercial Code (HGB). against a peer group of competitors on the basis of the value spread (= ROCE WACC). Relative to the fixed basic annual remuneration, the value appreciation bonus is equivalent to Board of Management remuneration between 0% and 102% for a Board of Management member and 0% and 120% for the CEO. The basic LTI comprises two Based on a proposal of the personnel committee, the Superthirds and the competition component one third of the LTI in visory Board passes a resolution on the remuneration of the this respect. The EnBW AG Supervisory Board defines targets Board of Management, including the main contract elements, and upper and lower limits for the individual LTI targets and reviews it on a regular basis. The criteria for determining stipulated. Payment, which accrues 3% interest per annum, will appropriate remuneration include the responsibilities and first be made in 2017 subsequent to determination of the last performance of Board of Management members, the economic annual financial statement in the respective three-year period. situation, the performance and sustainable development of the › Board of Management's contribution to “Fokus”: The Board company and the relationship between Board of Management of Management contributes to “Fokus” by voluntarily remuneration and the remuneration of senior management waiving a portion of its variable remuneration. The portion and the workforce as a whole and its development over time. of variable remuneration waived relates exclusively to two remuneration components, the performance bonus for Board of Management remuneration was restructured in 2014 corporate targets and the LTI. Calculations are based on the in respect of the value appreciation bonus and, for 2014, target income of the respective Board of Management consists of the following essential components: member. Upon achieving or exceeding the target income, 20% is deducted from the performance bonus for corporate Fixed remuneration targets and the LTI. Should the actual remuneration fall short of the target income, the difference between the target This comprises a fixed basic annual remuneration, of which income and actual remuneration is credited to the defined only a part counts towards pension claims, and other earnings. deduction and the lower amount is deducted. However, a minimum of €20,000 per year is deducted in any case. The Variable remuneration contribution of the Board of Management to “Fokus” is derived from supplementary agreements to the service › Performance bonus: The level of the performance bonus agreement valid for the financial years 2012 to 2014. depends on the extent to which the respective targets agreed › Restructuring of the remuneration system as of 2015: The for the financial year have been achieved. These include Supervisory Board at EnBW AG passed a resolution on financial targets at Group level (corporate targets), which are 4 December 2014 on the second stage of the restructuring of measured relative to the performance indicators EBITDA and the Board of Management remuneration system, effective as ROCE, and individual targets. The performance bonus is a of 1 January 2015. This simplified the remuneration system, minimum of 0% and maximum of 200% of the fixed basic introduced an additional sustainability component in the case annual remuneration. The share of the performance bonus of the LTI and redefined the individual remuneration compofor individual targets (30%) for the respective assessment year nents of total remuneration. The purpose of this restructuring is paid out immediately, while the share of the performance of the system is not to increase the target and maximum income bonus for corporate targets (70%) is divided into three. The of Board of Management members. The new Board of first third is also paid out immediately. The remaining two Management remuneration system will be presented to the shares (deferral 1 and 2) are adjusted to reflect the extent to ordinary Annual General Meeting on 29 April 2015 for approval. EnBW Report 2014 Management Report » Remuneration report 89 Remuneration of Board of Management members in the 2014 financial year in € Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Total (previous-year figures in brackets) Basic Other Without With remuneration remuneration1 long-term long-term incentive incentive Dr. Frank Mastiaux, Chairman 850,000 12,554 763,996 591,518² 2,218,068 (812,500) (402,234)³ (720,904) (124,361) (2,059,999) Dr. Bernhard Beck, LL.M. 500,000 47,111 429,167 365,161² 1,341,439 (500,000) (48,527) (435,958) (77,726) (1,062,211) Thomas Kusterer 450,000 21,374 382,000 530,537² 1,383,911 (450,000) (25,749) (396,033) (345,647) (1,217,429) Dr. Dirk Mausbeck 337,500 12,582 285,375 508,104² 1,143,561 (until 30/09/2014) (450,000) (16,828) (389,350) (276,002) (1,132,180) Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer 450,000 39,769 379,750 530,537² 1,400,056 (450,000) (39,946) (390,970) (279,813) (1,160,729) Hans-Peter Villis, Chairman – – – – – (until 30/09/2012) – – (5,737) – (5,737) Total 2,587,500 133,390 2,240,288 2,525,857 7,487,035 (2,662,500) (533,283) (2,338,952) (1,103,549) (6,638,285) 1 Other remuneration includes monetary benefits, particularly from the provision of company cars amounting to €132,886 (previous year: €134,514). 2 Current deferrals and the preliminary value appreciation bonus for the performance period 2014 to 2016 total €1,717,786 for Dr. Frank Mastiaux (previous year: €878,440), €971,459 for Dr. Bernhard Beck (previous year: €541,516), €876,313 for Thomas Kusterer (previous year: €651,950), €712,097 for Dr. Dirk Mausbeck (previous year: €633,663) and €876,313 for Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer (previous year: €651,950). The exact level of the value appreciation bonus for the performance period 2014 to 2016 can only be determined following the end of the 2016 financial year and can be within the LTI spread pursuant to the following table of the target income for Board of Management members. 3 This includes the one-off premium of €450,000 pro rata agreed with Dr. Frank Mastiaux which was payable after one year of service on the Board of Management. 90 Management report » Remuneration report EnBW Report 2014 Target income of Board of Management members1 in € Dr. Frank Mastiaux Dr. Bernhard Beck, LL.M. Thomas Kusterer Chief Executive Officer Chief Personnel Officer Chief Financial Officer 2013 2014 2014 2014 2013 2014 2014 2014 2013 2014 2014 2014 (min.) (max.) (min.) (max.) (min.) (max.) Fixed remuneration 812,500 850,000 850,000 850,000 500,000 500,000 500,000 500,000 450,000 450,000 450,000 450,000 Fringe benefits 402,234 12,554 12,554 12,554 48,527 47,111 47,111 47,111 25,749 21,374 21,374 21,374 Minimum bonus – – – – – – – – – – – – Total 1,214,734 862,554 862,554 862,554 548,527 547,111 547,111 547,111 475,749 471,374 471,374 471,374 One-year variable remuneration performance bonus 593,125 620,500 0 827,333 365,000 365,000 0 486,667 328,500 328,500 0 438,000 Multi-year variable remuneration Deferral 1 227,500 238,000 0 317,333 140,000 140,000 0 186,667 126,000 126,000 0 168,000 Deferral 2 227,500 238,000 0 317,333 140,000 140,000 0 186,667 126,000 126,000 0 168,000 LTI 487,500 510,000 0 816,000 280,000 280,000 0 408,000 252,000 252,000 0 367,200 Total 2,750,359 2,469,054 862,554 3,140,553 1,473,527 1,472,111 547,111 1,815,112 1,308,249 1,303,874 471,374 1,612,574 Pension expenses 430,080 444,949 444,949 444,949 160,473 150,943 150,943 150,943 203,416 210,774 210,774 210,774 Total remuneration 3,180,439 2,914,003 1,307,503 3,585,502 1,634,000 1,623,054 698,054 1,966,055 1,511,665 1,514,648 682,148 1,823,348 1 This table illustrates the remuneration in both the reporting year and previous year which arises given 100% target attainment (target income) and the potential minimum and maximum remuneration for the financial year. Remuneration is described for Board of Management members who were appointed at least on a part-time basis in either the reporting year or previous year to the Board of Management at EnBW AG. Payments to Board of Management members1 in € Dr. Frank Mastiaux Dr. Bernhard Beck, LL.M. Thomas Kusterer Chief Executive Officer Chief Personnel Officer Chief Financial Officer 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Fixed remuneration 850,000 812,500 500,000 500,000 450,000 450,000 Fringe benefits 12,554 514.7342 47,111 48,527 21,374 25,749 Minimum bonus – – – 112,500 – – Total 862,554 1,327,234 547,111 661,027 471,374 475,749 One-year variable remuneration performance bonus 755,667 178,733 444,283 668,208 395,650 396,032 Multi-year variable remuneration Deferral 1 from 2012 124,361 – 77,726 – 279,813 – Deferral 2 from 2011 – – – – 65,834 – Deferral 1 from 2011 – – – – – 63,917 Total 1,742,582 1,505,967 1,069,120 1,329,235 1,212,671 935,698 Pension expenses 444,949 430,080 150,943 160,473 210,774 203,416 Total remuneration 2,187,531 1,936,047 1,220,063 1,489,708 1,423,445 1,139,114 1 This table illustrates receipts in both the reporting year and previous year pursuant to the German Income Tax Act. Earnings are described for Board of Management members who were appointed at least on a part-time basis in either the reporting year or previous year to the Board of Management at EnBW AG. 2 The one-off premium of €450,000 that Dr. Frank Mastiaux receives after one year of service on the Board of Management accrued to him in its entirety in 2013. EnBW Report 2014 Management Report » Remuneration report 91 Dr. Dirk Mausbeck Dr. Hans-Josef-Zimmer Chief Commercial Officer (until 30/09/2014) Chief Technical Officer 2013 2014 2014 2014 2013 2014 2014 2014 (min.) (max.) (min.) (max.) 450,000 337,500 337,500 337,500 450,000 450,000 450,000 450,000 16,828 12,582 12,582 12,582 39,946 39,769 39,769 39,769 – – – – – – – – 466,828 350,082 350,082 350,082 489,946 489,769 489,769 489,769 328,500 246,375 0 328,500 328,500 328,500 0 438,000 126,000 94,500 0 126,000 126,000 126,000 0 168,000 126,000 94,500 0 126,000 126,000 126,000 0 168,000 252,000 189,000 0 275,400 252,000 252,000 0 367,200 1,299,328 974,457 350,082 1,205,982 1,322,446 1,322,269 489,769 1,630,969 31,789 41,490 41,490 41,490 250,117 258,817 258,817 258,817 1,331,117 1,015,947 391,572 1,247,472 1,572,563 1,581,086 748,586 1,889,786 Dr. Dirk Mausbeck Dr. Hans-Josef-Zimmer Chief Commercial Officer (until 30/09/2014) Chief Technical Officer 2014 2013 2014 2013 337,500 450,000 450,000 450,000 12,582 16,828 39,769 39,946 – – – – 350,082 466,828 489,769 489,946 392,995 355,238 393,400 390,970 256,495 – 279,813 – 19,506 – – – – 18,938 – – 1,019,078 841,004 1,162,982 880,916 41,490 31,789 258,817 250,117 1,060,568 872,793 1,421,799 1,131,033 92 Management report » Remuneration report EnBW Report 2014 Compensation agreed with the Board of of Board of Management activity due to a change of control, it Management in the event of termination of service is agreed that settlement or termination payments should not exceed the settlement cap and should not compensate for During their first term of office, members of the Board of more than the residual term of the service contract. Management are generally not entitled to retirement benefits. As of their first term of office, Dr. Frank Mastiaux and Thomas No termination benefit obligations exist above and beyond Kusterer have a vested right to retirement benefits. In the case this in the event of premature termination of service on the of Dr. Dirk Mausbeck, the entitlement to retirement benefits Board of Management. However, termination benefits may be arises from the contractual provisions relating to his prior payable on the basis of a cancellation agreement made with work within the Group. the individual. For agreements in place as of the reporting date, it was agreed that payments made to a member of the From the second term of office onwards, pension entitlements Board of Management on premature termination of his or her from the age of 63 or in the event of permanent disability are contract without serious cause, including fringe benefits, will calculated on the basis of different criteria. Vested benefits rise not exceed the value of two years’ remuneration (severance in proportion to the period as of first-time appointment to the payment cap) and compensate for no more than the Board of Management and are capped at 60% of the remaining term of the contract. In concluding or extending pensionable basic annual remuneration. Unless benefits have management board contracts, care is taken to ensure that no already become vested by operation of law, they become payments are made to a member of the Board of Management vested as of the second term of office. The rates of increase are on premature termination of the contract for an important generally set such that the maximum post-employment reason for which the member of the Board of Management is benefit is reached at the same time as the contractually agreed responsible. age limit. Other company pension entitlements earned are credited once the maximum pensionable basic annual In the event of temporary unavailability for work on the part remuneration has been exceeded. of a Board of Management member due to illness or any other reason for which the member of the Board of Management is When benefit obligations become due for payment, the paynot responsible, remuneration will be paid for the first six ments are indexed in accordance with the German Company months. The amount of variable remuneration will be Pensions Act. calculated from the average of the last three years, and basic remuneration will be paid for a further six months. However, In the event of the death of a member of the Board of Managepayments in the event of unavailability for work will be made ment, the surviving dependants are entitled to continued no longer than until the end of the term of the service payment of the remuneration for three months. For as long as agreement. they live, widows receive 60% of the benefit that the member of the Board of Management received or would have received Upon expiry of his term of office on 30 September 2014, on the day they died if the pension had been due for payment Dr. Dirk Mausbeck stepped down from the Board of on that day. Children of the Board of Management member Management. No further agreements were made with Dr. Dirk receive an orphan’s allowance until they reach the age of 25 Mausbeck beyond the regulations contained in his service (20% if they have lost both parents, 12% if they have lost one agreement. Dr. Dirk Mausbeck was granted compensation parent). Surviving dependants’ benefits are limited in total to totalling €1,377,734.88 in 2014 pursuant to the service 100% of the pension entitlements. agreement. This amount corresponds to 50% of the last basic remuneration he received and his average bonus for his term The following change of control regulation currently exists for of office, taking future earnings for the duration of the nonall Board of Management members: If Board of Management compete obligation into consideration and payable in equal members relinquish their office and resign due to a change of monthly instalments until 30 September 2016. control, they are entitled to their outstanding annual basic remuneration until the expiry of the planned contractual The disclosures for the 2014 financial year concerning postduration (but limited to a maximum of three annual basic employment benefits (previous-year figures in brackets) are salaries) and to the deferrals already earned as part of the presented below. This presentation satisfies the requirements performance bonus. Such entitlements are restricted to one of Sec. 285 No. 9a German Commercial Code (HGB). The and a half times the settlement cap, cannot compensate for disclosures include the vested entitlement as of the reporting more than the residual term of the service contract and are due date, the annual expenses for pension obligations and the in the event of premature termination of the service contract. present value of the pension obligations earned as of the reporting date (including pension entitlements financed by the Where Board of Management employment contracts are board members themselves by waiving part of their salary). concluded or extended, in the event of the early termination EnBW Report 2014 Management Report » Remuneration report 93 Post-employment benefits (previous-year figures in brackets) Vested benefit Annual expenses Present value of penas of 31/12/2014 for pension sion obligations obligations in €1 (defined benefit obligations) in € Dr. Frank Mastiaux, Chairman 30%2 444,949 1,332,117 (30%) (430,080) (548,289) Dr. Bernhard Beck, LL.M. 60%3 150,943 5,677,345 (60%) (160,473) (4,450,918) Thomas Kusterer 37.5%3 210,774 2,252,937 (35%) (203,416) (1,373,839) Dr. Dirk Mausbeck 8.5%4 41,490 512,373 (until 30/09/2014) (7%) (31,789) (409,423) Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer 47.5% 3 258,817 4,748,713 (45%) (250,117) (3,474,206) 1 Including an addition to capital for pension benefits totalling €124,188 (previous year: €48,490). This is a pension commitment financed through voluntarily waiving of part of the salary. 2 Basis for entitlement in percentage of the pensionable annual basic remuneration, currently: €600,000. 3 Basis for entitlement in percentage of the pensionable annual basic remuneration, currently: €350,000. 4 Basis for entitlement in percentage of the pensionable annual basic remuneration, currently: €250,000. Annual expenses for pension obligations include both service 2013 revised the regulations for Supervisory Board and interest costs. These are defined benefit obligations in remuneration. Accordingly, members of the Supervisory accordance with IFRS of €14.5 million for the current members Board receive fixed remuneration of €30,000 each payable at of the Board of Management (previous year: €10.3 million). the end of the financial year in addition to reimbursement of their expenses for the entire 2014 financial year. The Chairman Former members of the Board of Management and their of the Supervisory Board receives twice the above, while the surviving dependants received total remunerations of €5.9 Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board receives one and a million in the 2014 financial year (previous year: €4.3 million). half times the aforementioned amount. Former members of the Board of Management and management of companies integrated into EnBW AG and their surviving Members of the Supervisory Board receive fixed remuneration dependants received total payments of €2.1 million in the 2014 of €5,000 each per financial year to offset the additional work financial year (previous year: €0.0 million). Remunerations involved in any activities in one or more Supervisory Board therefore totalled €8.0 million (previous year: €4.3 million). committees. The Chairperson of one or more committees These pension payments are indexed to the percentage change receives twice the amount of the remuneration for the in remuneration according to the collective bargaining committee work, unless the respective committee has not met agreement. in the financial year concerned. Defined benefit obligations of €73.9 million exist pursuant to Supervisory Board members who have only belonged to the IFRS relating to former members of the Board of Management Supervisory Board or a committee or acted as a Chairperson and their surviving dependants (previous year: €63.1 million) for part of the financial year are paid remuneration and of €24.6 million pursuant to IFRS relating to former proportionate to the duration of their office or their position members of the Board of Management and management of in that financial year. companies integrated into EnBW AG and their surviving dependants (previous year: €0.0 million). Pension obligations In addition, the Supervisory Board members receive an therefore totalled €98.5 million (previous year: €63.1 million). attendance fee of €500 for Supervisory Board meetings and committee meetings. Attendance at preliminary meetings is As in the previous year, no loans or advances were granted to remunerated with €250 per meeting, but only for one members of the Board of Management at the end of the preliminary meeting per Supervisory Board meeting. financial year. According to this remuneration system, the members of the Supervisory Board will receive the following total Supervisory Board remuneration remuneration for the 2014 financial year (including attendance fees and remuneration for offices held at In response to a proposal of the Board of Management and subsidiaries): Supervisory Board, the Annual General Meeting on 25 April 94 Management report » Remuneration report EnBW Report 2014 Total remuneration for EnBW AG Supervisory Board members in 2014 in € (previous-year figures in brackets) Fixed Remuneration for Total remuneration offices held at (incl. attendance subsidiaries fees) Dr. Claus Dieter Hoffmann, Chairman 81,500 0 81,500 (80,000) (0) (80,000) Dietrich Herd, Deputy Chairman 61,000 11,213 72,213 (61,000) (18,620) (79,620) Stefan Paul Hamm1 35,250 6,260 41,510 (20,589) (3,027) (23,616) Silke Krebs2 42,000 0 42,000 (42,500) (0) (42,500) Marianne Kugler-Wendt1 41,500 7,647 49,147 (42,000) (13,120) (55,120) Wolfgang Lang 42,000 7,935 49,935 (41,750) (8,260) (50,010) Dr. Hubert Lienhard 39,500 0 39,500 (39,500) (0) (39,500) Sebastian Maier 35,000 4,365 39,365 (28,651) (3,628) (32,279) Arnold Messner 45,750 7,090 52,840 (42,500) (9,190) (51,690) Dr. Wolf-Rüdiger Michel3 (since 01/07/2014) 19,534 4,607 24,141 (0) (0) (0) Bodo Moray1 42,000 8,477 50,477 (42,000) (14,250) (56,250) Gunda Röstel 47,500 0 47,500 (48,000) (0) (48,000) Dr. Nils Schmid2 43,000 0 43,000 (41,500) (0) (41,500) Klaus Schörnich 41,750 13,475 55,225 (41,750) (12,975) (54,725) Heinz Seiffert3 44,000 0 44,000 (45,500) (0) (45,500) Gerhard Stratthaus 39,000 0 39,000 (40,500) (0) (40,500) Carola Wahl (since 29/04/2014) 21,802 0 21,802 (0) (0) (0) Dietmar Weber 41,750 2,287 44,037 (42,000) (6,860) (48,860) Kurt Widmaier3 42,500 0 42,500 (42,000) (0) (42,000) Dr. Bernd-Michael Zinow 48,250 11,620 59,870 (49,500) (10,720) (60,220) Dirk Gaerte3 (until 30/06/2014) 19,856 0 19,856 (39,000) (0) (39,000) Günther Cramer (until 22/12/2013) 0 0 0 (35,137) (0) (35,137) Reiner Koch1 (until 31/05/2013) 0 0 0 (14,411) (5,550) (19,961) Bernd Munding (until 28/02/2013) 0 0 0 (6,099) (0) (6,099) Total 874,442 84,976 959,418 (885,887) (106,200) (992,087) 1 In accordance with the regulations of the German Federation of Trade Unions (DGB) on the transfer of supervisory board remuneration, the remuneration is transferred to the Hans-Böckler foundation and ver.di GewerkschaftsPolitische Bildung gGmbH. 2 The members of the state government have agreed to transfer any remuneration received for membership of supervisory boards, advisory boards and all other comparable boards to which they have been appointed in connection with their office or to which they are assigned as a member of the state government, applying Sec. 5 Ancillary Activities Ordinance (Landesnebentätigkeitsverordnung – LNTVO) analogously, provided that the extent to which the remuneration received in the calendar year exceeds a gross total of €6,100 (council of ministers resolution dated 24/05/2011). 3 Pursuant to Secs. 8288 Civil Service Act (Landesbeamtengesetz – LBG) in conjunction with Sec. 5 Ancillary Activities Ordinance (LNTVO), remuneration is transferred to the district. EnBW Report 2014 Management report » Disclosures pursuant to Secs. 289 (4) and 315 (4) HGB and explanatory report 95 The above disclosures include attendance fees of the members The members of the Board of Management and the Superof the Supervisory Board amounting to €139,250 (previous visory Board are covered by adequate D&O insurance year: €136,750) and attendance fees totalling €24,840 in the concluded in the interest of EnBW. An appropriate deductible remuneration for offices held at subsidiaries (previous year: was arranged for this D&O insurance, equivalent to three basic €35,086). No other remuneration or benefits for services monthly salaries for members of the Board of Management rendered personally, in particular consulting or mediation and half of the annual remuneration for members of the services, were paid to members of the Supervisory Board, nor Supervisory Board. Since 1 July 2010, the deductible for D&O did they receive any loans or advances in the reporting year. insurance for both members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board has been 10% of the claims, but no more than one and a half times the fixed annual remuneration. Disclosures pursuant to Secs. 289 (4) and 315 (4) German Commercial Code (HGB) and explanatory report of the Board of Management In the following, the Board of Management provides the An agreement exists between, on the one hand, NECKARPRI information prescribed by Secs. 289 (4) and 315 (4) German GmbH and NECKARPRI-Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH and, on Commercial Code (HGB) and explains this in accordance with the other, Zweckverband OEW and OEW Energie-Beteiligungs Sec. 176 (1) sentence 1 German Stock Corporations Act (AktG). GmbH which grants OEW Energie-Beteiligungs GmbH the right The composition of the subscribed capital is described and to purchase both the NECKARPRI-Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH explained in the notes to the annual and consolidated lines of share acquired in EnBW AG arising from the voluntary financial statement in the section “Equity”. Direct or indirect takeover offer dated 7 January 2011 (3,852,236 shares) and from shares in capital which exceed 10% of the voting rights are the capital increase implemented on 5 July 2012 (12,929,978 described and explained in the notes to the annual financial shares) if, as part of the request for arbitration of NECKARPRI statement in the sections “Shareholder composition” and GmbH against E.D.F. INTERNATIONAL S.A., Paris, France, the “Disclosures pursuant to Sec. 21 German Securities Trading Act purchase of the EnBW shares acquired by this company with an (WpHG)” and the notes to the consolidated financial stateagreement dated 6 December 2010 is unwound. However, it was ment in section “Related parties (individuals)”. communicated to EnBW that the federal state government does not wish to unwind this transaction, and that the agreement is Restrictions relating to voting rights or intended to ensure that EnBW’s ownership structure remains transferability of shares stable at all times. A shareholder agreement exists, on the one hand, between Legal provisions and statutes on the appointment Zweckverband Oberschwäbische Elektrizitätswerke (Zweckand dismissal of members of the Board of verband OEW) and OEW Energie-Beteiligungs GmbH and, on the Management and amendments to the articles of other, the federal state of Baden-Württemberg, NECKARPRI incorporation and by-laws GmbH and NECKARPRI-Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH. The shareholder agreement contains customary clauses governing the Pursuant to Sec. 84 German Stock Corporations Act (AktG) in relationship between the two major shareholders of EnBW and conjunction with Sec. 31 German Co-determination Act their relationship with EnBW and coordination of their influence (MitbestG), responsibility for the appointment and dismissal of on EnBW. These include but are not limited to clauses prescribing members of the Board of Management rests with the that voting rights are to be exercised in a coordinated and in Supervisory Board. This competence is stipulated in Sec. 7 (1) some cases uniform manner, establishing a shareholders’ sentence 2 of EnBW’s articles of incorporation and by-laws. If committee for these purposes and clauses stipulating that each under exceptional circumstances a required board member is party shall consult with the other party on significant missing, Sec. 85 German Stock Corporations Act (AktG) requires transactions and decisions. Furthermore, they include regulain urgent cases that a board member be appointed by the court. tions relating to restrictions of authorisation over EnBW shares held by the main shareholders and a generally mutual obligation The Annual General Meeting has the right to make changes to of both main shareholders to maintain parity investment the articles of incorporation and by-laws in accordance with relationships in EnBW with respect to each another. Sec. 119 (1) No. 5 German Stock Corporations Act (AktG). The specific rules of procedure are contained in Secs. 179 and 181 German Stock Corporations Act (AktG). For practical reasons, 96 Management report » Disclosures pursuant to Secs. 289 (4) and 315 (4) HGB and explanatory report EnBW Report 2014 the right to amend the articles of incorporation and by-laws Financing arrangements solely in relation to their wording was transferred to the A syndicated credit line of €1.5 billion, which had not been Supervisory Board. This option pursuant to Sec. 179 (1) drawn by 31 December 2014, can be terminated by the lenders, sentence 2 German Stock Corporations Act (AktG) is embodied thereby becoming due for repayment given a change of in Sec. 18 (2) of the articles of incorporation and by-laws. control at EnBW. This does not apply if the purchaser of the shares is the state of Baden-Württemberg or Zweckverband Pursuant to Sec. 179 (2) German Stock Corporations Act (AktG), OEW or another German public law legal entity. resolutions of the Annual General Meeting to amend the articles of incorporation and by-laws are passed by the Annual A €650 million syndicated loan for Group company Stadtwerke General Meeting with a majority of at least three quarters of Düsseldorf AG (SWD), of which around €347.9 million was the capital stock represented at the passing of the resolution, drawn down as of 31 December 2014, can become due for unless the articles of incorporation and by-laws provide that repayment given a change of control at SWD, including an the amendment of the purpose of the company requires a indirect change of control. This does not apply if, after the higher majority of the capital. Pursuant to Sec. 18 (1) of the change of control, the majority of shares in SWD are held articles of incorporation and by-laws, the resolutions of the directly or indirectly by German government entities, and the Annual General Meeting require a simple majority of the votes city of Düsseldorf holds at least 25.05% of the shares in SWD. cast, unless legal regulations or the articles of incorporation and by-laws prescribe otherwise. If the law requires a larger A bond of JPY 20 billion issued on 12 December 2008 under the majority of the votes cast or of the capital stock represented debt issuance programme can be terminated by the lenders when passing the resolution, the simple majority suffices in and become due for repayment given a change of control. This those cases where the law leaves it up to the articles of does not apply if the purchaser of the shares is EDF (whose incorporation and by-laws to determine this. legal successor as shareholder is now the state of BadenWürttemberg) or Zweckverband OEW or another German Authority of the Board of Management regarding public law corporation. the possibility to issue or redeem shares Two bilateral long-term bank loans, valued at €475 million and Pursuant to Sec. 5 (2) of the articles of incorporation and by€500 million on 31 December 2014, can be terminated by the laws, the Board of Management is authorised, with the assent lender and become due for repayment given a change of of the Supervisory Board, to increase the company’s share control at EnBW, provided the change of control has a negative capital until 25 April 2017 by up to €31,907,829.76 through effect on repayment of the loan in future. This does not apply issuing against cash capital contributions, either once or on if the purchaser of the shares is EDF (whose legal successor as several occasions, new ordinary bearer shares. shareholder is now the state of Baden-Württemberg) or Zweckverband OEW. No authorisation of the Annual General Meeting pursuant to Sec. 71 (1) No. 8 German Stock Corporations Act (AktG) for the Corporate law agreements purchase of treasury shares by the company exists at EnBW. The In the event of a change of control at EnBW, EnBW is required to company may therefore only acquire treasury shares on the offer its shareholding in EWE Aktiengesellschaft (EWE) to EWE’s basis of other reasons justifying such purchases in accordance municipal shareholders, Weser-Ems-Energiebeteiligungen with Sec. 71 (1) German Stock Corporations Act (AktG). As of GmbH and Energieverband Elbe-Weser-Beteiligungsholding 31 December 2014, the company holds 5,749,677 treasury shares GmbH. The purchase price is the market price as determined by which were purchased on the basis of earlier authorisations in an expert appraisal. A change of control is deemed to have accordance with Sec. 71 (1) No. 8 German Stock Corporations Act occurred if a shareholder other than EDF (whose legal successor (AktG). The company’s treasury shares can be sold on the stock as shareholder is the state of Baden Württemberg) or exchange or by public offer to all company shareholders. The Zweckverband OEW directly or indirectly obtains the majority of use of treasury shares, in particular their sale, in any other way the voting rights in EnBW; this may also be achieved through can only occur within the scope of the resolution of the Annual joint control together with another shareholder. General Meeting dated 29 April 2004. The treasury shares held by EnBW do not grant the company any rights in accordance Compensation agreements with Sec. 71b German Stock Corporations Act (AktG). Compensation agreements pursuant to Secs. 289 (4) No. 9 and Material agreements of the company subject to 315 (4) N0. 9 German Commercial Code (HGB) concluded with the condition of a change of control as a result of members of the Board of Management to cover any case of a a takeover bid and the resulting effects change of control are described and explained in the remuneration report. The following EnBW agreements are subject to the condition of a change of control following a takeover bid as defined by Sec. 289 Nos. 4 and 5 of Secs. 289 (4) and 315 (4) German Commercial Code (4) No. 8 and Sec. 315 (4) No. 8 German Commercial Code (HGB): (HGB) were not relevant for EnBW in the 2014 financial year. EnBW Report 2014 Management Report » Significant events after the reporting date 97 Significant events after the reporting date EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG has sold 49.89% of the be transferred to Macquarie Capital next summer following shares acquired from its subsidiary EnBW Offshore 2 GmbH in approval under antitrust regulations and the complete the offshore wind farm EnBW Baltic 2 to a subsidiary of the commissioning of the offshore wind farm, is €720 million. Australian financial investor Macquarie Capital Group Limited. EnBW will simultaneously take charge of operations and A corresponding purchase agreement was signed on 5 January maintenance tasks at the wind farm, resulting in a corres2015. The purchase price for the shares, which are expected to ponding expansion of its service business. Condensed financial statements of the EnBW Group Income statement 99 Statement of comprehensive income 100 Balance sheet 101 Cash flow statement 102 Statement of changes in equity 103 Information on the result of the audit of the consolidated financial statements and the combined management report of the company and the Group for the 2014 financial year 104 EnBW Report 2014 Financial Statements » Income statement 99 Income statement in € million1 Notes 2014 2013 Revenue including electricity and energy taxes 21,760.1 21,377.6 Electricity and energy taxes -757.6 -832.8 Revenue (1) 21,002.5 20,544.8 Changes in inventories 15.5 0.6 Other own work capitalised 78.0 56.0 Other operating income (2) 1,238.1 1,001.8 Cost of materials (3) -17,511.7 -17,078.0 Personnel expenses (4) -1,620.2 -1,536.6 Other operating expenses (5) -1,064.9 -988.9 EBITDA 2,137.3 1,999.7 Amortisation and depreciation (6) -2,137.2 -975.6 Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) 0.1 1,024.1 Investment result (7) 25.6 99.6 of which net profit/loss from entities accounted for using the equity method (-15.7) (75.3) of which other income from investments (41.3) (24.3) Financial result (8) -635.4 -953.0 of which finance revenue (433.8) (358.3) of which finance costs (-1,069.2) (-1,311.3) Earnings before tax (EBT) -609.7 170.7 Income tax (9) 222.1 -48.4 Group net profit/loss -387.6 122.3 of which profit/loss shares attributable to non-controlling interests (63.1) (71.3) of which profit/loss shares attributable to the equity holders of EnBW AG (-450.7) (51.0) EnBW AG shares outstanding (million), weighted average 270.855 270.855 Earnings per share from Group net profit/loss (€) 2 (26) -1.66 0.19 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. Further disclosures are presented in the notes under “Changes in accounting policies”. We publish the complete consolidated financial statements at www.enbw.com/report2014-downloads. 2 Diluted and basic; in relation to shares in profit/loss attributable to the equity holders of EnBW AG. 100 Financial Statements » Statement of comprehensive income EnBW Report 2014 Statement of comprehensive income in € million 2014 2013 Group net profit/loss -387.6 122.3 Revaluation of pensions and similar obligations -1,193.5 31.0 Entities accounted for using the equity method -83.3 0.0 Income taxes on other comprehensive income 237.0 -7.9 Total of other comprehensive income and expenses without future reclassifications impacting earnings -1,039.8 23.1 Currency translation differences 7.7 -48.7 Cash flow hedge -36.1 -179.9 Available-for-sale financial assets 240.2 36.3 Entities accounted for using the equity method 29.6 0.0 Income taxes on other comprehensive income -29.2 58.3 Total of other comprehensive income and expenses with future reclassifications impacting earnings 212.2 -134.0 Other comprehensive income -827.6 -110.9 Total comprehensive income -1,215.2 11.4 of which profit/loss shares attributable to non-controlling interests (38.0) (54.3) of which profit/loss shares attributable to the equity holders of EnBW AG (-1,253.2) (-42.9) EnBW Report 2014 Financial Statements » Balance sheet 101 Balance sheet in € million1 Notes 31/12/2014 31/12/2013 01/01/2013 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets (10) 1,783.0 1,844.1 1,930.2 Property, plant and equipment (11) 13,681.7 14,069.7 13,920.2 Investment properties (12) 75.8 77.0 81.5 Entities accounted for using the equity method (13) 1,941.0 1,927.4 2,219.0 Other financial assets (14) 8,513.4 6,399.9 6,058.7 Trade receivables (15) 678.6 641.9 567.4 Income tax refund claims (16) 9.1 12.9 17.1 Other non-current assets (17) 270.0 277.2 298.5 Deferred taxes (23) 430.0 257.8 48.3 27,382.6 25,507.9 25,140.9 Current assets Inventories (18) 1,135.4 1,353.9 1,285.9 Financial assets (19) 780.1 750.3 785.6 Trade receivables (15) 3,193.1 3,745.0 3,919.5 Income tax refund claims (16) 451.6 343.1 169.4 Other current assets (17) 2,085.6 1,542.9 1,836.5 Cash and cash equivalents (20) 3,179.2 2,424.9 2,588.8 10,825.0 10,160.1 10,585.7 Assets held for sale (25) 104.5 90.3 681.1 10,929.5 10,250.4 11,266.8 38,312.1 35,758.3 36,407.7 Equity and liabilities Equity (21) Equity holders of EnBW AG Subscribed capital 708.1 708.1 708.1 Capital reserve 774.2 774.2 774.2 Revenue reserves 3,769.3 4,378.9 4,559.1 Treasury shares -204.1 -204.1 -204.1 Other comprehensive income -1,607.4 -791.8 -697.9 3,440.1 4,865.3 5,139.4 Non-controlling interests 1,105.5 1,217.4 1,236.5 4,545.6 6,082.7 6,375.9 Non-current liabilities Provisions (22) 14,302.2 12,450.7 12,260.6 Deferred taxes (23) 648.9 955.7 1,000.8 Financial liabilities (24) 7,187.1 5,547.4 5,563.9 Income tax liabilities (24) 134.3 164.4 289.6 Other liabilities and subsidies (24) 1,874.2 1,968.7 2,006.0 24,146.7 21,086.9 21,120.9 Current liabilities Provisions (22) 1,151.6 1,391.6 1,226.1 Financial liabilities (24) 1,078.5 224.7 1,201.1 Trade payables (24) 3,829.6 3,611.0 3,472.2 Income tax liabilities (24) 330.9 418.0 254.6 Other liabilities and subsidies (24) 3,180.7 2,910.8 2,756.3 9,571.3 8,556.1 8,910.3 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale (25) 48.5 32.6 0.6 9,619.8 8,588.7 8,910.9 38,312.1 35,758.3 36,407.7 1 The figures for the previous years have been restated. Further disclosures are presented in the notes under “Changes in accounting policies” and “Restatement of previous year figures”. We publish the complete consolidated financial statements at www.enbw.com/report2014-downloads. 102 Financial Statements » Cash flow statement EnBW Report 2014 Cash flow statement in € million1, 2 2014 2013 1. Operating activities EBITDA 2,137.3 1,999.7 Changes in provisions 73.2 42.0 Result from disposals -93.1 -24.9 Other non-cash expenses/income -341.5 -59.0 Change in assets and liabilities from operating activities 254.7 318.1 Inventories (-68.7) (-123.8) Net balance of trade receivables and payables (669.4) (194.0) Net balance of other assets and liabilities (-346.0) (247.9) Income tax paid -254.9 -356.8 Cash flow from operating activities 1,775.7 1,919.1 2. Investing activities Capital expenditures on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment -1,704.4 -1,060.2 Cash received from disposals of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 194.1 172.4 Cash received from construction cost and investment subsidies 79.9 72.6 Cash paid for the acquisition of subsidiaries, entities accounted for using the equity method and interests in joint operations -40.8 -39.2 Cash received from the sale of subsidiaries, entities accounted for using the equity method and interests in joint operations 108.9 9.9 Cash paid for investments in other financial assets -2,795.4 -1,187.2 Cash received from the sale of other financial assets 1,071.2 1,077.3 Cash received/paid for investments in connection with short-term finance planning -13.6 14.0 Interest received 211.2 198.4 Dividends received 112.3 169.6 Cash flow from investing activities -2,776.6 -572.4 3. Financing activities Interest paid for financing activities -338.6 -303.7 Dividends paid -261.8 -310.8 Cash received for changes in ownership interest without loss of control 89.7 0.0 Cash paid for changes in ownership interest without loss of control -197.9 0.0 Increase in financial liabilities 2,661.5 435.7 Repayment of financial liabilities -192.0 -1,330.6 Cash flow from financing activities 1,760.9 -1,509.4 Net change in cash and cash equivalents 760.0 -162.7 Net foreign exchange difference 0.3 -1.2 Change in cash and cash equivalents 760.3 -163.9 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 2,424.9 2,588.8 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 3,185.2 2,424.9 of which cash and cash equivalents in current assets 3,179.2 2,424.9 of which cash and cash equivalents in assets held for sale 6.0 0.0 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. Further disclosures are presented in the notes under “Changes in accounting policies”. 2 Further disclosures are presented under (34) “Notes to the cash flow statement”. We publish the complete consolidated financial statements at www.enbw.com/report2014-downloads. EnBW Report 2014 Financial Statements » Statement of changes in equity 103 Statement of changes in equity in € million1 Other comprehensive income SubRevenue TreasRevaluDifferCash AvailEntities Equity NonTotal scribed reserves ury ation of ence flow ableaccount holders controlcapital shares pensions from hedge for-sale ed for of ling and and simicurfinancial using EnBW interests capital lar obligarency assets the AG reserve2 tions transequity lation method As of: 01/01/2013 1,482.3 4,559.1 -204.1 -806.2 -74.6 -172.8 355.7 0.0 5,139.4 1,236.5 6,375.9 Other comprehensive income 23.1 -25.5 -138.3 46.8 -93.9 -17.0 -110.9 Group net profit 51.0 51.0 71.3 122.3 Total comprehensive income 0.0 51.0 0.0 23.1 -25.5 -138.3 46.8 0.0 -42.9 54.3 11.4 Dividends paid -230.2 -230.2 -61.7 -291.9 Other changes3, 4 -1.0 -1.0 -11.7 -12.7 As of: 31/12/2013 1,482.3 4,378.9 -204.1 -783.1 -100.1 -311.1 402.5 0.0 4,865.3 1,217.4 6,082.7 Other comprehensive income -944.5 4.5 -11.6 202.8 -53.7 -802.5 -25.1 -827.6 Group net profit/loss -450.7 -450.7 63.1 -387.6 Total comprehensive income 0.0 -450.7 0.0 -944.5 4.5 -11.6 202.8 -53.7 -1,253.2 38.0 -1,215.2 Dividends paid -186.9 -186.9 -57.2 -244.1 Other changes3, 4 28.0 -1.5 -11.6 14.9 -92.7 -77.8 As of: 31/12/2014 1,482.3 3,769.3 -204.1 -1,729.1 -95.6 -334.3 605.3 -53.7 3,440.1 1,105.5 4,545.6 1 Further disclosures are presented in note (21) “Equity”. We publish the complete consolidated financial statements at www.enbw.com/report2014-downloads. 2 Of which subscribed capital €708.1 million (31 December 2013: €708.1 million, 1 January 2013: €708.1 million) and capital reserve €774.2 million (31 December 2013: €774.2 million, 1 January 2013: €774.2 million). 3 Of which change in revenue reserves, revaluation of pensions and similar obligations and of the cash flow hedge due to changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries without loss of control amounting to €26.6 million, €-1.5 million and €-11.6 million, respectively (previous year: €0.0 million, €0.0 million and €0.0 million, respectively). Of which changes in non-controlling interests due to changes in ownership interest of subsidiaries without loss of control amounting to €-94.7 million (previous year: €0.0 million). 4 Of which transaction costs that were accounted for as a deduction from equity amounting to €1.8 million (previous year: €0.0 million). 104 Financial Statements » Information on the result of the audit EnBW Report 2014 Information on the result of the audit of the consolidated financial statements and the combined management report of the company and the Group for the 2014 financial year These condensed financial statements for the 2014 financial year that form part of the integrated report do not include the notes to the consolidated financial statements. The full set of consolidated financial statements – including the notes to the consolidated financial statements – and the combined management report for the company and the Group, both for the 2014 financial year, were audited by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft as the auditor and Group auditor elected by the Annual General Meeting of EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG on 29 April 2014. Based on its audit, KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft arrived at the overall conclusion that the audit did not lead to any reservations and issued an unqualified audit opinion. The full set of consolidated financial statements and the combined management report for the company and the Group, both for the 2014 financial year, as well as the unqualified audit opinion issued by the auditor, can be accessed on the website of EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG. Corporate bodies The Supervisory Board 106 Offices held by members of the Board of Management 108 Other offices held by members of the Supervisory Board 109 106 Corporate bodies » The Supervisory Board EnBW Report 2014 The Supervisory Board Members › Dr. Claus Dieter Hoffmann, Stuttgart › Dr. Wolf-Rüdiger Michel, Rottweil › Kurt Widmaier, Ravensburg Managing partner of H + H Senior District Administrator of the Rottweil District Administrator of the Ravensburg Advisors GmbH district (since 1 July 2014) district Chairman › Bodo Moray, Mannheim › Dr. Bernd-Michael Zinow, Pfinztal › Dietrich Herd, Philippsburg Head of the Department for Utilities Head of the functional unit Legal Chairman of the Group works council for and Waste Management, ver.di BadenServices, Compliance and Regulation at the EnBW Group and Chairman of the Württemberg EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG central works council production sector of EnBW Energie Baden› Gunda Röstel, Flöha › Dirk Gaerte, Sigmaringendorf Württemberg AG Commercial Director of District Administrator of the Deputy Chairman Stadtentwässerung Dresden GmbH and Sigmaringen district (until 30 June 2014) Authorised Officer of Gelsenwasser AG › Stefan Paul Hamm, Gerlingen Regional Department Secretary for › Dr. Nils Schmid MdL, Reutlingen Utilities and Waste Management, ver.di Deputy Premier Minister and Minister Baden-Württemberg for Finance and Economic Affairs of the Federal State of Baden-Württemberg › Silke Krebs, Stuttgart Minister in the State Ministry of Baden› Klaus Schörnich, Düsseldorf Württemberg Member of the Group works council for the EnBW Group and Chairman › Marianne Kugler-Wendt, Heilbronn of the works council at Stadtwerke Regional Director, ver.di, HeilbronnDüsseldorf AG Neckar-Franconia district › Heinz Seiffert, Ehingen › Wolfgang Lang, Karlsruhe District Administrator of the Alb-Donau Consultant HR for functional units at district EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG › Gerhard Stratthaus MdL, Brühl › Dr. Hubert Lienhard, Heidenheim Minister for Finance (retired) Chief Executive Officer of Voith GmbH › Carola Wahl, Bonn › Sebastian Maier, Ellenberg Senior Vice President Indirect Sales and Member of the Group works council for Service at Telekom Deutschland GmbH the EnBW Group and Chairman of the (since 29 April 2014) works council at EnBW Ostwürttemberg DonauRies AG › Dietmar Weber, Esslingen Member of the Group works council for › Arnold Messner, Aichwald the EnBW Group and Chairman of the Deputy Chairman of the Group works central works council market sector of council for the EnBW Group and EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG Chairman of the central works council of Netze BW GmbH Key › Active member › Inactive member As of: 19 February 2015 EnBW Report 2014 Corporate bodies » The Supervisory Board 107 Committees Personnel committee Audit committee Ad hoc committee (since 7 June 2010) › Dr. Claus Dieter Hoffmann › Gunda Röstel Chairman Chairwoman › Dr. Bernd-Michael Zinow › Dietrich Herd › Marianne Kugler-Wendt Chairman › Arnold Messner › Wolfgang Lang › Dietrich Herd › Dr. Nils Schmid › Dr. Nils Schmid › Dr. Wolf-Rüdiger Michel › Klaus Schörnich (since 9 July 2014) Finance and investment committee › Heinz Seiffert › Gerhard Stratthaus › Dietmar Weber › Dirk Gaerte (until 30 June 2014) › Dr. Claus Dieter Hoffmann › Kurt Widmaier Chairman Mediation committee (committee › Dietrich Herd Nomination committee pursuant to Sec. 27 (3) German › Silke Krebs Co-determination Act (MitbestG)) › Dr. Hubert Lienhard › Dr. Claus Dieter Hoffmann › Arnold Messner Chairman › Dr. Claus Dieter Hoffmann › Bodo Moray › Silke Krebs Chairman › Heinz Seiffert › Gunda Röstel › Dietrich Herd › Dr. Bernd-Michael Zinow › Heinz Seiffert › Sebastian Maier › Kurt Widmaier › Dr. Nils Schmid Key › Active member › Inactive member As of: 19 February 2015 108 Corporate bodies » Offices held by members of the Board of Management EnBW Report 2014 Offices held by members of the Board of Management › Dr. Frank Mastiaux › Thomas Kusterer › Dr. Dirk Mausbeck Chairman – Netze BW GmbH – EnBW Operations GmbH – EWE Aktiengesellschaft (until 30 April 2014, Chairman) – EVN AG – Netze BW GmbH › Dr. Bernhard Beck (until 30 September 2014, Chairman) – EnBW Kernkraft GmbH (Chairman) › Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer – EnBW Vertrieb GmbH – EnBW Erneuerbare und Konventionelle – EnBW Kernkraft GmbH (until 30 April 2014, Chairman) Erzeugung AG – EnBW Erneuerbare und Konventionelle – European Energy Exchange AG (until 30 April 2014, Chairman) Erzeugung AG (until 30 April 2014) (until 5 June 2014) – EnBW Operations GmbH – EWE Aktiengesellschaft – Stadtwerke Düsseldorf AG (until 30 April 2014) – Netze BW GmbH (until 30 September 2014) – EnBW Perspektiven GmbH (Chairman) (since 1 October 2014, Chairman) – ZEAG Energie AG – EnBW Systeme Infrastruktur Support – terranets bw GmbH (Chairman) (until 30 September 2014, Chairman) GmbH (until 30 April 2014, Chairman) – TransnetBW GmbH (Chairman) – Energiedienst AG – GasVersorgung Süddeutschland GmbH – Stadtwerke Düsseldorf AG (Chairman) – Vorarlberger Illwerke AG (until 30 September 2014, Chairman) – Pražská energetika, a.s. – BKK VerbundPlus, Körperschaft des (until 30 September 2014) öffentlichen Rechts – Energiedienst Holding AG – Pražská energetika, a.s. (since 1 October 2014) Key › Active member › Inactive member Disclosures of office holders pursuant to Sec. 285 No. 10 German Commercial Code (HGB) – Membership in other statutory supervisory boards – Membership in comparable domestic and foreign control bodies of business As of: 19 February 2015 EnBW Report 2014 Corporate bodies » Other offices held by members of the Supervisory Board 109 Other offices held by members of the Supervisory Board › Dr. Claus Dieter Hoffmann › Dr. Hubert Lienhard – Zweckverband Ringzug Schwarzwald(Chairman) – Heraeus Holding GmbH Baar-Heuberg – ING-DiBa AG – SGL Carbon SE – Zweckverband Tierische – SMS Group GmbH Nebenprodukte Süd-Baden– De Boer Holding NV – Voith Turbo Beteiligungen GmbH Württemberg (until 30 September 2014) (Chairman) – EJOT Holding GmbH & Co. KG › Bodo Moray – Voith Hydro Holding GmbH & Co. KG – EnBW Erneuerbare und Konventionelle › Dietrich Herd (Chairman) Erzeugung AG (until 30 April 2014) (Deputy Chairman) – Voith Industrial Services Holding – Netze BW GmbH – EnBW Kernkraft GmbH GmbH & Co. KG (Chairman) – EnBW Erneuerbare und Konventionelle – Voith Paper Holding GmbH & Co. KG – Member of the representatives’ Erzeugung AG (until 30 April 2014) (Chairman) meeting of Postsparund Darlehens– Voith Turbo GmbH & Co. KG (Chairman) verein Karlsruhe-Neustadt (PSD) › Stefan Paul Hamm – NetCom BW GmbH, formerly ODR – TransnetBW GmbH › Sebastian Maier Technologie Services GmbH – EnBW Ostwürttemberg DonauRies AG (since 1 May 2014) › Silke Krebs – MFG Medienund Filmgesellschaft – NetCom BW GmbH, formerly ODR › Gunda Röstel Baden-Württemberg mbH Technologie Services GmbH – Universitätsklinikum Carl Gustav (until 31 March 2014) (since 1 May 2014) Carus Dresden an der Technischen – Stiftung Kinderland Baden– Netzgesellschaft Universität Dresden, Anstalt des Württemberg (Chairwoman) Ostwürttemberg GmbH öffentlichen Rechts – Südwestrundfunk, Anstalt des öffentlichen Rechts › Arnold Messner – University council of Technische – SWR Media Services GmbH – Netze BW GmbH Universität Dresden, Körperschaft des – Baden-Württemberg Stiftung gGmbH öffentlichen Rechts (Chairwoman) › Dr. Wolf-Rüdiger Michel – Sächsische Aufbaubank, Anstalt des › Marianne Kugler-Wendt – Netze BW GmbH (until 31 October 2014) öffentlichen Rechts – Bausparkasse Schwäbisch-Hall AG – Kreisbaugenossenschaft Rottweil e. G. (until 22 November 2014) – EnBW Kernkraft GmbH (Chairman) – Stadtwerke Burg GmbH – EnBW Erneuerbare und Konventionelle Erzeugung AG (until 30 April 2014) – Kreissparkasse Rottweil, Anstalt des – SLK-Kliniken Heilbronn GmbH öffentlichen Rechts (Chairman) – Schwarzwald Tourismus GmbH – Heilbronner Versorgungs GmbH – SMF Schwarzwald Musikfestival GmbH – Regionale Gesundheitsholding – Sparkassen-Beteiligungen BadenHeilbronn-Franken GmbH Württemberg GmbH (until 31 July 2014) – Sparkassenverband Baden– Stadtwerke Heilbronn GmbH Württemberg, Körperschaft des öffentlichen Rechts › Wolfgang Lang – Wirtschaftsförderungsgesellschaft – EnBW Systeme Infrastruktur Support Schwarzwald-Baar-Heuberg mbH GmbH (until 30 April 2014) – Zweckverband Bauernmuseum Horb/Sulz – EnBW Perspektiven GmbH – Zweckverband Kommunale (since 1 March 2014) Informationsverarbeitung Reutlingen-Ulm – Zweckverband Oberschwäbische Elektrizitätswerke – Zweckverband Protec 110 Corporate bodies » Other offices held by members of the Supervisory Board EnBW Report 2014 › Dr. Nils Schmid › Gerhard Stratthaus › Dirk Gaerte – Landesbank Baden-Württemberg, – Badische Staatsbrauerei Rothaus AG – Hohenzollerische Landesbahn AG Anstalt des öffentlichen Rechts – SV SparkassenVersicherung – Zentrum für Europäische Holding AG – Baden-Württemberg International – Wirtschaftsforschung GmbH – Wirtschaftsförderungsund StandortGesellschaft für internationale marketinggesellschaft Landkreis wirtschaftliche und wissenschaftliche › Carola Wahl Sigmaringen mbH (Chairman) Zusammenarbeit mbH (Chairman) – Baden-Württemberg Stiftung gGmbH › Dietmar Weber – Flugplatz Mengen-Hohentengen – e-mobil BW GmbH (Chairman) – EnBW Operations GmbH GmbH (Chairman) – Landeskreditbank Baden(until 30 April 2014) – Hohenzollerische Landesbank Württemberg – Förderbank, Anstalt Kreissparkasse Sigmaringen, Anstalt des öffentlichen Rechts (Chairman) › Kurt Widmaier des öffentlichen Rechts (Chairman) – Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW), – Oberschwabenklinik GmbH (Chairman) – Kliniken Landkreis Sigmaringen GmbH Anstalt des öffentlichen Rechts (Chairman) – Leichtbau BW GmbH (Chairman) – Bodensee-Oberschwaben-Bahn – Regionalverband BodenseeGmbH & Co. KG (since 1 January 2014) Oberschwaben › Klaus Schörnich – Bodensee-Oberschwaben – Sparkassenverband Baden– AWISTA GmbH Verkehrsverbundgesellschaft mbH Württemberg, Körperschaft des – Stadtwerke Düsseldorf AG (Chairman) öffentlichen Rechts – Netzgesellschaft Düsseldorf mbH, – Kreissparkasse Ravensburg – Technologieund Innovationszentrum formerly Stadtwerke Düsseldorf (Chairman) Pfullendorf GmbH (TIP) Netz GmbH – LBS Landesbausparkasse Baden– Verkehrsverbund Neckar-Alb-Donau Württemberg GmbH (naldo) › Heinz Seiffert – REAG Ravensburger Entsorgungs– Zweckverband Oberschwäbische – Krankenhaus GmbH Alb-Donau-Kreis anlagengesellschaft mbH (Chairman) Elektrizitätswerke (Chairman) – WIR – Gesellschaft für Wirtschafts– Zweckverband Thermische und Innovationsförderung Landkreis Abfallverwertung Donautal – ADK GmbH für Gesundheit und Ravensburg mbH (Chairman) – Zweckverband Tierische NebenSoziales (Chairman) – Zentrum für Psychiatrie Weissenau, produkte Süd-Baden-Württemberg – Donau-Iller-Nahverkehrsverbund GmbH Anstalt des öffentlichen Rechts – Fernwärme Ulm GmbH – Zweckverband Oberschwäbische – Kreisbaugesellschaft mbH Alb-Donau Elektrizitätswerke (Chairman) – Zweckverband Tierische Neben– Pflegeheim GmbH Alb-Donau-Kreis produkte Süd-Baden-Württemberg (Chairman) – Regionalverband Donau-Iller (Chairman) › Dr. Bernd-Michael Zinow – Sparkasse Ulm, Anstalt des – EnBW Kernkraft GmbH öffentlichen Rechts (Chairman) – TransnetBW GmbH – Zweckverband Oberschwäbische Key Elektrizitätswerke (Chairman) › Active member – Zweckverband Thermische › Inactive member Abfallverwertung Donautal (Chairman) Disclosures of office holders pursuant to Sec. 285 No. 10 German Commercial Code (HGB) – Membership in other statutory supervisory boards – Membership in comparable domestic and foreign control bodies of business As of: 19 February 2015 Service Implementation status of the integrated reporting 112 Multi-year overview 114 Glossary 116 Important notes 119 Financial calendar 120 Our locations 121 112 Service › Implementation status of the integrated reporting EnBW Report 2014 Implementation status of the integrated reporting EnBW has been an active supporter of inteThe IIRC framework, which is based on a ing. The integrated report issued by EnBW grated reporting since the foundation of the series of principles, provides recommendacontains a full (Group) management report International Integrated Reporting Council tions on key aspects that should be included in accordance with the regulations found (IIRC) four years ago. This is demonstrated in the integrated reporting. The following in commercial law. Therefore, some of the by the fact that Thomas Kusterer, memtable provides an overview of the company's recommendations found in the IIRC reportber of the Board of Management of EnBW, own assessment of the implementation staing principles could only be implemented in is also a member of the IIRC, as well as by tus of these recommendations for reporting full to a limited extent because the different the participation of EnBW in the IIRC workprinciples and reporting elements. It is based regulations are not compatible with each other. ing group that developed the IIRC frameon internal discussions within the Group This is the case, for example, with the reportwork. Through the gradual introduction of project “Integrated reporting” and the large ing principle (E) Conciseness. A key focus of integrated reporting, EnBW is committed to amount of feedback that we have received the Group project was the implementation making its annual report more understandin discussions with internal and external of reporting principle (A) Strategic focus and able and informative, while paying particustakeholders. future orientation. This involved supplementlar attention to providing more information ing the goal and performance management on sustainability (non-financial aspects) IIRC reporting principles and elements system to include the sustainability dimension ( page 2). Alongside the optimisation of the and designating shortto long-term goals. reporting process, integrated reporting also Alongside the existing legal requirements, Significant progress was also made in the strengthens the holistic communication and the IIRC reporting principles and elements area of Connectivity of information (reporting management of the company's performance. create the foundations for integrated reportprinciple (B)). The importance of financial IIRC reporting principles ImplemenExplanation tation status Presentation of goals in shortto long-term form included. Strategic focus A The IIRC recommendations are implemented in accordance and future orientation with the requirements in DRS 20. Important financial and non-financial elements in all sub-chapters B Connectivity of information and qualitative presentation of their interdependencies. Important stakeholder groups have already been surveyed. C Stakeholder relationships The future goal is to give even greater consideration to the interests of relevant stakeholders. As a result of compliance with legal requirements, this D Materiality IIRC reporting principle is not completely fulfilled. Substantial reduction in the number of pages; although this E Conciseness IIRC reporting principle cannot be completely fulfilled due to compliance with legal requirements. F Reliability and completeness Retention of the previous principles for management reporting. The IIRC recommendations are implemented in accordance with G Consistency and comparability the requirements in DRS 20. EnBW Report 2014 Service › Implementation status of the integrated reporting 113 and non-financial elements for the success important impetus from the information in Further information on the integrated reportof the company was highlighted throughout the IIRC framework on the topics of (C) Busiing carried out at EnBW is available at: the entire report. EnBW is also striving to ness model and (F) Performance. Besides take even more account of the interests and fulfilling the IIRC guidelines, special attenwww.enbw.com/integrated-reporting expectations of stakeholders in the future. tion was paid here to the development and Amongst other measures, a materiality analpresentation of non-financial goals and key ysis was introduced for this purpose; the findindicators. The presentation of financial and ings derived from this analysis will gradually non-financial Risks and opportunities (D), as flow into the entire strategy and development well as the special influence various aspects process. of sustainability have on financial risks, was expanded and will be scrutinised even more The reporting elements recommended by closely in future against the background of the IIRC correspond in many areas to those a holistic risk assessment. The overview of regulations found in commercial law, as well the implementation status of the reporting as to the regulations in DRS 20, and were principles and reporting content demonthus already implemented to a high degree strates that EnBW has already implemented in the past by EnBW (see, for example, (A) the main recommendations contained within Implementation status: completely fulfilled Organizational overview and (E) Strategy the IIRC framework. Implementation status: broadly fulfilled and resource allocation). EnBW received (based on the company's own assessment) IIRC Reporting Elements ImplemenExplanation tation status Organisational overview The IIRC recommendations are implemented in accordance A and external environment with the requirements in DRS 20. Retention of the previous reporting elements B Governance for management reporting. Strengthening of the “Business model” chapter by adding graphical C Business model elements and expanding the key themes. Presentation of the IIRC capital model is planned for future reporting periods. Introduction of a link between the top risks / opportunities and the D Risks and opportunities non-financial key performance indicators. Strengthening of the “Strategy” chapter and inclusion of a value E Strategy and resource allocation added statement. Extended presentation of the company's performance to include F Performance non-financial aspects. Presentation of the shortto long-term financial and G Outlook non-financial goals. 114 Service » Multi-year overview EnBW Report 2014 Multi-year overview Key financial and strategic performance indicators EnBW Group1 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Earnings Revenue in € million 21,003 20,545 19,324 18,756 17,509 Adjusted EBITDA in € million 2,167 2,225 2,341 2,449 2,859 EBITDA in € million 2,137 2,000 2,307 1,810 3,315 Adjusted EBIT in € million 1,291 1,340 1,453 1,600 1,926 EBIT in € million 0 1,024 1,289 678 2,125 Adjusted Group net profit2 in € million 479 462 652 648 964 Group net profit/loss2 in € million -451 51 484 -842 1,157 Earnings per share from adjusted Group net profit2 in € 1.77 1.71 2.53 2.65 3.95 Earnings per share from Group net profit/loss2 in € -1.66 0.19 1.88 -3.45 4.74 Balance sheet Non-current assets in € million 25,995 24,318 24,205 24,358 25,883 Total assets in € million 38,312 35,758 36,766 35,689 35,780 Equity in € million 4,546 6,083 6,376 6,127 7,603 Equity ratio in % 11.9 17.0 17.3 17.2 21.2 Adjusted net debt3 in € million 7,983 7,271 8,419 8,554 8,694 Dynamic leverage ratio 3.68 3.27 3.60 3.49 3.04 Cash flow Cash flow from operating activities in € million 1,776 1,919 856 1,747 2,561 Capital expenditures in € million 1,957 1,108 877 1,315 2,328 Free cash flow in € million 330 1,168 206 827 1,087 Profitability Return on capital employed (ROCE) in % 10.0 9.7 11.1 11.6 14.2 Weighted average cost of capital (WACC) before tax in % 7.2 8.5 8.7 8.7 9.0 Average capital employed in € million 13,473 14,973 15,148 15,434 15,404 Value added in € million 377 180 364 448 801 Sales in billions Electricity of kWh 138 128 136 155 147 in billions Gas of kWh 117 100 73 57 54 EnBW Report 2014 Service » Multi-year overview 115 Key financial and strategic performance indicators EnBW Group1 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Sales in billions Electricity sales of kWh 48 52 59 –4 –4 in billions Gas sales of kWh 72 69 58 –4 –4 Revenue in € million 9,067 9,568 9,278 –4 –4 Adjusted EBITDA in € million 231 227 241 –4 –4 Grids in billions Electricity sales of kWh 12 13 17 –4 –4 Revenue in € million 6,231 5,708 5,340 –4 –4 Adjusted EBITDA in € million 886 962 773 –4 –4 Renewable Energies in billions Electricity sales of kWh 4 4 3 –4 –4 Revenue in € million 407 372 353 –4 –4 Adjusted EBITDA in € million 191 220 239 –4 –4 Generation and Trading in billions Electricity sales of kWh 75 60 57 –4 –4 in billions Gas sales of kWh 45 31 15 –4 –4 Revenue in € million 5,290 4,888 4,346 –4 –4 Adjusted EBITDA in € million 900 839 1,125 –4 –4 1The figures for the 2013 financial year have been restated. 2 In relation to the profit/loss attributable to the equity holders of EnBW AG. 3 Includes investments held as financial assets. 4 No figures for the comparative periods 2010 and 2011 available for the new segment structure. Key non-financial performance indicators EnBW Group 2014 2013 2012 Customers goal dimension EnBW/Yello Brand Attractiveness Index 43/36 42/38 40/36 EnBW/Yello Customer Satisfaction Index 114/145 111/148 100/152 SAIDI (electricity) in min/year1 15 21 20 Employees goal dimension Employee Commitment Index (ECI)2 56 58 653 LTIF 1, 2 4.3 3.7 7.44 Environment goal dimension Installed output of RE in GW and the share of the generation capacity accounted for by RE in % 2.6/19.1 2.6/19.1 2.5/18.9 1 The figures for the 2013 financial year have been restated. 2 Variations in the group of consolidated companies. 3 Figure from employees survey 2010. 4 A new definition has been used for LTIF since 2013, the figures are therefore not comparable. 116 Service » Glossary EnBW Report 2014 Glossary A Base product is higher than the forward market Base load product. The constant base level price for short-term deliveries. Adjusted EBITDA of supply/demand over a period of time. The operative earnings of companies are Contracting often measured based on adjusted EBITDA C The outsourcing, for a specific period and (Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Deprefor a specific area, of tasks relating to the ciation and Amortisation). It describes Certified Emission Reduction (CER) provision and supply of energy to a third earnings adjusted for special effects Certified emission reductions from Clean party (contractor) acting on its own behalf (before the investment and financial Development Mechanism (CDM) projects. and on its own account. Forms of energy results, income taxes and amortisation). Pursuant to the Kyoto protocol, investors in include, for example, cooling, heating, Adjusted EBITDA is the central earnings industrialised countries earn these in steam and compressed air. indicator for EnBW. developing countries with CDM emission reduction projects. 1 CER corresponds to 1 D Asset liability management model t CO2. CERs can be used by companies to A model for asset liability and cash flow meet the obligation to return allowances Derivatives management. A cash flow-based model is under the European emissions trading Financial instrument used to hedge the used to determine the effects of the system (> Emissions trading). market risks associated with traded pension and nuclear power provisions on products such as commodities, currencies the balance sheet, income statement and Clean Dark Spread (CDS) and equities. cash flow statement over the next 30 years. The difference between the electricity price This ensures that the Group can cover its and the generation costs for a typical coal Direct Current (DC) long-term pension and nuclear power power station, which is calculated using Direct current > HVDC lines provisions within an economically viable the coal price, CO2 allowance price and the time period using corresponding financial degree of efficiency of the power station. Dynamic leverage ratio investments (so-called cover funds). The dynamic leverage ratio is equal to CO2 intensity adjusted net debt divided by adjusted Asset management In the energy sector, CO2 intensity refers to EBITDA. It is the most important indicator A financial asset management system CO2 emissions connected with electricity used for assessing the ratings and external means the active management of investgeneration. It is measured in terms of financing capabilities of EnBW. ments. The central focus of this activity is to g/kWh or t/MWh. CO2 intensity as referred generate appropriate returns while taking to here in the energy sector should not be E into account the risks incurred. Other goals confused with the meaning used in the include, for example: generating distribwider economy. EEG cost allocations utable earnings, a low impact on the Cost allocations under the EEG are investor's balance sheet and cash flow CO2 allowances charged by the transmission system management for pension payments. CO2 allowances have been traded on the operators (TSO). On the one hand, the cost Leipzig electricity exchange since 2005. If a allocations cover the difference between B company purchases a CO2 allowance, it is the income generated by the transmission Backloading entitled to emit 1 t CO2 ( › Emissions trading). system operators from selling the The price of > CO2 allowances will be electricity from EEG plants and the stabilised by creating an artificial shortage Combined heat and power (CHP) expenses incurred by the transmission of these allowances (so-called backloading). The waste heat of a power plant can be system operators for the fixed feed-in A total of 900 million CO2 allowances are to used as process heat or to heat buildings remuneration and market premium paybe removed from the market by 2016 in in the surrounding area. In this way, ments to direct marketers of EEG plants, order to restimulate trading in these additional energy is obtained using the while on the other hand, they also cover allowances. They will be reintroduced onto same amount of fuel. A power plant that the costs of implementing the EEG. EEG the market in 2019 and 2020. generates both electricity and heat from a cost allocations are necessary as the single source is called a CHP plant. income generated from marketing EEG Backwardation electricity falls far short of the expenditure A market condition where the forward for remuneration payments and market market price for future deliveries of a Contango premiums. Today, half of the electricity product is lower than the forward market A market condition where the forward price consists of taxes and levies. The price for short-term deliveries. market price for future deliveries of a largest share is accounted for by the EEG EnBW Report 2014 Service » Glossary 117 cost allocations, which fell slightly from The EnWG, which came into force in July Transforms the chemical energy stored in 6.24 ct/kWh in 2014 to 6.17 ct/kWh in 2015. 2005, introduced a regulatory regime for the energy source into electrical current and the supply of electricity and gas. The heat based on the principle of inverse Electricity Network Development Plan foundations of the act lie in the definitions electrolysis. Can be deployed to supply (NDP Electricity) of network operator duties, rules for electricity to devices and vehicles for This plan describes the measures that network access and network charges, as example, and for supplying electricity and need to be deployed over the next 10 and well as monitoring by the Federal Network heat to buildings, as well as for industrial 20 years to expand and restructure the Agency or the state regulatory authorities. purposes. Fuel cell plants are an efficient German land-based high-voltage grid to The act has been amended several times technology for decentralised energy genensure the secure operation of the netsince it came into force. eration. work. These measures make a significant contribution to the integration of rapidly Energy-only-Market (EOM 2.0) G growing renewable energies and thus also An energy market in which operators are to the Energiewende. The NDP Electricity only remunerated for the energy supplied Gas Network Development Plan (NDP Gas) is prepared jointly by the four German and not explicitly for the generating In the NDP Gas, German long-distance gas transmission system operators every year, capacity they provide. According to the network operators calculate the transbefore being submitted to the German plans of the German government, the portation capacities that they will require in Federal Network Agency (BNetzA) as the reformed EOM 2.0 should include, above the future. The plan is prepared yearly in responsible regulator. The general public all, measures for removing regulatory close cooperation with the German Federal has the opportunity to voice its opinion on barriers to flexibility and to make Network Agency (BNetzA) and in consultthe related measures at various consulintegrating renewable energies into the ation with relevant market participants. tation proceedings. system easier. Furthermore, the plans envisage the establishment of a capacity Geothermal energy Electromobility reserve for securing the required Energy stored in the form of heat from the Electromobility describes the use of electric capacities nationwide across Germany in interior of the earth. In Germany, vehicles for individual and fleet transporperiods of shortage. temperatures can reach more than 100 °C tation (e.g. electric cars, buses and bicycles), at depths of several thousand metres, the necessary infrastructure required, the Energy-saving contracting which can be used for the generation of energy (generally renewable energies) and The cross-discipline optimisation of buildelectricity. To heat buildings, geothermal associated services (charging, billing, etc.), ing technology and building operations energy can be extracted using probes that as well as the corresponding information and based on cooperation in partnership. only need to reach down to a depth of communications systems. Investments in renewals or efficiencyabout 100 metres. enhancement measures are financed Emissions trading through energy cost-savings. H Emissions trading is an EU-wide instrument for achieving the targets for reducing greenEnergy supply contracting Hedging house gas emissions. It covers around 12,000 The temporary or spatially delimited transfer Hedging is a structured approach for installations across Europe in the energy of tasks relating to energy-optimisation or securing financial risks through financial industry, energy-intensive industries and utility energy supplies to a third party. transactions. Hedging involves engaging in airline operators (ETS sectors). Greenhouse countertrade transactions to offset a transgas emissions from those installations EU allowance (EUA) action or an existing position. This is usually covered by emissions trading are limited in EU emission allowance. An EUA entitles a carried out in the form of futures contracts. total to a certain amount – the so-called company to emit 1 t CO2 (> Emissions tracap – and distributed in the form of tradable ding). Each EU state allocates its supply of High-voltage DC transmission lines (HVDC) allowances (> EU allowance (EUA)) (issued EUAs (1 EUA = 1 t CO2) to its national comHigh-voltage DC transmission lines (HVDC) free of charge or via an auction). Every panies either free of charge or via auctions. are used to transport electrical energy company covered by the system must provide across huge distances. The transmission proof of the corresponding number of F lines use direct current for the transport as allowances for their emissions. the transmission losses are lower. Forward market Emissions trading allowances Market on which the supply and proN (> CO2 allowances) curement of electricity, fuel and CO2 allowances are traded for a future period. Nuclear fuel rod tax Emissions trading system (ETS) sector Usual periods include weeks, months, This tax is being imposed from 2011 to (> Emissions trading) quarters and years. Settlement can be 2016 at a rate of €145/g of nuclear fuel either physical or financial. The forward employed. market has the primary function of acting as a price hedge. Energy Industry Act (EnWG) Fuel cell O 118 Service » Glossary EnBW Report 2014 uncollateralised financial liability (for Smart Home/Smart World Offshore Network Development Plan example, bond or loan) to the principle of The use of the Internet to network and (O-NDP) equality, meaning future uncollateralised manage household devices, consumer Designed to enable the efficient expansion financial liabilities will not be given electronics, heating and air-conditioning of wind energy from the North and Baltic precedence over the existing financial systems and household automation Seas, the plan is prepared every year by the liability. applications. four German transmission system operators before being submitted to the German R Spot market Federal Network Agency (BNetzA), as with Market on which electricity supply and the > NDP Electricity. It describes the Renewable Energies Act (EEG) procurement quantities are offered and measures required in the next 10 and 20 The German law for prioritising renewable requested for the following day. years to connect the wind farms in the energies has existed since 2000 and North and Baltic Seas to the land-based regulates the preferential input of electricity Spread transmission grid. The general public has from renewable sources into the electricity This terms describes here the difference in the opportunity to voice its opinion on the grid. It guarantees its producers fixed feedthe electricity price and the costs for coal, related measures at various consultation in remuneration for a 20-year period. It has gas or brown coal and emissions allowances proceedings. thereby successfully contributed to the for the generation of electricity. technological development of electricity Operating reserves generation plants from various sources, Summer-winter spread Ensures that consumers are supplied with mainly hydropower, wind power, solar Refers to the difference between wholesale sufficient electrical energy of an adequate energy, biomass and > geothermal energy. gas market prices and their respective quality even if unforeseen events occur in The German government revised the EEG in winter and summer prices. the electricity grid. Adjustments in output the first half of 2014 and defined new can be made at short notice at power plants targets for expansion by 2025 and 2035. System services with reserve generation capacity, power The complete set of services required to plants which can be started up quickly (such Renewable Energies Act (EEG) state ensure the quality of electricity supplies: as gas turbine power plants) or pumped aid proceedings provision of > operating reserves, mainstorage power plants. The term operating Proceedings launched by the EU Commistaining frequency stability, maintaining reserves is also frequently used to describe sion to review exemptions granted to industry voltage levels, re-establishing supply and the energy purchased by the transmission in the case of > EEG cost allocations. management services. system operators that enables them to provide > system services. Repowering T Old power plants for generating energy are Over-the-counter (OTC) trading of replaced by newer and more efficient ones. Treasury derivatives The term is mainly used in connection with Department of the company that deals with Off-exchange trading of > derivatives. wind turbines. liquidity management (disposition, liquidity planning, money markets), currency maOver-the-counter (OTC) trading of ROCE nagement (hedging against foreign exchange derivatives according to the EMIR ROCE is the return on capital employed in risks, obtaining foreign currencies) and Off-exchange trading in derivatives accorda company. The ROCE is thus the central interest management (hedging against risks ing to the European Market Infrastructure value-oriented performance indicator of due to changes in interest rates, managing Regulation (EMIR). The central aspect here EnBW for assessing the return on capital the interest rate position). is reporting all transactions in a transemployed in the relevant financial year. action register. V S P Value at Risk (VaR) Smart grid A specific measurement of risk in the area Pari passu clause Smart electricity grid. A network that uses of financial risk, especially insuranceA pari passu clause (Latin pari passu = on information technology to monitor and related risks. Based on a fixed time interval equal footing) is an obligation in financial optimise the operation of its interconnected and a predetermined probability of a loss in agreements (for example, in bond agreeelements – from electricity generators, value of a defined amount, the VaR desments, loan agreements). The debtor/issuer storage systems, consumers of electricity cribes a financial position where the loss obligates themselves during the term of the and network operating equipment in energy level will not be exceeded with the pretransmission and distribution grids. The determined probability. aim is to optimise energy supplies in an efficient, reliable and cost-effective system. EnBW Report 2014 Service » Important notes 119 Important notes Published by Publication in the German Federal Gazette EnBW Energie The complete consolidated financial statements prepared by EnBW Energie BadenBaden-Württemberg AG Württemberg AG and audited by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Mannheim, and Durlacher Allee 93 the management report, which is combined with the Group management report, will be 76131 Karlsruhe published in the German Federal Gazette (“Bundesanzeiger”) together with the unqualified www.enbw.com audit opinion. The necessary documents will be submitted to the German Federal Gazette (“Bundesanzeiger”) by 30 April 2015 at the latest. Coordination and editor Corporate brand communication, No offer or investment recommendation Karlsruhe This report has been prepared for information purposes only. It does not constitute an offer, an invitation or a recommendation to purchase or sell securities issued by EnBW Energie Concept and design Baden-Württemberg AG (EnBW), a company of the EnBW Group or any other company. This IR-One AG & Co. KG, Hamburg report also does not constitute a request, instruction or recommendation to vote or give consent. All descriptions, examples and calculations are included in this report for Photos of the Board of Management illustration purposes only. and Supervisory Board Matthias Hangst, Karlsruhe Forward-looking statements Niels Schubert, Stuttgart This report contains forward-looking statements which are based on current assumptions, plans, estimates and forecasts made by the management of EnBW. Forward-looking Typesetting statements of this kind are therefore only valid at the time they were first published. In-house using FIRE.sys Forward-looking statements are indicated by the context, but may also be identified by the use of the words “can”, “will”, “should”, “plans”, “intends”, “expects”, “thinks”, “estimates”, Printed by “forecasts”, “potential”, “continued” and similar expressions. Kraft Druck GmbH, Ettlingen By nature, forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that cannot be controlled or accurately predicted by EnBW. Actual events, future results, the financial position, development or performance of EnBW and the companies of the EnBW Group may therefore diverge considerably from the future-oriented statements made in this report. Therefore, it cannot be guaranteed nor can any liability otherwise be assumed that these forward-looking statements will prove complete, correct or precise, or that expected and forecast results will actually occur in the future. No obligation to update the information EnBW assumes no obligation of any kind to update the information contained in this report or to adjust or otherwise update forward-looking statements to future events or developments. This Report can also be downloaded from the Internet in German or English. In cases of doubt, the German version shall be authoritative. ISBA: R.3384.1503 Publication of the EnBW Report 2014: 17 March 2015 Shareholder Hotline/Investor Relations Phone: 0800 1020030 or 0800 AKTIEENBW (only within Germany) Fax: 0800 3629111 (only within Germany) E-mail: info@investor.enbw.com Internet: www.enbw.com 120 Service » Financial calendar EnBW Report 2014 Financial calendar 17 March 2015 Publication of the Report 2014 29 April 2015 Annual General Meeting 2015 12 May 2015 Publication of the Quarterly Financial Report January to March 2015 30 July 2015 Publication of the Six-Monthly Financial Report January to June 2015 13 November 2015 Publication of the Nine-Monthly Financial Report January to September 2015 Our locations Germany EnBW Baltic 2¹ EnBW Baltic 1 EnBW Hohe See¹ EnBW He Dreiht¹ Rostock² Tessin Wismar Neu Gülze Buchholz Wulsbüttel Leddin Göricke Schwienau Oldendorf Söllenthin Düsedau Neuruppin Schulenburg Alt Zeschdorf Christinendorf Elze Burg² Kemberg Baruth Eisenhüttenstadt² Düsseldorf¹ Lippendorf² Baden-Württemberg Eppenrod Treuen Eisenach Friedberg Bexbach² Krautheim Haupersweiler Blaufelden Mannheim² Obrigheim Philippsburg Neckar power plants Heilbronn Neckarwestheim Neckarwestheim Jagst Karlsruhe Walheim Kocher Pforzheim² StuttgartMarbach Münster Iffezheim² StuttgartEnz Gaisburg Altbach / Deizisau Gambsheim² Baden-Baden Forbach Wendlingen and Murg Böhmenkirch Schnittlingen Nagold Gussenstadt Kehl² Westerheim / Heroldstadt Glems Berghülen Ulm² Upper Danube Upper Neckar power plants² Ulm-Eggingen Schopfloch Breisach² Burgrieden Iller Riedlingen power plants Leibertingen March Aitrach Schluchsee power plants² Leutkirch Isny Müllheim Upper Rhine power plants including Rheinfelden² (Germany / Switzerland) Onshore wind farm Hydroelectric Conventional ¹ At the planning stage EnBW operates around 70 hydroelectric power power plant power plant or under construction plants as well as numerous other plants proOffshore wind farm ² EnBW participation, ducing power from renewable energies. We have Biomass Nuclear purchase and supply therefore restricted ourselves to a number of Photovoltaic power plant power plant power plant contracts major locations. EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG Durlacher Allee 93 76131 Karlsruhe www.enbw.com
