Varaždin, 16th December 2016 Dear Madam/Sir, The principles of socially responsible business have formed the foundations of our company from its beginnings, a company which has grown into Vindija today. Decades of development from a small urban dairy company to the leading Croatian food industry have been marked by active contributions and values shared between the company and the community. Our basic mission is to participate actively in almost all aspects of improving the quality of life, paying particular attention to human potential, health, environmental protection, cultural heritage, and the legacy we will leave to future generations. This year, as in other years, Vindija has demonstrated that Global Compact values are woven into the fabric of our vision for successful business operations. As the leading Croatian food company and leader of the food industry in the region for many years, in Vindija we understand that trends in business must be accompanied by areas of social responsibility, and this is reflected in the long term in business results. Our goal is to be a responsible partner in relation to our employees, customers, suppliers, and local community, since the welfare of the community is seen in the business entities active within it. Applying positive business and environmental practices is a winner for our country and others where we do business, employ people, and encourage cooperation. Employee satisfaction is of prime importance to us, so we continually invest in training and interpersonal relationships. Many people spend their entire working lives with Vindija, which is a great honour and a source of pride, as we have worked together to build up the success and reputation of the company and achieve its goals. In addition, our employees enjoy a great number of benefits; financial subsidies for those with children and support for long-serving employees are just some of these. Bearing in mind that satisfied customers are the best reflection of our work and provide extra stimulation for us to create uncompromisingly good products of the highest quality, we apply the highest standards to all segments of business. This is borne out by the many certificates which we have received linked to our brands, guaranteeing top quality and food safety levels. Among them are the ISO 9001:2008, BRC, IFS, Kosher and Halal certificates, which represent independent, external affirmation of our high production standards and product quality. In the coming years, we will continue to improve our business and development strategies in line with the ten international principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environmental protection, and the fight against corruption proposed by the Global Compact. By joining this initiative, we have committed ourselves to long-term investment in socially responsible practices, through which we support community development directly in the place where we work, hoping to continue to do business as an important actor in the overall economic picture in Croatia and the region. We expect even greater progress in the period ahead and will continue to implement the best business practices, as the foundation of the good business and living environment which we all want to develop further. Sincerely, Dragutin Drk (B. Ec.) President of the Management Board of Vindija d.d. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress for 2016 Period: December 2015 – December 2016 Format: Basic COP template Differentiation level: GC Active Self-assessment: the Report contains:  a statement by the President of the Management Board on continued support for the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact  a description of activities and current policies linked to human rights  a description of activities and current policies linked to labour  a description of activities and current policies linked to environmental protection  a description of activities and current policies linked to the community  a description of activities and current policies linked to anti-corruption measures  measured outcomes Human Rights Assessment, policies and goals Vindija’s business code is based on protecting human rights and freedoms and the dignity of employees. All our employees are guaranteed protection of their human rights and we apply best practice in promoting the principles of the Declaration. In Vindija, we believe that our greatest strength and value lie in the people whose dedicated work is built into the foundations of our excellent business results. Our goal is to maintain a stimulating, pleasant working environment in which work brings satisfaction to all employees, as one of the key comparative benefits created by a socially responsible company. Applying the Principles In accordance with the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the Republic of Croatia’s Labour Act, all Vindija’s employees are legally protected from all forms of discrimination, harassment, compulsory labour and invasion of privacy. In the complete business process, from its inception to the creation and achievement of business strategies, the dignity of employees is considered, and each year, interpersonal communication between all employees is pro-actively built upon, in order to involve them in all important processes. Outcomes In the reporting period, not a single complaint, contest, or other legal action was conducted against Vindija in connection with human rights violations. Employees and labour Assessment, policies and goals All Vindija’s employees are bound by a labour contract in which the following issues are clearly addressed: working conditions, salary payment and overtime arrangements. The contracts contain clearly defined tasks. Vindija does not do business with organisations which practice compulsory or child labour in their operations. Applying the Principles The company respects human and labour rights in every sense, and fights against all forms of discrimination. When employees are hired, the company gives them detailed instructions on how to handle various pieces of equipment and machinery, and informs them of fire safety protocols. Ensuring maximum safety conditions at work is a key segment of organising business operations, since employee safety takes priority. In addition, each employee is trained and acquainted with safety measures. In the production process, special attention is paid to the good working order of all devices and tools used. The dedicated work of our employees forms a basis for the success of the whole company. So our long-term goal is to ensure a stimulating, pleasant working environment, in which work brings satisfaction to all employees. Such an environment implies mutual tolerance, esteem, respect, and polite, sincere, open communication, which result in the establishment of good, successful working relationships. At the same time, healthy interpersonal relationships based on cooperation and team work create a healthy working environment, so Vindija works on improving these things on a daily basis. Employees who are parents have the right to extra benefits in the form of material and financial support, including gifts for newborn infants, gifts for children to mark certain holidays, active assistance with education and organising various activities such as family holidays, excursions, and others. Traditionally, Vindija gives all its employees gift packs to mark major holidays and summer leave, and provides financial assistance to help purchase school supplies for all employees whose children are starting or continuing their education. All employees who have celebrated a jubilee year in service receive Christmas bonuses equivalent to the number of years of service with Vindija, as a gesture of gratitude for their personal contribution to the company. Outcomes The active application of the principles of the Declaration on Human Rights is evident in the gender structure of the company. In the upper management, 38% of employees are women, which is higher than the Croatian average. Environment Assessment, policies and goals Vindija applies the highest standards in environmental safety and protection to all business processes, actively monitors trends, and applies the most up-to-date technological achievements and solutions in order to ensure protection for the environment and nature. Precise controls of all raw materials, production processes, products, plants, and clean and waste waters are carried out using sophisticated devices which have no negative effects on the environment. In our plants, we always operate in line with laws, regulations and permits governing environmental protection, and in all our business decisions, we give priority to effects on the environment. In response to the global warming process and climate change, we try to promote and encourage the use of ecological innovations and systems focusing on preserving nature, so that we can influence the level of responsibility and awareness regarding the importance or reducing various harmful effects on the environment. Applying the principles Our plants use the following energy sources in diminishing order: electricity, gas and light fuel oil as an alternative in cases of gas shortages. In production, we use NH3 gas with indirect media, ice water, C2H6O2 alcohol and cold water. None of our cooling plants used gases which are harmful to the ozone layer. A special programme for dealing with secondary raw materials is also in force: paper is collected and dispatched daily, and plastic packaging and artificial substances are separated and compressed, thus reducing their effect on the environment. In accordance with the current laws of the Republic of Croatia, Vindija has adopted obligations in regard to the Fund for Environmental Protection. None of the gases emitted as a result of the production process have an important effect on the natural environment, and individual measurements of emissions of pollutants into the air are carried out as a regular measure. Environmental protection is regulated within the company by the Operational Plan, in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act, and by observing regulations in alignment with current EU legislations. When Vindija’s plants are built, high standards are observed on the sites, which are completely covered by urban-architectural principles for green zones. The entire plan is designed by top professionals and implemented according to instructions given by horticultural experts. Outcomes In its business processes, which include work with co-operants, the production of raw materials and finished products, distribution and positioning in the sales network, no incidents have arisen with negative effects on the environment, and this is the best indicator of the satisfactory application of the principles of the Global Compact in relation to the environment. Vindija considers it is justified in ensuring and bequeathing a healthy, clean environment to future generations, and expects all its employees to think about short-term and long-term effects on the environment and also on the community overall. Community Assessment, policies and goals Vindija has many ways of supporting projects whose goals focus on promoting education, the protection of cultural heritage, and social values. The company aims to work as an active member of the community, with its mission focused on developing the environment and improving the quality of life for the entire population. Applying the principles During 2016, Vindija participated in many campaigns which provided direct assistance for associations whose goals are to improve quality of life, provide help for lower income status citizens, and promote healthier lifestyles. Vindija donated dairy products and fruit juices to many associations engaged in socially useful (humanitarian) work, so that aid could reach those who really needed it. In 2016, Vindija made regular donations of products to the Vukovar Safe House, which provides support and assistance for women and children who are the victims of domestic violence. In addition, the company made regular donations to children’s homes in Zagreb, Rijeka, and Slavonski Brod. We also supported the work of Caritas in the Varaždin Diocese by donating dairy and meat products, and made a contribution to flood relief in Macedonia this August through the mediation of the International Red Cross. Since we are aware that a growing number of people are consuming fewer and fewer healthy foods containing valuable nutrients, Vindija has continued to participate in the ‘School Milk’ programme, guaranteeing each child one dairy meal per week. This programme aims to make healthy ingredients more accessible to children, along with the distribution of domestic products, so that children can acquire healthy eating habits. The programme is not merely nutritional, but also has an educational aspect, as it contributes to developing an awareness of the importance of healthy food. ‘Milk from Croatian Farms’ is a label borne by Vindija’s dairy products as confirmation of our successful cooperation with over 3,000 local producers, and this has a direct effect on the economic picture in the country. This year, Vindija participated again in the ‘Master Six’ project in the Sixth Elementary School in Varaždin, aimed at educating children about the nutritional value of food, by creating a weekly menu composed of ingredients high in minerals and vitamins and encouraging the children to compete in preparing healthy meals. On this occasion, Vindija donated dairy, meat and bakery products, while our promoter of gourmet delicacies provided preparation tips and judged the meals prepared by the children. Vindija approaches the preservation of cultural heritage in the Varaždin area with a great sense of responsibility. As the general sponsor of the ‘Špancirfest’ festival and patron of the ‘Varaždin Baroque Evenings’ and the Vugrinec Collection in Ljubljana, Vindija made a contribution this year to preserving intangible and material culture. Vindija invests great efforts in promoting the domestic food industry and the economy as a whole, at the global level, by participating in many fairs for entrepreneurship, food, and agriculture. Among these, this year’s World Halal Day conference stands out, where Vindija was present as the leading domestic food company in terms of the number of Halal certificates we hold. The conference also had a humanitarian character. We also participated in the 42nd Dairy Symposium in Opatija, of which we are also a sponsor, contributing actively to the development and improvement of the dairy industry in Croatia. By promoting its products, Vindija also promotes the importance of a healthy, balanced diet, educating citizens on the need to choose good quality, nutritious ingredients. Apart from social institutions and many civil society associations, the Vindija Group has also supported sports clubs, associations and sporting individuals throughout the year. The ‘Vindija’ Baseball Club, under the auspices of the Varaždin food industry, has achieved success at the national and international levels, this year winning all five official competitions in the junior category at the first Little League Croatia North competition. When sponsoring various sports clubs, we pay special attention to equal gender representation in certain disciplines, so Vindija is sponsoring female sports clubs such as the ‘Koka’ handball club, the ‘Vindija’ basketball club, and the ‘Vindi’ female basketball club. We also support the ‘Vindija’ wrestling club, whose members Croatian champions several times over. We also support sporting and rhythmic gymnastics by providing goods and finances for the ‘Vindija’ gymnastics club, along with a classical ballet association in the city of Varaždin. Apart from support for local Varaždin clubs, we are also involved in sponsoring the ‘Nexe’ handball club in Našice, which plays in the SEHA League, the Premier League and the EFH Cup. Outcomes In accordance with our business policies, Vindija has this year again been recognised as a socially responsible company which cares for the members of the wider community via various activities. The company is actively involved in almost all aspects of improving quality of life, particularly caring for the most vulnerable, neediest members of the community, and this is woven into the company’s basic mission. Fight against corruption Assessment, policies and goals Vindija works consistently and with dedication on suppressing corruption in order to create a positive atmosphere in which each individual will be protected from injustice and immoral relations, including bribery, subornation, and other forms of violations of the Labour Act and UN Convention against Corruption. Applying the principle Vindija fully supports the fight against corruption and the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to eliminate it in the long-terms. Our management is trained to recognise all forms of nontransparent, unlawful business operation in their work and eliminate it. When Vindija participates in public procurement procedures, we pay great attention to the lawfulness of all our actions. Outcomes In the reporting period, Vindija was not involved in any legal cases linked to corruption or bribery.
