Sustainability report 2015 Key figures 2015 Following the acquisition of the remaining shares in BSH Hausgeräte and Robert Bosch Automotive Steering (AS), the companies were fully consolidated. In 2014, both companies were still joint ventures, and shares were consolidated at equity. Sales Sales Shareholder structure by business sector 70.6 92% 59% Robert Bosch Mobility Solutions Stiftung GmbH 25% BILLION EUROS + 21.6 billion euros 7% Consumer Goods Bosch family year on year 9% 1% Industrial ­Technology Robert Bosch GmbH 7% Energy and ­ Building Technology Corporate targets 13.6% –29.7% 0% –35% 10.7% 20% 35% reduction of CO2 emissions (relative) 20% women executives by 2020 over 2007 levels by 2020 over 2011 levels Status 2015: –29.7% Status 2015: 13.6% (excluding BSH and AS) 471 3.2 0 1,000 6.8 1.7 1,000 environmental and social audits 1.7 accidents per million hours of suppliers worked by 2020 over 2010 levels by 2020 over 2007 levels Status 2015: 471 Status 2015: 3.2 R&D Earnings Capital Personnel cost after tax expenditure expenses 6.4 3.5 4.1 20.4 BILLION EUROS BILLION EUROS BILLION EUROS BILLION EUROS +1.4 billion euros +0.9 billion euros +1.5 billion euros +5.1 billion euros year on year year on year year on year year on year With technology “Invented for life” we are securing our company’s lasting success. At the same time, we are contributing to protecting the natural environment for current Connected for and future generations. This report shows how we put our sustainability more sustainability policy into practice in the four following areas: environment, products, associates, and society. It also serves as a report on our progress as a member of the United Nations Global Compact. Smart products make our everyday lives more comfortable. Used appropriately, they also help save energy or make life safer. Bosch innovations in the area of connected mobility are just one example among many. Sensors shape the foundation of predictive driving systems that reduce fuel consumption and protect the driver from potential road hazards. More information on connected solutions can be found in the Products section, page 10 In addition to this, we apply our extensive expertise in the area of networked, energy efficient production to reduce our own carbon footprint. Measures include the deliberate use of renewable sources of energy, as well as initiatives that aim to make our locations as energy efficient as possible. So far, the results have been very satisfying: we have reached the CO2 reduction target we set for 2020 several years ahead of schedule. Find out more about this in the Environment section, page 7 Connectivity plays a very important role in our daily work as well. We want our associates to cooperate with one another across sectoral and national boundaries. In our view, collaboration is the only way that we can take full advantage of our diverse workforce’s potential and creativity. To find out why we have focused more on promoting communication between younger and older colleagues, please consult the Associates section, page 13 At Bosch locations around the world, our associates volunteer outside working hours. In recent months, many Bosch volunteers have helped people who have fled war and persecution and sought asylum in Europe. They collected donations at many locations and cooperated with aid organizations to set up support initiatives. To find out more, please consult the Society section, page 16 SUSTAINABILITY-REPORT.BOSCH.COM Reducing carbon emissions: one target, two outlooks The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development came into effect on January 1, 2016 (see also page 6). This global plan for the future replaces the UN Millennium Development Goals. What does it mean for business? We asked Dr. Volkmar Denner, chairman of the board of management of Robert Bosch GmbH, and the climate researcher Professor Hans Joachim Schellnhuber for their views. Mr. Schellnhuber, Agenda 2030 establishes a direct link between space of a generation, we have triggered changes to the climate global growth, fighting poverty and climate protection for the system that we will not be able to halt for generations. first time. Why? How fast is a technology company like Bosch when it comes Schellnhuber: Fighting poverty is only possible if we limit climate to implementing drastic cuts to CO2 emissions? change. That is the view of the World Bank, for which my institute has produced a series of major climate studies. The bank is looking at Denner: We were quick in implementing our climate goals and have where climate-related risks threaten the money it has invested in already reduced our relative emissions by nearly 30 percent over our development projects. Man-made global warming is, essentially, a 2007 levels, relative to value-added. We had committed to reducing question of justice. Extreme weather, rising sea levels, failed emissions by 20 percent by 2020, so we are proceeding faster than harvests – these consequences of climate change chiefly affect people expected and have therefore re-adjusted our targets. We are now in the poor countries of the tropics, which contribute the least in terms striving to achieve a 35 percent reduction by 2020. of CO2 emissions, profit least from the burning of fossil fuels, and lack the means to protect themselves from the effects of climate change. Meanwhile, our technical solutions are helping create the conditions It is therefore right and proper for big framework agreements like for the transition to a more sustainable, low-carbon economy. This is Agenda 2030 to give greater consideration to climate issues. Here, too, particularly true in areas of innovation such as e-mobility, storing it comes down to how fast the plan can be implemented. Within the renewable energy, and the efficient management of complex supply 4 Hans Joachim Schellnhuber is director of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, which he founded in 1992. He is a professor of theoretical physics at the UniverAt Bosch, we have taken a two-track approach. We are investing sity of Potsdam and an external nearly 400 million euros a year in order to pave the way for e-mobility. professor at Santa Fe Institute in the In parallel, we are working just as hard to make the internal United States. He and Professor Dirk combustion engine even more efficient. In this area, we still see Messner (German Development plenty of potential for diesel engines. Given global climate protection Institute) are co-chairs of the German targets, we consider low-emission diesels as indispensable. I also Advisory Council on Global Change. see synthetic fuels produced from renewable sources of energy, or so-called e-fuels, as an interesting carbon-neutral alternative to electric vehicles. What requirements do the sustainable development goals entail for Bosch? Schellnhuber: If Bosch is to meet its own targets, the company must make an even greater contribution to climate protection. By 2014, Picture: PIK/Batier CO2 emissions had fallen by only 3.3 percent in absolute terms compared to 2007 – despite the fact that the company’s total energy needs shrank by nine percent. I am convinced that Bosch can do much better. It is important for Bosch to place even greater emphasis on products that are useful in the transition to sustainable systems, as it is already doing with energy storage and connected cities. The company should also bring its influence to bear in Germany and around the world, to show other companies and politicians that if we continue to operate as before, we risk finding ourselves in an uncontrollable crisis of civilization. If, however, we have the courage to transform, we can networks, such as logistics. Of course, our success also depends on achieve sustainable growth. Bosch can be a real pioneer, if it can the speed with which we bring these solutions to market. We are thus summon up the courage. constantly working on new development methods and organizational models to reduce product development times. Denner: Courage is an important keyword. Bosch’s ability to change has not emerged out of thin air. It comes from a corporate culture that What should all companies do to achieve the Sustainable values and promotes good ideas and puts them on the path to Development Goals set out in Agenda 2030? innovation. That is the Schellnhuber: What matters most is how companies organize their culture we promote at Bosch. For us, sustainable “For us, sustainability core business. Do they adhere only to the lowest possible legal business is essentially is not only an standards, or do they demand that suppliers take a socially about finding technical responsible approach to doing business? Are their material flows answers to environmental international agreement. based on a cycle, do they minimize the use of energy, and use energy from renewable sources wherever possible? And, above all, are the questions. Because then climate protection pays off. It is an obligation.” products themselves sustainable? Not only is this responsible, it At our sites, for example, Dr. Volkmar Denner makes sound business sense. Companies that, for example, ignore we systematically use ecothe research data and continue to focus on the internal combustion friendly Bosch technologies. This saved us about 530 million euros engine will probably not succeed for much longer. in energy costs between 2007 and 2014 alone. This is perhaps what makes companies like Bosch exemplary. For us, sustainability is not Mr. Denner, do you share this assessment? only an international agreement. It is an obligation. Denner: I agree with Mr. Schellnhuber that the future of driving lies Professor Schellnhuber, Dr. Denner, thank you very much. in alternative powertrain concepts. However, we should not ignore that the joint efforts of science and the automotive industry, while producing a number of electric cars, have yet to come up with a massAn unabridged version of the conversation is available online at: market electric mobility concept. SUSTAINABILITY-REPORT.BOSCH.COM 5 Goals that are changing the world In September 2015, more than 150 heads of state conferred at United Nations headquarters in New York to come up with a new agenda for the fight against poverty and hunger. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), a collection of 17 global targets, were the result. Bosch’s commitment to sustainable development will pay off on the road toward reaching many of these goals. The Millennium Development Goals (MDG), the environmental, social, and economic issues into previous United Nations targets, expired in 2015. account, and thus reflects all aspects of sustain­ Not all of them were achieved, and many challenges ability. The result: ecological concerns feature more remain. Hunger is still a major problem, and many prominently in the SDGs than they did in the MDGs. people around the world are threatened by war and The countries that ratified the goals have commitdisease. Moreover, climate change poses a longted to implementing measures against climate term risk for the balance of global ecosystems. For change and to promoting sustainable consumption this reason, the SDGs were drafted as a follow-up and production patterns. Moreover, in contrast to to the MDGs. The aim is to protect the environment the MDGs, the SDGs apply to all countries, not only and ensure that all of the world’s people can live a to the nations of the global south. life of dignity, peace, and freedom. The Bosch sustainability strategy comprises four The SDGs will be in force until 2030 and are more areas of action: environment, products, associates, comprehensive than their predecessors. The and society. This means that the company has global community has agreed on 17 goals, nine taken at least nine of the UN’s goals into account. more than in 2000. Additionally, the agenda takes They are highlighted in the graphic below: Global sustainable development goals This report describes what Bosch is doing to help reach the United Nations sustainability goals. The SDG symbols will help guide the readers through the following pages. 6 Environment Protecting the environment and adding value In 2015, Bosch achieved a major environmental target: thanks to the efforts of our locations, we successfully reduced our CO2 emissions relative to value added by more than 20 percent over 2007 levels – a target that we initially intended to reach by 2020. Moreover, as a result of internal measures alone, we were able to save some 530 million euros in energy costs between 2007 and 2014. This motivates us to set the bar even higher. We now aim for a relative reduction in CO2 emissions of 35 percent by 2020. To this end, we continue to work on making our production processes even more efficient, and on increasing environmental awareness among our associates. Moreover, we are stepping up our use of renewable sources of energy around the world. At the sub-station near Charcas, power generated at the wind park close by is distributed to Bosch locations in Mexico 7 From consumer to producer Bosch in Mexico has clearly demonstrated that using renewable sources of energy makes sense: ecologically and economically. Since the beginning of September 2015, the 13 Bosch In order to fight climate change, locations in Mexico have seen 70 percent of their electricity Bosch has taken a broad range of needs covered by a wind park in Charcas, San Luis Potosí. Not measures. These include increasing only does the switch to green power mark an important step the use of renewable sources of toward protecting the environment, it will also ensure stable energy, especially at new locations. prices and lower costs. The wind park is set to provide Bosch with about 65 gigawatt hours of power each year. This will At Bosch, our commitment to the environment also means reduce energy costs by about eight percent. making renewable sources of energy accessible to our partners and end users, as we have done in the Netherlands, Wherever possible, and wherever it makes economic sense, for instance. At present, a community-heating network is Bosch invests in expanding its own power generation capacity. being developed in the Nijmegen region. The network supplies In particular, the Diesel Systems division has made major private households with heating energy and hot water from progress in this regard. In 2015, the location in Bari, Italy, waste processing. Bosch has contributed two hot water began using a cogeneration unit. In addition to supplying the storage units with a total capacity of 40 megawatts to the plant with heat and cooling, it also provides electricity. In network. In July 2015, the units were installed as part of a Homburg, Germany, parts of our power needs have been heating plant that serves as a backup for the waste-to-energy covered by a photovoltaic power station since 2011. In the plant, while at the same time offsetting consumption peaks. spring of 2016, the station was expanded to provide twice as The network already supplies 3,000 households, and the much power from renewable sources. We also use emissionsnumber is expected to rise to 14,000 by 2020. Thanks to the free solar energy at our locations in India. The Bosch Nashik sustainable heating supply, these households can reduce plant acquired a photovoltaic power station last year, which their CO2 emissions by up to 70 percent. is set to be expanded in 2016. And at our new location in Bidadi, India, solar energy will contribute 5,500 megawatt hours to the energy mix each year. With these power stations, Bosch Diesel Systems aims to double its share of green energy over 2015. This year, it expects to generate 33,600 megawatt hours of electricity itself. As a result, the division will reduce its CO2 emissions by some 17,300 metric tons. SUSTAINABILITY-REPORT.BOSCH.COM SUNNY PROSPECTS With the aid of Bosch’s hot water storage units, heat from waste In Brazil, solar heating systems are processing is distributed helping low-income families reduce throughout approximately 3,000 households in their energy costs. Among other the region around things, Bosch has provided these Nijmegen, Netherlands systems to energy suppliers that donate them to needy families. Around 20,000 houses have been equipped with climate-friendly solar collectors in the past three years. 8 Environment Cooperating to protect the environment Bosch aims to do more for the environment than just set targets. We want to raise awareness on the subject continuously and build on our activities to protect the climate and conserve resources. Our environmental coordinators help local plant managers energy consumption. The “CO2 Erlebniswelt” exhibit, which come up with and implement the right measures. At the opened in 2016, compares vehicles with different drive Campinas location in Brazil, the “Conserva com você” systems and presents alternative sources of energy, for (“Together for the environment”) sustainability program was instance. Display boards illustrate the costs, energy launched in the middle of 2015. The initiative aims to consumption, and CO2 emissions of different sources of light strengthen the environmental awareness of Bosch associates, and explain the EU energy label. In a computer simulation, and to consistently seek new possibilities to reduce the visitors can also find out, which measures have been consumption of resources and increase energy efficiency. A implemented at the Hallein site to achieve CO2 savings of number of projects have already been carried out over the some 25 percent. The exhibit provides direct and concrete course of the program. For instance, newly installed air information about environmental protection. conditioning systems at the location’s production facilities have helped optimize energy consumption. The results On the occasion of World Environment Day on June 5, 2015, are impressive: thanks to these measures, the Campinas Bosch India organized a number of activities for associates at location has reduced its electricity consumption by about the Ahmedabad location. The aim was primarily to raise 700 megawatt hours per year. It now also produces 280 metric awareness about climate change and its consequences, and tons less waste, saves 3,000 cubic meters of water, as has to show ways in which the related challenges can be reduced CO2 emissions by 57 metric tons. addressed. Among other things, associates planted trees at the site, and took part in workshops where they learned how In Hallein, Austria, Bosch has set up an exhibit that aims to hazardous waste could be reduced, and how energy could be inform visitors about energy efficiency and sustainable saved effectively. Making processes more resource efficient As a manufacturing company, Bosch needs to use raw materials around the world. To reduce negative environmental impact, we continuously focus our efforts on improving our production processes. One example of this is the treatment method that Bosch hazardous. The process separates the oil from cooling fluids and Australia has developed. At our plant in Clayton, this method solid waste. About three liters of oil can be recovered per hour. has made it possible to recover copper lost in the production Each year, the method allows Bosch to recover some 2,100 liters process from the site’s wastewater. This valuable raw material of oil. In turn, this reduces the cost of hazardous waste disposal. is then recycled, and the wastewater is reused. With the help of this method, 40 tons of liquid manufacturing waste can be Taking environmental factors into account at an early stage in saved in Clayton each year, and 1.2 tons of copper can be investment decision making makes sound economic sense. recovered from the site’s wastewater. Last year, Bosch The Schwieberdingen location in Germany clearly illustrates Australia was awarded the Australian government’s “Premier’s this: when planning its new cold test bench center for engines Sustainability Award 2015” for this method. and passenger cars, Bosch decided against using a cooling system with fluorinated greenhouse gases, which are Our sustainability strategy includes detrimental to the ozone layer. Such gases are even more systematically collecting and analyzing harmful for the climate than carbon dioxide. At the new testing data on the environmental impact center, the cooling systems operate with ammonia and CO2 as of our production activities around cooling fluids. As a result, Bosch already complies with the EU the world. Above all, we aim to directive that entered into force at the start of 2015, which ­continuously minimize this impact aims to gradually reduce emissions of fluorinated greenhouse wherever possible. gases in Europe by 80 percent by 2030. With forward-looking planning, the Schwieberdingen location is not only reducing A Bosch India project clearly illustrates how hazardous waste the direct environmental impact of its greenhouse gas can be reduced and costs saved by optimizing processes. In emissions. Indirectly as well, these actions are helping protect 2015, the Jaipur manufacturing site developed a system that the environment: thanks to the greater effectiveness of the made it possible to recover used oil from waste material, which cooling systems that operate with ammonia, the location has in turns means that waste no longer has to be treated as reduced its electricity consumption by a third. 9 Products „Simply.Connected.“ – sustainable networks The internet of things connects people, objects, and machines with one another. When it comes to sustainability as well, connectivity opens up potential for new applications. Products are becoming safer, environmental impact can be measured more precisely, and processes are ever more efficient. Bosch is actively shaping this development, and all the company’s business sectors now offer solutions for the internet of things. Connected measuring technology: effective air pollution alert Beijing in early December 2015: while delegations from around assessment of indoor air quality, almost in real time. Not only does the world were at the Paris climate conference, the Chinese the sensor measure room temperature and humidity, it also government issued the highest possible smog alert for the measures levels of particulate pollution in the air. Every six Chinese capital for the first time. Thousands of factories were seconds, the sensor transmits the data it has collected online to forced to close temporarily in an attempt to curb particulate the control monitor, whose software provides an exact assessment pollution in the city. In other Asian cities, too – including Shanghai, of current air quality. This systematic monitoring of particulate Mumbai, and Kuala Lumpur – air pollution is one of the most matter makes sense especially for modern, energy-optimized pressing environmental challenges. buildings, as such buildings often have limited ventilation. With the aim of offering products that improve quality of life, Bosch China invested a portion of its R&D budget in the Bosch sensors monitor air quality in cities development of technologies that can measure, analyze, and and identify critical zones. In so doing, improve air quality. At the beginning of November, the company they can help to lastingly reduce environpresented the “Air Monitor” control system in China. The smart mental pollutants in urban centers. innovation uses a Bosch environmental sensor to make a precise 10 Products Connected driving: for safer travels In different markets, Bosch is pushing connected and automated driving forward. In-vehicle internet connections not only make driving more relaxed, they also contribute to greater efficiency and traffic safety. For instance, real-time data already help drivers avoid traffic jams or respond to sudden hazards effectively. Launched in January 2016, the active gas pedal is one example of connected technology. With tapping and other noticeable vibrations, it not only enables a more energy efficient driving style, it also warns drivers of potentially dangerous situations. To do this, the pedal is connected with other functions in the vehicle, for instance with sensors that measure the distance to the vehicles ahead. If a car drives up too close to another, the WORKING TO IMPROVE pedal taps and warns the driver to stop accelerating. The ROAD SAFETY pedal can also be connected to online data, for instance data that the navigation system provides. In this way, the Each day, more than 3,000 people around smart driving assistant can detect sharp bends or traffic the world die in traffic accidents. Especially jams before the driver can see them, and suggest that the in emerging countries, passengers and driver slows down. passers-by are in danger as a result of inadequately equipped vehicles. This is why Bosch supports the Global New Car Assessment Program’s “Stop the Crash” initiative. The campaign TRAVELING aims to raise awareness about THROUGH HANOI safety systems such as ESP, BY E-SCOOTER emergency braking systems, and motorcycle ABS, especially In major Vietnamese cities such in growth markets. as Hanoi or Ho Chi Minh City, traffic congestion is part of “Stop the everyday life – as are smog and Crash” supnoise pollution. To accelerate the ports the transition to more eco-friendly United mobility, Bosch co-founded the Nations’ aim “Green Challenge Award” in of halving the number of 2015. The competition in which deaths resulting from traffic three universities took part, accidents by 2020. The invited students to think about figure currently stands at concepts for the citywide 1.25 million people per year. introduction of e-scooters. The emissions-free vehicles – many of which are equipped with Bosch electric motors – have been successful in China for many years already. Among other things, the concept in Hanoi included suggestions for the introduction of charge spots, where vehicles could be charged with power from renewable sources. Bosch will Connected safety systems are also an increasingly invite the winning team to take part in a research common feature for two-wheelers. With its connectivity trip to Germany. In addition, students on the top control unit (CCU), Bosch connects motorcycles to the three teams will have the opportunity to support Internet. This enables features such as the e-call, which the rollout of their idea during a six-month the EU is making mandatory for newly registered internship. passenger cars and light commercial vehicles from April 2018. If the motorcycle is involved in an accident, the e-call makes an automatic emergency phone call to a call center, and thus enables help to reach the scene faster. What is more, the CCU also provides motorcyclists with information on potential road hazards. 11 A SYSTEMATIC APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY In order to continuously improve the ecofriendliness of our products, our Diesel Systems division uses the systematic “Design for Environment” (DfE) approach. It ensures that environmental requirements such as the efficient use of raw materials, low emissions, or the selection of eco-friendly materials are taken into account in the early stages of product development. In 2015, the approach was expanded to monitor and assess the environmental impact of a product throughout its life cycle. This includes the extraction of raw materials, production, distribution, use, and disposal. In addition to this, we carried out a pilot project that examined one of our products with the help of a hotspot analysis. This method makes it possible to evaluate the product life cycle and, in some instances, to compare it to that of earlier models. We also revised our DfE checklist – a tool that will help us to capture and improve the environmental performance of our products even more systematically in the future. Among other things, Design for Environment aims to reduce the use of critical substances, and to promote efficient resource consumption throughout the Connected production: reducing energy costs product life cycle. Bosch also offers sensors, software, and services for connected production, commonly referred to as Industry 4.0. In this area of application, the company launched the “Process Quality Manager” last year, a software solution that monitors and documents data from production processes in real time. As a leading user of cutting edge technologies, we are currently testing this and other solutions at our own plants. This has two distinct advantages: first, we are driving innovation in a technical field that contributes to maintaining the competitiveness of locations with high wage costs, among them Germany, the UK, and the United States. Second, by applying Industry 4.0 applications in our own processes, we are reducing our carbon footprint. The immediate analysis of production data helps us detect potential errors at an early stage and come up with countermeasures. This saves resources. At the same time, high-precision manufacturing reduces stocks and thus also energy and transport costs. With more than one hundred Industry 4.0 projects, we are making our plants more resource-efficient, all the while making our expertise SUSTAINABILITY-REPORT.BOSCH.COM available on the market. 12 Associates Networked across generations At Bosch, different generations – from young apprentices to retired senior experts – are cooperating with one another. This type of diversity is a source of potential. While up-and-coming executives advise more experienced associates on the use of new software, for instance, they benefit from the management and specialist expertise of their older colleagues. With our diversity initiative, we have thus focused on intergenerational learning models and promoted an active exchange between young and old. 13 LEARNING FOR INDUSTRY 4.0 In September 2015, the Advanced Manufacturing Training Center (MTC) was opened in Coventry, England. At the center, experts from business and science focus on developing innovative production processes. In the future, Bosch apprentices will also receive training there, and learn about the requirements of Industry 4.0. An industrial partner to MTC, Bosch contributed to the center’s cutting edge facilities, among other things. WANTED: WOMEN ENGINEERS By 2020, Bosch plans to increase its share of women executives to 20 percent. In order to achieve this goal, the company is committed to encouraging girls to take an interest in the technical professions. In Indonesia, for instance, short films on technology and live experiments sparked children’s enthusiasm. In Austria, Girls’ Day 2015 was geared toward girls between the ages of 11 and 16. At Bosch locations in Vienna, Hallein, and Linz, up-and-coming technical professionals helped install floor heating and operate a 3D printer, among other things. In Germany, the Wissensfabrik (“Knowledge Factory”) celebrated its tenth anniversary. Co-founded by Bosch, the non-profit initiative aims to support talented young people and promote interest in technology, business, and the natural sciences. Today, the network comprises 127 companies and corporate foundations, which cooperate with partners from universities to develop educational projects for young people and help young entrepreneurs get their start-ups off the ground. From the time the initiative was founded until it AN ACCIDENT-FREE FUTURE celebrated its anniversary in June 2015, it had supported 180 start-ups and 700,000 schoolchildren. We are working to make Bosch an accident-free company in the future. This is why we have implemented an occupational Bosch is committed to encouraging safety management system based on the OHSAS 18001 women to work in the technical standard at our locations around the world. Since then, our professions, and to promoting equal accident rates have fallen significantly. In 2015, there were opportunities when it comes to taking 3.2 reportable work accidents for every million hours worked, on management responsibilities. down from 6.8 in 2007. This marked a 53 percent improvement. To reach our medium-term goal of 1.7 accidents per million hours worked by 2020, we are currently rolling out special occupational safety programs around the world. 14 Associates People@Industry 4.0 – under this heading, last year the Bosch is aging. What is more, a growing share of our customers is plant in Blaichach actively addressed the changing working over the age of 50. This means that companies like Bosch conditions that are emerging as a result of connected need associates who understand the needs of this group of production. Associates there and at China’s Suzhou production customers, whose purchasing power is high. location already use tablets and analysis software to control high-tech facilities. Initial fears have now given way to a sense One of the new initiative’s main focal points is to expand of pride among a majority of associates, as they feel they are educational programs for mixed-aged groups. With the contributing to shaping the future of work. Since the very support of our 50plus@Bosch associate network, the beginning, cooperation and mutual learning have played an Generation Tandem initiative was recently launched. By way important role in the interdisciplinary, multigenerational team. of random selection, two associates with an age difference of at least ten years are paired up. This type of networking gives As a leading provider and a leading colleagues the opportunity to share knowledge and user of Industry 4.0 solutions, Bosch experience, and to support each other in their daily work. is actively driving the transformation After the initial six-month pilot project was launched at the of the working world, and thus also Bosch site in Schwieberdingen, Germany, Bosch asked all of promoting sustainable industrialization. the tandem participants to share their views on their experience. 84 percent of respondents said they believed In Blaichach and elsewhere, younger associates are generally that Bosch would benefit from greater knowledge sharing more comfortable navigating the virtual world than their older between age groups. They listed positive effects such as colleagues. Bosch has already put this advantage to good use knowledge transfer, a greater sensitivity to differences, and at several of its locations, effectively turning the conventional an increase in cross-generational cooperation. On the heels mentoring program on its head. With reverse mentoring, of this success story, Generation Tandem will now be rolled millennials teach their older colleagues from upper levels of out at different locations around the world to promote more management how to use internal and external social media. networking between young and old. These include Twitter and Facebook, as well as virtual cooperation on the internal “Bosch Connect” platform. In In line with the wishes of our company addition to teaching older colleagues how to use modern founder, Bosch promotes equal access communication channels, the reverse coaching sessions to education and life-long learning – further strengthen diversity at Bosch. Junior associates learn within and beyond the walls of the to share knowledge and enjoy the appreciation of experienced company. executives. At the same time, older associates remain open for new perspectives and approaches to work. In 2015, we also set ourselves the goal of supporting the further training of associates who have been on board for A FOCUS ON HEALTH many years, with the aim of maintaining their level of performance. With this in mind, the “Erfahrung hat Zukunft” On World Yoga Day on June 21, 2015, associates (“Experience is the future”) initiative was launched in at the Bosch India location in Ahmedabad had the Germany. It aims to sensitize executives to demographic opportunity to focus on their own health. The change, and to raise awareness about how important older location’s HR department invited associates to a associates’ knowledge and motivation are for Bosch’s variety of events. For instance, associates were success. Demographic change means that Europe’s workforce offered free medical check-ups and information on a broad range of topics, such as traffic safety and ways of preventing viral infections. Moreover, the canteen expanded its offering to include more healthy, lower calorie meal options. At a yoga workshop, associates found out how they could use traditional movement and breathing exercises to reduce stress and help prevent illness. SUSTAINABILITY-REPORT.BOSCH.COM 15 Society Promoting social responsibility The company founder Robert Bosch’s efforts to help others went beyond the boundaries of the company. By promoting social responsibility, we are continuing his legacy. We support charitable projects and encourage our associates to volunteer. In challenging situations, one person’s help can make a huge difference. 16 Society Help where it is needed Floods, earthquakes, and poverty – many parts of the world are in mind, the Bosch China Charity Center (BCCC), a Bosch foundation gripped by crises, whether emergencies or protracted difficulties. that focuses on alleviating poverty through education, and the stateAs a company that believes social responsibility goes beyond our run China Development Research Foundation launched the “Village walls, we not only engage with long-term projects. We also get Kindergarten Project” in June 2015. involved when support is urgently needed. The project has already led to 54 playschools being opened in the In autumn 2015, over 80,000 people, including 20 Bosch associates, rural region of Xinjiang Altay, where children aged between four and were directly affected by the floods that devastated parts of the US six can improve their language skills and develop their communicative state of South Carolina after torrential rains. Associates from all three and cognitive abilities. This is particularly important in multilingual Bosch sites across the state provided emergency aid for the cleanup regions like Altay, where children grow up with Chinese, Kazakh, and operation, donating around 7,500 US dollars, which was then Uyghur. To make the most of the funding, our local partners have doubled by Bosch North America. Bosch’s US foundation, the Bosch avoided building new structures and relied instead on existing Community Fund, gave a further 50,000 US dollars to the Red Cross infrastructure, like vacant classrooms or offices. The BCCC has for the reconstruction effort. allocated 2.3 million yuan (around 316,000 euros) in total to the project. The goal is to standardize pre-school learning and eventually In Greece, Bosch associates also rolled up their sleeves. At the Koropi enable over 90 percent of children in the region to attend playschool factory near Athens, volunteers harvested olives from the site’s for three years. numerous olive trees. The oil pressed from the olives was donated to 210 families that were struggling to make a living in the midst of a severe By offering fast emergency assistance with economic crisis. They also donated food and clothing for those in need. no red tape, we are helping in the fight against global poverty. Prosperity and knowledge are usually closely connected. In many poorer parts of the world, education is a rare commodity. With this Through the “Alianza para la Formación Profesional Dual”, Bosch Spain is committed to supporting dual professional training Training for the future HELPING PEOPLE HELP THEMSELVES Around 5.5 million young Europeans are currently jobless. The unemployment rate among young people in southern Europe The “Skills for Life Foundation” is aimed at young members of the is alarmingly high. One of the main reasons for this is the hill tribes of northern Thailand. Funded by Bosch, the foundation limited time allocated to practical experience in the professional offers them the opportunity to gain further qualifications after training system. they have completed their nine years of mandatory schooling. The programs teach manual skills that give young people a In Spain, those entering the job market spend only 25 percent of their chance at paid employment. Baking and cookery courses are training period in a company. As a result, they lack valuable on-the-job particularly popular. Using cooking facilities donated by Bosch, experience, which is crucial for recruiters. the trainees showed off their skills at a big Christmas baking demonstration in December. The budding bakers took in around In order to improve young people’s employment prospects, Bosch 4,000 euros from cookie sales. Spain teamed up with other companies and organizations, including the Spanish Chamber of Trade and Industry and the Bertelsmann Foundation, to set up the “Alianza para la Formación Profesional Dual” in May 2015. Following the example of several central European 17 countries, we aim to set up a dual professional training system in What is just beginning in Spain is already up and running in Italy. With Spain. The alliance can particularly benefit from Bosch’s long history “Allenarsi per il Futuro” (“Training for the Future”), we give school and of providing training in Germany. Our next step will be to go into college graduates the chance of gaining practical work experience, Spanish schools to inform students about training possibilities and from orientation events to internships and traineeships that create additional internships at the Bosch Car Service network of systematically lead to a foothold in the workplace. As part of the garages across the country. project, Bosch Italy associates are visiting around 196 schools and universities to talk to pupils, trainees, and students. Sports stars Education offers the best chances for social such as footballer Daniele Massaro have gotten on board. Their inclusion and a life of dignity. That is why we message is that commitment, training, and focus are not only strive to give people access to high-quality requirements in sport but also in preparing for the workplace. In basic, professional, and further education – 2016, Bosch Italy aims to reach 60,000 pupils through “Allenarsi per whatever their age. il Futuro”. We also intend to award 400 internships. Integration in practice Millions of people are fleeing their homelands to escape war, In November, four young refugees from Togo, Somalia, Iran, and persecution, and poverty. On arrival in their host countries, Pakistan began their “Bosch training year”. The training program, which refugees face a range of new challenges, including a lack of is run at the Feuerbach location in Stuttgart, aims to help school leavers basic necessities and the difficulty of coming to terms with an that have yet to finish their education land a job in the metalworking and unfamiliar language and culture. electrical fields. They also receive professional education and are accompanied by social workers throughout. In this way, they gain Associates at Bosch in Vienna launched an initiative in autumn 2015 practical experience at a company and both get to know people and to help refugees. Under the initiative entitled “Support vor Ort – Germany’s work culture. At the end of the program, they have the Bosch-Mitarbeiter helfen” (“Local support – Bosch associates lend a possibility of joining Bosch as skilled workers. hand”), 32 associates have agreed to sponsor 25 refugees from Syria and Afghanistan for a period of 18 months. Helping them with The commitment of Bosch associates to the refugee cause is also administrative procedures is one example of the quasi-daily support strong. Two appeals for donations in December 2015 and January they provide, which aims to help the newcomers eventually live an 2016 garnered over 400,000 euros, which Bosch increased to 820,000 independent life in Austria. The initiative is part of the “Connecting euros. The money will be used for selected projects that lead to People” project, an association of various non-profit organizations. lasting improvements in refugees’ living conditions. In Germany, too, Bosch is committed to supporting the integration of refugees and facilitating their access to the labor market. To this SUSTAINABILITY-REPORT.BOSCH.COM end, we will create around 400 internships around Germany for refugees, ranging from short internships to several months of introductory job training. The internships are generally held in workshops and are designed to prepare the refugees for the German job market. TOYS FOR SYRIA One of Bosch’s stated objectives is to In May 2015, a shipment of aid for promote peaceful, integrated societies children left the Bosch plant at the where the rule of law is upheld, as a Stuttgart-Feuerbach location for the basis for sustainable development. Turkish city of Adana, near the border with Syria. Two associates had called on their colleagues to donate diapers, toys, and children’s clothes. The appeal was a huge success. In just three days, they collected 43 large boxes of donations for relief operations in Turkey. 18 2015 in review January September Supporting volunteer work Bosch technology is often hidden in unexpected Promoting sustainable ideas places, for instance in the system that heats the For the third time, Bosch Malaysia invited pitch at soccer stadiums. Sixth graders at a students from universities and colleges around Belgian elementary school found out about this the country to take part in the “Innovation and many other things during a visit to Bosch Around My Campus” competition. Up-andBelgium subsidiary in Anderlecht. After touring coming technical professionals were asked to different production and testing facilities, boys come up with ideas that would help make their and girls had the opportunity to pull up their campuses more energy efficient and sleeves and get to work on their first masterpiece. sustainable. A team from the Technical University in Mara (UiTM) took first prize. The three electrical engineers developed a smart In 2015, the “25x5000” initiative was bracelet that is connected to the university’s launched at Bosch’s Jihlava plant in the August energy system. Among other things, it detects Czech Republic. The idea was to support when rooms are empty and automatically turns associates volunteering for social initiatives Fighting poverty off the lights and regulates the heaters. In with small cash donations. Bosch supported addition to a cash prize, students were given 25 projects with 5,000 Szech korunas the opportunity to oversee their concept’s (around 200 euros) each. Associates who development and implementation over the did volunteer work or were planning an course of an internship at Bosch Malaysia. initiative in the areas of education, sports, social issues, or the environment were invited to apply for funding. In 2015, 50 Bosch associates at the location volunteered December in their free time: for instance, they helped pre-school children develop their manual Promoting social responsibility skills and promoted the social integration of children and youth with special needs. At the end of the year, the Bosch plant in TECHO, a non-profit organization run by young people engaged in the fight against February poverty in the slums of Central and South America, has been active for 20 years already. Young volunteers provide practical assistance Teaching technical skills in a number of areas, for instance by building Suzhou, China, organized a charity hike for wooden houses for people living in extreme associates and their families at the nearby poverty. Since 2015, they have received the Jinji Lake. The idea was to encourage support of Bosch Argentina. In a first step, colleagues to interact with one another the Power Tools division at the Buenos Aires outside work and to donate to a good plant provided the local chapter of the NGO cause. The money collected went toward with high-performance power tools. With the supporting young adults from socially help of the company and volunteers, TECHO disadvantaged families who wish to attend has been able to build 7,500 houses in university. In total, donations amounted to Argentina so far. about 1,000 euros. SUSTAINABILITY-REPORT.BOSCH.COM 19 Activities – an overview Robert Bosch GmbH has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2004, and is committed to this initiative’s ten global principles in the areas of human rights, working standards, environmental protection, and the fight against corruption. The following table provides an overview of the progress made in the 2015 reporting period in relation to these ten principles of responsible corporate governance. PRINCIPLE BASIS/GOALS ACTIONS RESULTS Human rights Corporate objective: Supply chains: • 471 audits conducted since 2010 1,000 supplier audits by the Conducting environmental and • Principle 1: Support and end of 2020 occupational safety audits and auditing respect human rights supplier portfolios Code of Business Conduct Bosch Global Supplier Award: • Bi-annual award; in 2015, 58 suppliers from • Principle 2: No complicity Acknowledging the best suppliers 11 countries were honored. Some of the ­companies in human rights abuses Basic principles of have received the award before social responsibility at Bosch Purchasing guidelines: • Suppliers have made improvements where needed. Bosch purchasing guidelines Sanctioning suppliers Until now, sustainability-related sanctions have not been necessary “We are Bosch” corporate guidelines Working standards Corporate objective: “Chefsache” initiative: • Bosch is committed to social change and has Women to fill 20 percent Cooperation with other major German experience in increasing the number of women in • Principle 3: Uphold of management positions companies and organizations, Bosch is management positions freedom of association by 2020 a founding member of the “Chefsache” • Dialog events with senior executives are offered, initiative, which promotes equal as are mentoring programs and seminars • Principle 4: Elimination of Bosch Human opportunities for men and women • In 2015, the share of female executives stood at all forms of forced and Resources System (BHS) 13.6 percent* compulsory labor Diversity management: • In Germany, about one in four apprentices is Guidelines for a flexible and Group-wide programs to promote female • Principle 5: Abolition of family-friendly work culture diversity and attract the best staff have • Second international “Bosch Diversity Day” in 2015 child labor been continued and expanded at more than 200 participating locations “We are Bosch” corporate • About 7,400 associates on short or long-term • Principle 6: Elimination of guidelines foreign assignment discrimination women@bosch: • The network has about 3,000 members in For 20 years, the associate network 30 countries around the world has been committed to strengthening the position of women at Bosch Senior experts program: • Senior experts work around 50,000 days per year Former Bosch associates support the • Number of retirees who work as senior experts: company as expert advisors after they 1,700 retire, and thus continue to feel valued • Countries that provide senior experts: Brazil, on a professional level Germany, the UK, India, Japan, and the United States Cultural consultants: • There are currently 200 active cultural consultants Bosch associates advise colleagues at Bosch who are going abroad for Bosch and act as experts for intercultural cooperation Committed associates: • Primavera celebrated its 25th anniversary in 2015 Bosch associates founded Primavera • In 2015: 900 members, a donation volume of e.V. in 1990. The aid organization aims to more than 600,000 euros, and 30 projects in promote education for disadvantaged 12 developing and emerging countries children in developing countries around • More than nine million euros in donations since the the world initiative was established Refugee integration: • Bosch associates donated more than 400,000 With a number of initiatives, Bosch is euros to help refugees, and Bosch doubled this committed to supporting refugees. sum to 820,000 euros, and invited associates to Among other things, the company is make suggestions on how the money should be part of the “Wir zusammen” (“We are used together”) economic initiative that was • Around 400 internship spots for refugees at about launched in 2015 and aims to promote 30 locations in Germany in cooperation with public the integration of refugees institutions • Over the course of the “local support” initiative, 32 Bosch associates in Austria now sponsor refugees 20 Communication on Progress PRINCIPLE BASIS/GOALS ACTIONS RESULTS Working standards Corporate objective: Foundations around the world: • In 2015, the Bosch Group donated a total of Women to fill 20 percent The national companies are committed 16.9 million euros • Principle 3: Uphold of management positions to social well-being in the regions, and freedom of association by 2020 there are four international Bosch Group foundations in Brazil, China, India, and • Principle 4: Elimination of Bosch Human the U.S. all forms of forced and Resources System (BHS) compulsory labor Dual training: • Bosch has some 7,350 apprentices around Guidelines for a flexible and The Bosch training model has been the world of which about 2,450 are outside • Principle 5: Abolition of family-friendly work culture established in more than 20 countries of Germany child labor around the world “We are Bosch” corporate • Principle 6: Elimination of guidelines Flexible working culture: • Over 100 work-time models across hierarchical discrimination A greater focus is being placed on results levels, including part-time work, telecommuting, rather than on physical presence with and job-sharing benefits for families with young children • Global guidelines for a flexible and family-oriented working culture • Standardized rules with regard to telecommuting, as well as to personal use of e-mail, telephones, and Internet at work • Bosch won the German XING social network’s New Work Award 2016 for forward-looking work concepts Corporate health management: • Bosch is especially committed to maintaining and In cooperation with employee promoting the mental health of its associates representatives, a corporate agreement • The new corporate agreement entered into force at was implemented to promote associates’ all German locations on August 1, 2015 mental health Occupational safety: • An occupational safety management system An occupational safety management based on OSHSAS 18001 was implemented at system was introduced that is based on all manufacturing locations, 122 are already the global OHSAS 18001 externally certified • In 2015, the number of reportable work accidents per million hours worked decreased to 3.2 (a 53 percent decrease over 2007) Supporting schoolchildren: • Girls’ Days are organized each year. They provide Initiatives to spark children’s interest in around 1,000 schoolgirls insights into the global technology supplier of technology and services • The “Building Mercury” competition in the Czech Republic helps make pupils familiar with technical topics • As part of the Wissensfabrik initiative, Bosch participates in some 280 educational partnerships New training positions: • Bosch Italy is engaged in the “Allenarsi per il Futuro” Bosch helps to combat youth (“Train for the future”) program, which aims to unemployment in southern Europe improve job opportunities for young people • Bosch Spain is part of the “Alianza para la FP Dual”, a joint initiative of politics and business that promotes the introduction of cooperative education in Spain Specialist training program: • Since 1999, 750 associates have completed the Bosch provides training for associates training program without university degrees to qualify • The program lasts two years and comprises them for commercial tasks within the 50 training days company that would normally be • In 2016, Bosch has pledged to spend an additional reserved for graduates 247 million euros on programs for further training Promoting innovative strength: • In total, about 22,000 associates submitted Bosch provides platforms for good ideas suggestions for improvement in Germany, which with its internal suggestion scheme and were rewarded with a total of 7.7 million euros the “Jugend forscht” annual competition • Some 120 girls and boys took part in the “Jugend in Baden-Württemberg, Germany, which forscht” state competition in Stuttgart. 60 of 666 the company organizes projects made it into the final 21 PRINCIPLE BASIS/GOALS ACTIONS RESULTS Environmental protection Corporate objective: CO2 reduction: • Relative CO2 emissions have been reduced by Cut relative CO2 emissions Targeted reduction of relative CO2 29,7 percent over 2007 Principle 7: Precautionary by 35 percent by 2020 over emissions at production locations environmental protection 2007 levels around the world Sustainable products: • Some 5,422 patents filed around the world Principle 8: Initiatives to Guidelines for occupational Continuous investment in the further • In 2015, 53 percent of Group-wide R&D promote greater safety and environmental development of products that conserve expenditure went toward sustainable products* environmental protection resources and protect the environment • Environmental/Safety portfolio accounts for about responsibility 40 percent of Group sales* Bosch Product Engineering ISO 14001: • Until now, all Bosch production locations have Principle 9: Development System (BES) Bosch locations certified with this introduced the management system; 235, or and distribution of international environmental 80 percent of locations, have received external environmentally-friendly Bosch Production System management system standard certification technologies (BPS) Climate-friendly locations: • Schwieberdingen: energy required for heating was Design for Environment Many locations have made progress with reduced by 40 percent, and CO2 emissions by (DfE) regard to climate protection thanks to 21 percent – and this despite a 15 percent increase energy-efficient technology in surface area “We are Bosch” corporate • By recovering copper from industrial waste, Bosch guidelines Australia was able to reduce the amount of waste generated monthly by 31 percent. In October 2015, the company won the Premier’s Sustainability Award eXchange: • Raw materials consumption reduced by almost Used starters and generators are 90 percent, and CO2 savings of more than refurbished and made as good as new 50 percent compared with new products • As a result of eXchange, more than two million diesel injection pumps have been refurbished at Bosch’s Jihlava plant in the Czech Republic since 1996 BIK initiative: • The BIK initiative teaches lean management Development aid for greater energy methods to small and mid-sized companies in efficiency; a joint project of Bosch Africa Corporate Logistics, the International • Participating companies increased their Trade Centre, and the Karlsruhe Institute productivity by as much as 100 percent of Technology Two environmental awards: • With the pump’s help, fuel consumption can be Associates developed an innovative reduced by up to 7.0 percent gasoline pump and wrote a specialist • Two Bosch teams in Brazil received the AEA article about the impact of dual fuel Environment award for the pump’s development technology on global warming and the specialist article Expanding the • In 2015, the foundation stone was laid for the environmental portfolio: research center, which will focus on connectivity, A new Bosch Thermotechnology R&D low emissions, and energy efficiency center is being built in Aveiro, Portugal Fighting corruption Member of Whistleblower portal: • Associates (including interns and PhD students), Transparency International A portal in which all parties can report external service providers, business parties, Principle 10: Work against e.V. (since 1995) breaches of compliance (observance of business partners (e.g. suppliers, customers, or corruption legal and internal regulations in business cooperation partners) and third parties can report Member of the Forum for activities) breaches of compliance Compliance & Integrity (since 2007) Compliance training: • Mandatory compliance training includes lessons Active promotion of knowledge on business ethics, product liability, anti-trust Code of Business Conduct laws, and export controls “We are Bosch” corporate guidelines * excluding BSH Hausgeräte and AS Further key principles for sustainable activities in the Bosch Group: In 2010, an office, expert committee, and steering committee were founded. These bodies have since been responsible for the efficient implementation of all of the Group’s sustainability-related activities. Scope of reporting: The scope of the information is indicated in the texts, key figures, and targets. This report presents a summary of the Bosch Group’s current sustainability-related activities across sectors and divisions. Following their acquisition, these now also include BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeräte GmbH (now BSH Hausgeräte GmbH) and ZF Lenksysteme GmbH (now Robert Bosch Automotive Steering GmbH), both of which were previously joint ventures. It therefore serves as a progress report as part of the group’s membership of the UN Global Compact. Reporting period: The reporting period covers January 2015 to spring 2016. The cut-off date for key figures is December 31, 2015. The editorial deadline was April 1, 2016. Memberships (examples): B.A.U.M. (1990), Transparency International (1995), econsense (2000, founding member), United Nations Global Compact (2004), Global Reporting Initiative (2006, organizational stakeholder), Forum Compliance & Integrity (2007) Other sustainability reports: WIN-Charta Baden-Württemberg (2014), German Sustainability Code (2015) 22 Key figures 2015 Following the acquisition of the remaining shares in BSH Hausgeräte and Robert Bosch Automotive Steering (AS), the companies were fully consolidated. In 2014, both companies were still joint ventures, and shares were consolidated at equity. Environment Note: as a result of the above-mentioned change in the consolidated group, Bosch emissions, energy, and waste figures increased. However, these values should be considered in relation to sales volumes, which increased 70 percent in the same time period, based on comparable data. 2007* 2015 CO2 emissions absolute 2.6 million metric tons +15.4% 3.0 million metric tons Energy consumption 6,707 gigawatt hours +11.1% 7,451 gigawatt hours Waste volume 520,000 metric tons +29.8% 675,000 metric tons Water consumption 17.3 million cubic meters +11.6% 19.3 million cubic meters Ongoing environmental protection costs 105.8 million euros +24.1% 131.3 million euros Environmental protection investments 21.1 million euros +135.1% 49.6 million euros Products Environmental/Safety portfolio* Society 41% 53% BOSCH GROUP DONATIONS TO CHARITABLE CAUSES Share of Group sales Share of R&D cost 16.9 MILLION EUROS Associates NUMBER OF ASSOCIATES VOLUNTARY RESIGNATION* 375,000 5.7% REGIONAL COMMITMENT Bosch Community Fund +38.2% versus 2007 +21.3% versus 2007 (Farmington Hills, USA) 3.1 million euros Bosch China Charity Center (Shanghai, China) 2.0 million euros NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS DAYS LOST 2,126 34,437 Instituto Robert Bosch (Campinas, Brazil) 1.0 million euros –28.2% versus 2007 –10.4% versus 2007 Bosch India Foundation (Bangalore, India) 0.6 million euros 2007 2015 Training days +32.8% 773,000 days SPONSORSHIP VOLUME OF ROBERT BOSCH STIFTUNG GMBH 76.7 642 Training participants +24.9% 516,000 participants Training expenditure +12.3% 247 million euros MILLION EUROS for PROJECTS * excluding BSH Hausgeräte and AS Published by Robert Bosch GmbH Corporate Communications, Brand Management, and Sustainability (C/CC) Postfach 10 60 50 70049 Stuttgart Germany Phone +49 711 811-0 Senior Vice President Dr. Christoph Zemelka Contact Head of Sustainability Office Bernhard Schwager bernhard.schwager@de.bosch.com Phone +49 711 811-6402 Project team Sylvia Aßmann Annkathrin Kienle Bernhard Schwager Realization Ketchum Pleon GmbH, Düsseldorf Additional information on the company and sustainability at Bosch is available here: bosch.com csr.bosch.com sustainabilityblog.bosch.com sustainability-report.bosch.com
