KOZLODUY NPP PLC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 KOZLODUY NPP PLC Dear Friends, It is a pleasure to present you the Communication on Kozloduy NPP plc progress for 2015. We regard it as a successive page from the annals of Bulgarian nuclear energy – the fruit of our work efforts, fulfilled plans, resolved challenges and success achieved. As a team, we are united under a single leading objective – to defend our plant's well-earned position of a safe generating capacity, leading producer of electricity and preferred business partner. This is the framework of our success, materialised in concrete results such as reliable generation, secure energy supply, and financial stability. These words are supported by concrete results that you may read about on the pages of this issue. In 2015, units 5 and 6 generated 15 379 097 MWh of electricity, which provided one third of the national electricity output while preventing the disposal to the environment of hundreds of tons of harmful greenhouse gases. Furthermore, we have reached important stages of the plant's two major projects – the thermal power uprate to 104% of the 1000-MW reactor units, and the extension of their service life beyond the design life projected. These are issues of great significance not only for the economic prosperity of the Company, but also for the future of our national energy. Work on the projects is currently ongoing, and I hope that very soon we will celebrate their successful completion. This will guarantee that Kozloduy NPP is further able to ensure a reliable and secure supply of electricity, affordable for the consumers. I am happy to confirm that Kozloduy NPP again declares its support for the Ten principles of the UN Global Compact in the area of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. In this Communication we describe our activities to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and everyday work. We also assume the responsibility for sharing this information with other interested parties via our communication channels. Yours sincerely, DIMITAR ANGELOV Chief Executive Officer Kozloduy NPP plc HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES In 2015, Kozloduy NPP continued the quest working on site of KNPP external organizations to achieve sustainable development in the as well. context of the UN Millennium Declaration of the Activities and results: United Nations, setting as priority in our daily Within the framework of the Safety Culture work the socially responsible policies in terms of Enhancement Project Kozloduy NPP values people, their safety, community, and the were defined: environment.  Safety first The Company's Management officially  Commitment, mutual respect and recognition declared its Kozloduy NPP plc management  Personal responsibility and honesty at work POLICY via the Company's Management  Strive for perfection and mastering knowPolicy STATEMENT, which is made available ledge to the public, understood, applied and No discrimination is tolerated at the maintained at all organizational levels, and workplace concerning gender, ethnic, religious clearly defines the commitments regarding the or political indications. Of all employees in the priorities for ensuring the highest level of safety, Company 32% are women and regardless of efficient and competitive production, qualified, the specificity of the industry branch 9,7% of competent and motivated personnel, and them are management personnel at various financial stability. levels. About 25% of all employees, senior Our common values are the basis of our executives are women. corporate culture and guide the process of In 2011 the Management of the Company organizational development and growth. Their entered into a commitment regarding goal is to outline the framework of the expected involvement of women in the process of behavior of employees of the Company in the management by signing an explicit declaration application of universal principles of the UN in accordance with the European Commission Global Compact. They are defined in adopted in initiative. 2013 Code of Ethics and should be observed by Everyone in the Company is entitled to Communication on progress 2015 3 freely express their opinion on any issue by setting up a common and espoused with the means of: employees development strategy. Respect for  Opinion Section – a heading in the internal the individual, protection of the rights and information system, to raise and discuss interests of workers and employees, ensuring important for the employees topics as well as to their social status are among the the plant put questions to the Management. management priorities.  CEO visiting day weekly, each KNPP is The Company provides equal rights and entitled to discuss personal or business issues opportunities for work, development and career with the CEO. promotion depending only on the employees'  At various intervals the Heads of various initiative, professional qualification, gained management levels conduct meetings with staff experience and personal qualities as well as the to discuss work, current issues, problems, results achieved at work. which have occurred, in order to create a The Company sustains its continual efforts positive environment for reporting errors; related to its personnel development by:  Access to all other managers is not limited Individual development plans and meeting with them can be organised Opportunities for free participation in the observing their current work load. recruitment procedures  Opinion poll boxes are located at various Personnel training. This is organized by places around the plant, enabling staff to a Training Centre of our own, licensed to express viewpoints, post signals or complaints perform initial and continuing training for the to the CEO. Company's staff as well as the staff of external  Weekly, a voluntary inquiry This week's organizations performing activities on KNPP question aims at investigating staff opinion on site. up-to-date for the Company topics. Kozloduy NPP strives to apply the Lifelong  Every employee of the Company is free to be learning principle in order to achieve smart and a member of any association with regard to their sustainable growth. The approaches to interests and in some of them Kozloduy NPP encourage knowledge enhancement in the appears to be a corporate member as well. Company are: The Company's Management implements a training and qualification enhancement policy of correct labour relations by means of additional paid study leave 4 Communication on progress 2015 scholarships for disadvantaged people Women at the Company have their right of a granting tools and materials for the pregnancy, birth or adoption leave to the extent practical classes at school of 410 days for each child, 45 of those obligatory provision of paid and unpaid internships being before delivery. The compensations encouragement for the young intelligent pregnant women employees receive equals people 90% of their average daily remuneration/social Specific activities implemented: security wage base for the last 24 calendar • Agreements for cooperation with leading months. Bulgarian universities The Company ensures the possibility for • Contracts signed with the Bulgarian each woman to pass free gynaecological Academy of Science for 6 doctorates examination on yearly basis, while those at the • Students in training age beyond 35 have their medical check-ups • Participation in the One Day Manager twice a year. The Company provides possibility initiative for the pregnant workers and employees to • Participation in job fairs trace their condition and consult a competent • Participation in the WANO Moscow Centre obstetrician on site of Kozloduy NPP. initiative to attract young people to take part in According to the internal rules the Company the WANO activities supports employees when becoming parents The company has its own Occupation by a lump sum benefit. These same rules Medical Centre. In the specialized for the provide for allowances for women employees purpose premises the preliminary and with reproductive problems. preventive periodic medical check-ups by all As a socially responsible company specialists as envisaged in Regulation No.29 Kozloduy NPP pays special attention to young regarding health norms and requirements people and their future careers. Indicative of the related to work in ionizing radiation environment interest of young people to professional are performed. The Occupation Medical Centre development in the nuclear power plant is the analyzes the health status of the employees, fact that about 50% of all newly-employed in develops and proposes measures to improve 2015 are young people under the age of 30, as the labour conditions and eliminate health risks. all of them are employed after recruitment. Kozloduy NPP plc employees have the opportunity for complete recreation in the holiday houses of the Company. The Company gives all its employees and their families opportunities for cultural life via the House of Culture as well as for practising different sports at the Sports and Recreation Complex. There are 28 sports sections at the Company and more than 400 members. Concerning the special role of women in social life Kozloduy NPP implements all legal forms to care about and support women in order to assist them to perform their maternal commitments and not to deprive them of their professional development opportunities. Communication on progress 2015 5 LABOUR STANDARDS The Company has in place a well organized The Company's commitments with regard explicit human resources management policy to the labour norms are evident within the to ensure equal opportunities in the staff following processes: recruitment process, in training, development staff recruitment; and motivation while strictly observing labour occurrence, modification and suspenlaw. The Staff management policy is developed sion of labour relations; in compliance with the main objective of the training of workers and employees; Company declared by the Management to tracking the health status of workers and provide safe, efficient and environmentally employees; friendly electricity generation, maintaining provision of health and safety at work sufficient number of certified, excellently trained including work place risk assessment and and highly motivated personnel. developing preventive prescriptions with regard The Trade Union organizations at Kozloduy to risk minimizing; NPP and the Company's Management execute corporate social programme managean Enterprise agreement which ensures the ment; protection of the personnel's rights regarding individual work performance assesslabour and insurance relations as well as the ment, etc. additional social benefits. Activities and results: For the period 2015-2016 there is a signed In the recruitment process for Kozloduy Enterprise agreement in place at Kozloduy NPP NPP employees the principles of the Law on plc which provides considerably more Protection against Discrimination, the Law on favourable conditions for staff in comparison Protection of Personal Data as well as the with those specified in the Labour Code and in internal documents are observed and no the Branch Enterprise Agreement. influence is tolerated regarding nationality, race 6 Communication on progress 2015 or ethnic belonging of job applicants, their The social policy towards the plant staff, gender, age, convictions or religion. The aims to provide employees with job recruitment process for the job applicants is corresponding to their qualification, relevant transparent and provides access to information salaries, health and safe labour conditions, and results for any applicant at any stage of the health and medical care, good housing, procedure, all details made public on the opportunities for culture, sport and recreation website of the Company. leisure time. The Plant interior regulations clearly define Kozloduy NPP has successfully implementhe working hours requirement, taking leaves, ted a system for safety and health management etc., and the Enterprise Agreement explicitly at work in compliance with the international bans individuals under the age of 18 to be standard OHSAS 18001:2007 under the project employed. Individuals working at specific BG 051РО001, Health and Safety Prevention. conditions have reduced working hours and use Plant employees are provided with personal additional paid annual leave. protective equipment, free wholesome food, Staff motivation surveys are annually reduced working hours, compulsory occupaconducted at Kozloduy NPP plc, the results tional accident risk insurance for the employees then are used by the Management as grounds working in high occupational risk conditions. to plan and implement further activities. The An evidence for the success of the applied recently completed survey, for example, measures is the permanently established trend showed that more than 90% of the respondents at Kozloduy NPP for reduction in the number of assessed the level of safety during execution of lost working days due to work injuries. work and health care at the Company as high. Communication on progress 2015 7 ENVIRONMENT The Company Management gives high from plant activities. priority to protection of people's health and the Activities and results: environment from adverse effects associated In its capacity of an organization operating with the activities implemented at the site of nuclear facilities, Kozloduy NPP plc takes Kozloduy NPP plc. continuous, systematic and overall control of the The Company's policy on environment activities, products and services which have management is focussed towards achieving the detrimental effect on the environment and following goals: people's health. Kozloduy NPP plc environmenpreservation of the atmosphere and tal protection and management is based on the cleanness of atmospheric air; following principles: protection and management of waters applying the requirements of the national within the area of Kozloduy NPP plc; and European legislation regarding environmensafe management, minimization and tal protection and management; utilization of non-radioactive waste; maintaining compliance with the conditions energy efficiency and assessment of the of the permits issued to the Company by the influence of resources and materials used on environmental authorities; the environment; systematic planning and reporting of the minimization of the risk of occurrence of implementation of environmental policy, objecenvironmental damage and incidents. tives and programmes; There is a specialised environmental unit in implementation of effective monitoring and the nuclear power plant which is responsible for supervision of processes and activities which shaping and establishing the corporate policy could have detrimental effect on the environment; on decreasing the negative and increasing the providing and maintaining the necessary positive effects on the environment resulting resources for prevention and/or mitigation of 8 Communication on progress 2015 undesirable effects on people and the Climate Agreement from Paris. environment; The Company effectively uses the natural maintaining and increasing the and energy resources by obtaining all Company's staff competence and safety culture necessary permits according to the current in terms of environmental protection; regulations, plans and programmes in appropriately informing suppliers about compliance with the best industry practices. the Company's policy on environmental Environmental protection monitoring is protection; implemented through a set of measures for maintaining the public updated on the environmental monitoring, control of plant status of and measures for environmental releases into the atmosphere and hydrosphere, protection. radioactive and conventional waste processing Kozloduy NPP plc management is and storage. Continuous radiation monitoring in committed to maintain and improve the 30-km zone is implemented through the environmental management as an integral part plant automated information systems which are of the Integrated Management System of the integrated with the similar national system. Company. The annual control in 2015 has over 4900 Kozloduy NPP safety is of main priority and analysis in general over 2600 samples from is subject to independent state supervision by different environmental items, as the results of the Bulgarian Nuclear Regulatory Agency at the the analyzed samples from the NPP Council of Ministers of Republic of Bulgaria, the environment during the year are in the range of Ministry of Environment and Waters and the the background levels characteristic of the Ministry of Health. The radioecological state of area. the environment within the region of the Plant is In 2015, nuclear power implemented a compliant with requirements of the active system for separate waste collection of metal, legislation in the field of radiation protection. glass, plastic and paper packaging. In 2002 Bulgaria ratified the Kyoto Protocol More than 5000 analyses of the main which is a serious step towards decreasing the environmental components as waters, soils, greenhouse gasses emissions. The electricity fodder, foods, etc., were conducted and the production of the NPP practically does not results demonstrated there were no adverse generate any greenhouse gases and trends as a result of Kozloduy NPP operation. contributes significantly to the preservation of There are more than 4000 trees and the environment. For example, during the protective vegetation spreading on more than electricity generation in 2015, Kozloduy NPP 450 000 square metres within the green space saved the harmful impact on the public and the of Kozloduy NPP. Continuous care is being environment of about 17,803 million tons of taken for maintaining the Plant site green carbon dioxide (CO2), 87 thousand tons of space. The adjacent green areas were entirely sulphur dioxide (SO2), 22 thousand tons of renovated during the last year. The entry and nitrogen oxides (NOX) and 4 thousand tons of exit roads, the Police Check Points and building ashes, containing natural radioactivity. This entrances were renovated under Landscape effect corresponds to the world trends for Architecture Projects. The abundance of animal limiting the emissions responsible for the ozone and fish species characteristic of the region and layer depletion and once again emphasizes the typical for the Danubean Basin speaks for the role of nuclear energy as part of the solution to well preserved and carefully maintained climate change in the context of the historical environmentally friendly Plant site. Communication on progress 2015 9 ANTI-CORRUPTION Kozloduy NPP plc opposes all forms of or corruption. Some of the measures taken by company or public corrupt practices in the Company are as follows: compliance with the UN Anti-corruption precise and transparent regulations of Convention to which the Republic of Bulgaria donations; such donations are not given to has been a party since 2006. Intolerance of and political parties; opposition to the corrupt practices is a strict accountancy which is subject to responsibility of each employee of the international and external audits; Company. The Company has established rules, the Company has restricted its cash preventive measures are implemented, misuse payment to a minimum, no cash register is used and corruption risks are managed. The Code of and payments are received only by bank Ethics of Kozloduy NPP plc covers specific transfers. Cash payment sums for our suppliers policies for conflict of interest, personal benefits are limited; and gifts, fair and equal attitude towards the employees of the Company are well suppliers and compliance with the Global informed about anti-corruption issues. Compact principles. Kozloduy NPP plc senior management Investigations, law cases or other relevant expresses their and their employees' events connected with corruption and bribery confidence and commitment to further apply the are conducted according to the requirements of Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the the legislation and Company documents. field of human rights, labour standards, Activities and results: environment and anti-corruption as a basis of Opposition to the corrupt practices is a their plans and daily activities towards responsibility of each employee of the achieving sustainable and harmonious future Company. The Company has established clear development of the Company and society as a rules and preventive control of possible abuse whole. 10 Communication on progress 2015 KOZLODUY NPP PLC Kozloduy 3321 Bulgaria Tel.: +359 973 72020 Fax: +359 973 80591 e-mail: info@npp.bg www.kznpp.org
