UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 ® Great at Control Version 2.0 2016 Contents Statement of Continued Support 3-4 Human Rights Principles 5-6 Labour Rights Principles 7-8 Environmental Protection Principles 9-10 Anti-Corruption Principles 11-12 ® COP 2016 Great at Control Statement of 3-4 Continued Support March 7, 2016 Mita-Teknik develops, produces and distributes advanced In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our electronic control automation technology for use in the wind actions to continually improve the integration of the UN Global industry. Mita-Teknik has a proven track record in the wind Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture industry with more than 30 years of experience, and more than and daily operations. 47,000 control systems in operation worldwide. We also commit to share this information with our customers, I am pleased to confirm that Mita-Teknik reaffirms its support employees, suppliers and other stakeholders using our primary of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in channels of communication. the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. Sincerely yours, Our collected CSR Policy, which includes our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics, has been approved by the Mita-Teknik Management Team and the Board of Directors. Our CSR Policy is based on the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact. We have identified our prioritized sustainability issues, and have Jesper Andersen initiated the process of optimizing these. We will follow up on CEO, Mita-Teknik our progress on a yearly basis. This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. ® Great at Control Human Rights 5-6 Principles Commitment Mita-Teknik respects cultural differences and does not do We continuously collect information from our global divisions business with a supplier if the supplier practices discrimination in order to ensure complete compliance to international at work based on race, religion, gender, age, nationality or minimum standards in regards to ‘Hours, Wages & Leave’. sexual orientation. We will update the Employee Handbook to include guidelines No employee should ever be exposed to any physical in regards to the Human Rights principles. punishment, threats of violence or physical, sexual, psychological or verbal harassment or maltreatment in the work place or in work related situations. Performance Evaluation Mita-Teknik actively supports the Universal Declaration of Mita-Teknik’s Code of Conduct has been introduced as a Human Rights. We respect Human Rights within our sphere standard to all new supplier contracts under article 24 ‘Code of influence and operate our business in a transparent and of Conduct’. trustworthy way. We have published our CSR Policy and Code of Conduct on our Mita-Teknik has a dedicated Health and Safety Committee in website. place to regularly assess and evaluate the working environment in Mita-Teknik. In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights Mita-Teknik sees no significant risks that the company or its violations. No incidents or violations of the Human Rights suppliers violates the UN Global Compact Principles 1-2. principles have been reported to the Management Team. Implementation Mita-Teknik is currently in negotiations with our large volume suppliers to add an appendix to existing partnership contracts, which will include article 24 ‘Code of Conduct’. This appendix is expected to be completed and signed without any complications. We monitor the overall sickness absence in Mita-Teknik on a monthly basis in order to detect employee health issues, and assess if follow-up actions are required. In accordance with the Danish Working Environment Act, MitaTeknik conducts APV (Workplace Assessment Surveys) every three years, and continually carries out follow-up actions. ® Great at Control Labour Rights 7-8 Principles Commitment Performance Evaluation Mita-Teknik commits to provide a competitive salary package, We currently employ more than 235 people from 10 different a safe and comfortable working environment, openly nationalities on 7 global locations. communicated career paths and well established performance and development evaluation tools. Mita-Teknik has, during the past year, focused on optimizing the work processes in the Ningbo production facility with Mita-Teknik respects the right of workers and operates our added focus on workmanship and process descriptions. business with safe and attractive working conditions. We respect the freedom of association and collective bargaining In October 2015, we passed the external ISO9001 re-certification and have zero tolerance for forced labour, child labour or audit by TÜV Nord in Rødkærsbro. And in September 2015, the discrimination. Ningbo (CH) division received its ISO9001 certification as well. Mita-Teknik sees no significant risks that the company or its Annual performance reviews has been carried out with all suppliers violates the UN Global Compact Principles 3-6. employees globally. Mita-Teknik’s Code of Conduct has been introduced as a Implementation standard to all new supplier contracts under article 24 ‘Code of Conduct’. Mita-Teknik is currently in negotiations with our large volume suppliers to add an appendix to existing partnership We have published our CSR Policy and Code of Conduct on our contracts, which will include article 24 ‘Code of Conduct’. This website. appendix is expected to be completed and signed without any complications. In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Labour Rights Mita-Teknik’s Management System is audited annually to violations. No incidents or violations of the Labour Rights ensure continued compliance with the ISO9001 standard. principles have been reported to the Management Team. We are implementing the OHSAS18001 standard in our Ningbo division. Work is expected to be completed during summer 2016. All Mita-Teknik employees undergo annual performance reviews to set individual plans and targets for advancement. We will update the Employee Handbook to include guidelines in regards to the Labour Rights principles. A system where reports of incidents in relation to Labour Rights can be reported to HR is also being established. ® Great at Control Environmental 9-10 Protection Principles Commitment Performance Evaluation Mita-Teknik supports a precautionary approach to We have published our company CSR Policy and Code of environmental challenges, and undertakes initiatives to Conduct on our website. promote greater environmental responsibility. Also, we encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Mita-Teknik’s Code of Conduct has been introduced as a friendly technologies. We actively support a sustainable standard to all new supplier contracts under article 24 ‘Code environmental progress through the development and of Conduct’. distribution of intelligent control solutions for the wind industry, which improves the performance of wind turbines, Investments to our Ningbo production facility means that we and the overall competitiveness of ‘clean’ wind generated are now able to produce more locally, effectively reducing the energy. need for long distance transport and shipping of goods, hereby significantly reducing our impact on the environment. Overall, we consider our production process to have a relatively low impact on the environment, however we do recognize that Along with the investments in Ningbo, we have also introduced parts of our production and transports have a negative impact digital solutions to help reduce paper waste. on the environment, and we constantly work to minimize these effects. In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving violations to the Environmental Protection principles. No incidents or Implementation violations of the Environmental Protection principles have been reported to the Management Team. Mita-Teknik is currently in negotiations with our large volume suppliers to add an appendix to existing partnership contracts, which will include article 24 ‘Code of Conduct’. This appendix is expected to be completed and signed without any complications. We are implementing the ISO14001 standard in our Ningbo division. Work is expected to be completed during summer 2016. Measures to reduce travel activity are being implemented. Our waste management is in compliance with all applicable national laws and regulations, and we continually educate our employees in this area. ® Great at Control Anti-Corruption 11-12 Principles Commitment Performance Evaluation Corruption and bribery are recognized as barriers to sustainable We have published our company CSR Policy and Code of development and free trade, and Mita-Teknik supports the Conduct on our website. work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Mita-Teknik’s Code of Conduct has been introduced as a standard to all new supplier contracts under article 24 ‘Code Gifts and Entertainment of Conduct’. Mita-Teknik acknowledges that minor business gifts and moderate entertainment, including meals, are accepted ways In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any to build relationships and generate goodwill between business investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Antipartners. This practice must however always be conducted in Corruption violations. No incidents or violations of the Antia transparent way, and only to an extent appropriate to our Corruption principles have been reported to the Management integrity guidelines and business ethics. Team. Implementation Mita-Teknik is currently in negotiations with our large volume suppliers to add an appendix to existing partnership contracts, which will include article 24 ‘Code of Conduct’. This appendix is expected to be completed and signed without any complications. Guidelines for handling issues of Corruption, Hospitality (Gifts and Entertainment) and Donations are provided to employees through our Business Ethics document, CSR Policy and Code of Conduct. Additional training material is being compiled by HR, and will be introduced as e-learning. ® Great at Control ® Great at Control © 2016 Mita-Teknik. All rights reserved. Content may not be reproduced in any form without written permission from Mita-Teknik Denmark
