W W W. METRO GROUP .D E / MATERI ALITY M E T R O G R O U P C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IB IL I T Y R E P O R T 2015 /16 Along with Friedrich Lehmann, the protagonist featured on our cover, our Corporate Responsibility Report introduces five further innovators who all share one thing: their focus on what is material to them. Their stories are exemplary of the inspiration­a l nature of sustainable ideas and how we anchor and advance these approaches in our ­ core business. FRIEDRICH LEHMANN PERMACULTURE VISIONARY CONTENTS 01 L etter from the M anagement B oard 03 IDEAS FOR THE FOOD SYSTEM OF TOMORROW f a b i o z i e m s s e n 24 M E T RO G RO U P 10 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A P P RO A C H „Repairing things is inherently 37 AREAS OF RESPONSIBILIT Y sustainable.“ Moritz Zyrewitz 51 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A P P RO A C H E S OF THE SALES LINES 92 K E Y P E R FO R M A N C E I N D I C ATO R S A N D G O A L S 17 133 A SYSTEM GRI AND U N G LO B A L C O M PA CT FIT FOR THE FUTURE 155 Report Profile Friedrich Lehmann w w w. metrogroup. d e ⁄ MATERIALITY D E A R Readers , Our world is changing faster all the time. Global challenges such as political crises, climate change and population growth, as well as the increasing wealth gap and advancing digitisation, call for new discourses, bold solutions and active engagement. As an international retail company with some 220,000 employees and millions of customers, METRO GROUP and its sales lines bear a special responsibility. A company of our size, with the great number of transactions we conduct daily, has both the opportunity and the duty to achieve sustainable transformation. And that is our aspiration: we want to create added value for our customers while also caring for our environment. To accomplish this, we have anchored the theme of sustainability in our guidelines and, accordingly, in our daily actions. In doing so, we have set clear priorities in the last several years. Together with our employees, customers and partners, we are focusing on tackling the issues that are material to us. We have therefore made “materiality” the guiding theme of this year’s Corporate Responsibility Report. To determine which topics we and our stakeholders regard as essential, we conducted a comprehensive stakeholder survey as well as a materiality analysis this year. The results are helping us to prioritise fields of action. On this basis, we are defining objectives and measures, and systematically identifying and addressing potential risks and opportunities for our business. In this report, we present several of these measures and the progress we have made on them thus far. Through these efforts, we are making a contribution at the societal level to attaining the UN Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals. External assessments confirm that we are on the right path: in 2016, METRO GROUP is again listed as Industry Leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability World and Europe Indices, and is represented in both the FTSE4Good Global Index and the FTSE4Good Europe Index. The focus on the essential is also what ultimately unites the protagonists featured in this report. We introduce people who not only develop sustainable ideas, but who, through their dedication, also motivate others to contribute to sustainability. We wish you sustainably inspiring reading! 01 O L A F K O C H Chairman of the Management Board M A R K F R E S E Chief Financial Officer P I E T E R H A A S Member of the Management Board P I E T E R C . B O O N E Member of the Management Board THE MANAGEMENT BOARD O F M E T R O A G H E I K O H U T M A C H E R Chief Human Resources Officer 02 FA B I O ZIEMSSEN FORWARDTHINKER AND NETWORKER FOR GERMANY’S FOOD TECH FUTURE At some point the question won’t just be where you can order something, but where you can have it made. Or even how you can produce it yourself. 03 F A B I O Z I E M S S E N IDEAS FOR THE FOOD SYSTEM OF TOMORROW As Head of Food Innovation and FoodTech at METRO GROUP, FA BIO ZIEMS SEN deals with questions about the present and future food system. His mission: to work with start-ups, scientists and other visionaries to find innovative technologies to take on such challenges as securing the food supply for a growing world population. Ziemßen actively promotes dialogue and the search for solutions both on his website efood-blog.com and in his roles as co-organiser of events like the 2016 Next Generation Food conference. When Fabio Ziemßen thinks about food, it is only rarely producers. “This is definitely one of the major trends in about his own lunch. Rather, on behalf of METRO GROUP, he the food tech sector,” Ziemßen explains. “With this techexamines topics and trends that extend far beyond nology, anyone can grow food right where it is eaten – the plate in front of him. Yet many of the questions he deals with low resource input and 100 per cent transparency with begin, so to speak, right at the table. How do we feed with respect to its origins. That’s a forward-looking apourselves today? How will we do so in the future? How can proach to healthily feeding millions of people particularwe use the resources of our planet sustainably enough to ly in megacities.” support billions of people over the long term? And to what Equally promising in his view are ideas and models for degree can innovative technologies help us achieve this? the circular economy, “such as using organic waste, for “It is indispensable that we in the commercial sector example fungi, algae or insects, to generate new products grapple with these questions and redefine our own role,” or even packaging.” Ziemßen also sees the 3D printing of says Ziemßen, “because in the future, today’s food system foodstuffs, on the basis of sensory measurements of indiand value chain will cease to exist as we know them.” vidual nutrient requirements, as a future technology with Challenges like global population growth, urbanisation potential. and excessive resources consumption are already pushing The market is still modest in scale. Start-ups and the system to its limits. “Food tech – the fusion of food visionaries in, especially, the United States, Israel, Italy, the and technology in various parts of the value chain – can Netherlands and Germany are exploring ideas for the point out new, sustainable paths and, at the same time, future of our food system. Linking these, creating forums turn the entire food system on its head.” for dialogue, sharing knowledge and using ideas in A prime example of this is the concept of indoor farmcommerce in targeted ways – these will remain exciting ing, which makes consumers into self-sustaining food challenges for Fabio Ziemßen. 04 Connecting experts: at the Next Generation Food conference in Berlin, repre­s entatives from commerce, industry and politics, as well as food bloggers and start-ups, discuss trends and developments in the food system. 05 Innovative idea generator: the Berlin start-up cantinio, a platform for daily lunch updates, made a convincing e-food pitch. 06 Promoting exchange: Fabio Ziemßen drives the community discourse forward in various roles, including as initiator of the efood-blog.com as well as moderator and co-organiser of the Next Generation Food conference. 07 Award for pitch winners: Fabio Ziemßen (centre) with Robin Kluth of nutringo (left) and Thomas Chester of cantinio (right). 08 METRO CASH & CARRY installed a high-tech vertical farm in its wholesale store in Berlin’s Fried­ richshain district in 2015, making it the first wholesaler in Europe to do so. Since then, this innovative in-store farming concept has also been implemented in the wholesale store in Antwerp. In a futuristic vertical construction, herbs, sprouts and vegetables grow in a thin, nutrient-rich layer of water – entirely without pesticides and using 70 per cent less fertiliser, 90 per cent less water and zero pesticides. The technology and oper­ations are provided by the Berlin-based start-up Infarm, with which METRO Cash & Carry cooperates. OSNAT MICHAELI Co-founder and managing director of Infarm U R B A N FA R M E R​ Our goal is to help cities become self-sufficient in their food production. 09 MORITZ ZYREWITZ FOUNDER OF K A P U T T. D E For us, materiality means fighting the cause instead of the effect. 10 M O R I T Z Z Y R E W I T Z Repairing things is inherently sustainable. MORI T Z Z Y RE W I T Z is one of the founders of kaputt.de. The portal that he and two friends ­developed in 2014 provides information and services in the area of electronics, repairs and disposal. It offers three options: follow instructions to fix the device yourself, hire a repair service or purchase a new product while selling or disposing of the used item. kaputt.de was a participant in the Media-Saturn tech accelerator SPACELAB and is now cooperating with more than 100 Media Markt and Saturn stores. Mr Zyrewitz, where did the idea for the start-up ucts. In our market segment, we strive to offer people an kaputt.de come from? alternative to discarding broken devices. After all, repairIf you want to repair your mobile phone, you’ll find­ ing things is inherently sustainable. By providing for the lots of videos and instructions on the internet. We bundled ­repair of 50,000 mobile phones in the last 18 months, this knowledge into a kind of Wikipedia for instruction we’ve prevented tonnes of electronic scrap. That’s our manuals. That earned us an award and enabled us to contribution to sustainability. refine our concept. And since not everyone has the skill or the time to fix things themselves, we also offer What are the next goals and challenges for kaputt.de? information on repair services to those people who visit We aim to increase awareness of our brand and expand our platform. our product line. If kaputt.de does a good job repairing my smartphone, then why not also my coffee maker or my Your motto is “Just fix it”. But why should we do that? washing machine? We want to grow and soon be making a For our users, there are three reasons. First, it makes profit. But growth also brings the challenge of managing economic sense, because it saves me the cost of a new a larger team and ensuring that it can succeed on the device. Second, it’s ecological, because by repairing my market over the long term. mobile phone, I extend its product life cycle and reduce e-waste. The third reason is my curiosity to better underWhile maintaining what made kaputt.de what it was stand a product that I use daily and take for granted. right from the start … … absolutely. In the future, people should still be Would you describe kaputt.de as a sustainable comsaying: Hey, kaputt.de is a great source of information pany? that helps me decide whether to fix my electronic device To begin with, kaputt.de is a normal company that’s myself, have it repaired or buy a new one. It’s an honest ethical and sustainable by virtue of our values and prodintermediary that saves me time and money. 11 Just get it fixed: users who can’t repair their smartphones themselves can find an overview of local repair services on the platform kaputt.de. 12 Ambitious start-up team: Frederico dos Reis, Moritz Zyrewitz, Tobias Kronawitter and Joseph Hufnagl are the minds behind kaputt.de. 13 Need identified: via the platform kaputt.de, the Berlin start-up already sells around 1,500 different spare parts for smartphones – from batteries and ­a ntennas to charging sockets and displays including toolkits. 14 Continuing to grow: in the medium term, the kaputt.de team ­p lans to expand its services to household goods like laptops, coffee makers and washing machines. 15 MEDIA-SATURN sees itself as a partner, daily companion and navigator for its customers in an ever more digital world. To fulfil this aspiration, the company is continually expanding its service offerings and making targeted investments in young, innovative companies from all sectors along the value chain. Its cooperation with the Berlin start-up kaputt.de is a prime example: the platform for repair services provides information, comparisons and repair assistance for defective smartphones – which makes it a perfect addition to the Media-­Saturn portfolio. We invest in start-ups with innovative business ideas – to offer customers useful services and true added value. And that’s exactly what distinguishes kaputt.de. MARTIN SINNER CEO of Electronics Online Group (EOG) and the SPACELAB Accelerator of Media-Saturn START-UP DISCOVERER 16 FRIEDRICH LEHMANN PERMACULTURE VISIONARY I’m convinced that twelve billion people can be fed through permaculture and organic agriculture. Because when we treat nature with respect, it produces in great abundance. 17 F R I E D R I C H L E H M A N N A SYSTEM FIT FOR THE FUTURE FRIEDRICH L EHM A NN is fascinated by the concept of permaculture. For over 20 years, the distributor of organic fruit and vegetables has been developing and implementing this approach on his acreage in Spain – with great patience, zeal and remarkable idealism. Through his company Lehmann Natur, he supplies Real with fruit and vegetables from his fincas. An early morning in late September. The sun is rising which is meticulously cultivated here. It contains microover the fields of the Finca Jelanisol in Gibraleón, Andaorganisms and nutrients, and serves as an important lusia. Although there hasn’t been substantial precipitation water reservoir. Grasses, flowers, wild mint and fennel in over five months, the trees and bushes are resplendent grow undisturbed among the fruit and vegetable plants, in vibrant green foliage. Instead of the unrelenting monoprotecting the earth from drying out. Fields are laid out culture common in Andalusia, botanical diversity reigns in keeping with the land’s contours to prevent water from here. With its pomegranate and orange trees, herbs and running off too quickly and eroding the soil. Terrace-like flowers, succulents and high hedges, Jelanisol is all hedges provide wind protection and animal habitats. about diversity. This wasn’t always the case. “When we “We have no doubt that permaculture with organic took over the finca 20 years ago, conventional monoculfarming will be the only viable way to feed the world’s ture farming was practiced here,” says Friedrich Lehmann, population over the long term,” Friedrich Lehmann the owner of the finca. “At some point it became clear to stresses. And he has long demonstrated that the concept us that that wasn’t the right way for the future. So we pays off economically: with a team that seasonally swells began our transition to permaculture.” to around 30 in number, he harvests between 600 and Permaculture is a form of organic farming in which 750 tonnes of fruit and vegetables annually. “The more we crops are cultivated without wasting resources or disbuild up the soil and the better we understand nature, placing natural habitats. Using water sparingly and the higher our yields. However, we aren’t just interested forgoing artificial fertilisers, pesticides, herbicides and in yield volumes, but rather, first and foremost, in quality.” fungicides are important principles of this approach. But German consumers can test this quality for themselves, to gain a hands-on understanding of this holistic concept, because Friedrich Lehmann delivers the greater part one should come to Jelanisol. A tour of the 52-hectare of his harvest – especially pomegranates, kumquats, finca quickly makes clear how the system works. One key mangoes and avocados – straight to Real hypermarkets factor is the soil – or, more precisely, the humus layer, in Germany. 18 Rich green diversity: “Recognising the harmonious language of nature – that’s permaculture!” 19 Essential basis: finca boss Manolo Báez is proud of the soil’s healthy humus layer. At Jelanisol, this topsoil is meticulously cultivated and tended. 20 Experienced farmers: ten employees work on the 52-hectare finca. In the harvest season, they are joined by about 20 additional helpers. The soil is treated with water and microorganisms that are propagated in large tanks at Jelanisol. 21 Learning from nature: owner Friedrich Lehmann and his team intensively discuss the finca’s further development and constantly try out new ideas. 22 REAL has been offering fruit and vegetables from permaculture farming since 2014. In all of its hypermarkets, depending on the natural harvest season, customers can find such produce as avocados, kumquats, oranges and pomegranates, as well as green onions, radishes, carrots and lamb’s lettuce. The product mix identified by the “Real Permakultur” logo now encompasses a total of up to 15 different types of vegetables and fruit, which Real buys from Friedrich Lehmann’s Finca Jelanisol in Gibraleón, Spain, among other sources. FOOD LOVER AND PETER REITZ Director for fruit/vegetables/flowers at Real TRAILBLAZER We’ve decided to follow a sustainable path. Real permaculture products are available exclusively in our hypermarkets. And we’re steadily developing this product range. 23 METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — METRO GROUP SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH GLOBAL CHALLENGES S. 24 METRO GROUP SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 9.7 Global challenges billion people in 2050 The global challenges which our society is facing also have a direct impact on METRO GROUP and its sales lines. After (Source: United Nations) all, our core business is providing high-quality products and 82 services to customers the world over. The basis for this is an intact environment and the availability of resources. Annual increase of people in millions Growing global population (Source: United Nations) Global population growth is one of the biggest challenges as it impacts resource consumption, the climate and the food situIncrease in the global population by 2050 ation. According to forecasts by the United Nations, approximately 9.7 billion people will live on earth by 2050. To ensure that they have enough food, the production of edible plants would need to be doubled during the same period. Because with increasing prosperity, eating habits change as well. There will be an increase in the need for meat, for example, the production of which is particularly resource-intensive. Required increase in harvest yields by 2050 METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — METRO GROUP SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH BUSINESS MODEL S. 25 Growing consumption of resources Business model METRO GROUP’s corporate structure is characterised by a clear division of responsibilities. The group is headed by METRO AG. As the central management holding company, it assumes the tasks associated with group management. These specifically include finance, controlling, legal issues and compliance. Central management and administrative funcWe already consume considerably more resources per annum tions for METRO Cash & Carry are formally anchored within than our planet can provide sustainably. If this consumption METRO AG. rate continues unabated, by 2050 we will need three planets like the earth to meet the demand for resources. The pressure Operational business is the responsibility of three sales lines. on the earth’s sustainability is mounting. They operate in the market partly with different brands or via subsidiaries, depending on the respective strategy, the In the long run, METRO GROUP can only safeguard the foundasegment and the specific competitive environment. tions of its business if it manages to separate growth from the resource requirements. Therefore, for us sustainable action METRO Cash & Carry is responsible for wholesale business, means: Media-Saturn for consumer electronics retailing and Real for Creating awareness of this correlation hypermarkets. All the sales lines bear full responsibility for Optimising our own processes and our product range in their entire value chain – from purchasing and logistics to such a way that natural resources are used efficiently and bricks-and-mortar retail and online sales. responsibly Service companies assist the METRO GROUP sales lines In this manner, we generate added value for our customers across the board with services, for instance in the fields of real and contribute to mastering global challenges. estate, logistics, IT and advertising. METRO GROUP offers the framework for this with its corporate strategy and its sustainability approach. The sales lines implement their specific approaches at the operational level. An overview of METRO GROUP Information on the METRO GROUP strategy is available in the Annual Report 2015/16 at Goals and strategy. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — METRO GROUP SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH S. 26 Sustainability approach Generating added value for our customers is at the heart of METRO GROUP’s corporate strategy. The principle of sustainability constitutes the framework for this. This is because METRO GROUP sees itself as part of society and contributes to social value added. Our company has a responsibility to go beyond the legal requirements in reconciling economic goals with society’s requirements and those of our customers, staff, investors and partners. At the same time, we have to remain within the boundaries imposed by the environment. We act today with tomorrow in mind. For our business activities, this means creating added value while also reducing detrimental effects. In this manner, we become sustainable in everything we do. “With respect to sustainability, we aspire to doing the right things better and better. This means generating added value for our customers while at the same time using resources responsibly and creating positive effects for society.” HEIKO HUTMACHER Member of the Management Board and Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO) of METRO AG METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — METRO GROUP SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH S. 27 We become sustainable in all that we do … Areas of responsibility … for our employees, … … by respecting, protecting and helping them to Commitment to our employgrow professionally at all times, and by building ees trusting relationships with them. And by enabling them to systematically make sustainability a part of their work. This is how we create an attractive working environment which enables our employees to offer our customers sustainable solutions that optimally serve their needs. … for the environment, … … by using resources responsibly in our own Sustainable operations and operations and avoiding waste. This is how we sustainable procurement minimise our effect on the climate and protect and assortment the environment. And by contributing to the long-term availability of resources through sustainable procurement and assortment design. This is how we help to create a sound foundation for the retail of tomorrow. … for the people who work for us, … ... through fair and responsible business pracSustainable procurement tices and by providing fair living and working and assortment conditions. This is how we demonstrate responsibility in the supply chain. … for our consumers, … ... by providing them with safe, quality products Sustainable consumption around the world through sustainable procurement and assortment design. And with products that are produced, processed and recycled in a socially responsible, environmentally sound and resource-friendly manner. This is how we secure our future and promote sustainable consumption. … for society, … ... by aligning our business with the needs of Social engagement society through a stakeholder dialogue based on mutual trust and by contributing to our local communities wherever we operate. This is how we work on solutions to global challenges and contribute to sustainable development. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — METRO GROUP SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH EMBEDDING SUSTAINABILITY S. 28 Embedding sustainability processes and by specifically discussing this issue with our staff members. The goal is for every one of them to recognise the significance of sustainability for themselves and for their To live up to our standard of sustainability, it is imperative work environment, and to be guided accordingly in their indithat we strategically embed this principle in our core business. vidual behaviour. After all, the issue may be pushed from the We ensure this with our Sustainability Board and its committop, but it must be carried by everyone. tees, by adjusting the relevant business and decision-making METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — METRO GROUP SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH EMBEDDING SUSTAINABILITY S. 29 Status – Status – Topic Goals goal achievement Measures measures EMBEDDING METRO GROUP is systematically In a first step, sustainability was integrated into SUSTAINABILITY making sustainability part of its all the key business processes by 2016 by identiWITHIN THE work. Work in progress fying the key processes and their link to the Measure COMPANY topic on the basis of a materiality analysis. ongoing In a second step, the issue is being continuously implemented within the business processes, for example on the basis of guidelines. Enhancing employees’ awareness of sustainable behaviour. Measure Development of a sustainability campaign ongoing completed. Internal and external communication materials on the topic of METRO and sustainability being generated and distributed. Conducting of workshops on sustainability within METRO GROUP , in particular in the Cash & Carry country organisations. Additionally, sustainability events held, such as a Sustainability Day at the headquarters and in 13 countries. Inclusion of a dedicated question on sustainability in the annual employee opinion survey, METRO Voice. The survey is conducted at METRO Cash & Carry and in the service companies. Sustainability has been and will continue to be included as a topic in existing training programmes. Measure ongoing Establishment of a programme for management development for the specific purpose of boosting sustainability awareness. Our company has various measures and tools available for Linking the remuneration paid to the Management Board advancing the sustainability embedding process: and the global senior management with the assessment Approaches to responsible company management and of the sustainability performance of METRO GROUP in the acting with integrity, including our sustainability rating of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) approach and our corporate governance and compliance Definition of group-wide sustainability-related targets structures within our areas of responsibility Principles, commitments and positions which offer METRO Sustainable Leadership Programme for guidance for people’s actions and ensure both compliance management development with laws and adherence to standards that exceed these Memberships in associations and initiatives as well as guidelines committee work; the most important memberships are Guidelines such as the ten principles of the United Nations listed here Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals Collaboration and dialogue with decision-makers in politics and society METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — METRO GROUP SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT S. 30 Sustainability management More information on risk and opportunity management is available in the Risk and opportunity report of the Annual Report 2015/16. Sustainability management serves to help embed sustainability in our core business and ensures that whenever economic As there are many different companies and retail formats and environmental or social considerations affect one another, within METRO GROUP, clear structures have been put in place overlaps are dealt with in an efficient, solution-oriented way. It to ensure that the strategic and operational levels interlock also assists in shaping sustainability-related guidelines such optimally. Our objective is to preserve the sales lines’ operaas legal requirements or standards that apply to the company. tional independence so that we can meet the requirements of local markets and customers. At the same time, it is important Sustainability management is closely connected with to tap synergies with a view to achieving the group’s shared METRO GROUP’s risk and opportunity management. Managestrategic goals. The structure and processes of ment is assisted in systematically identifying, assessing and METRO GROUP’s sustainability management enable us to controlling potential risks due to deviations from sustainability deliver on this. targets and opportunities. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — METRO GROUP SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS S. 31 As an official METRO GROUP body, the Sustainability Board makes sure that the right strategic course is pursued with Stakeholder relations respect to the group’s sustainability performance and key issues are covered by means of relevant targets. The Board In defining strategic objectives and designing concrete consists of the director responsible for sustainability, the CEOs measures in the area of sustainability, we do not rely solely of the sales lines and the sustainability managers from on our internal viewpoint and our own experiences. Rather, METRO AG and the sales lines. The sustainability managers we attach importance to taking on board the opinions and are responsible for making sure that sustainability is inteexpertise of different stakeholder groups and external experts. grated into the business at the level of the sales lines and the Regular exchange with them has high strategic priority for group. This is done by rolling out this concept in the various us, as it contributes to creating a better basis for decisioncorporate divisions and taking it into account during decisionmaking and to developing possible solutions for social and making. business challenges. Stakeholder dialogue is also helpful for identifying and expressing needs. By taking part in economic Round table on corporate responsibility and sociopolitical discourse and working with our stakeholder groups, we are in a position to identify their requirements The round table on corporate responsibility acts as an interconcerning our activities, address relevant issues, and continface between the strategic and operational dimensions of uously check the goals we are pursuing. We can achieve many sustainability. This body prepares decisions to be approved by of our sustainability targets only in cooperation with partners the Sustainability Board and helps to implement them. Action from politics, science, society and industry. After all, the taken by the individual sales lines that contributes to achieving impact of our actions is greater if many stakeholders tackle METRO GROUP’s sustainability targets is coordinated by the social challenges jointly and systematically. As such, regular round table. In this manner, the committee serves as a platexchange with our stakeholder groups also serves to reinforce form that brings together all the sustainability managers and trust in our company, while at the same time increasing the allows them to pool their expertise. Synergies are created, for chances of our activities succeeding. example when the participants discuss how they view certain topics and deal with them. These can help the operating diviThe measures that we implement in the field of sustainability sions to manage their specific issues. are evaluated among other things by our stakeholder groups in the form of ratings. These assessments are an important source of motivation for us and also serve as a management Operational responsibility lies with the tool as they indicate the progress we have made as well as sales lines room for improvement in our activities. The sales lines are responsible for defining specific targets and measures at the operational level, acting on them in dayStakeholder groups and dialogue to-day business and ensuring that goals are met in a sustained formats fashion. They inform the Sustainability Board about their progress via the round table. Each METRO GROUP sales line Not only external stakeholders such as customers, suppliers has developed its own approach – based on the specific and business partners, NGOs, political representatives, requirements of its operational business – to deal with releinvestors, competitors and committees, but also internal vant aspects of sustainability. stakeholder groups such as employees and the management of METRO GROUP place various demands on our company at Each of these approaches is presented in the chapter Sustainthe local and international levels. To get to know their opinability approaches of the sales lines. ions and expectations and understand them better, we employ various dialogue activities and formats. These include, for instance, our committee work in the international industry organisation The Consumer Goods Forum, our diverse association activities and our involvement in the Retailers’ Environmental Action Programme (REAP), a joint platform of 21 large METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — METRO GROUP SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2016 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS S. 32 European retail companies and the European Commission. The aim of REAP is for experience of and information on exem2016 materiality analysis plary projects to be shared not only with the Commission, but also among the retail companies. To recognise issues that might constitute opportunities or risks for our business early on, to prioritise our spheres of Additionally, we foster dialogue with our stakeholder groups action and to focus our activities accordingly, we performed a through our membership in various initiatives. Among other materiality analysis including an extensive stakeholder survey things, METRO GROUP has made a commitment to complifor the first time in 2016. ance with their guidelines. These initiatives include: UN Global Compact The central topics for METRO GROUP were selected in a Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative (GSSI) process that consisted of several steps. The first step was the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) generation of a comprehensive list of issues that are relevant Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) to our company or our stakeholder groups. Key sources for Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) this included: International Labour Organization (ILO) The guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The requirements of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index METRO GROUP is also committed to dialogue with stakehold(DJSI) and of oekom research ers in its own event formats: together with the German Retail Market research studies Federation (HDE) and the Federation of German Wholesale, The Sustainable Development Goals Foreign Trade and Services (BGA), METRO GROUP has organExisting strategies, commitments and policies of ised the Berlin Wednesday Society of the Retail Industry four METRO GROUP and its sales lines times a year since 2010. The goal is to bring people from Competitors’ materiality analyses politics, business and society together for them to exchange different viewpoints and learn from one another. Its equivalent In the second step, the more than 200 topics were summarised at the European level is the Brussels Wednesday Society, in a list of 46 issues, making sure that each aspect from the which the company launched in cooperation with the Federacomplete list appeared in the content of the condensed list. In tion of German Food and Drink Industries (BVE) and the assothe third step, the issues on the shortlist were then assessed ciation European Movement International (EMI). in three respects: firstly, an internal analysis was performed to see how frequently the topics were mentioned in the interWe also cultivate dialogue on sustainability-related issues by nally and externally available documents of relevant organisadiscussing and answering enquiries from NGOs, rating agentions, initiatives and stakeholders. Additionally, between 4 May cies and investors. In addition, in 2016 we conducted our first and 31 August 2016, we conducted an online survey of stakeonline survey on the assessment of sustainability-related holders on the METRO GROUP website. More than 370 stakeissues with our stakeholders. holders participated in this survey and identified and ranked the issues that were relevant to them. Ten senior managers from various METRO GROUP divisions and sales lines were also surveyed for an in-house ranking of issues. The interview partners included managers from the Strategy, Purchasing, Communication, Compliance, Target Group Management, Finance, Human Resources, Corporate Public Policy, Business Innovation and Investor Relations divisions. Lastly, the results of the assessments and surveys were compiled in a materiality matrix that classifies all the sustainability issues. This matrix combines and prioritises all three steps. Issues are considered to be material if they have a positive or negative effect on the business success of METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — METRO GROUP SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 2016 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS S. 33 METRO GROUP – for instance an impact on sales, investare of importance to our stakeholders (for example regarding ments, costs or the reputation of our company – and/or if they purchasing or investment decisions). METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — METRO GROUP SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY INDICES AND RANKINGS S. 34 Issues that were considered to be of top priority were compliwith anti-corruption legislation and the combating of corrupance with human rights and fair working conditions in the tion, and economic sustainability. These issues can be allovalue chain, traceability and product information, training and cated to the areas of responsibility and the sustainability employment, sustainable product ranges, optimisation of approach of METRO GROUP as follows: product packaging, social responsibility at the local level, overfishing of and species diversity in the oceans, compliance Area of responsibility Material issues Commitment to the employees Human rights/working conditions in the value chain Training and employment Sustainable procurement and assortment Human rights/working conditions in the value chain Traceability and product information Optimisation of product packaging Overfishing of and species diversity in the oceans Sustainable consumption Sustainable product ranges Optimisation of product packaging Social engagement Social responsibility at the local level Sustainability approach and responsible corporate governance Compliance with anti-corruption legislation and the combating of corruption Economic sustainability The materiality analysis did not yield any issues that were highly relevant to our sustainable operations area of responsiSustainability indices and rankings bility. One reason for this might be that, just like high product quality, measures in this area are now considered a given The measures that METRO GROUP implements in the field of by external stakeholder groups. However, since we consider sustainability are evaluated among other things by external these issues to be important, we have decided to continue to and independent stakeholders in the form of ratings. This report on our goals, measures and progress with respect to evaluation summarises the basic requirements of internal and the protection of resources and the climate. external stakeholder groups in a representative assessment profile, which allows for comparison with the performance This is also how we will proceed with other issues and aspects of the competitors. It is an important source of motivation which have been identified as less material in the materiality for us and also acts as a management tool by illustrating analysis, but which we consider to be worth reporting on the progress made and highlighting where there is room for because of our sustainability approach, the updating of goals improvement. In particular, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index or individual interests. (DJSI) of the rating agency RobecoSAM has constituted an important basis for our actions concerning the implementaMETRO GROUP will continue to conduct stakeholder surveys tion of our sustainability strategy for many years. The index as the basis of the materiality analysis. We will also continue serves as a component for the remuneration paid to the the exchange with our stakeholder groups at the level of the Management Board and for the long-term remuneration of sales lines and are available for dialogue via the options METRO GROUP’s top executives around the world. provided on our website and via our e-mail address CR@metro.de. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — METRO GROUP SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY INDICES AND RANKINGS S. 35 Sustainable Performance Plan According to the 2014 version of the Sustainable Performance Plan (SPP Version 2014), the long-term incentive for members of the Management Board of METRO GROUP is based in equal parts of one third each on stock yield, earnings per share and the achievement of sustainability targets. The exact size of the share of the variable long-term incentive, which factors in sustainability components, depends on the position achieved by METRO AG in the DJSI ranking in comparison to competitors in its own sector. The sustainability targets are also taken into account in the remuneration paid to METRO GROUP’s top executives around the world. In 2016, METRO GROUP was once again ranked among the METRO GROUP was able to raise its score of 77 points in finanworld’s most sustainable businesses. It is listed as Industry cial year 2014/15 to 84 points. It has thus improved its result Leader both in the internationally significant Dow Jones yet again and is among four of the 44 food retailers that have Sustainability World and Europe Indices. METRO GROUP was succeeded in qualifying for the Dow Jones Sustainability World already distinguished as Industry Leader in the Food & Staples Index. Retailing category in 2015. Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) The Dow Jones Sustainability Indices list the companies with the best ecological, social and economic performance within their industry sector. The Dow Jones Sustainability World Index lists approximately 10 per cent of each sector from among more than 3,400 of the world’s largest companies. Inclusion in the index is dependent on an assessment of the sustainability strategies and measures, which is conducted by the independent agency RobecoSAM based on an extensive questionnaire and publicly available sources. Over 100 criteria are assessed altogether. In financial year 2015/16, METRO GROUP was also once again year 2015/16. METRO GROUP has an excellent ranking of A− included in the FTSE4Good Global Index and the FTSE4Good (on a scale of F to A). CDP operates a global system with which Europe Index. The FTSE4Good Index Series likewise lists companies, cities, countries and regions can manage their companies with outstanding performance in terms of environimpact on the environment. This system also grants investors mental, social and corporate governance aspects. and purchasing managers access to the data collected, to serve as a basis for financial decisions. METRO GROUP furthermore continues to be one of the companies that are especially committed to climate protecMETRO GROUP also participated in the CDP survey on water, tion. The non-profit organisation Carbon Disclosure Project in which the group achieved a ranking of C (on a scale of F to (CDP) once again listed it as Sector Leader in Consumer A). Staples and as Index Leader on the German MDAX for financial METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — METRO GROUP SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY INDICES AND RANKINGS S. 36 Index/ranking Rating/score Scale Year 84 Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World/ Industry Group Leader, Europe Food & Staples Retailing 0 to 100 2016 C+ Oekom Corporate Rating Prime Status D− to A+ 2014 A– Sector Leader, Consumer Staples (DACH region) CDP Climate Scoring MDAX Index Leader F to A 2016 CDP Water Scoring C F to A 2016 FTSE4Good Global/Europe Index 3.4 0 to 5 2015 METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY AND MAIN FOCUSES S. 37 AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY Areas of responsibility and main At the METRO GROUP level, we advance initiatives that guide the way we act and are relevant to all parts of the group. focuses They are the coordinated result of dialogue with all the units. Below we report on the key issues at the group level, which we discuss within our five areas of responsibility. When defining our areas of responsibility and main focuses, we do not only consider our in-house point of view. By taking The sales lines have likewise defined sustainability part in economic and sociopolitical discourse and working approaches and areas of responsibility as the design of together with external stakeholder groups, we are in a position specific approaches and the operational implementation of to also identify their requirements concerning our activities at initiatives are their own responsibility. This decentralised an early stage. We then determine the areas and issues that approach makes it possible for different market situations and are relevant to our sustainability efforts on the basis of these stakeholder requirements to be taken into account when internal and external perspectives. In this way, we create the formulating specific targets and courses of action, including basis for deriving strategic goals and defining specific courses those at a national level. This allows for the precise manageof action. We also conducted a stakeholder survey for the first ment of sustainability aspects that is tailored to the specific time, which additionally assists us in validating the relevance local situation. of the issues identified. For more information see chapter Sustainability approaches The 2016 materiality analysis can be found in chapter Sustainof the sales lines. ability approach. On the basis of our analysis of the key issues, we focus on Commitment to the employees those areas of the value chain and those points of contact with society where we have the greatest influence. The measures we implement have an effect here, and the potential for generOur approximately 220,000 employees are responsible for the ating added value for our customers is equally high. success of METRO GROUP and its sales lines. Their dedication and the decisions they take in their everyday work generate added value for our customers and for society. In keeping We have defined the following areas of responsibility as essenwith our sustainable approach to corporate management, we tial: therefore see it as our duty to create and maintain an attracCommitment to the employees tive, fair and safe working environment. We strive to appreSustainable operations ciate the individuality of our employees, foster their diversity Sustainable procurement and assortment and strengthen their personal responsibility. In this way, we Sustainable consumption help them to implement our corporate strategy successfully Social engagement METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY COMMITMENT TO THE EMPLOYEES S. 38 and sustainably, and can be a preferred employer for existing Fair working conditions and future employees. METRO GROUP has made a commitment to its employees to Promoting and embedding sustainability comply with the company’s self-imposed guidelines for fair working conditions and social partnership, thus implementing awareness the standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO). The objective is to guarantee sustainably good working condiWe believe that corporate responsibility delivers the best and tions for the employees, in so doing contributing to the growth most visible results when it is understood as a shared responof the company. A due diligence procedure was established sibility. We therefore endeavour to make all the employees to ensure adherence to the METRO principles concerning fair aware of the impact that their individual actions have on working conditions and social partnership. It is based on the sustainability and to strengthen their personal responsibility. obligation to implement these very principles and contains the In this effort, we rely on shared values which are embedded in inclusion of interest groups, training opportunities, the examour six governance principles: ination of risks and negative impacts in the various countries Customer centricity and measures for the prevention, correction and control of Global entrepreneurship violations of fair working conditions and in the area of social Success through excellence partnership. Trust in our people Authentic leadership Sustainability To ensure the transnational social involvement of the employees and safeguard their right to collective labour wage agreements and organising in unions, the Euro Forum performs The employees’ individual performances are also assessed the function of the European works council of METRO GROUP. every year as part of the RESULTS & GROWTH process* with In addition, METRO GROUP collaborates with the international respect to how these principles were complied with (*does not union umbrella organisation UNI Global Union. apply to MSH). To sensitise the staff members to issues such as fair working Additionally, the METRO Sustainable Leadership Programme conditions and social partnership and offer them pertinent encourages young managers to integrate sustainability into information, METRO GROUP developed a special e-learning their day-to-day work. The programme was conducted for the module and introduced it within the company in financial year second time in financial year 2015/16. 24 participants from 2015/16. By 30 September 2016, no less than 716 employees various sales lines as well as METRO AG and its service had already completed this training. companies developed sustainability-related projects which are to be implemented within the next 18 months. Through their work, the employees thus become ambassadors of sustainMETRO Cash & Carry has initiated ongoing checks in the variability, highlighting the relevance of this issue to the various ous countries to find out if and to what extent the guidelines business divisions. In addition, the network of participants on fair working conditions and social partnership are complied inspires people to collaborate and exchange knowledge across with and implemented. In this way, the company is meeting the various sales lines. its obligation of due diligence as described in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. METRO Cash & Carry Turkey, MAKRO Cash & Carry Poland, METRO With initiatives such as METRO Sustainability Day, which was Cash & Carry Austria and METRO Cash & Carry Ukraine have again conducted on the METRO campus and in numerous already been audited. Special care is taken in examining the METRO Cash & Carry countries in 2016, we provide our implementation of our guidelines and the uncovering of any employees with inspiration for all kinds of sustainability issues human rights violations which are caused by the company or in workshops, presentations and exhibitions, and motivate to which it might be contributing. Since October 2016, the them to take action themselves. METRO GROUP’s internal factor of employee privacy has also been assessed. Ukraine social media platform UNITED is also a suitable tool for serves as a model for the expanded audit. This audit is schedcommunicating sustainability-related content and knowledge. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY COMMITMENT TO THE EMPLOYEES S. 39 uled to take place in another six METRO Cash & Carry counhas been proven and is a known fact. So is its effect on motivatries in financial year 2016/17. tion and commitment, from which the company in turn benefits. In a personnel-intensive sector such as trade, prevention, safety and health are crucial. For this reason, we have defined Occupational health and safety clear and efficient guidelines. We strive towards occupational management health and safety management which creates a sounder work environment for staff members and contractors, and further METRO GROUP promotes fair working conditions and a safe reduces the number of accidents and occupational illnesses. work environment to make sure its employees are productive and motivated in the long term. Aware that this is a win-win To ensure the ongoing optimisation of the working conditions situation, it has made a commitment to this in its guidelines in the area of occupational health and safety, we rely on varion fair working conditions and social partnership: the positive ous courses of action and guidelines. impact of a sound work environment on people’s well-being Courses of action and guidelines We have created clear and efficient structures within METRO GROUP at the local level. Occupational health and safety officers who plan and organise the implementation of voluntary and legal guidelines have been appointed in the majority of organisations. They serve as the link between the national and international committees. In January 2016, our METRO Cash & Carry sales line adopted occupational health and safety (OHS) guidelines. These stipulate minimum standards which must be complied with in all METRO Cash & Carry countries, even if local legislation provides for lower standards. The guidelines also contain rules concerning processes and reporting, and define responsibilities. To ensure controlled and continuous improvement in the area of occupational health and safety, METRO Cash & Carry has set itself specific goals. The goals for 2015/16 include, for example, the written voluntary commitment to occupational health and safety by the management in all METRO Cash & Carry countries, the introduction of reporting figures concerning labour-related accidents on the basis of set definitions regardless of country-specific definitions, and the implementation of verified processes that provide swift information about serious and fatal accidents. The Management Board of METRO AG receives reports of accident and illness figures and also changes in these figures twice a year. Starting with the annual report for financial year 2015/16, the causes of accidents and hence the reasons for absences will be evaluated and analysed. At the same time, a summary will be provided on the status. The reports are then also made available to the responsible individuals at the international level. This allows us to recognise the main causes of accidents and develop specific preventative countermeasures, and to adjust our requirements, if necessary. The ongoing communication of the OHS expertise network in international and national meetings as well as regular WebEx conferences are opportunities for the exchange of experience and the presentation of exemplary measures. This dialogue across the various countries and sales lines also contributes to the prevention of accidents. We provide specific information and training for our employees on the issue of occupational health and safety. There are also general online training sessions on topics such as stress and ergonomics, and a library of OHS training is currently being put together. We are editing training courses developed by METRO GROUP companies in such a way that they can be used by all employees and group companies. We have put in motion national and international initiatives, such as OHS Day in April 2016, in an effort to constantly make our employees aware of the significance of occupational health and safety. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS S. 40 METRO AG pushes these general issues in a targeted manner The extent of global climate change is already noticeable – in close coordination with the occupational health and safety today. It includes weather extremes like droughts, floods and officers, who effect their own measures in their respective storms, rising sea levels and mounting economic effects such areas of responsibility. Regular project development status as reduced harvests. Many of the current social tensions and reports are generated and checks are performed to make sure conflicts are also associated with the consequences of climate the projects can be applied internationally. change. More in-depth information concerning our efforts for our METRO GROUP’s climate protection employees and METRO GROUP’s personnel policy is provided in the employees chapter of the group management report in target the METRO GROUP Annual Report. We aim to cut the climate-relevant emissions resulting from our commercial operations. METRO GROUP has set its sights In addition, we are publishing staff figures relating to sustainon reducing its specific greenhouse gas emissions by 50 per ability online in the chapter of our key performance indicators cent per square metre of selling space by 2030 compared to of our METRO GROUP Corporate Responsibility Report 2015/ 2011. As early as in 2011, METRO GROUP set itself the goal 16. of reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 20 per cent by 2020. As an almost 20 per cent reduction had already been Sustainable operations achieved by 2015 thanks to energy-saving and awarenessraising measures, a new, even more ambitious target was set. To reach our climate protection target, we have resolved to To make sure we conduct our core business successfully and consume 35 per cent less electricity compared to the satisfy the needs of our customers, we need energy and reference year 2011, natural resources today as well as tomorrow – so that we can reduce climate-damaging refrigerant emissions by 95 per transport and store products properly, and refrigerate fresh cent by 2030 compared to the reference year 2011 by using produce and also maintain our stores and back offices. By natural refrigerants, taking a responsible approach to our use of resources, we can generate significant amounts of emission-free renewable directly influence the cost of our business activities, anticienergy ourselves, for instance by using photovoltaic pate environmental regulations and make a contribution to the systems in wholesale and department stores, and protection of the climate and resources. introduce certified energy management systems according to ISO 50001 or energy audits according to EN 16247 at all locations in the EU. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS S. 41 Status of the climate protection target still 265 kilograms. We aim to have reduced this to 165 kilograms per square metre of selling space by 2030. From October 2015 to September 2016, METRO GROUP generated 250 kilograms of carbon equivalents per square metre of selling space. In the same period of the previous year, it was 2 Greenhouse gas emissions in kg CO2 (CO2 equivalents) per m selling space Western Europe METRO GROUP Germany (excl. Germany) Eastern Europe Asia/Africa Status – Status – Topic Goals goal achievement Measures measures SUSTAINABLE METRO GROUP is reducing its Energy Saving Programme: investments to OPERATIONS greenhouse gas emissions by 50 increase energy efficiency and renewable enerper cent, from 330 kg CO2e/m in 2 Work in progress gies. Measure 2 2011 to 165 kg CO2e/m in 2030. Energy Awareness Programme: strenghten ongoing awareness of responsible use of energy. F-Gas Exit Programme: investments in the reduction of emissions from refrigeration systems. More in-depth information on METRO GROUP’s carbon footprint is available in chapter Key performance indicators and goals. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS S. 42 Investments in energy efficiency and Some of our buildings are certified according to standards for sustainable construction and building management. energy generation The green store in Dongguan, for instance, operates on the basis of the LEED Gold standard. A building at the To boost the energy efficiency of our stores, we use energy and company headquarters in Düsseldorf is BREEAMmake investments responsibly. We employ specific measures certified. to reduce both our energy needs and our costs, while also At the company headquarters in Düsseldorf and at other raising energy awareness. locations, we use mainly recycled paper as office stationery. In financial year 2015/16, among other things we invested We are systematically switching the logistics fleet of €24.3 million in METRO Cash & Carry’s energy saving METRO LOGISTICS Germany GmbH (MGL) to lowerprogramme, in particular to install LED and other efficient emission vehicles. By the end of financial year 2014/15, lighting systems and also closed refrigeration equipment in more than half the vehicles already met the Euro 6 the wholesale stores. This is expected to save more than standard. The remaining vehicles are scheduled to be €6 million annually. Additionally, we commissioned a replaced over the course of the next two financial years. combined heat and power plant with a power output of 2 × 400 kilowatts in Nizhny Novgorod, Russia. Environmentally friendly packaging In September 2016, we were able to open the METRO green Other key issues concerning our sustainable operations are store in Dongguan, China, after major modernisation work on waste avoidance and the recycling and reuse of resources. an existing wholesale store. The renovation of the wholesale store is to help cut its energy consumption in half. A large proportion of the energy for the green store is generated by METRO GROUP pursues the goal of, on the one hand, reducing solar arrays and small wind turbines with a peak output of the environmental impact of the packaging of its own-brand 800 kilowatts. Additional steps were taken, including the use products during the entire life cycle and, on the other, meeting of more environmentally friendly refrigerants and advanced the high quality and hygiene standards our customers expect. waste separation. To this end, packaging guidelines were adopted in 2013, which are applicable to all the own-brand product packaging that METRO GROUP buys. In September 2016, the METRO GROUP energy efficiency network “Handel im Wandel” (Retail in Transition) was recognised by the German federal government with a certificate for From September 2014 to 2018, we will check and – inasmuch its active involvement and its pioneering role in climate and as is possible – reduce the environmental impact of the packresource protection at the annual meeting of the Energy Effiaging of 10,000 of our own-brand products. ciency Networks Initiative in Berlin. Avoiding food waste and loss Responsible resource management Reducing food loss is of particular importance to our METRO As part of our corporate and climate protection strategy, we Cash & Carry and Real sales lines. Every food item that is also pay attention to responsible resource management, for not consumed but rejected or discarded constitutes economic, instance with respect to our logistics fleet, refrigerants and social and ecological waste. For this reason, METRO GROUP paper, and sustainable building management. This is based on has committed itself to a 50 per cent reduction in food loss the METRO GROUP environmental guidelines. With these, we at its stores by 2025 in accordance with The Consumer Goods have made a commitment to taking a responsible approach to Forum’s resolution on food waste. the environment and to natural resources. Wherever technically feasible, we switch to natural An overview of all the key figures relating to the sustainable refrigerants for our stores’ cooling systems, as these are operations area of responsibility is available in chapter Key considerably less harmful to the climate. performance indicators. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT AND ASSORTMENT S. 43 Sustainable procurement and the basic standards for sustainable supply chain and procurement management. At the same time, our purchasing policy assortment brings together various guidelines that address specific questions relating to individual product and raw material categories and are specified within the sales lines. By developing Our aim is to procure products that are safe and unobjecand implementing such guidelines for sustainable purchasing, tionable from a social and environmental point of view. This we strengthen our procurement channels and contribute to forms the basis of responsible product assortment. As a retail improving the sustainability of our range of products. company, we also depend on resources being available in the long term as the raw materials are used to produce and packMore information on the METRO GROUP procurement policy age the products that we sell in our stores. To take these can be found on our website. aspects into consideration, we observe our group-wide sustainable purchasing policy for all our products. It defines Status – Status – Topic Goals goal achievement Measures measures SUSTAINABLE By 2015, we will have defined Assessment of the social impacts of METRO PROCUREMENT processes with which to assess Cash & Carry’s own-brand portfolio and its AND ASSORTMENT the sustainability impact of the Goal achieved effects on the environment along the supply Measure METRO GROUP sales lines’ ownchain has been completed. The assessment was completed brand products. By continuously performed at the levels of raw materials, prodimplementing our general METRO ucts and product groups and follows the stanGROUP purchasing policy on dard international assessment criteria for social sustainable procurement, we will and ecological impacts. work on all product categories relevant to aspects of sustainabilThe purpose of this process was to establish ity. basic requirements and to make supply chain and procurement management more sustainable in the relevant categories. We accomplished this with our guidelines. Assessing the product portfolio, defining minimum standards and establishing specific KPIs enables METRO Cash & Carry to fulfil the requirements for a more sustainable assortment. Fair and socially equitable working members of the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), we have also been involved for years in systematically estabconditions lishing socially fair working conditions in the manufacturing of our own-brand products. Our approach is to assist our suppliSocial standard systems are an essential part of the process ers and production facilities in setting up a suitable manageof and also a tool for the implementation of socially acceptable ment process. As evidence of fair and socially equitable workworking conditions within our procurement channels. They ing conditions, we accept either audits based on the BSCI help us to identify and prevent potential risks by taking specific requirements or equivalent social standard audits. measures. After all, irresponsible practices undermine people’s trust in what we do and therefore also in our business. Fire prevention and occupational safety training The key labour standards defined by the International Labour Organization (ILO) are a fixed part of METRO GROUP’s general We endeavour to sensitise our partners to specific aspects of terms and conditions of purchase. As one of the founding safe working conditions. Fire prevention is one of our most METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT AND ASSORTMENT S. 44 important requirements. For this reason, we check the fire tighten the requirements for suppliers such that new producprevention precautions of our own-brand manufacturers – ers will only be used if their audit results are at least acceptincluding escape routes, emergency exits, fire extinguishers able. A two-year transitional period will apply to current and regularly held fire drills – as well as the relevant manageproducers. ment processes. Establishing the deal breaker processes In addition to our ongoing auditing programmes, METRO GROUP’s import organisation, MGB METRO GROUP As a further measure contributing to ensuring socially acceptBuying Hong Kong, has been conducting fire prevention and able work conditions, we defined so-called deal breaker occupational safety training courses for producers in processes in 2016, in addition to the BSCI standard processes. Bangladesh and other risk countries in conjunction with our The assessment criteria comprise the aspects of child labour, cooperative partners since February 2013. In financial year forced labour, occupational safety (in particular fire preven2015/16, we were able to train some 600 producers in addition tion) and ethical behaviour. The deal breaker process ensures to the training programmes offered by the BSCI. In order to that suppliers and their producers who identify a deal breaker improve the structural safety of textile factories in the producdevelop short-term and long-term solutions to remedy the tion countries, we signed the Bangladesh Accord on Fire and critical findings. To make sure our suppliers and producers Building Safety in 2013. The accord came about as part of comply with these requirements, orders which are already in a multi-stakeholder initiative involving company representaproduction may be completed, but new orders or follow-up tives, trade unions and NGOs. By signing the accord, we orders will be stalled until the findings of the deal breaker further extended our commitment to improving working process have been rectified. conditions in the supply chain. As of 30 September 2016, there were deal breaker findings Auditing producers relating to 50 non-food own-brand manufacturers. This equates to 3 per cent of all the producers audited. Among We aim to audit all the producers in defined risk countries the deal breaker findings as at the reporting date, 83 per (based on a BSCI assessment) that supply MGB Hong Kong cent showed a heightened risk in the category of occupational with import articles and also producers that manufacture safety, in particular concerning fire prevention, 14 per cent own-brand clothing, footwear, toys and consumer durables for presented a heightened risk concerning child labour, and 2 per the METRO GROUP sales lines on the basis of the BSCI stancent a heightened risk in the areas of forced labour and ethidard or equivalent standards. As of 30 September 2016, this cal behaviour. During the reporting period, 74 per cent of the comprised a total of 1,632 producers. Of these, 86 per cent producers with deal breaker findings were able to document (1,405 producers) passed the audit. Producers whose audit improvements and 26 producers were barred from receiving results identified a need for improvement have twelve months further orders due to insufficient corrective measures. to provide proof of those improvements through a follow-up audit. As of 1 January 2017, METRO Cash & Carry and Real will METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT AND ASSORTMENT S. 45 Social audits of own imports through MGB 2 Adjustment of the 2015/16 figures due to the sale of the former METRO GROUP sales line Galeria Kaufhof. Hong Kong and non-food own brands of the 3 From 2015, adjustment of BSCI rating system from three rating categories METRO GROUP sales lines SDG10 (good/improvements needed/non-compliant) to five rating categories (A/B/C/ D/E). The result “improvements needed” was understood as a passed audit. Under the new measurement system, a portion of the previous “improvements needed” results was assigned to the categories “C” (passed audit) and “D” (failed audit). This adjustment resulted in a lower share of producers with a Producers with valid audit Thereof with passed audit in % passed audit in the last financial year. Definition: Status of all the producers in defined risk countries in which MGB Hong Kong has import goods manufactured based on the assessment of the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), and of producers that manufacture own brands or own imports in the areas of clothing, shoes, toys and consumer durables for the METRO GROUP sales lines. Producers that have passed the audit can demonstrate their successful compliance with the BSCI standard or an equivalent social standards system by presenting a certificate awarded by an independent third party. Explanation: 1,632 producers were audited as of 30 September 2016. Of these, 86 per cent (1,405 producers) passed the audit. Producers whose audit results identified a need for improvement have twelve months to provide proof of those improvements through a follow-up audit. As of 1 January 2017, METRO Cash & Carry and Real will tighten the requirements Producers with passed audit for suppliers such that new producers will only be used if their audit results are at least acceptable. A two-year transitional Producers that have passed the audit can demonstrate their successful compliperiod will apply to current producers.. ance with the BSCI standard or an equivalent social standard system by presenting a certificate awarded by an independent third party. The key performance indicator relates to all the factories of 1 Adjustment of the 2014/15 figures for social audits at producers relating to own which we are made aware by our suppliers. imports through MGB Hong Kong; in addition, the 2014/15 figures include producers relating to non-food own brands of the METRO GROUP sales lines. Status – Status – Topic Goals goal achievement Measures measures SUSTAINABLE METRO GROUP is intensifying its Continued inclusion of all non-food own-brand 1 PROCUREMENT commitment to ensure fair workproducers in a valid BSCI or equivalent social AND ASSORTMENT ing conditions at its suppliers. Work in progress standard system and increase the proportion of Measure valid audits for products manufactured in a risk ongoing 2 country . Tightening of requirements made to suppliers of METRO Cash & Carry and Real such that all the 1 producers used must have at least acceptable audit results by 1 January 2019. 1 This includes merchandise factories (non-food own brands and own imports) that carry out the final significant and value-creating production step. 2 BSCI definition of a risk country. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION S. 46 Sustainable consumption with which we can influence these aspects and create a high degree of transparency throughout the entire value chain. Our sales lines aim to generate added value for their Sustainable and transparent customers. Their specific ranges of products and services are procurement composed in such a way that they meet even the most diverse needs of private and commercial customers optimally. ProdWe aim to procure products which are environmentally, ucts and services must not only conform to the highest stansocially and economically sustainable. The basis for this is our dards of safety and quality; it is also becoming increasingly sustainable purchasing policy for all products. important that they are socially and environmentally sound – from their production and procurement to usage and ultimately disposal. We therefore rigorously focus on measures Status – Status – Topic Goals goal achievement Measures measures SUSTAINABLE By 2015, we will have defined Assessment of the social impacts of METRO PROCUREMENT processes with which to assess Cash & Carry’s own-brand portfolio and its AND ASSORTMENT the sustainability impact of the Goal achieved effects on the environment along the supply Measure METRO GROUP sales lines’ ownchain has been completed. The assessment was completed brand products. By continuously performed at the levels of raw materials, prodimplementing our general METRO ucts and product groups and follows the stanGROUP purchasing policy on dard international assessment criteria for social sustainable procurement, we will and ecological impacts. work on all product categories relevant to aspects of sustainabilThe purpose of this process was to establish ity. basic requirements and to make supply chain and procurement management more sustainable in the relevant categories. We accomplished this with our guidelines. Assessing the product portfolio, defining minimum standards and establishing specific KPIs enables METRO Cash & Carry to fulfil the requirements for a more sustainable assortment. We also ensure transparency with respect to the resources regarding products and suppliers, for instance – electronically used and the procurement of products by means of direct and merge it via a software platform. This makes access to relations with our business partners. Our international tracethis information considerably easier and more reliable for ability solution in all different segments, which we developed customers and other users. It also ensures that our commerin conjunction with other retailers, high-profile partners and cial customers can in turn provide their customers with inforthe standardisation organisation GS1 Germany, likewise mation about the origin and nature of the goods they sell. contributes to this. It allows us to collect relevant data – METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION S. 47 Status – Status – Topic Goals goal achievement Measures measures SUSTAINABLE METRO GROUP is initiating and Following successful implementation of the traceability PROCUREMENT supporting the development of an intersolution PRO TRACE for fish and meat product cateAND ASSORTMENT/ national, multi-industry and productWork in progress gories at METRO Cash & Carry Germany, it was also Measure SUSTAINABLE spanning technical traceability solution. launched in other countries in early 2015. At present the ongoing CONSUMPTION project is involving ten countries and the international trading offices; Hungary, Spain, France, the Czech Republic and Turkey have already successfully entered the pilot phase. Another four countries are preparing the piloting. Additional countries as well as other interested suppliers from selected areas of the product range will be included in the project at the international level in 2017. METRO Cash & Carry Germany has successfully completed the pilot project in the fruit and vegetables category. In order to provide better customer guidance, we also use to our customers’ increased interest in more sustainable labels that certify products according to specific sustainability products and the potential this offers our business, we keep standards. Our own brands are likewise labelled accordingly. working on enlarging the proportion of more sustainable prodWe additionally provide information in our stores and talk to ucts in our portfolio. Specifically, Real adopted a CSR purchasour customers, thereby supporting and promoting responsible ing guideline with the aim of generating 30 per cent of its consumption among our customers. revenue from the sale of sustainable products by 2019. The focus is being placed on regional products, fruit and vegetables from permaculture production and projects in the area of Sustainable product range animal welfare. Our sales lines’ product ranges include fair-trade articles and food products that bear the European organic symbol. In Key performance indicators on Sustainable consumption can financial year 2015/16, sales of fair-trade products at METRO be found in chapter Key performance indicators and goals. Cash & Carry and Real in Germany totalled almost €12 million. This figure includes products that bear the FairReducing and avoiding waste trade or GEPA label. During the same period, our sales lines achieved Germany-wide sales totalling €130 million with Responsible consumption involves the use and consumption of products which are certified in accordance with the EU regugoods too. We therefore see it as our duty to keep the resultlation on organic farming. Our range also includes products ing waste to a minimum. We attach importance to promotcaught using sustainable fishing practices and aquaculture. ing innovative production and recycling technologies and to We define these as products bearing the Marine Stewardship thinking in cycles. As our products and packaging are in our Council (MSC) logo, the Aquaculture Stewardship Council customers’ possession when they reach the end of their useful (ASC) logo or the EU organic logo. In financial year 2015/ life, we advise our customers on the best way to dispose of 16, METRO Cash & Carry and Real generated sales of over them: at selected branches, we raise our customers’ aware€86 million in Germany with their sustainable fish range ness of resources, inform them about ways to avoid waste and (previous year: €81 million with these standards). Real genercreate incentives and options for disposing of products propated sales of €367 million with regional products in the past erly. In this way, we play our part in ensuring that waste is financial year. The sales line is increasingly offering its transformed back into raw materials. customers products from sustainably managed forestry. Revenues generated with products bearing the label of the ® ® This is exemplified by our involvement in the Retailers’ EnviForest Stewardship Council (FSC ) or the Programme for ronmental Action Programme (REAP). The purpose of this the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) exceeded joint platform of large European retail companies and the €13 million. Media-Saturn generated group-wide revenues of European Commission (Directorate-General for Environment) over €3 billion with energy-efficient electrical appliances. Due METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT S. 48 is to promote the exchange of experience and the presentation of exemplary projects in the field of environmental and Social engagement resource management. The METRO GROUP sales lines are involved in the current REAP mandate, which runs from 2016 As a retail company, METRO GROUP has close ties with its until 2018 and is devoted to the issue of circular economy, with social environment. We cultivate relationships with many various goals and measures designed to contribute to achievmillions of people every day: people who work with or for us ing a circular economy. These include: at our branches, people who shop at our stores or people with Establishing collection points for used cooking fats and whom we have some other relationship. Our social and envioils for reuse as energy sources ronmental responsibility in the places where we are based and Not providing free plastic bags, in order to reduce the use interact with people is another thing that we see as a means of resources of adding value, as it goes towards tackling social challenges. Developing a customer guidance system for products At the same time, we support employees who actively particiwhich can be recommended in terms of sustainability in pate in our activities by helping them to hone their social skills order to support conscious purchase decisions and allowing them to work on their own initiative. By enabling them to address social issues at work, we raise awareness of An overview of all the goals is available on the European METRO GROUP’s close ties with society. This is crucial if we Commission’s website. are to survive in the market in the long term. It also helps our employees to identify more strongly with the company. 1 in € thousand 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Charitable donations 2,555 2,450 1,400 Community investments 1,743 1,949 2,815 Commercial initiatives 3,227 3,574 3,326 Total 7,525 7,973 7,541 1 Category allocation was adjusted Active involvement in food banks Efforts for refugees Our diverse activities aim to foster intercultural dialogue, to Numerous METRO GROUP employees are personally engaged lend support to our locations and their local communities, on behalf of refugees, participating in support activities such and to provide direct assistance to those in need. We do this, as donations of food, clothing, equipment and toys for refugee for example, through our active involvement in more than 900 camps. To provide unbureaucratic assistance and acute emerlocal food banks in Germany and in 14 other countries where gency relief and to contribute to the integration of refugees, we operate. At the national level, we support the national food METRO GROUP launched the “We Help” programme in bank network Bundesverband Deutsche Tafel e. V. as its main autumn 2015. The Management Board of METRO AG provided financial sponsor. This partnership has existed for ten years €1 million for this. Employees of the group could apply for and in 2016 it was extended until 2020 ahead of time. At the one-off funding of up to €10,000 each for local projects, European level, METRO GROUP supports the European Federprovided they were themselves actively involved as volunteers ation of Food Banks (FEBA). in the project for which the funding was being requested. In this manner, the staff members were supported in their active We also help local populations in emergency situations such involvement in their immediate environment – for example as natural disasters by making donations in kind. in language instruction, multicultural sports programmes or sponsorships for adolescents. In 2015/16, 119 projects and initiatives were supported in six countries, thereby helping approximately 33,000 people. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT S. 49 Thanks to the great success of “We Help”, the Management also provided quick and unbureaucratic assistance at the local Board decided to continue the programme in the new Wholelevel with contributions in kind and logistics services. sale & Food Specialist Company from 2017. The focus of the programme will be expanded in financial year 2016/17. The funding will then be open to all volunteer work engaged in by Donations and sponsorship staff members. METRO GROUP actively promotes an intact and attractive social environment by means of donations and sponsorship. Additionally, METRO GROUP supported the International The donations and sponsorship guidelines define the way in Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) which measures are to be implemented to generate a positive and the national Red Cross societies with financial donations public image and prevent the misuse of donations and sponduring the acute emergency in autumn/winter 2015 in order to sorship. help in the countries where the needs of the arriving refugees were greatest. The stores of Real and METRO Cash & Carry METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT S. 50 Status – Status – Topic Goals goal achievement Measures measures SOCIAL ENGAGEMETRO GROUP is expanding its food METRO Cash & Carry cooperates with MENT donation activities to international food food bank initiatives in 15 out of 25 bank initiatives from currently 15 METRO Work in progress countries. In the remaining countries, Ongoing Cash & Carry countries to at least 17 external circumstances such as political measure countries. and tax-related factors make collaboration difficult. METRO Cash & Carry is currently in communication with local aid organisations and political representatives in order to also push cooperation in those countries where external circumstances make it difficult. METRO GROUP’s Community Involvment The programme is being rolled out and Programme We Help was launched at promoted within the group. Online and the start of financial year 2015/16. Its Goal achieved offline, we want to inspire as many of Measure purpose is to provide unbureaucratic our employees as possible to become completed assistance and acute emergency relief involved. and to contribute to the integration of refugees. The Management Board of In the past financial year, we received METRO AG provided a total of €1 million 119 applications from six countries for for this purpose. Group employees can projects which provided assistance to apply for one-off funding of up to €10,000 approximately 33,000 people. each for projects that they wish to support. This gives committed employees the opportunity to become actively involved in their immediate environment. By the end of financial year 2015/16, a total of €1 million shall be expended on refugee relief in Europe. We have thus increased the budget for social investment (corporate citizenship) by €1 million. Due to the great success of the CommuThe new programme is rolled out and nity Involvement Programme, the promoted within the group. We will Management Board has decided to Work in progress encourage as many colleagues as Measure continue it in financial year 2016/17. In possible, online and offline, to get launched 2017, all subsidiaries of the Wholesale & involved. Food Specialist Company created from the planned demerger of METRO GROUP will have the opportunity to apply for financial support for their personal endeavours. All kinds of voluntary work are welcome. The METRO GROUP Marathon has been Step up promotion of the METRO held in Düsseldorf every year since 2005. GROUP Marathon via the group’s social One of the reasons of this sponsorship is Work in progress intranet both within Germany and Measure to foster employee loyalty. Participation abroad. ongoing not only increases team spirit but also promotes the health of participants. On average, nearly 700 co-workers take part each year. In 2016, this number was expected to be increased to 800; with 775 employees the goal was nearly reached. We will therefore continue to work on increasing the number of participants. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES METRO CASH & CARRY S. 51 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES METRO Cash & Carry as our own, we tackle these challenges and we offer our customers the best solutions, including in terms of sustainability. Because we firmly believe that commercial success goes hand in hand with sustainable actions. Sustainability approach Absolute customer focus is the primary motivation for METRO Cash & Carry. We want to be the best partner to independent entrepreneurs. We regard the challenges our customers face “At METRO Cash & Carry, value is added on-site – where we do business, at our stores and where our customers are in 25 countries, or even 35 countries if you include the Food Service Distribution operations of Classic Fine Foods. And this is true for economic as well as for sustainable value. This gives us a clear purpose as a company. As a Champion for Independent Business, it is our aim to support the activities of our customers and partners with sustainable products, services and inspiration – in ways that are as local, customised and effective as possible. Our strong relationships with our partners on the ground are absolutely essential in this.” PIETER C. BOONE Member of the Management Board of METRO AG and CEO of METRO Cash & Carry METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES METRO CASH & CARRY S. 52 As an international wholesale company, METRO Cash & Carry We encourage them to act sustainably by assuming has an enormous reach. We operate approximately 750 stores responsibility ourselves and by inspiring customers and in 25 countries with our more than 107,000 employees. Locally, partners with our new ways of thinking. This makes us an we reach some 21 million customers – and together with attractive partner for internal and external stakeholders them countless consumers. We use this leverage to assist our as well as existing and prospective employees, customers, partners and customers and also their consumers in acting business partners and representatives from the fields of sustainably. By implementing specific measures, we politics and science and of associations. In addition, with contribute to mastering challenges and seize opportunities for our commitment to social and ecological concerns, we our business. Additionally, we boost acceptance among our make a contribution to society at our stores and wherever stakeholder groups and enhance our reputation. help is needed. The measures we take are focused on four areas: Sustainability vision We offer our employees an attractive work environment Sustainability is an integral part of the core business of and prospects for the future so that they can give our METRO Cash & Carry. We established the strategic framework customers optimum support. for this with METRO SUSTAINABLE. It is based on our vision: We handle limited resources such as fossil fuels and other raw materials responsibly in our own operations. This gives us leeway for investments to come up with attractive As Champion for Independent Business we will make trading solutions for our customers and for new business areas, sustainable and by doing so overcome conventional limits to and it also helps us to counter the consequences of growth. Bringing our needs and ambitions in line with the climate change. needs of nature, people and future generations will provide We manage our sourcing and select our product METRO with long-term prospects for prosperity. By inspiring, assortment responsibly. As a result, we can offer our motivating and enabling our customers and partners alike, we customers sustainable products and services. can leverage this vision to millions. Additionally, we pass our expertise in the fields of resource management, sourcing and assortment Within this framework, we have defined fields of action for composition onto independent entrepreneurs in order to METRO Cash & Carry and have set concrete targets for our generate long-term business perspectives and a company. competitive edge for them and for us. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES METRO CASH & CARRY S. 53 The four fields of action of METRO Cash & Carry are: Governance Operations Our established governance structure, which consists of our Offer Sustainability Committee and the sustainability managers at Employees the corporate and national levels, ensures efficient implemenCorporate Citizenship tation and constant control. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES METRO CASH & CARRY S. 54 Field of action operations Thanks to various activities, the company has already succeeded in lowering its greenhouse gas emissions per METRO Cash & Carry handles limited resources such as fossil square metre of selling space by 20 per cent in financial year fuels and other raw materials responsibly in its own opera2015/16 compared to 2011. Individual measures from the tions. This gives the company leeway for investments to come METRO Cash & Carry countries are presented below as examup with attractive solutions for its customers and for new busiples. ness areas, and it also helps to counter the consequences of climate change. Energy efficiency and energy conservation The issues of energy conservation and energy efficiency, and In the field of action operations, METRO Cash & Carry focuses thus also of the optimisation of resource consumption in on four key topics. The company combination with the goal of reducing carbon emissions, are optimises its resource consumption, relevant to all METRO Cash & Carry countries alike. The improves its energy efficiency and conserves energy, national subsidiaries must meet specific requirements and lowers its greenhouse gas emissions and implement corresponding measures contributing to achieving reduces its waste. the overall target. Thanks to the work of the operation directors within METRO Cash & Carry’s Energy Federation, Experience in handling these issues can also be factored into successes and lessons learned can be shared. solutions for METRO Cash & Carry customers in the future, for example when offering advice to independent entrepreIn the course of ongoing energy saving and energy awareness neurs regarding energy-efficient store fittings. Consequently, programmes, global investments totalling nearly €25 million the customer can also save money and environmental impacts were made in the reporting period. The measures are implecan be mitigated. mented by energy managers in various projects in the wholesale stores and are designed to contribute annual savings of Targets in the field of action operations more than €6 million. METRO Cash & Carry aims to reduce its specific greenhouse gas emissions by 55 per cent by 2030 In addition, METRO Cash & Carry is implementing further compared to 2011. In this effort, the company is focusing measures relating to store modernisations and new builds. We on emissions which occur due to the use of energy, distinguish between three efficiency levels: refrigerants and paper, and emissions relating to in-house The energy-efficient wholesale store in which efficient logistics and business travel. technologies for the fittings and systems result in energy METRO Cash & Carry aims to halve the food waste in its savings, specifically with regard to lighting and closed own operations by 2025. This is the target to which refrigerators METRO GROUP has committed itself as part of The The green store, which requires approximately 50 per cent Consumer Goods Forum’s Food Waste Resolution. less energy than the energy-efficient store The carbon-neutral wholesale store, with operations that do not cause any carbon emissions METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES METRO CASH & CARRY S. 55 Examples: store modernisations and new builds In September 2016, METRO Cash & Carry China reopened a wholesale store as a METRO green store in Dongguan following comprehensive modernisation. The aim of the modernisation work is to halve the store’s annual energy consumption. A large proportion of the energy for the wholesale store is generated by solar arrays and small wind turbines with a peak output of 800 kilowatts. Other measures such as heat recovery from refrigeration systems, the use of natural light via so-called solar tubes, the installation of automatic sliding doors, optimised ventilation and the carefully planned utilisation of rainwater improve energy efficiency and contribute to the conservation of valuable resources. In addition, a CO2 cascade system was installed at the Dongguan store to make refrigeration more efficient and more eco-friendly: by using refrigerants with lower global warming potential, the wholesale store is lowering its emissions of carbon equivalents (CO2e) caused by the discharge of refrigerants, while at the same time using less electricity for the refrigeration process. The Casa dell’Horeca METRO Cash & Carry wholesale store in Baranzate, Italy, is a model of integrated energy management. Here, solar panels are used for the generation of electricity and hot water, the wholesale store’s green wooden façade helps to increase biodiversity and the sales reps drive electric cars. There are also examples of decentralised energy generation at stores in the reporting period: in addition to an existing system, METRO Cash & Carry installed another eight photovoltaic systems in China for emission-free electricity generation, as well as a second photovoltaic system in Turkey. Together with E.ON, the company commissioned a natural gasfired combined heat and power plant with output of 2 × 400 kilowatts for the generation of electricity and hot water in Nizhny Novgorod, Russia, in September 2016. Another identical system is currently being built in Ivanovo, Russia. Lowering greenhouse gas emissions by means pilot project, additional regions are to be included in the next of electromobility step. The METRO Cash & Carry countries implement various In Ukraine, METRO Cash & Carry provides electric car chargmeasures with a view to reducing their own greenhouse gas ing points for customer cars in partnership with the company emissions and additionally offering customers suitable soluToka. Since the first facility was installed in Kiev in 2015, a tions. For instance, METRO Cash & Carry France is exploring further seven charging points have been set up. new avenues with a project designed to conserve resources and reduce carbon emissions: a pilot project in the area of electromobility has been under way since December 2015, and Waste reduction the company now uses eleven electric cars in its customer In order to achieve its goal of reducing food waste, METRO service department. Electrically powered delivery vehicles Cash & Carry pursues an integrated approach. The company with refrigeration systems are also to be used from the end of works with partners all along the value chain, from the field 2016. The initial results of the pilot project show that METRO and logistics to store processes and the consumer. The Cash & Carry France is saving 9.6 tonnes of carbon per annum company aims to reduce food waste in its own operations by by using electric vehicles. On the basis of the results of the 50 per cent by 2025. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES METRO CASH & CARRY S. 56 In its own operations A measure taken by METRO International Supply demonstrates that food waste can be reduced by means of carefully planned processes and smart data use. The service company operates a network of regional warehouses in Italy and the Netherlands. By analysing write-off data, the company was able to determine its percentage of food waste and the associated disposal costs, and then identify potential ways in which to avoid both the waste and the costs. Non-saleable goods are now no longer destroyed, and are instead donated to local food banks in good time. In this way, METRO International Supply was able to reduce its disposal costs by 64 per cent and its food waste by nearly 90 per cent within one financial year. To reduce food waste in its wholesale stores, METRO Cash & Carry carries out best-before date monitoring. The aim is to take best-before dates into account when stocking shelves and to make products available before they reach their bestbefore date. An example of this is the approach taken by METRO Cash & Carry Romania. In its incoming goods department, the company uses a system with which it can simulate and analyse merchandise orders, plan them more precisely and manage them more in line with demand. This process was also optimised because stock that is not entirely sold ends up being marked down. At outgoing goods, a price reduction system allows staff members to quickly and easily reduce the prices of products whose best-before date is approaching. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES METRO CASH & CARRY S. 57 Solutions for the customer METRO Cash & Carry also talks to its commercial customers specifically about this issue to achieve a reduction in food waste. The consumers are likewise taken into account in this effort. For example, together with various project partners, the company developed special boxes for restaurants and caterers in Italy, France and Germany, for uneaten food to be taken home in. For example, METRO Cash & Carry France supports the Gourmet Bag initiative of the food authority DRAAF AuvergneRhône-Alpes. A special label identifies participating restaurants and encourages guests to specifically ask for doggy bags. METRO Cash & Carry France has developed a comprehensive package for newcomers to the programme. In addition to background information and tips on how to avoid waste, it contains Gourmet Bag door stickers and reusable doggy bags. In Italy, METRO Cash & Carry launched a similar project called Schiscetta Reverse during EXPO 2015 together with the UN World Food Programme (WFP) and the Food Bank Organisation. Schiscetta is the Milanese term for a container that people use to take food from home to work. The project of the same name uses the reverse process by encouraging consumers to have dishes they have not finished at restaurants wrapped up to take home. In 2016, METRO Cash & Carry conducted a representative survey on food waste in Germany. The key finding of the study was that not wasting food is very important or important to 98 per cent of restaurateurs in Germany. Nearly two thirds of restaurateurs already offer their guests the option of taking their leftovers home. METRO Cash & Carry stays abreast of these changes and purposefully helps its customers to reduce food waste – not only with its leftovers box “Beste-ResteBox”, which has been available in its wholesale stores since 2016. As an official partner of the United Against Waste association, the company also offers seminars that teach ideas about and approaches to the reduction of food waste. In addition, restaurants and canteens can employ a waste analysis tool to find out where in their organisation they can improve the utilisation of resources. METRO Cash & Carry aims to sensitise its customers to responsible and sustainable consumption not only by disseminating specific information and with campaigns. The company also supports its customers with specific activities, including in the area of waste disposal. For example, customers in Paris can return plastic bottles and tins at their wholesale store using their METRO customer card. In the course of this project, which includes not only customers, but also producers and disposers, METRO Cash & Carry France accepted approximately 16,000 tins and 13,000 plastic bottles in financial year 2015/16. In Ukraine, METRO Cash & Carry initiated a recycling project together with Carlsberg in October 2015: the wholesaler set up a return station in its car park where customers could return beer bottles. By August 2016, a total of 92,000 bottles had been collected for reuse and 384,000 bottles were sent for recycling. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES METRO CASH & CARRY S. 58 Field of action assortment Responsible supply chain management As an international wholesale business, METRO Cash & Carry METRO Cash & Carry procures and selects its goods responsiworks with a large number of suppliers, growers and producbly and can therefore offer its customers sustainable products ers. By promoting adherence to social standards, the company and services. In addition, the company shares its know-how in assumes responsibility all along the value chain. METRO Cash the fields of resource management, procurement and product & Carry is committed to the key labour standards of the Interrange composition with independent business owners. In this national Labour Organization (ILO) and rigorously advocates manner, METRO Cash & Carry generates long-term business the systematic establishment of fair and just working condiprospects and a competitive edge – both for its customers and tions among own-brand manufacturers. The company therethe company. fore demands that its non-food own-brand suppliers submit proof of BSCI certification or certification in accordance with In the field of action assortment, METRO Cash & Carry focuses an equivalent social standard system. on three subject areas: Responsible sourcing: The company aims to procure For more information see the chapter Sustainable procuregoods on whose quality, safety and sound social and ment and assortment environmental credentials the customers can rely. METRO Cash & Carry is therefore in direct contact with its suppliers and promotes the traceability of products and Transparency in the value chain responsible supply chain management. Tracing goods is a key issue at METRO Cash & Carry. The Responsible assortment: The company also generates company aims to generate a high degree of transparency added value by selecting its assortment responsibly, along the entire value chain and to trace products back to their offering sustainable products and services, and source in order to protect resources and avoid illegal activioptimising the product packaging. ties. Traceability and controlled procurement on the basis of Responsible consumption: Additionally, METRO concrete guidelines for sustainable purchasing also enable Cash & Carry assists its customers in making purchasing METRO Cash & Carry to guarantee the safety and high quality decisions in favour of sustainable products, thereby also of its products and to assist customers in satisfying legal promoting a sustainable lifestyle. requirements. Responsible sourcing Together with other retailers, renowned partners and the standardisation organisation GS1 Germany, the company has To offer its customers an attractive and unique range of proddeveloped a multi-industry solution which allows products to ucts which is distinguished by its diversity, freshness and high be traced all the way from their origins to the customer’s quality in all the stores, the company operates six Internapurchase. Approximately 700 fish products and 2,000 meat tional Trading Offices in Boston, Concarneau, Rotterdam, products can currently be traced in Germany with the PRO Valencia, Düsseldorf and Hong Kong for the sourcing of food TRACE app. items and another office in Hong Kong for the sourcing of nonfood supplies. It handles all the purchasing for the national organisations via these offices. The company sources products To ensure maximum product safety, quality and the traceabildirectly from their place of origin and makes targeted use of ity of food items, METRO Cash & Carry and the company Star procurement marketing potential and synergies. The concept Farm, which is also owned by METRO GROUP, have initiated of direct sourcing from the growers and producers makes for a special project in Pakistan. In January 2016, the two coopoptimised supply chains and enables the company to mainerative partners opened the first corporate traceable farm in tain a high level of product quality, freshness and safety, and More Khunda in Nankana Sahib District, about 75 kilomebuild up long-term, transparent relationships with the supplitres west of Lahore. The farm is growing fruit and vegetables, ers. Treating suppliers in a truly ethical manner and building initially exclusively for the METRO Cash & Carry wholesale up a partnership is key, regardless of whether a supplier is stores in Pakistan. The products bear a 19-digit barcode and from nearby or thousands of kilometres away. can be traced by the customers all along the supply chain, all the way back to the farm. This approach therefore not only METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES METRO CASH & CARRY S. 59 helps to bolster the customers’ confidence in the quality of Responsible assortment the products – it also helps METRO Cash & Carry Pakistan to Goals in the area of a responsible assortment recall goods which do not meet the company’s high standards. With the revision of its purchasing Supplier survey on water use policy for fish and seafood in 2016, Use of the resource water is another issue which has strategic METRO Cash & Carry has set itself a significance for METRO Cash & Carry. To gain an overview of new goal: by 2020, 80 per cent of the water use in the supply chain, the company surveyed a selectwelve best-selling types of fish and seafood at METRO tion of strategic suppliers in 2016 on their risks and opporCash & Carry are to have sustainability certification which tunities as well as management methods concerning water. is recognised by the company. As part of the Global METRO Cash & Carry generates approximately 16 per cent of Sustainable Seafood Initiative (GSSI), METRO its revenue with these suppliers. The survey was conducted Cash & Carry advocates the harmonisation of the via the supply chain programme of CDP (formerly the Carbon certificates for sustainable fish available around the Disclosure Project). At 62 per cent, the response rate for this world. first-time survey was high. METRO Cash & Carry is committed to only using palm oil from sustainable sources for its own-brand products by 2020. In this respect, the company is guided by the criteria Here is an overview of the key results of the survey: of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) (palm 80 per cent of the respondents identified risks associated oil purchasing policy). with water By 2020, a full 100 per cent of the wood and paper used for 25 per cent see concrete risks relating to their business own-brand products is to come from sustainable forestry with METRO Cash & Carry (wood and paper purchasing policy). 77 per cent of the respondents see not only risks in METRO Cash & Carry has also set itself the target of connection with water, but also opportunities for their reducing the use of packaging material and its impact on business the environment (packaging purchasing policy). To achieve 84 per cent have integrated the issue of water into their this, the company wants to develop innovative solutions business strategy that can reduce the product weight, improve product 86 per cent have set water-related targets arrangement on pallets and lower the costs for the customers. The survey gives METRO Cash & Carry a solid basis for underBy 2018, METRO Cash & Carry aims to standing where there are water-related risks in the supply check the packaging of 10,000 own-brand products chain and what those risks are. It also provides touchpoints for regarding their impact on the environment and – if further discussion and potential partnerships with the supplipossible – improve it, ers. have METRO Cash & Carry beverage cartons certified ® by the sytem of the Forest Stewardship Council ® (FSC ) and do away with packaging made of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) by 2018 and replace it with more sustainable alternatives. Both the International Trading Offices and the local purchasing departments of the METRO Cash & Carry country organisations are working on implementing these goals. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES METRO CASH & CARRY S. 60 Fish from sustainable fishery METRO Cash & Carry fosters direct contact with smallscale fishermen and supports them in applying Fish is becoming ever more significant with regard to the safesustainable fishing practices. For example, the company guarding of food supplies. Already, billions of people are purchases fish caught in the Netherlands using the sodependent on the seas as their primary food source. However, called fly-shooting method. This is a more gentle catching fish is not a resource that is available in infinite amounts. method which has no negative impact on the seabed. The Nearly a third of the oceans’ stocks is overfished and about nets also remain in the water for a shorter period, which 85 per cent is deemed to be used to the maximum degree prevents injuries to the fish. possible. Stocks are further decimated by illegal fishing and The demand for fish is particularly high in Japan. At the high by-catch rates. As one of Europe’s leading fish wholesame time, pressure on the stocks is mounting. salers, METRO Cash & Carry assumes a special responsibility Aquaculture can offer an alternative when there is no and has taken action in various ways: danger of overfishing due to the catching of fry from the The company offers fish caught using eco-friendly fishing seas which are then raised in fish farms. To deal with this practices which preserve stocks and fish from certified problem, METRO Cash & Carry Japan works with Kindai aquaculture. Customers recognise this by the labels of the University on raising fish from fertilised fish eggs in Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) and the Aquaculture aquaculture and making the entire process from rearing Stewardship Council (ASC). In financial year 2015/16, the to selling traceable. sustainable fish selection in Germany comprised 42 MSCcertified own brands plus 459 MSC-certified and twelve ASC-certified brand-name products as well as 20 brand In April 2016, during the METRO-EXPO in Moscow, METRO items certified as organic. Cash & Carry surveyed approximately 1,000 customers on the 90 per cent of our aquaculture fish and seafood articles significance of sustainable fish and how to deal with the seas sourced in Asia via our International Trading Office are responsibly. An overview of the key results: certified by GLOBALG.A.P., ASC and/or Best Aquaculture Practices (BAP). Respondents in % METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES METRO CASH & CARRY S. 61 Sustainable product range The product range of METRO Cash & Carry comprises a large number of organic and fair-trade items or other eco-friendly products, each with the appropriate certifications. Looking at METRO Cash & Carry’s 2020 commitment regarding sustainable palm oil, in financial year 2015/16, the company has made great progress thanks to our International Trading Offices: over 40,000 tonnes of French fries and other potato products have been sourced with sustainable palm oil (mass balance certification) and delivered to 24 METRO Cash & Carry countries. Another important signal from the METRO Cash & Carry organisation was the launch of internationally sourced ownbrand fair-trade coffee beans. The launch of this product was celebrated at the headquarters on Sustainability Day, 6 June 2016, kicking off deliveries to 14 countries. In financial year 2015/16, METRO Cash & Carry Germany’s sales of more sustainable products totalled almost €51 million. Product range Sales (METRO Cash & Carry Germany) (in € million) Fair-trade products 1.8 MSC-/ASC-certified fish and organic fish 29.8 Organic products (without fish) 19.2 Optimised packaging The results of packaging optimisation in financial year 2015/16 are currently being consolidated for the METRO Cash & Carry In everyday retail business, packaging is not only used for countries and will be reported in the DJSI in 2017. They will transporting, preserving and protecting goods. Product packalso be incorporated into the Circular Economy Agreement aging also contains information and usage instructions for of the Retailers’ Environmental Action Programme (REAP), customers. In order to minimise the resources used for its which METRO Cash & Carry signed in May 2016. production and disposal, METRO Cash & Carry aims to generate as little waste as possible, use resources optimally, recycle materials and operate in cycles. Read more about REAP in chapter Sustainability approach and Sustainable consumption This approach is exemplified by packaging introduced in 2015 by the International Trading Office of METRO Cash & Carry in Responsible consumption Concarneau, which specialises in fresh fish. Contrary to the Regional products cartons previously used which were made of expanded polyWhen composing and putting together its product ranges, styrene (EPS), the new polypropylene cartons for fresh fish are METRO Cash & Carry makes a point of including regional delivered flat, are lighter and save space. This helps to optigoods. By buying products such as fruit, vegetables and meat mise palletising and transport to the wholesale stores. A life from local growers and producers, the company not only product cycle assessment showed that carbon emissions from meets its customers’ growing demand for regional products. transport and water consumption are reduced in particular. METRO Cash & Carry also assists and supports its suppliers, METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES METRO CASH & CARRY S. 62 thus contributing to the economic growth of the regions sustainability: it improves the carbon footprint of the goods. together with its customers. With its local purchasing strategy, Additionally, shorter transport routes reduce costs. the wholesaler also makes an important contribution to Examples from the various METRO Cash & Carry countries Germany At the wholesale store in Berlin-Friedrichshain, Germany, METRO Cash & Carry grows its own herbs and vegetables. The plants grow on a thin, nutrient-rich layer of water in a space-saving, vertical unit – without the use of pesticides. Another unit was installed at the wholesale store in Antwerp, Belgium, in 2016. Read more about FoodTech. Since January 2016, the northern German METRO Cash & Carry wholesale stores have been offering their customers local pork from the regions of Schleswig-Holstein, Lower Saxony, Hamburg, Bremen, Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania and Brandenburg under the trademarks “Bestes vom Schwein aus dem Nordosten” and “Bestes vom Schwein aus dem Norden” (the best pork from the north-east and the north respectively). The PRO TRACE app allows customers to trace products and obtain details concerning the origin of the pork in a specific batch and the way it was processed. In the medium term, this concept is to be implemented in other regions in central and southern Germany too. Hungary METRO Cash & Carry Hungary offers around 90 regional and traditional sausage and meat products under the own-brand name Corvinus. They are of particularly good quality. Some of them are produced on the basis of traditional recipes and original production methods, and bear a label indicating their region of origin. Spain Since February 2015, MAKRO Cash & Carry Spain has been supporting growers and producers in the immediate vicinity of the wholesale store who produce agricultural products in a traditional way with the Alma Makro initiative. The objective is to strengthen the local economy and preserve special regional products and their unique flavour. Italy In Italy, the Filiere brand signifies sustainably produced goods such as meat and fish as well as fruit and vegetables. The product range already comprises 496 different items. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES METRO CASH & CARRY S. 63 Ukraine To support local agricultural growers and producers in Ukraine, METRO Cash & Carry initiated the Fermove project in May 2016 in collaboration with the agricultural company Syngenta. The aim is to improve the local supply structures and establish a platform for fruit and vegetable growing in Ukraine. Thirty agricultural enterprises are already participating in the project. Turkey Since 2015, METRO Cash & Carry Turkey has been supporting a project of the Turkish Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock at the University of Istanbul which focuses on the protection of a specific breed of sheep. This breed is native to Thrace, a region on the eastern side of the Balkan peninsula which is now part of Bulgaria, Greece and Turkey. The meat of the animals is distinguished by its excellent quality and a special flavour, and is therefore in great demand. The purpose of the cooperative partners’ joint project is to generate incentives for sheep farmers and meat producers to maintain the animals’ purity of breeding and increase their numbers. With the Local Seed project, METRO Cash & Carry Turkey also advocates the protection of natural and original seeds. In this effort, the company works closely with local growers and producers from Anatolia and guarantees that it will purchase the complete harvest of agricultural products which are characteristic of the region and are grown using local seeds. About 25 products from the region which are marked with a special logo are already exclusively available at the Turkish wholesale stores. Promoting a healthy diet and sustainable consumption Field of action employees METRO Cash & Carry aims to enable traders and their customers to eat a healthy diet and, in so doing, to promote More than 107,000 employees in 25 countries contribute sustainable lifestyles. The company therefore not only carries significantly to the success of METRO Cash & Carry. They work a comprehensive range of fruit, vegetables and fresh products, towards the success of the company and its customers every but is also expanding its selection with the addition of vegan day and are valuable ambassadors of METRO SUSTAINABLE. and special products such as lactoseand gluten-free items For this reason, METRO Cash & Carry regards it as a key task for consumers with food intolerances. For example, since to create an attractive, fair and safe work environment for early 2015, customers in the German METRO Cash & Carry them that offers diversity and inclusion. The company wholesale stores have been offered a wide array of goods promotes staff development and encourages and inspires its without animal ingredients. In 2016, the portfolio was employees to act sustainably. METRO Cash & Carry expanded by 37 items to a total of 177 vegan products, includis globally committed to fair and safe labour conditions ing numerous types of cheese and meat alternatives. and recognises the right of its employees to unionise within the framework of national laws and legislation, In China, METRO Cash & Carry put up special campaign ensures that its employees can work productively and stands in certain wholesale stores in Shanghai, Beijing and safely, Guangzhou during the METRO Sustainability Week 2016 in offers long-term prospects, both for the employees and order to inform customers specifically about the company’s for the company, and sustainable product range. At the stands, store employees is committed to diversity and inclusion. presented a wide selection of sustainable items – from organic ® vegetables and grain products to traceable vegetables, FSC certified paper products and MSC-certified fish products. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES METRO CASH & CARRY S. 64 Fair and safe labour conditions Ambassadors of sustainability Fair and safe labour conditions for the employees are a basic requirement that enables them to carry the company in the long term. For this reason, setting a framework within which it can act is crucial, as is the application and implementation of internal guidelines for respecting this framework. For example, METRO Cash & Carry unreservedly supports the principles of the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. At the same time, the company endeavours to create a sound and low-stress work environment for healthy and productive employees. Specifically, METRO Cash & Carry guarantees the organised implementation of guidelines in the METRO Cash & Carry countries by employing occupational health and safety officers. Information on projects and initiatives in the areas of fair labour conditions and occupational health and safety can be found in the CR Report in the chapter Commitment to the employees and in the Annual Report 2015/16, Employees To effectively promote the issue of sustainability within the chapter. entire METRO GROUP, the METRO Sustainable Leadership Program (MSLP) for young managers was launched in financial year 2014/15. It helps the participants to understand sustainability, including in relation to managerial skills, to integrate it into their everyday work and to act as ambassadors of the issue. Additionally, the participants initiate specific sustainability projects which relate to the business and are designed to generate added value for the company. At the same time, participation in the programme and the project work result in an ever-growing sustainability community in which people can learn from one another and can jointly promote the goal of firmly embedding sustainability in the company. The second round of the MSLP in financial year 2015/16 comprised 24 international co-workers from all the sales lines, METRO AG and its service companies. They are currently working on 20 projects. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES METRO CASH & CARRY S. 65 Ambassador approach METRO Cash & Carry Hungary A project of METRO Cash & Carry Hungary demonstrates the lasting success of this programme particularly well: in 2016, a participant of the first round of the MSLP developed an ambassador programme for sustainability, resulting in a snowball effect of the lessons learned in the programme. The aim of the ambassador approach is to raise awareness of sustainability by means of seminars and workshops, and to embed the issue more firmly and systematically promote it within the company together with committed co-workers. The network, which now comprises over 40 co-workers, works on various projects on topics such as saving energy, selective waste management and optimised packaging, paperless delivery services and ProCleaning, which is the transition from conventional detergents for hygiene-intensive areas in the stores to environmentally friendly alternatives. Promoting employee involvement and Diversity and inclusion knowledge The METRO Cash & Carry countries offer various programmes and activities which aim to promote awareness of sustainability within the company, impart knowledge and systematically encourage employee involvement. Some typical examples of this are special product training seminars on sustainable product selection at METRO Cash & Carry Italy, a fuel saving training seminar and the organisation of an ideas competition regarding how to avoid food waste at METRO Cash & Carry Germany. METRO GROUP generated significant leverage for spreading METRO Cash & Carry reflects the diversity of its customers and embedding sustainability with its new communication tool and business partners by means of its individuality and diverUNITED in financial year 2014/15. The internal social network, sity as well as respect for and recognition of all visible and which now has more than 52,000 registered users, allows the invisible differences, and creates a fair and efficient corporate employees not only to search for information and create, share culture which is constantly developing and challenging itself. or comment on posts, but also to jointly develop ideas and actively participate in the company’s ongoing development. This is also the objective of the METRO GROUP employee Experts and knowledge within the company can be quickly network Women in Trade (WiT) founded in 2013, which is found and linked on a large number of pages and workspaces. committed to the principle of “Better, more, flexible” specifiTen national METRO Cash & Carry subsidiaries have already cally regarding women in the retail business. In financial year created a country-specific sustainability page and numerous 2015/16, the network, which had previously only been based workspaces on individual topics such as sustainable fish, palm at the Düsseldorf Campus, organised an annual conference oil and packaging. on the topic of agile working. Thanks to numerous activities such as monthly network lunch meetings, training courses and workshops on focus issues such as mentoring and working in matrix organisations, WiT was able to recruit many new members in the reporting period, including within the METRO Cash & Carry organisation. There are now approximately 290 employees within the network. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES METRO CASH & CARRY S. 66 Field of action corporate citizenship As a company with a sustainable outlook, METRO Cash & Carry aims not only to contribute to society through its core business, but also to live up to its responsibility as a corporate citizen. The company fulfils this commitment by The European LEAD Network (Leading Executives Advancing way of diverse voluntary social and environmental efforts at Diversity) pursues objectives similar to those of WiT, its all its locations around the world. For example, METRO mission being to advance women in the retail and food indusCash & Carry supports local initiatives, is actively involved in tries in Europe. METRO GROUP became an active partner in corporate volunteering projects, helps local people in need 2016, for example by appointing women to management posiand provides unbureaucratic and quick relief when disaster tions; 108 METRO GROUP employees are already active strikes and in emergency situations. members of the network. METRO Cash & Carry was a coinitiator of and participant in a survey of 25 store managers (21 International Care & Share initiative of whom were women) at LEAD member companies specifically on the subject of the advancement of female store managers. Read more on this topic in the Annual Report 2015/16. Since 2008, METRO Cash & Carry has been organising its voluntary work and social responsibility projects under the umbrella of the international Care & Share initiative. One of its focuses is the company’s commitment on behalf of food banks, which METRO Cash & Carry has been supporting daily with food donations for over 20 years. The goods donated are still of impeccable quality, but can no longer be sold in the stores because they are close to their best-before date. METRO Cash & Carry supports local food banks in 15 countries in this way. In addition, METRO GROUP is a strong partner of the German food bank network ‘Bundesverband Deutsche Tafel e. V.’ and cooperates at the European level with the European Federation of Food Banks (FEBA). The various local activities of the national METRO Cash & Carry subsidiaries likewise demonstrate how Care & METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES METRO CASH & CARRY S. 67 Share is implemented as an international umbrella brand at a partnership which is very closely linked to the company’s the local level. The company provides emergency aid as part core business. It arose from the highly successful collaboof this initiative to mitigate the consequences of disasters. ration that was established in 2012 between WFP Italia and In December 2015, for example, METRO Cash & Carry India METRO Cash & Carry Italy, which has helped to provide provided relief supplies worth €4,700 together with €2,300 in approximately one million schoolchildren with school meals. cash donations from staff members in the southern Indian city With the launch of this new, global partnership, METRO Cash of Chennai following flooding caused by heavy downpours. & Carry firmly believes that it will be a strong partner of WFP in the years to come, working together to end world hunger. In November 2015, METRO Cash & Carry Pakistan and its strategic partner Habib METRO Pakistan (House of Habib) Corporate volunteering: unbureaucratic aid at the local level donated nine tonnes of food plus other everyday items needed by the families affected by an earthquake in Shangla in the METRO Cash & Carry also assumes social responsibility in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. Staff members volunteered to exceptional situations, emergencies and crises by providing help with transporting the relief supplies and distributing pragmatic on-site assistance. This is exemplified by the “We them at the site of the disaster. Help” community programme for refugee aid, which METRO GROUP initiated in October 2015. The aim of the initiaUN World Food Programme tive, which was initially limited to one year, was to provide unbureaucratic assistance, alleviate acute distress and contribute to the integration of refugees. The Management Board of METRO AG provided €1 million for this cause. Group employees could apply for one-off funding of up to €10,000 each for local projects in which they became personally involved. Altogether, 119 volunteer projects were approved, of which 37 were submitted by METRO Cash & Carry employees from six countries. For example, on the initiative of a staff member In June 2016, METRO Cash & Carry embarked on a global, in Serbia, a number of employees there now actively support long-term partnership with the UN World Food Programme the integration of refugees under the slogan of “Let’s live (WFP), the largest humanitarian organization working to end together!”. Among other activities, the volunteers organise hunger worldwide. In this partnership, which is implemented various cultural events and joint outings, and accompany the at the local level by the national METRO Cash & Carry refugees on, for example, doctor’s visits. subsidiaries, the company and its employees and customers collect donations in a number of campaigns in order to help “We Help” will be continued with an expanded focus from the people in need. Additionally, the partnership serves as a platbeginning of 2017, with employees then being able to apply for form for the exchange of expertise and the targeted developfunding for projects that benefit anyone in need. ment of initiatives. METRO Cash & Carry has thus entered into METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES MEDIA-SATURN S. 68 Media-Saturn products and services which have a considerable impact on society and the environment, we also derive sustainability targets from this mission of ours and divide them into three areas of action. Sustainability approach Media-Saturn sees itself as a responsible and sustainable partner and as an everyday companion and navigator for consumers in an increasingly digital world. As a provider of “We at Media-Saturn believe that, in an increasingly digital world, it is our duty to assist our customers as a partner, daily companion and navigator. This is particularly true with respect to sustainability. If possible in all areas we assume responsibility for offering products that are produced sustainably and consume little energy,. We also employ digital technologies and provide customer-focused services that allow people to truly practise sustainability with regard to the environment, the climate and resources.” PIETER HAAS Member of the Management Board METRO AG and CEO, Media-Saturn-Holding GmbH Responsible offers: To enable our staff to provide first-rate Responsibility towards employees and society: Since our advice concerning sustainability issues, we place great imporemployees are expected to be a success factor regarding and tance on training and advanced training, and support them ambassadors of sustainability, we support them in their own with new technologies such as digital price tags and employee sustainability-related endeavours, offering them a diverse tablets. At the same time, we support responsible purchasing range of services for their personal well-being. We help socidecisions by labelling sustainable products in the online shops ety and the environment on the one hand by assisting our and stores. And in our role as a manufacturer, we apply high customers in making the right purchasing decisions. On the sustainability standards and urge our suppliers to do likewise. other hand, we assume corporate responsibility and actively support social causes in many different ways. Responsibility towards the environment, the climate and resources: When designing new and modernising existing We intend to make sustainability an integral part of our busistores and other properties, energy efficiency is a top priority ness practices in the future. Digitisation, new service concepts for us, and we constantly look for solutions to minimise our and a wide range of sustainable products offer us an increasresource consumption. We also offer our customers various ing number of opportunities to assist our customers in particways in which to return old appliances and the option of selling ular in sustainability-related matters and to live up to our certain appliances that are still serviceable. aspiration of being a responsible company. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES MEDIA-SATURN S. 69 Here are a few examples of activities and possibilities in the Responsible assortment three areas of action. An important factor for the business success of Media Markt and Saturn has always been their comprehensive product range: an average store stocks about 45,000 products for its customers and some 200,000 items are available from the two sales lines’ German online shops. High standards vis-à-vis suppliers and comprehensive advice and information on the sustainability of all the products are central aspects of the group’s sustainability-related commitment. In this manner, the Media-Saturn group of companies helps its customers to select consumer electronics products and services which support a more sustainable lifestyle. High supplier management standards When it comes to the own brands ok., PEAQ, ISY and KOENIC, Media-Saturn insists on adherence to high social standards in the production of the appliances. The key labour standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO) are a fixed part of the contract terms. Additionally, since 2014, the responsible own-brand company Imtron GmbH has been a member of the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), which was established to protect workers’ rights at the production facilities. The key elements which are examined in this context include the way in which the business is managed, aspects of environmental protection, occupational health and safety, and any violations of the prohibition of child and forced labour. The BSCI Code of Conduct is modelled on the SA8000 Standard of the organisation Social Accountability International (SAI). It obliges its members to have their suppliers audited on a regular basis and to adhere to other requirements of the initiative. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES MEDIA-SATURN S. 70 Customer information concerning sustainable comprehensive information on energy-saving products on the products platform topprodukte.at. On the basis of this cooperation, customers can find an overview of current energy-saving products as well as facts and tips on how to save energy at mediamarkt.at and in some selected stores in the so-called Green Zone. Media Markt Austria also conducts campaigns and competitions on this issue on a regular basis. In autumn 2015, for instance, customers had the opportunity to meet with klimaaktiv product specialists to receive advice on energyrelated matters. In October 2015, Federal Minister Andrä Rupprechter presented Media Markt Austria with a BMLFUW award for its exemplary endeavours. Saturn Austria marks particularly energyand resourceSince 2012, Saturn in Germany has been cooperating with saving products with the “Green Eco” label and gives its Utopia, an Internet platform for sustainable consumption, and customers specific advice regarding the energy consumption marks particularly sustainable items in many Saturn stores of electrical appliances. An overview of the latest, particularly and in its online shop with the green label “Utopia empfiehlt” energy-efficient products is available on the sales brand’s (Utopia recommends). In September 2016, for instance, this website saturn.at/greeneco. Additionally, it offers customers label was applied to nearly 1,400 products at saturn.de. The many practical tips on keeping an electricityand resourcerunning of these appliances is particularly energy-efficient, saving house. In close coordination with AEG, Siemens and LG environmentally friendly and economical. The product groups as well as other manufacturers, Saturn Austria determines with the greatest savings potential were selected, these being which products from the product groups laundry care, dishwashing machines, tumble dryers, dishwashers, refrigerators washers, refrigerators and freezers, and LED lamps are and freezers, TVs, coffee makers and vacuum cleaners. The selected for “Green Eco” labelling. requirements of the “Utopia empfiehlt” label meet the EcoTopTen criteria of the Freiburg-based Oeko-Institut, which are updated monthly. Eco-friendliness and overall costs are Establishing a customer guidance system given equal weighting in the assessment. Quality assessments Based on the labels introduced to date, Media-Saturn is testare also considered, if available, such as those of the Stiftung ing additional ways in which to educate customers even better Warentest consumer organisation. about the sustainability aspects of electrical products. To this end, it is currently developing the basics of a guidance system Since 2012, Media Markt Austria has been working with for recommended sustainable products in the stores and klimaaktiv, a climate protection initiative of the Austrian online shops. This guidance system will also cover services, in Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and order to offer customers quick advice in this area too. Water Management (BMLFUW). Anyone interested can find METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES MEDIA-SATURN S. 71 Responsibility towards the environment, For this reason, Media-Saturn Deutschland GmbH signed up to the voluntary commitment of the German Retail Federation the climate and resources (HDE) in 2016. This stipulates that shopping bags only be made available for a charge. The switch resulted in an approximately Most of the environmental impact of electronics products is 85 per cent reduction in the number of shopping bags handed generated during production and operation. However, stores out in financial year 2015/16 compared to 2013. This equates can also reduce the impact in many different ways. Mediato around 60 million bags annually at Media Markt and Saturn Saturn has set itself the goal of becoming a trailblazer in Germany. The Media-Saturn group of companies aims to the protection of the environment, the climate and resources. reduce the overall use of plastic bags internationally by 70 per In this effort, the group of companies with its sales brands cent by the end of 2017 compared to 2014. adopts high standards of resource protection, minimises its waste and reduces energy consumption at its stores. Additionally, Media-Saturn chooses sustainable packaging solutions, Reducing paper consumption thereby also making it easier for its customers to shop more sustainably. Recycled shopping bags In financial year 2015/16, Media-Saturn introduced digital price tags throughout Germany. This not only makes price labelling considerably more efficient – the digital signs are Media Markt and Saturn stopped handing out free plastic bags also better in terms of sustainability as the stores no longer throughout Germany at the beginning of 2016. Both sales need to print price information on paper every day. Thanks brands offer their customers reusable PET bags as a more to this digitisation process, Media-Saturn consumes approxienvironmentally friendly alternative, for which customers have mately 600 tonnes less paper internationally every year. This to pay. The bags are made of 85 per cent recycled material roughly equates to the payload of 60 dustcarts. and can be exchanged for new bags at any Media Markt or Saturn store free of charge. The recycled PET bags of MediaReducing electronic scrap Saturn are not only visually appealing, but also offer considMedia-Saturn also assumes responsibility for electronic proderable environmental advantages compared to conventional ucts at the end of the product life cycle. Europe alone amasses shopping bags. Unlike paper bags, they are sturdy and waterabout ten million tonnes of electronic scrap per annum. Large resistant. According to the organisation Deutsche portions of it are nearly infinitely recyclable without loss of Umwelthilfe, even a cotton bag has to be used ten times more quality, but often end up in the household rubbish. often than a reusable PET bag in order to be as environmentally friendly in terms of carbon emissions. The EU’s WEEE Directive (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) introduced new collection targets and higher recycling and reuse quotas. From 2016, for example, 45 per cent of METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES MEDIA-SATURN S. 72 the average weight of the electrical appliances put into circuIn the past, we have already accepted the return of old applilation in the previous three years must be collected in the ances voluntarily, i.e. without being legally obliged to do so. European Union, with this figure going up to 65 per cent from What’s more, no restrictions are placed on the appliances that 2019. Germany currently only collects approximately 40 per we take back. At Saturn in Germany alone, more than 10,000 cent. tonnes of electrical appliances were returned in 2015. Over 50 per cent of them were household appliances. More: recycling process Customers in Germany have already been able to return used electrical appliances at any Media Markt or Saturn stores since 2005. The returned appliances are collected and transported to a certified primary treatment facility. It first rids the old appliances of pollutants, disassembles them into their components – such as condensers, metals, glass and plastics – and then sorts the materials. The average metal portion of a washing machine, for example, is over 80 per cent. About 16 per cent of the machine consists of other materials such as plastics, including approximately 14 per cent elastomers and compounds, and some 1.5 per cent glass. Altogether, a washing machine has a recycling quota of 80 to 85 per cent. Cooperation with kaputt.de based start-up is to consolidate the fragmented repair services offered for broken smartphones. The kaputt.de portal At the Media-Saturn SPACELAB, Europe’s first consumer presents the website users with various options. If, for examelectronics retail accelerator programme, the group of ple, the smartphone display is broken, the customer can order companies is looking for innovative company founders along a replacement display and repair it themselves on the basis of its entire value chain. The SPACELAB works like a sort of instructions or they can compare local service providers who business school for the selected start-up entrepreneurs and will perform the repairs. The list of these providers includes supports them with financial investments and expertise. The over 100 Media Markt and Saturn stores. In this way, the useful company founders get assistance from top partner companies life of smartphones can be extended and waste can be and expert mentors from industry and consulting in the areas avoided. Customers also have the option of purchasing a new of marketing strategy, logistics and sales, and also from smartphone, choosing to either sell or dispose of their old Media-Saturn managers. device through kaputt.de. From late 2015 until April 2016, kaputt.de participated in the More information on kaputt.de is available in the magazine. first round of the SPACELAB. The central idea of the BerlinMETRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES MEDIA-SATURN S. 73 Efficient energy use the respective countries. Since the systems were introduced, those responsible for the control systems have received intensive training in using them. If necessary, they contact the store in question directly and optimise the technical systems. Media-Saturn also makes targeted investments in energyefficient lighting at the stores. LED light strips have now been installed in over 100 stores. Compared to conventional T8 and T5 tubes, LED light strip lamps consume up to 50 per cent less electricity. In 2015, for example, the energy consumption of the lighting at a reference store in Germany was reduced by 38 per cent or 68,400 kilowatt-hours per annum. The group of companies aims to install LED lighting systems in all stores worldwide by 2025. Based on this and other measures, MediaSaturn intends to achieve a like-for-like reduction of 30 per cent in its stores’ electricity consumption by 2030 compared to Media-Saturn operates more than 1,000 stores worldwide 2011. where customers can try out thousands of electronics products. To reduce the stores’ energy consumption, the group In addition, the group of companies aims to achieve a high of companies employs efficient energy management and quality standard with respect to the sustainable furnishing and constantly modernises the stores and administration buildtechnical equipment of the stores. To this end, Media-Saturn ings. Since 2012, all stores have been equipped with moniis developing internationally uniform real estate guidelines toring systems which constantly keep track of the energy based on the Gold certification standard of the LEED classificonsumption. In addition to the electricity used, the systems cation system for the low-energy and environmentally friendly measure the air quality, the room temperature and other indidesign of buildings. cators. The data are provided online to the facility managers in METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES MEDIA-SATURN S. 74 More: Minimum criteria for refrigerators and freezers according to EcoTopTen Energy consumption: Energy efficiency class A+++ Maximum consumption: 200 kilowatt-hours per year Halogenated fluorocarbons (HFC): Neither refrigerants nor the foaming agents that are used for insulation materials must contain halogen-organic substances or have been made with these substances. Supporting eco-friendly and cost-efficient use: Upright and chest freezers as well as fridge-freezers must issue either an acoustic or visual alarm signal when the temperature gets too high or the door is open (in the case of fridge-freezers: the freezer). Quality: If Stiftung Warentest has published a quality test, the minimum criterion is the rating ‘Good’. However, if no test result exists, this does not necessarily lead to devaluation. Emissions impacting the climate: EcoTopTen shows the annual greenhouse gas emissions associated with the manufacture and use of all appliances in CO2 equivalents (CO2e). The balancing of the greenhouse gas emissions which occur during the production of a refrigerator or freezer was based on data from ecoinvent. The balancing was performed with Umberto, a software for Life Cycle Assessment and shows the following results for the manufacture of a refrigerator or freezer (cf. table 1). When calculating the attributable annual greenhouse potential due to the manufacture of the refrigerators and freezers, the service life on which the calculation is based is a critical factor. In accordance with the data of the German Society for Consumer Research, refrigerators and freezers were presumed to have a service life of 13.5 years. Table 1: Greenhouse gas emissions in CO2 equivalents (CO2e) associated with the manufacture of the appliances – related to their assumed service life (EcoTopTen criteria for refrigerators and freezers). CO2e in kg per Average service CO2e in kg per Type of appliance unit life unit and year Source Refrigerator and freezer 257 13.5 years 19.04 Own calculation by the Eco Institute (7/2014) The annual electricity consumption according to the Energy Efficiency Directive 1060/2010 was considered for the use of the refrigerators and freezers. For one kilowatt-hour (kWh) of electricity, there are average climate-related emissions of 637 g CO2 equivalents in Germany (cf. table 2). METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES MEDIA-SATURN S. 75 Table 2: Background data for the calculation of the greenhouse gas emissions associated with the use of refrigerators and freezers in CO2 equivalents (CO2e) (EcoTopTen criteria for refrigerators and freezers). Use CO2e Source Provision of electricity 0.637 kg/kWh ecoinvent 3.2 (2015) Costs: The total annual costs allow consumers to get an overview of the actual product-related costs, the so-called life-cycle costs. The total annual costs for refrigerators and freezers listed by EcoTopTen are composed as follows: Purchase price or attributable acquisition costs: The purchase price is the median purchase price for the listed appliance as found at idealo. The purchase price is divided by the service life (in years). This equals the acquisition costs per year. Annual operating costs: They are generally composed of the electricity as well as water costs, if applicable, plus the costs for other utilities. Only the electricity consumption is relevant for refrigerators and freezers. The calculation of the annual electricity costs is based on the energy consumption of the listed appliance according to the Energy Efficiency Directive 1060/2010 and multiplied by the average electricity cost (in euros per kilowatt-hour). Table 3: Composition and sources of the total annual costs for refrigerators and freezers shown by EcoTopTen (EcoTopTen criteria for refrigerators and freezers). Components of the total annual cost Calculation Assumptions Source 1 Attributable acquisition costs Purchase price/service life Purchase price: median of idealo purchase prices found Service life: 13.5 years German Society for Consumer Research (GfK) according to the German Federal Environment 2 Agency (2015) Annual electricity costs Annual electricity consumption Annual electricity consumption: according to information on energy label Average electricity price Electricity price analysis 1/2016 3 € 0.287/kWh by the German Association of Energy and Water Industries 4 (BDEW) * Electricity price per kWh 1 Aus Umweltbundesamt (Hg) (2015): Prakash, S.; Dehoust, G.; Gsell, M.; Schleicher T.: Einfluss der Nutzungsdauer von Produkten auf ihre Umweltwirkung: Schaffung einer Informationsgrundlage und Entwicklung von Strategien gegen „Obsoleszenz“ 2 Current prices for refrigerators and freezers 3 Equals the price for 1 kWh of electricity (labour incl. base rate) in a two-person household in Germany. 4 BDEW Bundesverband der Energieund Wasserwirtschaft e.V.; BDEW – Electricity price analysis January 2016, accessed on 12.2.2016. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES MEDIA-SATURN S. 76 Reducing packaging Responsibility towards employees and society The Media-Saturn group of companies and its brands also regard their employees as ambassadors of sustainability and therefore train them in the best way possible so as to promote responsible actions and thinking. In addition, the group of companies provides extra benefits to promote employee health. Sustainability human capital development topic To save excess packaging material, the online shops mediamarkt.de and saturn.de are planning to send consolidated pick-up shipments to the stores in future. Currently, all orders are packaged and shipped individually. Consolidating ten orders into one package will save approximately 4,500 tonnes of packaging material and some 4,000 tonnes of carbon emissions by 2020. This equals the average annual consumption of 1 more than 2,400 cars . 1 Based on 12,000 kilometres driven (Statista) To be able to provide information about sustainability-related issues in addition to conventional product advice, store employees attend regular product training sessions provided by the manufacturers. These sessions include subjects such as energy efficiency and water consumption. At Saturn Germany, the participants also receive online training on special sustainability aspects relating to the product groups smartphones, tablets and notebooks. These aspects include rare earth metals, working conditions in production and conflict resources. Media-Saturn has integrated the topic of sustainability into the syllabuses of its trainee and talent programmes at its headquarters in Ingolstadt. For instance, interested finance trainees can select sustainability as a part of their programme and take on projects in this area. In the programme for young executives, the future managers and department heads participate in a planning game to learn how sustainability can be implemented in the company. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES MEDIA-SATURN S. 77 Sustainability is already a component of the selection of mum environmental impact. By the end of September 2016, employees at the assessment and development centre. a total of 86 lifts had already been arranged, primarily for commutes between Nuremberg and Ingolstadt. This equals International executives are given an introduction to the savings of about 1,385 kilograms of carbon emissions. In the sustainability initiatives of Media-Saturn-Holding GmbH future, the car sharing portal TwoGo is to be available to all during their induction in Ingolstadt. In 2016, sustainability store employees in Germany. To this end, Media-Saturn is managers responsible for the coordination and implementadeveloping various concepts and examining options for an tion of sustainability were appointed at the international international roll-out. branches and service companies. They are gradually becoming contact persons and multipliers for additional sustainabilHealth and sport services ity activities in their respective countries and service companies. Information on sustainability for employees The employee magazine “GoGreen” has been available to all Saturn store employees in Germany since March 2016. It publishes information on ongoing sustainability initiatives at With our health initiative “Fit bleibt vorn”, staff members at Saturn Germany, provides interesting sustainability-related the Ingolstadt headquarters can register at certain gyms at a facts and figures such as changes in legislation or guidelines reduced rate and find training partners for various sports via and presents concrete examples from various stores throughan internal platform. Additionally, the “Fit bleibt vorn” team out Germany. The magazine is published four times a year. organises the preparation and participation of the MediaSaturn runners in the FitnessRun & Walk, the half-marathon Since mid-2015, interesting information on the sustainability and the triathlon in Ingolstadt. A special event of the initiative programme has been provided on the intranet for all Mediais the annual Media-Saturn Cup, a football tournament for all Saturn employees. They can also learn about projects already employees of the Media-Saturn group of companies. In late implemented and ongoing initiatives here. Media-Saturn not June 2016, 40 international teams from administration offices only focuses on the workplace, but also gives comprehensive and stores took part in the sports competition for the chaltips on how to act sustainably in all areas of life and provides lenge cup. information on current sustainability-related trends and news. After the page impressions and number of site visitors were The employees also have the opportunity to donate blood and assessed and feedback from the staff was received, the make medical check-up appointments – for instance to get flu website was relaunched in August 2016. The improved layout shots or have their eyesight tested – at regular intervals. and the new structure are designed to get even more employees excited about sustainability at Media-Saturn. The website Target group-specific training programme now also contains a more detailed overview of the sustainability programme. In addition to workshops and conventional training, modern media are to be increasingly integrated into vocational training and further education. At the international level, for instance, Car sharing portal at the Ingolstadt site the network Yammer is being tested as an internal social Since the beginning of June 2016, all the employees at the media platform for, among other things, sustainability issues. Ingolstadt site have been able to use TwoGo, an SAP car sharIn addition, Media-Saturn is developing target group-specific ing portal, free of charge. Requests for routes and times can training concepts for its stores, administration and national be entered via an app. On the basis of this information, the subsidiaries. Once the issue of sustainability has been portal automatically finds the lift that suits the respective presented separately to the sustainability managers, a joint employee best, getting them to work cheaply and with minikick-off event for all countries is planned for early 2017. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES REAL S. 78 Real Approximately 36,000 employees in our 285 Real hypermarkets do what they can for our customers every day. Top quality, optimum service, unrivalled freshness and good value for money are among our fortes. Sustainability approach Sustainability is an issue which has been embedded in our Sustainability vision corporate strategy for some time. In accordance with the We promote sustainability to ensure that the generations to motto of “Acting responsibly”, we pursue our sustainability come will likewise be able to grow up in a healthy physical efforts in four different fields of action. We feel just as commitand social environment with good prospects for the future. ted to environmental and consumer protection as we are to our employees and suppliers. “Sustainability has been an integral part of our corporate strategy for many years. We therefore do more than merely make public declarations of intent. We follow the principle of Acting responsibly. This includes continuously expanding our product range according to ecological and socially compatible factors, pursuing a climate protection target for 2030 and treading completely new paths towards meeting customer needs and creating new jobs with our Food Lover concept in Krefeld.” PATRICK MÜLLER-SARMIENTO und HENNING GIESEKE Chairmen of the Real Management Board Fields of action Real’s sustainability clover defines the four fields of action within the “Acting responsibly” sustainability strategy. The company has formulated sustainability targets and concrete missions for each of these fields: Product range: Our customers should be able to shop with us in good conscience. We are committed to minimising the use of raw materials and resources while simultaneously respecting and protecting people, animals and nature. Employees: We support our employees in all life situations. We give our employees’ careers a jump start, offer them opportunities to grow and climb the career ladder, and provide them with support in difficult circumstances in their lives. Environment: Our actions should have as little impact on the environment as possible and should conserve resources. Customers and society: Our public activities are characterised by credible social responsibility and ties to the community. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES REAL S. 79 The goals within the fields of action were developed in collabcompany views sustainability as a process which calls for the oration with the respective departments and have been stratecompany to continuously evolve. gically embedded in the company. Their operational implementation takes place in the various departments on the basis Excellent commitment to sustainability of concrete sub-goals and measures which have been defined accordingly. Additionally, Real continues to develop its sustainReal’s many activities in the area of sustainability are also ability strategy, checks its measures on a regular basis and acknowledged and recognised by external stakeholders, as adjusts them on the basis of new insights because the evidenced by, for example, the following awards: More: Excellent commitment to sustainability Good Rabbit Award 2016 In June 2016, Real was distinguished with the Good Rabbit Award for its special commitment to animal welfare. The award honours companies that use particularly animal-friendly husbandry systems for rabbits. Real has agreed on special criteria for rabbit welfare and housing with its suppliers. These include detailed requirements concerning the stocking density, space allowance, the consistency of the pen flooring and the feeding of the animals. Inclusion Award of German Businesses In October 2015, UnternehmensForum bestowed Real with the Inclusion Award of German Businesses in the Large Companies category. The award, which is sponsored by Germany’s Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, honours the exemplary integration of employees with disabilities in all of Real’s business units. The award is funded by the Confederation of German Employers’ Associations (BDA), the Federal Employment Agency (BA) and Charta der Vielfalt. Trainer of the Year 2016 In September 2016, Eva Gatsioudi was named Trainer of the Year 2016 by the industry magazine Lebensmittel Praxis in METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES REAL S. 80 the hypermarkets category. The deputy business manager and team leader has been training junior employees at Real for six years. This is the fourth time Real has been awarded this prize. “Mit gutem Gewissen” (In good conscience) sustainability award In a sustainability study conducted by Deutschland Test, Focus-Money and the Cologne-based consulting firm ServiceValue, Real was bestowed the silver “Mit gutem Gewissen” sustainability award in 2015. 1,000 brands from 56 industry sectors and product categories were analysed regarding their social, ecological and economic responsibility in online consumer surveys. Company check 2015 In the company check conducted by Verbraucher Initiative e. V., Real was awarded gold in the Food and Luxury Food Items category in 2015. In the two categories Textiles and Footwear and Health and Body Care, the company was awarded silver. Unternehmens-Check is a database where consumers can obtain detailed information about the environmental and social efforts of retailers and manufacturers. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES REAL S. 81 Product range field of action The quality of the products is carefully checked by means of supplier audits, lab tests and warehouse controls. Real stipMission: Our customers should be able to shop with us in ulates high standards throughout, from production through to good conscience. We are committed to minimising the use of selling, which frequently exceed the legal requirements. raw materials and resources while simultaneously respecting and protecting people, animals and nature. Compliance with social standards In addition to guaranteeing the quality and eco-friendliness of As a full-range retailer with up to 80,000 products, Real has its products, Real places a particular focus on the consideraa special responsibility that goes beyond providing impeccable tion of social aspects in its sustainable product range compoquality and product safety. Aspects such as sustainable sition. Real expects all of its business partners to adhere to consumption, the conservation of resources, social labour minimum social standards. The company contractually obliges conditions and animal welfare are playing an increasingly its suppliers to comply with the guidelines of the International important role in Real’s product range composition. The Labour Organization (ILO). The strict prohibition of forced following diverse activities relating to a sustainable product labour, child labour and any form of exploitation is a basic range demonstrate the comprehensive approach that Real element of the agreements. pursues. For instance, Real adopted a CSR purchasing guideline with the aim of generating 30 per cent of its revenue from In addition, the suppliers of non-food own-brand products are the sale of sustainable products by 2019. contractually obliged to adhere to the social standards of the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) in risk countries As the potential and requirements of the individual product and the Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh. groups vary, as do the opportunities for procuring sustainable Real only accepts suppliers with good audit results on the products, the objectives are adjusted for each segment, while basis of these guidelines. Both initiatives advocate a permaall contributing to a common aim. nent improvement in labour conditions in third countries. In addition, Real has been a member of the Partnership for Product safety, quality and traceability Sustainable Textiles since 2015, which pursues similar goals. By implementing and complying with internationally recognised quality standards such as QS and IFS, Real ensures that the food items in its product range are impeccable and safe. The company also constantly expands its range with the addi“Acting responsibly” umbrella brand tion of products that meet the sustainability standards of Real aims to enable its customers to shop sustainably and organisations such as Fairtrade, GEPA and Naturland Fair, to offer them optimum guidance in this effort. The company which advocate fair social conditions in the supply chain. Real therefore groups products which are particularly environmenwants to boost the revenue generated with fair-trade products tally or socially compatible and comply with the relevant stanby 100 per cent by 2020 compared with the reference year dards under the umbrella label “Acting responsibly”. These 2013/14. Sales already increased by 53.6 per cent in financial include items in relation to which the company’s sustainability year 2015/16 compared with the reference year 2013/14. efforts considerably exceed those of comparable products. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES REAL S. 82 Real offers customers items from various product groups are sourced within a radius of approximately 60 to 100 kilomeunder this label, including textile products of the own brand tres from the Real hypermarket in question. real,QUALITY, which are certified in accordance with the Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS) and the STANDARD Specifically in the area of fruit and vegetables, the issue has ® 100 by OEKO-TEX . been forced by means of store campaigns and flyer advertising. Regional “Gutes aus der Heimat” (Prime local produce) product range Products from permaculture Real aims to gradually change its standard selection of fruit and vegetables in favour of more produce sourced from organic farming and permaculture. Growing fruit and vegetaIn order to also offer its customers reliable guidance regardbles based on permaculture principles protects the environing regionality, Real labels regional products with the “Gutes ment and conserves resources, and is therefore considered aus der Heimat” logo. More than 21,000 items ranging from particularly sustainable and future-oriented. dairy products and tinned foods to fresh produce bear this logo. In particular, fruit and vegetables and sausage products METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES REAL S. 83 Permaculture Permaculture is a form of ecological agriculture in which fruit and vegetables are grown in harmony with nature and on the basis of sound cycles. Its purpose is to avoid the negative influences of modern, conventional agriculture. Permaculture does without any chemical or synthetic fertilisers, pesticides and fungicides, thus going a step further than the ecological growing of food and EU organic products, is free of treatment agents, promotes the build-up of the humus layer in soil, which is an important source of CO2 and improves soil fertility, contributes to the preservation of species diversity, nature and habitats due to mixed cropping methods and uses water sparingly. More: Permaculture Advisory Board The three-member permaculture advisory board consisting of experts and representatives of NGOs employs its expertise to establish permaculture in the interest of the environment and the consumers, thus advancing sustainable agriculture, from which everyone benefits in equal measure. The advisory board members are: Georg Abel, National Director, VERBRAUCHER INITIATIVE e. V. Udo Gattenlöhner, Director, Global Nature Fund Dr Immo Fiebrig, Centre for Agroecology, Water and Resilience, Coventry University, UK Real’s portfolio has included products grown using permaculTo educate its staff, customers and the public about permaculture practices since December 2014. Real started with a range ture, Real not only introduces and expands its product range, consisting of pomegranates, kumquats, oranges and avocados but also employs communication measures. The company bearing its own permaculture logo, and is steadily expanding provides facts and background information on permaculture, this range. The primary countries of origin are Italy, Spain and the benefits for customers and the objectives that Real is Germany. pursuing with the expansion of its sustainable product range on its own website and in brochures, booklets, pocket guides A close cooperative partner and an exclusive supplier for and newspaper inserts. Real’s permaculture range is Lehmann Natur GmbH. The Mönchengladbach-based supplier of organic fruit and vegetaThis is also why the Permaculture Advisory Board was founded bles sources its permaculture products among other things in 2016. It continues the internal and external communication from crop acreage in Spain belonging to the company founder with the various stakeholder groups in a targeted manner and Friedrich Lehmann. gives advice regarding the approval of new suppliers and products on the basis of the established standards. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES REAL S. 84 Expansion of the organic product range from the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) for wild fish and seafood and from GLOBALG.A.P., organic logo and the AquaReal took an important step in the direction of expanding its culture Stewardship Council (ASC) for aquaculture products. range of organic products in mid-October 2015 by changing its Additionally, Real excludes products from illegal fishing and bananas, focusing since then on organic bananas. The convencritically endangered fish species from its product range and tional brand bananas were replaced with organic bananas promotes the use of eco-friendly fishing practices. grown on resource-saving and eco-friendly farms. Real’s product range comprises some 2,600 organic products. The company’s goal is to boost the sales of such products by 15 Real aims to increase the sale of sustainably caught fish by 10 per cent by 2020. At the end of financial year 2015/16, Real had per cent by 2020 compared to the reference year 2013/14. In achieved an increase of 11.4 per cent in the sale of organic financial year 2015/16, the company achieved a 2.3 per cent products compared with the reference year 2013/14. increase compared to the reference year 2013/14. Products with reduced fat, sugar and sodium Cocoa from certified and sustainable farms content To permanently improve the living conditions of small-scale cocoa farmers and protect natural resources, Real applies For Real, putting together a sustainable product range also sustainability criteria to its procurement of own-brand prodmeans offering healthy products. With the consumers’ health ucts containing cocoa. The company considers cocoa to have in mind, the company established purchasing guidelines that been sustainably produced if the certification criteria of one aim to reduce the fat, sugar and sodium content of approxof the three internationally recognised standards Fairtrade, imately 150 own-brand products by 2017. The main focus is Rainforest Alliance or UTZ Certified are met. Real already on food items for children and adolescents. For example, the achieved some initial important success in financial year 2015/ company reduced the sugar content of its real,QUALITY 16: since the end of 2015, only cocoa that meets the three tomato ketchup by 30 per cent compared to the previous prodabove-mentioned international standards and was procured in uct recipe. In financial year 2015/16, no less than 81 products compliance with the Mass Balance supply chain option is used were modified in this way. for all own-brand products. This means that only certified cocoa is purchased for producing the final product, but that Sustainable fish purchasing certified and non-certified cocoa are blended in a controlled To make sure future generations can still enjoy eating fish manner within the supply chain. Only a proportion of the cocoa and many people can maintain their livelihoods, concrete used in the end product is therefore certified. As the target measures for the protection of fish and seafood must be taken. was met in 2015, the purchasing guideline was revised in 2016 Together with suppliers and stakeholders, Real is developing and a new target was set: the use of certified cocoa is to a large number of measures along the entire value chain that be gradually switched to the “Segregation” or “Identity will contribute to environmentally and socially compatible Preserved” models, as long as the market situation permits fishery. The sustainable fish purchasing policy defines how this. “Segregation” means that the certified cocoa of several fresh fish, fish products and products with a fish component, plantations or cooperatives is consolidated and is traded sepasuch as animal food, are purchased. The company is thus rately from conventional flows of goods all along the supply gradually expanding its range of sustainable fish products in chain. “Identity Preserved” represents the most demanding accordance with uniform, internationally recognised and supply chain model. It allows for the complete traceability of sustainable standards and labels. These include certification the cocoa back to the plantation. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES REAL S. 85 Sustainable palm oil Sustainable wood and paper products Thanks to its diverse uses for many different product groups and its high yield, palm (kernel) oil is currently the most important vegetable oil in the consumer goods segment. Ever greater global demand has led to large areas of tropical forests being deforested in order to create plantations, and thus to enormous negative impacts on the environment as well as the displacement of indigenous peoples. These vast monocultures also destroy the habitats of numerous animal and plant species and endanger biological diversity. However, palm oil is also a raw material that is hard to replace, and in many countries the palm oil industry offers smallholders a livelihood. Together with suppliers and stakeholders, Real is therefore committed to promoting sustainable oil palm farming. Real’s palm oil purchasing guideline constitutes an important basis for the purchasing of own-brand products containing palm oil or palm kernel oil. Increasing deforestation is responsible for about a fifth of global warming. To counter this development, Real is actively The company has achieved an important milestone in this area involved in the protection of the climate and the environment. too: since the end of 2015, either sustainable palm or palm Among other things, the company published a purchasing kernel oil or alternative raw materials have been used in the guideline for wood and paper products in April 2016. By the production of own-brand food items, or the farming of sustainend of 2020, sustainable paper and wood are to be purchased able palm oil is supported by means of certificate trading. for all own brands, customer service items and products for internal use if their wood or paper content accounts for at As Real achieved its goal in 2015, it has now set itself a new least 50 per cent of their weight. The Real purchasing guidetarget: the use of 100 per cent palm oil or palm kernel oil line defines wood and paper products as sustainable if they according to the “Identity Preserved” or “Segregation” supply are from sustainable forestry or are made of recycled matechain models for own-brand food items by 2025. In addition, rial, and products as sustainable if they are not listed by the the range of own-brand detergents and cleaning agents and Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of also cosmetics products is to be switched to sustainable palm Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) or the International Union for oil. Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Customers can find a wide array of sustainable hygiene products, product packaging, stationery, toys, small furniture items and household appliances in Real hypermarkets. All of its garden furniture is already certified as sustainable. In its own back office, Real uses recycled and/or printing paper ® that meets the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council ® (FSC ). METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES REAL S. 86 Commitment to the protection of animals Above and beyond the environmental and social compatibility of its product range, Real aims to market only products of animal origin made with animals which are reared and slaughtered in species-appropriate ways. To live up to this aspiration, the company defined and voluntarily committed itself to a purchasing guideline in 2016. Its criteria include the ongoing expansion of its product range with the addition of standards which help improve animal husbandry. Since mid-2016, for instance, customers have been offered animal products bearing the “Nature & Respect” logo. The animals are given feed which has not been genetically modified and live free-range for at least half of their lives. In addition, in about 90 hypermarkets, Real stocks products bearing the label “Für mehr Tierschutz” (For greater animal protection) of the German Animal Welfare Federation. The company is also a member of the Animal Welfare Initiative. More: Improved animal husbandry Real endeavours to improve the rearing conditions of dairy cattle and laying hens, and backs efforts to prevent the trimming of laying hens’ beaks. Ever since early 2015, Real has been selling the shell eggs of laying hens which have not had their beaks trimmed; since 2016, these eggs have also been sold under the own brand real,QUALITY. Real has exclusively stocked the shell eggs of hens from alternative rearing systems and with certification of being from controlled alternative husbandry since 2009. In addition, all own-brand products with a relevant egg content of 1 per cent contain only eggs from alternative husbandry systems. On the basis of these endeavours, Real was distinguished with the Good Egg Award of the British animal welfare organisation Compassion in World Farming in 2009 and 2015. The company also works with its suppliers in other areas in order to sustainably improve animal husbandry conditions. An important project is the improvement of rabbit husbandry. Since 2011, Real has only sold cage-free rabbits. Additional criteria have been developed which producers must meet when rearing and keeping rabbits. These criteria include detailed requirements concerning the stocking density, runs, toys, group housing and feeding of rabbits. In 2016, Real received the Good Rabbit Award from Compassion in World Farming for its exemplary efforts. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES REAL S. 87 Vegan and vegetarian product range Employees field of action Our mission: We support our employees in all life situations. We give our employees’ careers a jump start, offer them opportunities to grow and climb the career ladder, and provide them with support in difficult circumstances in their lives. More than 36,000 people currently work for Real. Whether at the checkout or at incoming goods, as a master butcher or purchaser, at a sales centre or in marketing, they contribute to the success of the company everywhere and constitute its most important asset. Real therefore makes a point of supporting and encouraging its employees as best it can and of offering them an attractive work environment. Real has an employment quota for individuals with severe disabilities of 8 per cent. The company was distinguished with the 2015 Inclusion Award of German Businesses for its endeavours in this area. E-learning programme on sustainability For Real, being committed to animal welfare also means systematically expanding its range of vegan and vegetarian products. To this end, we are in close contact with the Albert Schweitzer Foundation, which advocates animal welfare and the further spread of the vegan lifestyle. Real currently stocks approximately 2,000 vegan and vegetarian products, which are identifiable among other things thanks to shelf signs. Compared to the reference year 2013/14, the sale of vegan and vegetarian products climbed by 18.1 per cent. Thus the target of a 20 per cent sales increase by 2020 (reference year 2013/14) was already almost achieved in the financial year 2015/16. Additionally, since March 2016 the company has stocked the first own-brand products bearing the “Ohne Gentechnik” (No genetic engineering) label. The German Association Food without Genetic Engineering (VLOG) issues the product label Real helps its employees to grow and gives them the support on the basis of strict requirements. they need to master new requirements. To this end, the company provides a large number of seminars, workshops and e-learning programmes. In the spirit of shared responsibility, the goal is to inform all staff members about the sustainability measures and their significance for Real and for METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES REAL S. 88 society. Among other things, the company has been using an Environment field of action approximately 30-minute e-learning programme since 2015 which specifically explains the sustainability vision and the Our mission: Our actions should have as little impact on the four fields of action. Various measures which Real has impleenvironment as possible and should conserve resources. mented for sustainable business are grouped under the heading “Acting responsibly”. Three additional programmes focus Under the motto of “Acting responsibly”, Real is actively on saving energy, sustainable products and responsible committed to protecting the climate and the environment. The purchasing. company’s top priority is to use resources as sparingly as possible and promote environmentally sound production Sustainable projects of trainees processes. Every year on Customer Focus Day, the company’s trainees throughout Germany implement projects relating to various New climate protection target for 2030 business, ecological and social topics. In financial year 2015/ Real set itself a clear climate protection target back in 2011: 16, for example, our junior staff informed customers about Real wanted to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 16 per cent ways in which to avoid food waste, organised a welcome day per square metre of selling space by 2020 compared to the for refugees and presented sustainable products and their reference year 2011. Appropriate measures were impleorigins. Altogether, more than 30 projects were realised. mented so successfully that this target had already been achieved by the end of 2015. In order to make further efforts Hardship fund for the benefit of climate protection, Real set itself a new goal in early 2016: it wants to reduce greenhouse gas emissions To give financial support to employees facing an emergency, per square metre of selling space by at least 50 per cent by Real set up a so-called hardship fund in 2012. It comprises 2030 compared to 2011. To achieve this goal, further specific donations from the staff and employer contributions, and is for measures are planned in various areas, such as sales floor the benefit of staff members who have made donations and lighting, refrigerating food items and logistics. their relatives and partners. The General Management and the Works Council decide jointly on how the funds are used. In the reporting period, eight employees received fast and unbureauBy using energy-efficient LED lights, Real saved 2,436 tonnes cratic assistance in this way. of carbon 18,593,750 kilowatt-hours of energy in financial year 2015/16. Since the lighting measures were introduced in 2011, the company has been able to reduce its carbon emissions by 20,000 tonnes. In addition, Real is gradually replacing its refrigerators in the hypermarkets with energy-saving models. Of the 285 stores in total, 47 already have modern equipment. In this way, the company is saving an average of 40 per cent of electricity for cooling annually per refrigerator. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES REAL S. 89 kg CO² / m² selling space (referring to total selling space 2,003,960 m²) Source: Carbon Accounting Tool ® Advertising brochures made of FSC -certified Field of action customers and society paper Our mission: Our public activities are characterised by credible social responsibility and ties to the community. Real assumes responsibility for society by conducting numerous voluntary projects and campaigns. The main focus is on supporting families with children and non-profit aid organisations. Another focus of the company’s social responsibility activities is the provision of transparent and comprehensive consumer information concerning a healthy lifestyle. Flyers continue to be a major advertising medium for Real. Every week, the company distributes its leaflets to approximately 25 million households in Germany. For a number of years, materials with a high recycled content have been increasingly used for this. Since October 2015, Real has been using a blend of recycled paper and fresh fibres from sustainable and responsible sources for its weekly flyers. Customers ® recognise this by the FSC Mix label on the back of the advertising leaflets. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES REAL S. 90 UNICEF fundraising drive Wish tree campaign for children Every year at Christmas, children in need and sick children are thrilled to have their Christmas present wishes fulfilled Real has been supporting the United Nations Children’s Fund thanks to the Real wish tree campaign. Here, the company (UNICEF) for six years with the sale of UNICEF Christmas works closely with local institutions such as children’s homes, cards, with the entire proceeds going to the organisation in children’s hospices and children’s food banks. The children’s Germany. Revenues totalling approximately €750,000 from the wishes are attached to wish trees in all Real hypermarkets sale of these cards have been donated to the children’s fund during Advent – the customers can then take them home and since 2011. In the run-up to Christmas 2015, Real sold more bring joy to the children with a gift. than 22,000 sets of Christmas cards, generating sales revenues in the amount of €147,800 for UNICEF. Since the start of the campaign in 2008, Real has fulfilled more than 160,000 children’s wishes –15,000 in financial year 2015/ To expand their partnership, the two partners launched 16 alone. another joint campaign in financial year 2015/16. UNICEF teams went to 25 hypermarkets for several days to inform Long-term collaboration with food banks customers about the organisation’s work and promote becoming a UNICEF sponsor. This resulted in approximately 1,500 sponsors being recruited. Real has enjoyed a more than ten-year partnership with the national food bank organisation Bundesverband Deutsche Tafel e. V. The hypermarkets throughout Germany donate food items which have not yet reached their best-before date to local food banks. These pass the products on to people in need. In addition, the stores regularly initiate campaigns in which customers purchase donations in kind at Real and pass them on to the local food bank. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — SUSTAINABILITY APPROACHES OF THE SALES LINES REAL S. 91 In mid-2016, Real called on customers and partners to participate in a very special venture with the “Alt gegen Neu” (Old for new) bike exchange campaign: during a two-week campaign, all customers were invited to exchange their old bikes in return for an instant discount of up to about €348 in one of the hypermarkets. All the customers who donated a roadworthy bike or a bike in need of repair also received a discount on selected new models. To make the exchanged or donated bikes fit for the road again, Real invited customers, hobby mechanics and craftsmen to participate in “repair days” held at 16 stores. The 758 repaired bikes were donated to local food banks. Customer information on a healthy lifestyle Under the motto of „Besser Leben” (Better living), Real promotes a healthy lifestyle and offers its customers specific information regarding this issue – in brochures, magazines, flyers, on the company website and in the hypermarkets. In addition, consumers can learn about a balanced diet and sportsand health-related issues on the “Besser Leben” website. To help customers eat a balanced diet, Real also provides clear information on the components of individual food items. For example, the packaging of all own-brand items contains nutrition information tables offering an overview of the energy and nutrient content and information about the percentage of the recommended daily allowance that the product supplies. Customers can also learn about specific issues in extensive lists on Real website, such as: which products have been clarified with gelatin and which lab was used for which product? METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S. 92 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS Key performance indicators The chapter “key performance indicators” provides information about METRO GROUP’s sustainability performance in the form of key performance indicators (KPIs). It is divided into figures showing the company’s economic performance, staff-related KPIs, key indicators regarding the “sustainable operations” area of responsibility, which covers the responsible use of resources, key indicators for the “sustainable procurement and assortment” area of responsibility, and KPIs on sustainable consumption. Reporting period The reporting year is the same as the METRO GROUP financial year, i.e. 1 October to 30 September. Key performance indicators are reported for the previous three financial years. Reporting of the climate protection target also includes the target’s reference year, 2011. The figure for the reference year relates to the period from 1 January to 31 December 2011. A different reporting period is used in this case because METRO GROUP changed its financial year from the calendar year to the twelve months from October to September in 2013. Approach to data collection The key performance indicators reported are based on data that is gathered using various internal reporting systems. As a rule, this data is systematically recorded for each sales line and each country every quarter, in some cases every month. The KPIs are based on data collected for the whole METRO GROUP, that is for all of the sales lines’ stores, back offices and warehouses and for the head office in Düsseldorf. It is necessary to extrapolate and estimate consumption data for some KPIs in cases where the primary data available is incomplete. This applies to the KPIs on sustainable operations. In a few isolated cases, we do not have access to reliable primary data which we can use to extrapolate consumption figures. As a result, this consumption is not included. The table showing the extent of the data available provides information about the coverage of each key performance indicator. For instance, we do not have comprehensive measured or read-out energy usage data for the Media-Saturn consumer electronics stores which are tenants in shopping centres. Likewise, complete consumption figures are not available for a number of leased METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S. 93 warehouses used by our sales lines. For this reason, the energy-related KPIs’ coverage is less than 100 per cent. In both cases, however, the related greenhouse gas emissions are included in the carbon footprint under Scope 3 (leased assets). We do not have any data on the quantity of paper procured by Media-Saturn on a decentralised basis. Like energy consumption, paper usage is included in the carbon footprint. Consequently, the carbon footprint’s coverage is less than 100 per cent. The greenhouse gas emissions relating to purchased goods and services, assets and leased assets which are reported in accordance with Scope 3 are modelled because recording primary data for these is highly complex. The modelling is based on KPIs regarding METRO GROUP’s economic value added and an economic input-output model that draws on the economic flows of goods and services. In the reporting year, we updated the data which serves as the basis for this model to use the most recent data available (2011). Additionally, we took into account the effect of exchange rates and inflation up to 2015. The selling space figures used as a basis for some KPIs are averages for the year. They differ from the reporting date figures given in the annual report. The KPIs we report for work-related accidents and continuing professional development do not currently cover all employees. We do not have the relevant data for all sales lines and organisational units. Deviations from previous reports In some cases, the figures presented in previous sustainability reports differ from those cited in this report. The employee KPIs and the KPIs regarding value added do not include Galeria Kaufhof, either in the year under review or in the previous years. The sales line was sold in financial year 2014/15. There are differences compared with the greenhouse gas emissions reported in previous reports due to the updating of emission factors. We use emission factors to calculate the carbon equivalents of the consumption of the individual emission sources. Our primary sources for emission factors are the Defra, TREMOVE and GEMIS databases and, in the case of modelled emissions, an economic input-output model. There are other differences in the environmental KPIs, arising from estimated figures having been replaced by actual values. In a number of cases, the utilities provide us with consumption figures quite late, and we therefore initially work on the basis of estimates. We complete our data collection and reporting on an ongoing basis to improve the level of transparency and the way we manage our sustainability performance. As part of these efforts, we have included additional KPIs in our reporting and expanded on several existing ones. The following new KPIs have been added since our previous reports: New employees Total energy consumption At the same time, we have ceased to report several KPIs based on the results of our materiality analysis. The following KPIs are no longer sufficiently relevant for our steering and reporting: Emissions from refrigerant loss METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S. 94 Proportion of eco-friendly paper Own logistics fleet in Germany We have expanded the KPI relating to the number of sustainably fished products and sales of such products. The indicator now also includes fish and seafood products which are sustainably farmed and those certified as organic. Our reporting of the KPI for energy usage per square metre of selling space now includes separate details of energy consumption for cooling in addition to specific figures for electricity and thermal energy usage. The previous year’s figures have been restated accordingly. in % 2015/16 Economic value (value added) 100 Employees: gender breakdown, part-time rate, age groups and nationalities 100 Managers: gender breakdown, age groups and nationalities 100 Staff turnover and new employees 100 Work-related accidents 38 Continuing professional development – hours (FTE) 72 Continuing professional development – cost (FTE) 65 Training (trainees, interns and students) 100 Factories in risk countries with a valid social audit 100 Carbon footprint and climate protection target 97 Energy 98 Water 98 METRO Cash & Carry Sales of products certified as organic in line with EU regulations Germany and Real Sales of regional products Real METRO Cash & Carry Sales of fair-trade products (Fairtrade or GEPA label) Germany and Real METRO Cash & Carry Number and sales of sustainably fished or farmed products (MSC, ASC or organic label) Germany and Real ® Sales of products from sustainable forestry (FSC or PEFC label) Real Media Markt and Saturn Sales of energy-efficient appliances (energy efficiency classes A+ to A+++) worldwide Amount of waste and recycling rate 98 Community investment 100 All of the sustainability KPIs have been audited by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S. 95 Company Economic value (value added) SDG8 1 in € million 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Key performance indicator Revenue from sales 59,937 59,219 58,417 Interest yields 48 62 93 Rent yields 366 361 332 Cost of sales –48,176 –47,577 –46,967 Selling expenses –10,513 –10,221 –9,960 Administration costs –1,326 –1,467 –1,562 Write-downs –1,162 –1,487 –1,033 Personnel expenses –6,450 –6,505 –6,510 Dividend payments 0 –319 –351 Interest expenditure –434 –344 –314 Income taxes –539 –480 –559 Investments (total capex) 1,001 1,411 1,413 Disinvestments (disposals of tangible assets and sales of companies) 534 669 1,080 2 Net debt 4,655 2,527 2,301 EBITDA 2,228 2,177 2,530 EBITDA (before special items) 2,509 2,458 2,509 EBIT 1,077 711 1,513 EBIT (before special items) 1,531 1,511 1,560 Pre-tax profits 536 259 1,167 Net profit for the period from ongoing activities –3 –221 608 Net profit for the period from discontinued activities after taxes 185 935 49 Net profit for the period 182 714 657 Net profit for the period attributable to shareholders of METRO AG 127 672 599 thereof from ongoing activities –57 –263 550 thereof from discontinued activities 184 935 49 Net profit for the period attributable to non-controlling shareholders 55 42 58 thereof from ongoing activities 54 42 58 thereof from discontinued activities 1 0 0 Earnings per share in € 0.39 2.06 1.83 thereof from ongoing activities –0.18 –0.80 1.68 thereof from discontinued activities 0.57 2.86 0.15 Sum of cash flows 2 –155 2,034 –2,036 1 Adjustment due to discontinued activities (Galeria Kaufhof) 2 Including discontinued activities METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S. 96 Evaluation in relevant sustainability indices and rankings Index/ranking Rating/score Scale Year 84 Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World/ Industry Group Leader, Europe Food & Staples Retailing 0 to 100 2016 C+ Oekom Corporate Rating Prime Status D− to A+ 2014 A– Sector Leader, Consumer Staples (DACH region) CDP Climate Scoring MDAX Index Leader F to A 2016 CDP Water Scoring C F to A 2016 FTSE4Good Global/Europe Index 3.4 0 to 5 2015 Explanation: As part of our stakeholder dialogue, we inform the capital market about our sustainability management activities. This means our sustainability performance is rated by independent third parties. In financial year 2015/16, METRO GROUP confirmed its very good ratings in the Dow Jones Sustainability World and Europe Indices and its CDP climate score. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S. 97 Efforts on behalf of the employees Employees Western Europe METRO GROUP Germany (excl. Germany) Eastern Europe Asia/Africa/USA Proportion of men in % Proportion of women in % Definition: Full-time equivalent employees, average for the year, excluding trainees. Explanation: The Galeria Kaufhof sales line was sold in financial year 2014/15. All of the employee KPIs for the previous years have been restated. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S. 98 New employees by gender (in %) Western Europe METRO GROUP Germany (excl. Germany) Eastern Europe Asia/Africa/USA Proportion of new employees in relation to the average number of employees Proportion of men Proportion of women Definition: The figure for new employees includes all newly recruited staff and returning workers. The KPI shows the number of workers joining the company in relation to the average number of employees. It does not include trainees, interns, BA students and staff on temporary contracts. Part-time rate (in %) Western Europe METRO GROUP Germany (excl. Germany) Eastern Europe Asia/Africa/USA Definition: Share of part-time employees, average for the year, excluding trainees. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S. 99 Employees by age group (in %) Western Europe METRO GROUP Germany (excl. Germany) Eastern Europe Asia/Africa/USA < 30 years old 30–50 years old > 50 years old 2015/16 (2014/15) Definition: Breakdown of employees by age group, average for the year, including trainees. New employees by age group (in %) Western Europe METRO GROUP Germany (excl. Germany) Eastern Europe Asia/Africa/USA < 30 years old 30–50 years old > 50 years old 2015/16 (2014/15) Definition: Breakdown of new employees by age group, average for the year. This does not include trainees, interns, BA students and staff on temporary contracts. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S. 100 Number of nationalities Western Europe METRO GROUP Germany (excl. Germany) Eastern Europe Asia/Africa/USA Definition: Number of different nationalities among our employees, excluding trainees, as of 30 September. Gender breakdown in managerial positions (in %) SDG5 Western Europe METRO GROUP Germany (excl. Germany) Eastern Europe Asia/Africa/USA Proportion of men Proportion of women Definition: Managerial positions are those in levels 1–3 (Management Board, General Management, divisional management, departmental management and store management). The percentage of male and female employees in these positions is calculated (per capita as of 30 September). METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S. 101 Managers by age group (in %) Western Europe METRO GROUP Germany (excl. Germany) Eastern Europe Asia/Africa/USA < 30 years old 30–50 years old > 50 years old 2015/16 (2014/15) Definition: Breakdown of managers by age group as of 30 September. Number of nationalities among managers Western Europe METRO GROUP Germany (excl. Germany) Eastern Europe Asia/Africa/USA Definition: Number of different nationalities among our managers as of 30 September. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S. 102 Staff turnover by gender (in %) Western Europe METRO GROUP Germany (excl. Germany) Eastern Europe Asia/Africa/USA Staff turnover total Staff turnover of men Staff turnover of women Definition: Staff turnover is defined as all employees leaving, i.e. those who retire, die or hand in their notice. The staff turnover rate is the number of workers leaving in relation to the average number of employees. All employees on permanent contracts are included. Explanation: The staff turnover rate is high at METRO GROUP. This is primarily attributable to the fact that the staff turnover is generally high in several Asian and Eastern European countries where METRO GROUP operates. Staff turnover by age group (in %) Western Europe METRO GROUP Germany (excl. Germany) Eastern Europe Asia/Africa/USA < 30 years old 30–50 years old > 50 years old 2015/16 (2014/15) Definition: Employees leaving due to retirement, death or resignation/dismissal, broken down by age and region. The staff turnover rate is the number of workers leaving in relation to the average number of employees. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S. 103 Work-related accidents (per 1,000 employees) SDG3 Germany Definition: Number of reportable work-related accidents per 1,000 employees as compared to the number of full-time equivalent employees, average for the year. Accidents on the way to or from work are not included. Explanation: There were 22.6 accidents per 1,000 full-time equivalent employees at the German METRO GROUP companies. Based on the actual headcount, there were 19.1 accidents per 1,000 employees. Because of the widely varying definitions of “work-related accident” in the countries in which METRO GROUP operates, we currently only report this KPI for Germany. We are working on a uniform group-wide reporting approach. Steps are taken to ensure that working conditions within METRO GROUP do not pose a major risk of fatal accidents. For this reason, this is not a material topic for us as defined by GRI and we do not report concrete figures as a result. However, should an individual unexpectedly suffer a fatal accident due to occupational safety shortcomings, we have processes in place to inform the occupational health and safety officer at METRO AG immediately so that an investigation can be launched to identify the causes. In the interests of prevention, the results of any such investigation would also be shared with other group companies. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S. 104 Continuing professional development SDG4 Definition: Training (hygiene, occupational safety, etc.) and Average number of hours of CPD Average CPD expenditure courses focusing on ongoing operations plus mediumand per employee per year per employee per year in € long-term CPD opportunities that are offered with a view to enhancing the course of business. Explanation: Continuing professional development is an important part of METRO GROUP’s sustainable HR policy. We currently publish indicators on this topic covering more than two thirds of our workforce. Training (trainees, interns and students) Definition: All trainees including interns and students. METRO GROUP Explanation: The German companies’ training rate was 6.6 per cent in financial year 2015/16. 1 Scope has been changed for Germany compared to the previous years METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S. 105 Sustainable operations Carbon footprint SDG13 Greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of carbon (carbon equivalents) Reference year 2011 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Scope 1 – direct greenhouse gas emissions 1,084,509 1,015,598 871,837 760,186 Scope 2 – indirect greenhouse gas emissions 2,432,102 1,786,594 1,495,710 1,416,418 Scope 3 – other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 6,113,122 5,562,362 5,151,775 4,589,161 Total greenhouse gas emissions 9,629,733 8,364,553 7,519,322 6,765,764 Definition: Level of all main emissions by Scope in line with the methodology of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. The following sources of emissions are included: Scope 1 = fuel oil, natural gas, liquefied natural gas (LNG), liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), refrigerant losses from commercial cooling, refrigerant losses from air-conditioning, fuel consumption of company cars and the group’s own logistics fleet, emergency power generators Scope 2 = electricity consumption, long-distance heating and cooling Scope 3 = all external logistics, in-house paper consumption for advertising and office purposes, business trips, goods and services purchased for own use, capital assets, upstream chain emissions and grid losses for all direct and indirect energy sources, waste, staff commutes, leased assets Status of climate protection target 2 Greenhouse gas emissions in kilograms of carbon (carbon equivalents) per m of selling space Western Europe METRO GROUP Germany (excl. Germany) Eastern Europe Asia/Africa Definition: Greenhouse gas emissions from METRO GROUP’s stores, back offices and warehouses (by selling space) included within the climate protection target. Included are the emissions from electricity, heating and cooling energy consumption, also counting upstream chains and grid losses, refrigerant emissions from commercial cooling and air-conditioning, fuel consumption by company cars, in-house paper consumption for advertising material and office purposes as well as business trips. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S. 106 Explanation: We aim to reduce our specific greenhouse gas emissions by 50 per cent between 2011 and 2030. In concrete terms, this means that we want to cut our emissions per square metre of selling space from 330 to 165 kilograms of carbon equivalents per annum. Between October 2015 and September 2016, METRO GROUP generated 250 kilograms of carbon equivalents per square metre of selling space. The significant decline in emissions compared with the reference year 2011 can essentially be attributed to three factors: Measures to reduce consumption relating to energy, company cars, paper and business travel, and to reduce emissions caused by refrigerant loss General technical and scientific developments as reflected by the adjustment of the emission factors used to calculate carbon equivalents Changes in the store portfolio due to the sale of old and purchase of new locations. In Eastern Europe and Asia, for instance, particularly emission-intensive locations were sold. On the other hand, locations in Germany and Western Europe with emissions per square metre of selling space below the group average were sold Trends in the emission sources included in the climate protection target 2 Greenhouse gas emissions in kilograms of carbon (carbon equivalents) per m of selling space Reference year 2011 2015/16 Change in % Electricity consumption 211.9 150.0 −29.2 Thermal energy consumption 28.1 29.7 5.7 Company cars 7.1 7.5 6.1 Refrigerant losses 56.7 44.7 –21.2 Paper consumption 23.3 16.4 –29.9 Business travel 2.8 1.8 –34.9 Total 329.9 250.1 –24.2 Definition: Trends in carbon emissions per square metre from all the emission sources included in the climate protection target compared to the reference year 2011. Total energy consumption (in MWh) in MWh 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Fuel (heating oil, gas, petrol, diesel, LPG, LNG) 1,338,512 1,275,001 1,196,022 Electricity 3,594,949 3,071,126 2,964,314 District heating/cooling 223,355 136,719 140,881 Steam 0 0 0 Total energy consumption 5,156,817 4,482,847 4,301,217 METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S. 107 Definition: Energy consumption for operating the locations and for transportation broken down into the different types of energy used. Fuel includes fuel oil, combustion fuel, natural gas and liquefied natural gas. 2 Electricity, heating and cooling energy consumption (in kWh per m of selling space) Western Europe METRO GROUP Germany (excl. Germany) Eastern Europe Asia/Africa Heating Electricity Cooling Definition: Locations’ energy consumption in relation to selling space. Energy consumption consists of electricity consumption and heating and cooling energy consumption (fuel oil, natural gas, liquefied natural gas [LNG], liquefied petroleum gas [LPG], emergency power generators and long-distance heating/cooling). 2 Water withdrawal and wastewater generated (in l per m of selling space) SDG6 Western Europe METRO GROUP Germany (excl. Germany) Eastern Europe Asia/Africa Definition: Water withdrawal by the locations in relation to selling space. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S. 108 3 Explanation: In absolute terms, METRO GROUP drew 6.4 million m of fresh water in the reporting period. At the warehouses, stores and back offices, water is primarily used for cleaning and sanitary facilities. In addition to this, water may be used for storing, transporting and selling food, for example for keeping live fish or making ice to chill fresh fish. At the group level, we measure and monitor the amount of water which the company draws from the public drinking water supply. The public drinking water supply is the only source from which we draw significant amounts of water. We also measure and monitor the total amount of wastewater we generate at the group level. As our locations do not consume a significant amount of water, our calculations are based on the assumption that the volume of wastewater is the same as the amount of fresh water. All wastewater is fed into public sewers. We do not monitor the quality of the wastewater ourselves as this is not relevant given the usage described above. 2 Amount of waste and recycling rate (in kg per m of selling space and in %) Western Europe METRO GROUP Germany (excl. Germany) Eastern Europe Asia/Africa Definition: Waste generated in relation to selling space. The amount of waste is made up of waste for disposal, for recycling or heat recovery, and hazardous and organic waste. The recycling rate is the amount of waste for recycling and heat recovery plus organic waste as compared to the overall quantity of waste. Explanation: The volume of waste in absolute terms fell again, to 512,272 tonnes. This can be broken down as follows: Waste for disposal (84,919 tonnes) Waste for recycling or heat recovery (296,429 tonnes) Organic waste (66,967 tonnes) Hazardous waste (63,957 tonnes) METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S. 109 When we calculate the recycling rate, we do not take hazardous waste into account because we cannot systematically record the way in which it is treated (recycled or disposed of) in all of the countries in which we operate. However, based on information from several countries, most of the hazardous waste is also recycled. In reality, the recycling rate is therefore considerably higher. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S. 110 Sustainable procurement and assortment Social audits relating to own imports by MGB Hong Kong and non-food own brands of the METRO GROUP sales lines SDG10 Producers with valid Thereof with passed audit audit in % Producers with passed audit Producers that have passed the audit can demonstrate their successful compliance with the BSCI standard or an equivalent social standard system by presenting a certificate awarded by an independent third party. 1 Adjustment of the 2014/15 figures for social audits at producers relating to own imports through MGB Hong Kong; in addition, the 2014/15 figures include producers relating to non-food own brands of the METRO GROUP sales lines. 2 Adjustment of the 2015/16 figures due to the sale of the former METRO GROUP sales line Galeria Kaufhof. 3 From 2015, adjustment of BSCI rating system from three rating categories (good/improvements needed/non-compliant) to five rating categories (A/B/C/D/E). The result “improvements needed” was understood as a passed audit. Under the new measurement system, a portion of the previous “improvements needed” results was assigned to the categories “C” (passed audit) and “D” (failed audit). This adjustment resulted in a lower share of producers with a passed audit in the last financial year. Definition: Status of all the producers in defined risk countries in which MGB Hong Kong has import goods manufactured based on the assessment of the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), and of producers that manufacture own brands or own imports in the areas of clothing, shoes, toys and consumer durables for the METRO GROUP sales lines. Producers that have passed the audit can demonstrate their successful compliance with the BSCI standard or an equivalent social standards system by presenting a certificate awarded by an independent third party. Explanation: 1,632 producers were audited as of 30 September 2016. Of these, 86 per cent (1,405 producers) passed the audit. Producers whose audit results identified a need for improvement have twelve months to provide proof of those improvements through a follow-up audit. As of 1 January 2017, METRO Cash & Carry and Real will tighten the requirements for suppliers such that new producers will only be used if their audit results are at least acceptable. A two-year transitional period will apply to current producers.. The key performance indicator relates to all the factories of which we are made aware by our suppliers. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S. 111 Sustainable consumption We include sustainable, energy-efficient and resource-saving products in our range so as to promote responsible consumption. Sales of products certified as organic in line with EU regulations in Germany, in € million 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 METRO Cash & Carry and Real 96 107 130 Sales of regional products in Germany, in € million 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Real not recorded 302 367 Sales of fair-trade products (Fairtrade or GEPA label) in Germany, in € million 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 METRO Cash & Carry and Real not recorded 9 12 Number of sustainably fished or farmed products (MSC, ASC, organic) SDG14 1 1 in Germany, no. of products 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Own-brand products, Real and METRO Cash & Carry 90 108 133 Brand-name products, Real and METRO Cash & Carry 775 773 968 1 ASC and organic products not recorded Sales of sustainably fished or farmed products (MSC, ASC, organic) SDG14 1 1 in Germany, in € million 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 METRO Cash & Carry and Real 56 80 86 1 ASC and organic products not recorded METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS S. 112 ® Sales of products from sustainable forestry (FSC or PEFC label) SDG15 1 1 in Germany, in € million 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Real 4 15 13 1 Corrected since 2014/15 report Sales of energy-efficient appliances (energy efficiency classes A+ to A+++) globally, in € million 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Media-Saturn group of companies not recorded 3,160 3,231 Social engagement Community investment SDG17 1 in € thousand 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Charitable donations 2,555 2,450 1,400 Community investments 1,743 1,949 2,815 Commercial initiatives 3,227 3,574 3,326 Total 7,525 7,973 7,541 1 Category allocation was adjusted METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS METRO GROUP’S CARBON FOOTPRINT S. 113 METRO GROUP’s carbon footprint Why are climate change and climate protection important to METRO GROUP? SDG13 Climate change presents METRO GROUP with both risks and opportunities. Physical risks may affect our business directly or indirectly. For example, changes in the volume or frequency of precipitation may have an impact on the price and availability of agricultural products. Also, our store operations may be jeopardised by extreme weather such as torrential downpours with flooding or storms. Regulatory risks may affect our business directly or indirectly. For example, the levies imposed by Germany’s Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) have an impact on our procurement of electricity. One way in which we counter these risks is with procurement and supply chain management that creates the necessary structures to ensure the availability of goods at all times. Among other things, we are investing in technical measures to conserve energy, in energy management systems in accordance with ISO 50001, in switching to refrigerants which are less harmful to the environment and in programmes that will change the behaviour of every single employee. However, we not only see risks in climate change, but also opportunities. Sustainability will continue to grow in importance on a global scale, and the expectations in this respect on the side of customers, employees, investors, politics and society will increase. Continuing to systematically implement our sustainability strategy will enhance the appeal of METRO GROUP and its sales lines and own brands for these stakeholder groups. While achieving our climate protection target does indeed require investments, these will lead to savings in the medium to long term thanks to lower costs, in particular for energy, resulting in both financial and environmental benefits and improvements. Through our participation in the CDP climate change survey since 2006, we have provided information to the public about our climate protection strategy, the risks and opportunities resulting from climate change and the ways in which we manage our emissions. Based on this, we were once again named Sector Leader, Consumer Staples, and Index Leader, MDAX, in 2016. Carbon footprint and climate protection target In 2015, the global community agreed in Paris to limit global warming to 2 degrees Celsius at most. Achieving this target will require a considerable reduction in global greenhouse gas emissions. METRO GROUP is playing its part here by reducing its specific greenhouse gas emissions by 50 per cent per square metre of selling space by 2030 compared to 2011. This climate protection target relates to emissions that are central to our activities as a retail company and, most importantly, that we can influence directly. These are emissions from the consumption of fuel oil, natural gas, liquefied natural gas, electricity, district heating and cooling, and paper, refrigerant losses for commercial refrigeration and air-conditioning, the fuel consumption of company cars and emergency power generators, upstream chain emissions and network losses for all direct and indirect energy sources and business travel. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS METRO GROUP’S CARBON FOOTPRINT S. 114 METRO GROUP has been recording and publishing its greenhouse gas emissions since 2008, taking into account all the main greenhouse gas emissions that we cause directly and indirectly in the course of our business activities. This detailed documentation forms the basis for our goal of minimising our impact on the climate. The emissions that are actively managed with a view to achieving the climate protection target make up almost 40 per cent of the total emissions. Our carbon footprint reporting also covers the following additional emission sources: Fuel consumption of the company’s fleet of trucks All external logistics Goods and services procured for our own use (not including paper, as this is included in the climate protection target) Assets Waste Employee commuting Leased assets Methodology and reporting scope Our reporting is based on the Corporate Standard and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. The emissions of all the sales lines, service companies and back offices are taken into account. With the aid of the group-wide Carbon Intelligence System introduced in 2011, we record consumption data for the aforementioned emission sources at virtually all stores, department stores, back offices and warehouses. Where the documentation of primary data is very cumbersome or impossible, we model these emission sources. For example, we derive the emissions of procured goods and services, assets and leased assets from the key performance indicators for METRO GROUP’s economic value added using an economic input-output model that draws on the economic flows of goods and services. We report on the overall effect of all greenhouse gas emissions in the form of carbon equivalents in order to gauge the impact of other greenhouse gases in addition to carbon emissions. Since 2011, our carbon footprint has been subject to a business audit by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft. Developments in greenhouse gas emissions From October 2015 to September 2016, METRO GROUP was responsible for a total of 6.8 million tonnes of carbon equivalents (prior-year period: 7.5 million tonnes). We have therefore reduced our emissions by more than 2.8 million tonnes compared with the reference year 2011. The carbon footprint shows a breakdown of all the documented emissions by direct emissions (in accordance with Scope 1), indirect emissions (Scope 2) and other indirect emissions (Scope 3). Carbon footprint Greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of carbon (carbon equivalents) Reference year 2011 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Scope 1 – direct greenhouse gas emissions 1,084,509 1,015,598 871,837 760,186 Scope 2 – indirect greenhouse gas emissions 2,432,102 1,786,594 1,495,710 1,416,418 Scope 3 – other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 6,113,122 5,562,362 5,151,775 4,589,161 Total greenhouse gas emissions 9,629,733 8,364,553 7,519,322 6,765,764 METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS METRO GROUP’S CARBON FOOTPRINT S. 115 The emissions actively managed in relation to the climate protection target total 250 kilograms of carbon equivalents per square metre of selling space (prior-year period: 265 kilograms). Compared with the reference year 2011, we have therefore already reduced emissions by 24 per cent. Status of the climate protection target Greenhouse gas emissions in kilograms of carbon (carbon equivalents) per square metre of selling space Western Europe METRO GROUP Germany (excl. Germany) Eastern Europe Asia/Africa The significant decline in emissions compared with the reference year 2011 can essentially be attributed to three factors: Measures to reduce emissions, in particular those with respect to energy consumption and refrigerant losses (drop of 15 per cent) General technical and scientific developments as reflected by the adjustment of the emission factors used to calculate carbon equivalents (drop of just under 6 per cent) Changes in the store portfolio due to the sale of old and purchase of new locations. In Eastern Europe and Asia, for instance, particularly emission-intensive locations were sold. On the other hand, locations in Germany and Western Europe with emissions per square metre of selling space below the group average were sold (drop of approximately 3 per cent). METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS GOALS S. 116 Goals Status – Status – Topic Goals goal achievement Measures measures EMBEDDING SUSTAINMETRO GROUP is systematically In a first step, sustainability was integrated into all the ABILITY WITHIN THE making sustainability part of its work. key business processes by 2016 by identifying the key COMPANY Work in progress processes and their link to the topic on the basis of a Measure materiality analysis. ongoing In a second step, the issue is being continuously implemented within the business processes, for example on the basis of guidelines. Enhancing employees’ awareness of sustainable behaviour. Measure Development of a sustainability campaign completed. ongoing Internal and external communication materials on the topic of METRO and sustainability being generated and distributed. Conducting of workshops on sustainability within METRO GROUP , in particular in the Cash & Carry country organisations. Additionally, sustainability events held, such as a Sustainability Day at the headquarters and in 13 countries. Inclusion of a dedicated question on sustainability in the annual employee opinion survey, METRO Voice. The survey is conducted at METRO Cash & Carry and in the service companies. Sustainability has been and will continue to be included as a topic in existing training programmes. Measure Establishment of a programme for management develongoing opment for the specific purpose of boosting sustainability awareness. Status – Status – Topic Goals goal achievement Measures measures SUSTAINABLE METRO GROUP is intensifying its Continued inclusion of all non-food own-brand produc1 PROCUREMENT AND commitment to ensure fair working ers in a valid BSCI or equivalent social standard system ASSORTMENT conditions at its suppliers. Work in progress and increase the proportion of valid audits for products Measure 2 manufactured in a risk country . ongoing Tightening of requirements made to suppliers of METRO 1 Cash & Carry and Real such that all the producers used must have at least acceptable audit results by 1 January 2019. 1 This includes merchandise factories (non-food own brands and own imports) that carry out the final significant and value-creating production step. 2 BSCI definition of a risk country. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS GOALS S. 117 Status – Status – Topic Goals goal achievement Measures measures SUSTAINABLE OPERAMETRO GROUP is reducing its greenEnergy Saving Programme: investments to increase TIONS house gas emissions by 50 per cent, energy efficiency and renewable energies. 2 from 330 kg CO2e/m in 2011 to 165 kg Work in progress Energy Awareness Programme: strenghten awareness Measure 2 CO2e/m in 2030. of responsible use of energy. ongoing F-Gas Exit Programme: investments in the reduction of emissions from refrigeration systems. Status – Status – Topic Goals goal achievement Measures measures SUSTAINABLE METRO GROUP is initiating and Following successful implementation of the traceability PROCUREMENT supporting the development of an intersolution PRO TRACE for fish and meat product cateAND ASSORTMENT/ national, multi-industry and productWork in progress gories at METRO Cash & Carry Germany, it was also Measure SUSTAINABLE spanning technical traceability solution. launched in other countries in early 2015. At present the ongoing CONSUMPTION project is involving ten countries and the international trading offices; Hungary, Spain, France, the Czech Republic and Turkey have already successfully entered the pilot phase. Another four countries are preparing the piloting. Additional countries as well as other interested suppliers from selected areas of the product range will be included in the project at the international level in 2017. METRO Cash & Carry Germany has successfully completed the pilot project in the fruit and vegetables category. Status – Status – Topic Goals goal achievement Measures measures SUSTAINABLE By 2015, we will have defined processes Assessment of the social impacts of METRO PROCUREMENT with which to assess the sustainability Cash & Carry’s own-brand portfolio and its effects on AND ASSORTMENT impact of the METRO GROUP sales Goal achieved the environment along the supply chain has been Measure lines’ own-brand products. By continucompleted. The assessment was performed at the levels completed ously implementing our general METRO of raw materials, products and product groups and GROUP purchasing policy on sustainfollows the standard international assessment criteria able procurement, we will work on all for social and ecological impacts. product categories relevant to aspects of sustainability. The purpose of this process was to establish basic requirements and to make supply chain and procurement management more sustainable in the relevant categories. We accomplished this with our guidelines. Assessing the product portfolio, defining minimum standards and establishing specific KPIs enables METRO Cash & Carry to fulfil the requirements for a more sustainable assortment. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS GOALS S. 118 Status – Status – Topic Goals goal achievement Measures measures SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT METRO GROUP is expanding its food donation METRO Cash & Carry cooperates with food activities to international food bank initiatives bank initiatives in 15 out of 25 countries. In the from currently 15 METRO Cash & Carry counWork in progress remaining countries, external circumstances Ongoing tries to at least 17 countries. such as political and tax-related factors make measure collaboration difficult. METRO Cash & Carry is currently in communication with local aid organisations and political representatives in order to also push cooperation in those countries where external circumstances make it difficult. METRO GROUP’s Community Involvment The programme is being rolled out and Programme We Help was launched at the promoted within the group. Online and offline, start of financial year 2015/16. Its purpose is to Goal achieved we want to inspire as many of our employees Measure provide unbureaucratic assistance and acute as possible to become involved. completed emergency relief and to contribute to the integration of refugees. The Management Board of In the past financial year, we received 119 METRO AG provided a total of €1 million for this applications from six countries for projects purpose. Group employees can apply for one-off which provided assistance to approximately funding of up to €10,000 each for projects that 33,000 people. they wish to support. This gives committed employees the opportunity to become actively involved in their immediate environment. By the end of financial year 2015/16, a total of €1 million shall be expended on refugee relief in Europe. We have thus increased the budget for social investment (corporate citizenship) by €1 million. Due to the great success of the Community The new programme is rolled out and Involvement Programme, the Management promoted within the group. We will encourage Board has decided to continue it in financial Work in progress as many colleagues as possible, online and Measure year 2016/17. In 2017, all subsidiaries of the offline, to get involved. launched Wholesale & Food Specialist Company created from the planned demerger of METRO GROUP will have the opportunity to apply for financial support for their personal endeavours. All kinds of voluntary work are welcome. The METRO GROUP Marathon has been held in Step up promotion of the METRO GROUP Düsseldorf every year since 2005. One of the Marathon via the group’s social intranet both reasons of this sponsorship is to foster Work in progress within Germany and abroad. Measure employee loyalty. Participation not only ongoing increases team spirit but also promotes the health of participants. On average, nearly 700 co-workers take part each year. In 2016, this number was expected to be increased to 800; with 775 employees the goal was nearly reached. We will therefore continue to work on increasing the number of participants. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS S. 119 Sustainable Development Goals METRO GROUP supports the Sustainable Development Goals No Poverty GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index METRO GROUP Sustainability approach Efforts on behalf of the employees Fair working conditions Sustainable procurement and product range composition Fair and socially equitable working conditions Auditing producers Establishing the deal breaker process Social responsibility End poverty in all its forms everyActive involvement in food banks where Efforts for refugees Donations and sponsorship United Nations Human rights and working standards Global Compact Media-Saturn Sustainability approach Responsible product range High supplier management standards Real Sustainability approach Field of action product selection Compliance with social standards Regional product range 'Gutes aus der Heimat‘ Cocoa from certified and sustainable farms Field of action employees Family care period Hardship fund Field of action customers and society UNICEF fundraising drive Wish tree campaign for children Long-term collaboration with the food banks METRO Sustainability approach Cash & Carry Field of action assortment Fair and socially equitable working conditions Expansion of the sustainable product range Fish from sustainable fishery Sustainable palm oil Sustainable wood and paper products Fair-trade products Regional products Field of action employees Fair and safe labour conditions METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS S. 120 GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index Field of action corporate citizenship International Care & Share initiative UN World Food Programme Corporate volunteering Zero Hunger GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index METRO GROUP Sustainability approach EC-1 Sustainable operations Avoiding food waste and loss Sustainable procurement and product range composition Sustainable consumption Sustainable and transparent procurement Sustainable product range Social responsibility End hunger, achieve food security Active involvement in food banks and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture Media-Saturn Sustainability approach Responsible product range Real Sustainability approach Field of action product selection Product safety, quality and traceability Regional product range 'Gutes aus der Heimat‘ Expansion of the organic product selection Products with reduced fat, sugar and sodium content Engagement for the protection of animals Vegan and vegetarian product range Sustainable fish procurement Cocoa from certified and sustainable farms Sustainable palm oil Products from permaculture Field of action customers and society UNICEF fundraising drive Long-term collaboration with the food banks Customer information on a healthy lifestyle METRO Sustainability approach Cash & Carry Field of action assortment Product safety and quality Traceability International purchasing offices Regional products Expansion of the sustainable product range Healthy eating Fish from sustainable fishery Sustainable palm oil Field of action corporate citizenship International Care & Share initiative UN World Food Programme METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS S. 121 Good Health and Well-Being GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index METRO GROUP Sustainability approach EN-15 Efforts on behalf of the employees EN-16 Occupational safety and health management EN-17 EN-22 Annual Report Employees EN-23 Occupational safety and health management LA-6 Social responsibility Active involvement in food banks Efforts for refugees Ensure healthy lives and promote Donations and sponsorship well-being for all at all ages United Nations Human rights and working standards Global Compact Media-Saturn Sustainability approach Responsibility towards the environment, the climate and resources Recycled shopping bags Reducing paper consumption Reducing electronic scrap Cooperation with kaputt.de Reducing packaging Responsibility towards employees and society Health and sport services Real Sustainability approach Field of action employees Occupational safety Family care period Hardship fund Field of action environment New climate protection target for 2030 Responsible use of water Field of action customers and society UNICEF fundraising drive Long-term collaboration with the food banks Customer information on a healthy lifestyle METRO Sustainability approach Cash & Carry Field of action operations New climate protection target for 2030 Reducing food waste Field of action assortment Product safety and quality International purchasing offices Regional products Expansion of the sustainable product range Reducing packaging Healthy eating Supplier survey on water use Field of action employees Fair and safe labour conditions Field of action corporate citizenship International Care & Share initiative METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS S. 122 GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index UN World Food Programme Corporate volunteering Quality Education GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index METRO GROUP Sustainability approach LA-9 Efforts on behalf of the employees Promoting and embedding sustainability awareness Annual Report Employees Further training for employees Media-Saturn Sustainability approach Responsibility towards employees and society Sustainability as vocational training and further education topic Ensure inclusive and equitable Information on sustainability for employees quality education and promote lifeTarget group-specific training programme long learning opportunities for all Real Sustainability approach Field of action employees E-learning programme on sustainability Sustainable projects of trainees Field of action customers and society Customer information on a healthy lifestyle METRO Sustainability approach Cash & Carry Field of action assortment Customer information concerning sustainable products Field of action employees METRO Sustainable Leadership Program Sustainability training Using the internal social network UNITED Gender Equality GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index METRO GROUP Sustainability approach EC-1 Efforts on behalf of the employees LA-1 Fair working conditions LA-9 LA-12 Annual Report Employees LA-14 Diversity management LA-15 United Nations Human rights and working standards Global Compact Achieve gender equality and Real Sustainability approach empower all women and girls Field of action employees METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS S. 123 GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index Diversity and equal opportunities METRO Sustainability approach Cash & Carry Field of action employees Diversity and inclusion Employee network Women in Trade Active partner of Leading Executives Advancing Diversity Clean Water and Sanitation GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index Real Sustainability approach EN-8 Field of action product selection EN-22 Expansion of the organic product selection EN-23 Sustainable fish procurement Sustainable wood and paper products Products from permaculture Field of action environment ® Advertising brochures made of FSC -certified paper Responsible use of water Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitaMETRO Sustainability approach tion for all Cash & Carry Field of action assortment Supplier survey on water use Expansion of the sustainable product range Sustainable wood and paper products Fish from sustainable fishery Optimised packaging Affordable and Clean Energy GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index METRO GROUP Sustainability approach EC-1 Sustainable operations EN-3 METRO GROUP’s climate protection target EN-5 Status of the climate protection target EN-6 Investments in energy efficiency and energy generation Key performance indicators and targets METRO GROUP’s carbon footprint United Nations Environmental protection Ensure access to affordable, reliGlobal Compact able, sustainable and modern energy for all Media-Saturn Sustainability approach Responsibility towards the environment, the climate and resources Efficient energy use Real Sustainability approach Field of action environment METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS S. 124 GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index New climate protection target for 2030 METRO Sustainability approach Cash & Carry Field of action operations New climate protection target for 2030 Energy efficiency and energy conservation Lowering greenhouse gas emissions by means of electromobility Decent Work and Economic Growth GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index METRO GROUP Sustainability approach G4-10 Efforts on behalf of the employees G4-11 Fair working conditions EC-1 Occupational safety and health management EN-3 EN-5 Sustainable operations EN-6 Responsible resource management HR-5 Environmentally friendly packaging HR-6 LA-1 Sustainable procurement and product range composition LA-5 Promote sustained, inclusive and Fair and socially equitable working conditions LA-6 sustainable economic growth, full Fire prevention and occupational safety training LA-9 and productive employment and Auditing producers LA-12 decent work for all Establishing the deal breaker process LA-14 LA-15 Sustainable consumption Sustainable and transparent procurement Sustainable product range Reducing and avoiding waste Annual Report Employees Sustainable human resource policies Recruiting employees Remuneration models and succession planning Further training for employees Occupational safety and health management Diversity management Employer-employee relationships United Nations Human rights and working standards Global Compact Environmental protection Media-Saturn Sustainability approach Responsible product range High supplier management standards Responsibility towards the environment, the climate and resources Efficient energy use Responsibility towards employees and society Sustainability as vocational training and further education topic Information on sustainability for employees Target group-specific training programme Real Sustainability approach Field of action product selection Product safety, quality and traceability METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS S. 125 GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index Compliance with social standards Field of action employees Diversity and equal opportunities Occupational safety Family care period Hardship fund Field of action environment New climate protection target for 2030 ® Advertising brochures made of FSC -certified paper Responsible use of water METRO Sustainability approach Cash & Carry Field of action operations New climate protection target for 2030 Reducing food waste Field of action assortment Complying with social standards Product safety and quality Traceability Fair and socially equitable working conditions Fish from sustainable fishery Sustainable palm oil Sustainable wood and paper products Fair-trade products Regional products Field of action employees Fair and safe labour conditions Training and continuing professional development Diversity and inclusion Field of action corporate citizenship International Care & Share initiative UN World Food Programme Corporate volunteering Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index METRO GROUP Sustainability approach EC-1 Sustainable operations Investments in energy efficiency and energy generation Sustainable consumption Sustainable and transparent procurement Annual Report Innovation management Media-Saturn Sustainability approach Build resilient infrastructure, Responsibility towards the environment, the climate and resources promote inclusive and sustainable Cooperation with kaputt.de industrialization and foster innovation Real Sustainability approach Field of action product selection Product safety, quality and traceability METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS S. 126 GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index Field of action environment New climate protection target for 2030 METRO Sustainability approach Cash & Carry Field of action operations New climate protection target for 2030 Reducing food waste Field of action assortment Product safety and quality Traceability Infarm Reduced Inequalities GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index METRO GROUP Sustainability approach Efforts on behalf of the employees Fair working conditions Sustainable procurement and product range composition Fair and socially equitable working conditions Fire prevention and occupational safety training Auditing producers Establishing the deal breaker process Reduce inequality within and Social responsibility among countries Efforts for refugees Donations and sponsorship Annual Report Employees Diversity management United Nations Human rights and working standards Global Compact Media-Saturn Sustainability approach Responsible product range High supplier management standards Real Sustainability approach Field of action product selection Compliance with social standards Regional product range 'Gutes aus der Heimat‘ Cocoa from certified and sustainable farms Field of action employees Diversity and equal opportunities Field of action customers and society UNICEF fundraising drive METRO Sustainability approach Cash & Carry Field of action assortment Complying with social standards Fair-trade products Regional products METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS S. 127 GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index Expansion of the sustainable product range Field of action employees Diversity and inclusion Employee network Women in Trade Sustainable Cities and Communities GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index METRO GROUP Sustainability approach EN-30 Social responsibility Active involvement in food banks Efforts for refugees Donations and sponsorship METRO Sustainability approach Cash & Carry Field of action corporate citizenship International Care & Share initiative UN World Food Programme Make cities and human settleCorporate volunteering ments inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Responsible Consumption and Production GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index METRO GROUP Sustainability approach EC-9 Sustainable operations EN-3 METRO GROUP’s climate protection target EN-5 Status of the climate protection target EN-6 Investments in energy efficiency and energy generation EN-15 Responsible resource management EN-16 Environmentally friendly packaging EN-17 Avoiding food waste and loss EN-22 EN-23 Sustainable procurement and product range composition EN-30 Ensure sustainable consumption Sustainable consumption and production patterns Sustainable and transparent procurement Sustainable product range Reducing and avoiding waste United Nations Environmental protection Global Compact Media-Saturn Sustainability approach Responsible product range High supplier management standards Customer information concerning sustainable products Establishing a customer guidance system Responsibility towards the environment, the climate and resources Recycled shopping bags METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS S. 128 GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index Reducing paper consumption Reducing electronic scrap Cooperation with kaputt.de Efficient energy use Reducing packaging Real Sustainability approach Field of action product selection Product safety, quality and traceability Compliance with social standards Umbrella brand ‘Responsible business practices’ Regional product range 'Gutes aus der Heimat‘ Expansion of the organic product selection Products with reduced fat, sugar and sodium content Engagement for the protection of animals Vegan and vegetarian product range Sustainable fish procurement Cocoa from certified and sustainable farms Sustainable palm oil Sustainable wood and paper products Products from permaculture Field of action environment New climate protection target for 2030 ® Advertising brochures made of FSC -certified paper Responsible use of water Field of action customers and society Customer information on a healthy lifestyle METRO Sustainability approach Cash & Carry Field of action operations New climate protection target for 2030 Reducing food waste Field of action assortment Complying with social standards Product safety and quality Traceability International purchasing offices Regional products Expansion of the sustainable product range Healthy eating Sustainable wood and paper products Fish from sustainable fishery Sustainable palm oil Supplier survey on water use Customer information concerning healthy eating Field of action employees Promoting employee involvement and knowledge METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS S. 129 Climate Action GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index METRO GROUP Sustainability approach EC-2 Sustainable operations EN-3 METRO GROUP’s climate protection target EN-5 Status of the climate protection target EN-6 Investments in energy efficiency and energy generation EN-15 Responsible resource management EN-16 EN-17 Key performance indicators and targets EN-18 METRO GROUP’s climate protection target EN-19 EN-30 Take urgent action to combat United Nations Environmental protection climate change and its impacts* Global Compact Media-Saturn Sustainability approach Responsibility towards the environment, the climate and resources Recycled shopping bags Reducing paper consumption Reducing electronic scrap Cooperation with kaputt.de Efficient energy use Reducing packaging Real Sustainability approach Field of action product selection Traceability Cocoa from certified and sustainable farms Sustainable palm oil Sustainable wood and paper products Products from permaculture Field of action environment New climate protection target for 2030 ® Advertising brochures made of FSC -certified paper METRO Sustainability approach Cash & Carry Field of action operations New climate protection target for 2030 Reducing food waste Lowering greenhouse gas emissions by means of electromobility Field of action assortment Traceability Sustainable wood and paper products Sustainable palm oil International purchasing offices Regional products * Acknowledging that the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is the primary international, intergovernmental forum for negotiating the global response to climate change. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS S. 130 Life below Water GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index METRO GROUP Sustainability approach EN-15 Sustainable procurement and product range composition EN-16 Sustainable consumption EN-17 Sustainable and transparent procurement EN-18 EN-19 United Nations Environmental protection EN-22 Global Compact Real Sustainability approach Field of action product selection Conserve and sustainably use the Product safety, quality and traceability oceans, seas and marine resources Sustainable fish procurement for sustainable development Products from permaculture Field of action environment Responsible use of water METRO Sustainability approach Cash & Carry Field of action assortment Product safety and quality Traceability International trading offices Fish from sustainable fishery Supplier survey on water use Optimised packaging Life on Land GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index METRO GROUP Sustainability approach EN-15 Sustainable procurement and product range composition EN-16 Sustainable consumption EN-17 Sustainable and transparent procurement EN-18 EN-19 United Nations Environmental protection Global Compact Media-Saturn Sustainability approach Responsibility towards the environment, the climate and resources Protect, restore and promote Reducing paper consumption sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage Real Sustainability approach forests, combat desertification, and Field of action product selection halt and reverse land degradation Product safety, quality and traceability and halt biodiversity loss Umbrella brand ‘Responsible business practices’ Regional product range 'Gutes aus der Heimat‘ Expansion of the organic product selection Cocoa from certified and sustainable farms Sustainable palm oil Sustainable wood and paper products Products from permaculture Field of action environment ® Advertising brochures made of FSC -certified paper METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS S. 131 GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index METRO Sustainability approach Cash & Carry Field of action operations New climate protection target for 2030 Reducing food waste Field of action assortment Product safety and quality Traceability International purchasing offices Regional products Expansion of the sustainable product range Sustainable wood and paper products Sustainable palm oil Supplier survey on water use Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index METRO GROUP Sustainability approach G4-56 Efforts on behalf of the employees LA-14 Fair working conditions LA-15 LA-16 Sustainable procurement and product range composition HR-5 Fair and socially equitable working conditions SO-3 Auditing producers SO-4 Establishing the deal breaker process SO-7 Social responsibility Promote peaceful and inclusive Efforts for refugees societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for Annual Report Characteristics of the accounting-related internal control and risk all and build effective, accountable management system and explanatory report of the Management Board and inclusive institutions at all Risk and opportunity report levels United Nations Human rights and working standards Global Compact Anti-corruption measures Media-Saturn Sustainability approach Responsible product range High supplier management standards Real Sustainability approach Field of action product selection Compliance with social standards Field of action employees Diversity and equal opportunities METRO Sustainability approach Cash & Carry Field of action assortment Complying with social standards Field of action employees Fair and safe labour conditions Diversity and inclusion METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GOALS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS S. 132 Partnerships for the Goals GRI G4 SDG Report Content Index METRO GROUP Sustainability approach Embedding sustainability Stakeholder relations 2016 materiality analysis Social responsibility Media-Saturn Sustainability approach Responsibility towards the environment, the climate and resources Cooperation with kaputt.de Strengthen the means of impleReal Sustainability approach mentation and revitalize the global Field of action product selection partnership for sustainable develRegional product range 'Gutes aus der Heimat‘ opment Engagement for the protection of animals Vegan and vegetarian product range Sustainable fish procurement Cocoa from certified and sustainable farms Sustainable palm oil Sustainable wood and paper products Products from permaculture Field of action customers and society UNICEF fundraising drive Long-term collaboration with the food banks METRO Sustainability approach Cash & Carry Field of action operations REAP (Retailers’ Environmental Action Programme) Field of action assortment Traceability International purchasing offices Regional products Fish from sustainable fishery Sustainable wood and paper products Sustainable palm oil Supplier survey on water use GSSI (Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative) Field of action corporate citizenship International Care & Share initiative UN World Food Programme METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX S. 133 GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT GRI G4 Content Index KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has provided limited assurance. You can find the Independent Assurance Report in the Assurance Report Strategy and Analysis G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the Chairman of Annual Report 2015/16: the Executive Board Letter from the Management Board Letter to the shareholders Global challenges Review METRO GROUP sustainability Goals and strategy approach 2016 materiality analysis Macroeconomic and sectorspecific parameters Areas of responsibility Events after the closing date and outlook Goals Risk and opportunity report Organizational Profile G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Imprint METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX S. 134 G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments G4-4 Primary brands, products, and Annual Report 2015/16: services Business model Group business model G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Imprint G4-6 Countries with significant operaAnnual Report 2015/16: tions Sustainability approach Metro Cash Consolidation group & Carry Sustainability approach Real 57. Affiliated companies of METRO AG Employees G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual Report 2015/16: Imprint Shareholder structure Notes pursuant to the German Commercial Code G4-8 Markets served Annual Report 2015/16: Business model Group business model Sustainability approach Metro Cash & Carry Sustainability approach Real G4-9 Scale of the organization Annual Report 2015/16: The METRO GROUP sales lines stock the products of renowned manufacturers and own-brand products that combine high quality with attractive prices. In Germany, for Sustainability approach Metro Cash Group business model example, the entire product range comprises approxi& Carry mately 190,000 items at Real and approximately 135,000 at METRO Cash & Carry, as well as some 270,000 items Sustainability approach Real Capital structure online at Media Markt and 200,000 items online at Saturn. Employees Company G4-10 Employees by employment type, With legislation varying across the various countries in gender and region which METRO GROUP operates, information regarding the Employees proportion of temporary employment contracts has no informative value. Part-time rate (in %) As the percentage of people who are neither employees nor subject to the line authority of the company (including employees of contracting parties and individuals subject to their line authority) is insignificant, this figure is not reported. Our employee headcount is not subject to any significant seasonal fluctuations. G4-11 Percentage of employees covered The percentage of employees represented by an indepenby collective bargaining agreedent trade union or whose interests are covered by collecments tive bargaining agreements is approximately 70 per cent. G4-12 Description of the supply chain Procurement Policy for sustainable As a company in the retail and wholesale business, our sourcing supply chain can be represented as follows in simplified terms: manufacturers, growers and producers of food and Business model non-food items; transport, storage and distribution; stores; consumers. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX S. 135 G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments Sustainable procurement and Information regarding our management approaches within assortment the supply chain can be found in the section Sustainable procurement and assortment. G4-13 Significant changes during the Annual Report 2015/16: With regard to our purchasing processes, we take care to reporting period ensure that we are not dependent on our suppliers. There The year in review have therefore not been any significant changes in our supplier structure. As a result, we do not report on changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain or relationships with suppliers (including their selection and the termination of such relationships). METRO GROUP’s internal structures have likewise remained essentially unchanged. The The year in review section of the annual report gives details of any changes. G4-14 Implementation of the precautionEnvironment guidelines ary principle Sustainability approach Sustainable operations Sustainable procurement and assortment Sustainable consumption G4-15 External initiatives that the organiOur commitments zation endorses G4-16 Significant memberships in indusOrganisations try and business associations Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the consoliAnnual Report 2015/16: The METRO GROUP Corporate Responsibility Report 2015/ dated financial statements 16 covers all the key operational units, including the sales lines, service companies and back offices. The respective Business model Consolidation group scope of application is also noted for the indicators. 57. Affiliated companies of METRO AG G4-18 Process for defining the report content Stakeholder relations 2016 materiality analysis G4-19 Material Aspects identified 2016 materiality analysis G4-20 Aspect Boundaries within the organization 2016 materiality analysis METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX S. 136 G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments G4-21 Aspect Boundaries outside the organization 2016 materiality analysis G4-22 Restatemtents of information In the event of restatements of information compared with provided in previous reports earlier reports, these are explained by means of footnotes in the relevant places. G4-23 Significant changes in the Scope Annual Report 2015/16: Should there be any important changes to the scope of the and Aspect Boundaries report and the delineation of individual aspects, these are Consolidation group explained by means of footnotes in the relevant places. Stakeholder Engagement G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged Stakeholder relations G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders Stakeholder relations G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement and frequency Stakeholder relations G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement and response Stakeholder relations Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period Report Profile G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Report Profile G4-30 Reporting cycle Report Profile G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report Imprint G4-32 “In accordance” option with GRI and Content Index chosen Report Profile METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX S. 137 G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments G4-33 External verification of the report The scope of the independent external assurance engagement according to ISAE 3000 and ISAE 3410 by KPMG AG Report Profile Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft is described in the independent assurance report, which can be found under Assurance Report Assurance Report. It was not part of the engagement to review product and service related information, references to external websites and information sources, as well as future-related statements in the Report. Governance G4-34 Governance structure, incl. Annual Report 2015/16: committees of the highest governance body Sustainability management The Management Board Report of the Supervisory Board Corporate Governance Report Sustainability management Ethics and Integrity G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organisation’s values, principles, Our commitments standards and norms of behaviour Sustainability approach Annual Report 2015/16: Fair working conditions Corporate Governance Report Occupational health and safety management Sustainable procurement and assortment Economic Performance G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments Economic Performance Management approach Annual Report 2015/16: Goals and strategy Economy G4-EC1 Direct economic value created and Annual Report 2015/16: For competition law reasons, we do not report in detail on distributed the economic value generated and distributed separately for the national, regional or store levels. Company Cash flow statement METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX S. 138 G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments Social engagement 37. Financial liabilities 18. Other taxes G4-EC2 Financial implications and other Annual Report 2015/16: Since 2006, we have been publishing information on the risks and opportunities due to risks and opportunities resulting from climate change with climate change Carbon footprint Presentation of the risk situation our participation in the CDP climate change survey. Based on this, we were once again named Sector Leader in Consumer Staples, and Index Leader on the German MDAX, in 2016. G4-EC3 Coverage of benefit plan obligations Disclosures on G4-EC3 a-e can be Due to the different pension systems, it is not possible to found on the following pages: separate the pension contributions of employers and employees. Annual Report 2015/16: Figures for participation in a voluntary, group-wide future package in Germany can be found in the section on the Development of staff numbers development of personnel expenses. Development of personnel expenses Capital structure Balance sheet 33. Provisions for post-employment benefits plans and similar obligations Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local We are currently working on a definition of “local supplisuppliers ers” and on the corresponding data collection. As a result, we are not yet reporting on this indicator. Environmental Performance G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments Environmental Performance Management approach Sustainable operations Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the We do not sell significant volumes of energy to third organization parties. The consumption figures for the individual energy Total energy consumption sources are converted into MWh on the basis of the usual standard factors. G4-EN5 Energy intensity The energy intensity KPI comprises energy consumption within the organisation only. Electricity, heating and cooling energy consumption G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Investments in energy efficiency and energy generation METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX S. 139 G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments METRO Cash & Carry – Energy efficiency and energy conservation Real – New climate protection target for 2030 Media-Saturn – Efficient energy use Total energy consumption Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water withdrawal and wastewater generated Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emisThe greenhouse gas KPIs are reported in the form of sions (Scope 1) carbon equivalents and comprise all the Kyoto gases. Greenhouse gas emissions in Our biogenic Scope 1 emissions are insignificant and are tonnes of carbon therefore not listed separately. G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas The greenhouse gas KPIs are reported in the form of (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) carbon equivalents and comprise all the Kyoto gases. Greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of carbon G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas The greenhouse gas KPIs are reported in the form of (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) carbon equivalents and comprise all the Kyoto gases. Greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of carbon G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Greenhouse gas emissions in kilograms of carbon G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Status of climate protection target Trends in the emission sources included in the climate protection target Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Water withdrawal and wastewater generated G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and The waste disposal method is determined on the basis of disposal method information provided by the disposal service providers we Amount of waste and recycling rate use. Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts During financial year 2015/16, we identified the following of transporting products activities/consumptions for shipments: Responsible resource management METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX S. 140 G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments Company cars: 25.6 million litres of fuel Own logistics: 11.8 million litres of fuel External shipments: 2.5 billion kilometres of truck journeys, 7.8 million tonne-kilometres of flights, 1.6 billion tonne-kilometres of sea freight Business travel: 107 million kilometres of journeys/flights Employee commuting: 1.4 billion passenger kilometres This results in the following carbon emissions (carbon equivalents): 2.5 million tonnes of carbon Societal Performance – Labor Practices and Decent Work G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments Societal Performance: Labor Practices and Decent Work Management approach Annual Report 2015/16: Commitment to the employees Employees Employment Annual Report 2015/16: Sustainable human resource policies Remuneration models and succession planning Diversity management G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee turnover New employees by gender (in %) New employees by age group (in %) Staff turnover by gender (in %) Staff turnover by age group (in %) Labor/Management Relations Annual Report 2015/16: Employer-employee relationships Occupational Health and Safety Annual Report 2015/16: Occupational safety and health management G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce An Occupational Health and Safety Circle will be estabrepresented in health and safety lished in every country in which METRO GROUP is active by committees 2017. The proportion of employees already represented by these OHS Circles in 2015 was more than 44 per cent. G4-LA6 Injuries, occupational diseases, lost We report on the KPIs which are significant to us. The days, and work-related fatalities types of accident and the underlying causes are evaluated METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX S. 141 G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments Work-related accidents by us internally in order for us to derive appropriate (per 1,000 employees) precautionary measures. This internal data collection also includes contractor accidents. Training and Education Annual Report 2015/16: Recruiting employees Remuneration models and succession planning Further training for employees G4-LA9 Average hours of training A breakdown by gender and employee groups is not relevant for us and is therefore not published. Continuing professional development Diversity and Equal Opportunity Annual Report 2015/16: Diversity management G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees by aspects of diversity Gender breakdown in managerial positions (in %) Managers by age group (in %) Number of nationalities among managers Employees Employees by age group (in %) Number of nationalities Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Sustainable procurement and assortment G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that Sustainable procurement and It is not currently possible to specify a percentage, due to were screened using labor pracassortment the fact that data for new suppliers are not collected sepatices criteria rately. Such data collection is planned for the future. Otherwise, all the suppliers of non-food own-brand products who produce goods (or have goods produced) in risk countries are obliged to name their respective producers and to present valid audits for all of them. It is only possible to carry out a new listing of suppliers if a valid BSCI audit (or equivalent) is presented with an acceptable result for the specific producer (see also the METRO GROUP internal policy). G4-LA15 Significant impacts for labor praca) All non-food own-brand producers used by us with a tices in the supply chain valid audit. At the reporting date of 30 September 2016, Sustainable procurement and this was a total of 1,632 producers. assortment b) Of these, the number of producers with a deal breaker result. In financial year 2015/16, this was a total of 195 producers. c) A deal breaker result encompasses the aspects of child labour, forced labour, occupational health and safety – especially fire safety – and ethical behaviour. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX S. 142 G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments d) Within the framework of the deal breaker process, nonfood own-brand producers with a deal breaker result are obliged to rectify any shortcomings within six weeks. Until such time as the producer is able to prove that the shortcomings have been rectified and that they have sustainably improved their organisational processes, they will not receive any further orders. In financial year 2015/16, 12 per cent of non-food own-brand producers produced a deal breaker result. e) In financial year 2015/16, 26 per cent of producers with a deal breaker result were unable to satisfactorily modify their organisational processes and were therefore temporarily blocked from receiving any further orders. Societal Performance – Human Rights G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments Societal Performance: Human Rights Management approach Annual Report 2015/16: Commitment to the employees Employer-employee relationships Sustainable procurement and Anti-discrimination assortment Principles of fair working condiUNGC – Human Rights tions BSCI Code of conduct Investment G4-HR2 Employee training on human rights issues Fair working conditions Child Labor G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers having a) + b) All non-food own-brand producers (Tier 1) in a risk significant risk for incidents of child country with a BSCI audit result of C, D, E, Zero Tolerance, labor, and measures taken Fair working conditions Improvement Needed or Non-Compliant are subjected to a concrete audit regarding risks in the area of child labour. In Sustainable procurement and financial year 2015/16, this was a total of 1,227 producers. assortment c) In financial year 2015/16, no child labour was identified among any of the audited producers. As a result of insufficient processes for the reliable avoidance of child labour, 16 producers were subjected to measures for reducing this risk, including support in adapting internal producer processes, BSCI training programmes and/or re-audits. Furthermore, our producers are obliged to continually improve their audit results within the framework of the BSCI standard process. Producers whose audit results identified a need for improvement have twelve months to provide proof of those improvements through a follow-up audit. As of 1 January 2017, METRO Cash & Carry and Real will tighten the requirements for suppliers such that new producers will only be used if their audit results are at METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX S. 143 G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments least acceptable. A two-year transitional period will apply to current producers. Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers having a) + b) All non-food own-brand producers (Tier 1) in a risk significant risk for incidents of country with a BSCI audit result of C, D, E, Zero Tolerance, forced or compulsory labor, and Fair working conditions Improvement Needed or Non-Compliant are subjected to a measures taken concrete audit regarding risks in the area of forced labour. Sustainable procurement and In financial year 2015/16, this was a total of 1,227 producassortment ers. c) In financial year 2015/16, no forced labour was identified among any of the audited producers. As a result of insufficient processes for the reliable avoidance of forced labour, five producers were subjected to measures for reducing this risk, including support in adapting internal producer processes, BSCI training programmes and/or re-audits. Furthermore, our producers are obliged to continually improve their audit results within the framework of the BSCI standard process. Producers whose audit results identified a need for improvement have twelve months to provide proof of those improvements through a follow-up audit. As of 1 January 2017, METRO Cash & Carry and Real will tighten the requirements for suppliers such that new producers will only be used if their audit results are at least acceptable. A two-year transitional period will apply to current producers. Assessment G4-HR9 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews Fair working conditions Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that Sustainable procurement and It is not currently possible to specify a percentage, due to were screened using human rights assortment the fact that data for new suppliers are not collected sepacriteria rately. Such data collection is planned for the future. Otherwise, all the suppliers of non-food own-brand products who produce goods (or have goods produced) in risk countries are obliged to name their respective producers and to present valid audits for all of them. It is only possible to carry out a new listing of suppliers if a valid BSCI audit (or equivalent) is presented with an acceptable result for the specific producer (see also the METRO GROUP internal policy). G4-HR11 Significant human rights impacts in a) All non-food own-brand producers used by us with a the supply chain valid audit. At the reporting date of 30 September 2016, Sustainable procurement and this was a total of 1,632 producers. assortment b) Of these, the number of producers with a deal breaker result. In financial year 2015/16, this was a total of 195 producers. c) A deal breaker result encompasses the aspects of child labour, forced labour, occupational health and safety – especially fire safety – and ethical behaviour. d) Within the framework of the deal breaker process, nonfood own-brand producers with a deal breaker result are obliged to rectify any shortcomings within six weeks. Until such time as the producer is able to prove that the shortcomings have been rectified and that they have sustainably improved their organisational processes, they will not receive any further orders. In financial year 2015/16, 12 per METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX S. 144 G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments cent of non-food own-brand producers produced a deal breaker result. e) In financial year 2015/16, 26 per cent of producers with a deal breaker result were unable to satisfactorily modify their organisational processes and were therefore temporarily blocked from receiving any further orders. Societal Performance – Society G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments Societal Performance: Society Management approach Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Percentage of operations assessed Annual Report 2015/16: All operating companies and service companies at METRO for risks related to corruption and GROUP (excluding minority shareholding companies) are risks identified Compliance risks assessed for risks related to compliance, including corruption. METRO GROUP conducts compliance risk assessment workshops on an annual basis. During the workshops, various compliance risks – including corruption – are assessed in terms of loss potential and probability of occurrence within every entity. For the assessment, different risk scenarios have been provided. These include, for example, active or passive corruption involving different stakeholders, such as suppliers or public officials. The results of the risk assessment in the local entities are validated and consolidated at the corporate level as part of the corporate risk management process. The business activities of METRO GROUP are subject to a wide range of statutory and self-imposed standards. Various legal requirements, as well as increased expectations among customers and the public that companies ensure compliance within their organisations, are resulting in more demanding requirements and greater complexity. In order to satisfy these requirements, METRO GROUP has established and continually developed a group-wide compliance management system. The aim is to systematically and permanently prevent regulatory violations within the organisation. METRO GROUP regularly identifies behavioural risks. The main focus of our compliance management is on preventing corruption and antitrust risks. Corruption risks may exist in interactions with public institutions and officials, for example in the context of international expansion or approval procedures. They can also arise from business relations with suppliers and other business partners. In addition, the group-wide compliance management system also covers other relevant criminal and regulatory risks, data protection and risk areas concerning labour law, such as discrimination. Taking into account the identified and assessed compliance risks, the necessary organisational structures are established within the framework of the compliance management system. The risks are steered and controlled consisMETRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX S. 145 G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments tently by the responsible departments within the existing structures. In order to manage the identified compliance risks, METRO AG has introduced guidelines with a group-wide validity, including an antitrust manual, which provides, for example, work aids for supplier negotiations. It also includes sample formulations that are used for the purposes of antitrustcompliant communication with suppliers. In addition, METRO AG has introduced anti-corruption guidelines throughout the group, which include behavioural requirements for dealing with public institutions and officials on the one hand, and business partners on the other. The anti-corruption guidelines also require a compliance check for business partners in risk-related areas before entering into business relations. G4-SO4 Communication and training on UNGC – Anti-Corruption Measures METRO GROUP has set up a training management and anti-corruption guidelines management process that is applicable for all operating companies and service companies (excluding minority shareholding companies) to facilitate compliance and the prevention of corruptive practices. Training management processes and guidelines management processes cover employees as well as governance body members and are applicable group-wide. Target groups for anti-corruption policies and procedures are defined according to content and organisational relevance. Distribution is carried out either via the designated IT tool or via the cascading of information through management. For training activities, target groups are defined using a risk-based approach based, for example, on the risk profile of the function or the job position. Both managers and employees are part of this approach. For supervised workers and non-permanent employees (temporary staff and workers on fixed-term contracts), a risk-oriented selection is made. The training management ensures that participation in training programmes is adequately tracked. For policies and procedures, acknowledgement is tracked by the tool. New employees have received communications regarding anti-corruption policies and procedures within financial year 2015/16. Moreover, ongoing communication regarding anti-corruption policies takes place through internal communication channels such as the intranet and the social network. As no update of the existing anti-corruption policies has taken place, no separate communications were initiated via the designated IT tool. Based on the results of the current compliance annual reporting, in 84 per cent of the operating companies and service companies taking part, training on anti-corruption had been conducted with more than 90 per cent of employees and executives (including governance body members) within financial year 2015/16. In 16 per cent of the targeted entities, training on anticorruption was conducted with less than 90 per cent of employees and executives within financial year 2015/16. Measures to optimise the training rates in these entities have been already set up. Based on risk, all business partners have to complete a compliance business partner questionnaire (BPQ) before concluding a contract with METRO GROUP for the first time. Renewal of the BPQ is requested at regular intervals. The BPQ is focused on compliance-related topics and aims at identifying any indication of non-compliance on the supplier side. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX S. 146 G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments We do not externally report on regions or issue breakdowns by employee category. Anti-competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive Annual Report 2015/16: Information on legal disputes, investigations and any other behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly legal matters, and also on the potential risks or impacts practices 47. Remaining legal issues for METRO GROUP, is contained in section 47. Other legal matters in the notes to the consolidated financial statements of METRO AG as of 30 September 2016. Only those legal matters that are of significance to the asset, financial and earnings position of the group or METRO AG are included in the reporting. The materiality principle for reporting is based on Section 315 of the German Commercial Code (HGB) in conjunction with German Accounting Standard no. 20 (GAS 20) with regards to the consolidated financial statements of METRO AG and on Section 289 HGB in conjunction with GAS 20 with regards to the separate financial statements of METRO AG. Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that Sustainable procurement and We consider non-compliance with social standards, particwere screened using criteria for assortment ularly poor labour conditions, to be among the main actual impacts on society and potential significant negative impacts on society. We help combat such circumstances with our efforts in the field of social standards within our non-food own-brand production (Level 1 factories). As a result, we make reference here to our response to G4-LA14. G4-SO10 Negative impacts on society in the We consider non-compliance with social standards, particsupply chain and actions taken ularly poor labour conditions, to be among the main actual Sustainable procurement and and potential significant negative impacts on society. We assortment help combat such circumstances with our efforts in the field of social standards within our non-food own-brand production (Level 1 factories). As a result, we make reference here to our response to G4-LA15. Societal Performance – Product Responsibility G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments Societal Performance: Product Responsibility Management approach Sustainable procurement and assortment Product and Service Labeling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring In addition to contact through our sales force, we survey customer satisfaction our customers on a regular basis as part of the METRO METRO Cash & Carry – Waste Cash & Carry Customer Satisfaction Pulse initiative, in reduction order to assess their satisfaction with the performance of the company. Each quarter, 100 customers are surveyed at METRO Cash & Carry – Fish from every store. This includes querying their satisfaction with sustainable fishery the product range and product availability, prices, cleanliness, the checkout experiences and store employees. In addition, customers are asked about whether they feel METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX S. 147 G4 Indicators Links within this report External links Comments respected and whether they would recommend METRO to others. METRO Cash & Carry Germany also conducted a representative study among Horeca customers regarding the importance of sustainability issues in the food service industry. 500 people took part in the telephone survey conducted in June 2016. The survey found that 98 per cent of restaurateurs in Germany believed that it was very important or somewhat important that no food be wasted. This means that the issue of throwing away food is the top issue in the field of sustainability for the food service industry in Germany, ahead of saving energy (94 per cent), regionality (83 per cent) and animal welfare (also 83 per cent). Every year, Real in Germany surveys approximately 25,000 of its own customers and approximately 5,800 customers of its competitors regarding their satisfaction. In recent years, satisfaction has been at 1.7 on a scale of 1 (highly satisfied) to 4 (highly dissatisfied). In order to strengthen its contact with customers, in 2016 Media-Saturn established the Media Markt Club. In Germany alone, the club attracted more than 500,000 members in the first two months. Customers are also surveyed through the Media Markt Club, and customer satisfaction data are collected. Customer opinions are also reflected in the results of our stakeholder survey. As a group of stakeholders, customers also had the opportunity here to assess the relevance of factors related to sustainability. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT S. 148 United Nations Global Compact Being a member of the United Nations Global Compact – the world’s largest initiative for corporate responsibility – helps METRO GROUP to firmly embed sustainability in its company strategy. As well as this, it provides the right framework for our long-term commitment to responsible and ethical business practices. With this Communication on Progress, METRO GROUP is fulfilling its obligation to demonstrate which guidelines and measures it is using to improve its performance in the fields of human rights, working standards, environmental protection and the elimination of corruption and to ensure that the Global Compact’s ten basic principles are adhered to in strategic decision-making and day-to-day work both now and in the future. Düsseldorf, December 2016 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015/16 In the following table, we show examples of commitments and management systems that serve the ten principles, measures that we have taken and results that we achieved in the reporting period 2015/16. Human Rights and Labour Standards Principle Commitments and management systems Measures 2015/16 Achievements 2015/16 PRINCIPLE 1: METRO GROUP Business Principles Producers in defined risk countries (based on Of the 1,632 audited BSCI-relevant factories, Support for the assessment of the Business Social 86 per cent passed the social audit in accorhuman rights Anti-discrimination guidelines Compliance Initiative (BSCI)) in which MGB dance with BSCI specifications. Hong Kong has import goods manufactured PRINCIPLE 2: METRO GROUP guidelines on fair working and producers that manufacture own brands In addition to the training programmes Elimination of conditions and social partnership or own imports in the areas of clothing, offered by BSCI, approximately 600 producers human rights shoes, toys and consumer durables for the were trained by MGB Hong Kong. abuses International standards throughout the METRO GROUP sales lines are assisted in supply chain (BSCI) implementing the BSCI standard or an equivSee the social audits key performance indicaPRINCIPLE 3: alent social standards system. tor relating to own imports by MGB Hong Freedom of assoAccord on Fire and Building Safety in Kong and non-food own brands of the METRO ciation and the Bangladesh Social dialogue at the local level is an imporGROUP sales lines right to collective tant element in order for METRO GROUP to bargaining Key labour standards of the ILO (Internabuild up good labour relations. Collective tional Labour Organization), embedded in a Sales of fair-trade products within the agreements existing in various countries METRO Cash & Carry and Real sales lines in PRINCIPLE 4: variety of corporate guidelines were reinforced. In other countries, collective Elimination of all Germany came to just under €12 million. agreements were reached for the first time This figure includes items featuring the Fairforms of forced Social standards clause in supplier contracts or negotiations in this regard are still ongolabour trade or the GEPA label. ing. OECD Guidelines for Multinational EnterPRINCIPLE 5: prises, embedded in a variety of corporate Based on audits of the METRO principles Systematic continuation of the awarenessconcerning fair working conditions and social Abolition of child guidelines raising initiative Inclusion for Growth labour partnership conducted in Turkey, Poland and launched last year for all METRO AG and Austria, the next project was started in the The Consumer Goods Forum’s Resolution on METRO Cash & Carry employees regarding PRINCIPLE 6: Forced Labour reporting year. It provides for an expanded inclusion and diversity, supported by workaudit of fair working conditions and social Elimination of shops and an e-learning module. discrimination The Consumer Goods Forum’s Resolution on partnership in METRO GROUP’s stores and Health & Wellness offices in the various countries. This METRO GROUP has been on the Board of expanded audit is based on the UN Guiding Charta der Vielfalt e. V. since 2013. As a Principles on Business and Human Rights, member of the Rhine-Ruhr Diversity and comprises not only the seven global Network, METRO GROUP organised a joint METRO principles concerning fair working event under the motto of “Vielfalt statt Einfalt conditions and social partnership, but also, – Kulturelle Kompetenz für wirtschaftlichen for example, employee data protection. The Erfolg” (Diversity, not simplicity – cultural project started in October with Ukraine as the skills for commercial success) on the occapilot country. sion of Germany’s fourth Diversity Day in METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT S. 149 Principle Commitments and management systems Measures 2015/16 Achievements 2015/16 June 2016. Some 100 managers from the The joint declaration of METRO GROUP and member companies were invited to experithe international union organisation UNI ence the importance of this issue for their Global Union in December 2013 once again management tasks in many different ways. constituted the basis for the further support On the occasion of its ten-year anniversary, of the management and local labour repreCharta der Vielfalt took a mobile diversity sentatives in the reporting year, for instance workshop to ten locations in Germany. Diverin Pakistan. sity management is examined, embedded and further developed from various points of In November 2015, representatives of the view in the regions via interactive experimanagement of METRO GROUP attended the ences, input from experts and discussions. annual meeting of the UNI METRO Global The initiative aims to advance the recogniUnion Alliance in Berlin in order to share tion, appreciation and inclusion of diversity in their assessments concerning the developcorporate culture in Germany. The workshop ments within METRO GROUP in the various tour stopped in Düsseldorf following a joint countries. invitation from METRO GROUP and Henkel AG & Co. KGaA. Development and implementation of internal guidelines for the creation and maintenance The aim is for the proportion of women in of a healthy and safe work environment. managerial positions (levels 1 to 3) to be 25 per cent throughout the group in the calenTo make people more aware of the fact that dar year 2017. At METRO AG, the target is for occupational health and safety is the responwomen to make up 25 per cent of the first sibility of all staff members, we participated two management levels below the Managein the initiative of the International Labour ment Board in the calendar year 2017 as Organization (ILO): in April 2016, we held our well. first international Occupational Health and Safety Day. The employee network Women in Trade (WiT) now has some 290 members. It is instrumenOccupational health and safety training tal in sustainably increasing the proportion of courses remain a high priority for us in order women in managerial positions, promoting that we can prevent accidents. For this internal and external dialogue, and creating reason, we advanced the development of our better underlying conditions for women own training library even further in financial within the group. year 2015/16. A training course developed by METRO LOGISTICS on how to operate forklift The employee network PRIDE for lesbian, trucks was modified to make it internationgay, bisexual, trans and intersex people aims ally applicable. to raise awareness of the topics of sexual orientation and identity. In June 2016, a The proportion of women at management workshop on sexual orientation and identity levels 1 to 3 was 17.2 per cent on the reportlaunched the network’s ambassador ing date, 30 September 2016. programme. Successful external audit of the employeeFor details of active involvement in the areas related KPIs. of inclusion and diversity, occupational health and safety, and employer-employee relations, see also the “employees” chapter of the Annual Report 2015/16. Environmental Protection Principle Commitments and management systems Measures 2015/16 Achievements 2015/16 2 PRINCIPLE 7: METRO GROUP environmental policy Implementing energy-saving measures in all Greenhouse gas emissions per m of selling Precautionary the sales lines with the Energy-Saving space reduced by 24 per cent compared to approach to enviEnergy management systems in accordance Programme and the Energy Awareness 2011 ronmental chalwith ISO 50001 Programme lenges 2 Energy consumption per m of selling space METRO GROUP climate protection target: F-Gas Exit Programme: switching over our down almost 1 per cent year-on-year 2 PRINCIPLE 8: Reducing greenhouse gas emissions per m refrigeration systems to natural refrigerants Promotion of of selling space by 50 per cent from 330 kg such as CO2 or ammonia Greenhouse gas emissions from refrigerant 2 2 greater environCO2e/m in 2011 to 165 kg CO2e/m in 2030 2 losses per m of selling space reduced by 21 mental responsiAssisting consumers with energy efficiency per cent compared to 2011 bility Buying policy for sustainable sourcing, also and correct disposal by providing relevant specific purchasing guidelines on fish, palm information and guides and also by taking PRINCIPLE 9: oil and packaging See KPIs on the carbon footprint and status back old electrical appliances at METRO of the climate protection target METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT S. 150 Principle Commitments and management systems Measures 2015/16 Achievements 2015/16 2 Diffusion of enviCash & Carry, Media-Saturn and Real in Water consumption per m of selling space ronmentally International standards along the supply Germany increased by more than 2 per cent compared friendly technolochain (GLOBALG.A.P., IFS) with the previous year gies Transparent public reporting on climate The Consumer Goods Forum’s Resolution on change and water by participating in the CDP Environmental KPIs successfully audited Deforestation climate change programme and the CDP externally once again water programme The Consumer Goods Forum’s Resolution on Energy management systems certified or Sustainable Refrigeration Implementing the general buying policy for recertified in accordance with ISO 50001 at sustainable procurement and the specific over 130 locations. Certification of other The Consumer Goods Forum’s Resolution on buying guidelines for fish, palm oil and packlocations is planned Food Waste aging Membership in the Roundtable on SustainRenewed BREEAM certification for METRO able Palm Oil (RSPO) Range of ecologically and socially certified GROUP headquarters products Membership in the Global Sustainable Opening of the first METRO Cash & Carry Seafood Initiative (GSSI) Voluntary commitment to reporting on green store in Dongguan, China projects and their aims, measures and KPIs Company car guideline with incentive system concerning circular economy by 2018 in the Charging point infrastructure for electromofor more fuel-efficient vehicles context of the Retailers’ Environmental bility expanded Action Programme (REAP), which is jointly sponsored by the European Commission and Implementation of an industry-wide traceEuropean retailers and associations ability system as a precautionary measure relating to illegal fishing in various countries, and expansion to include new partners Products certified in accordance with the EU regulation on organic farming accounted for €130 million in sales within the METRO Cash & Carry and Real sales lines in Germany In Germany, METRO Cash & Carry and Real generated sales of over €86 million with products caught using sustainable fishing practices and aquaculture. These are products bearing the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC), Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) and EU organic logos. Real generated sales of €367 million with regional products in the last financial year. Sales of products ® bearing the Forest Stewardship Council ® (FSC ) label or the label of the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) amounted to just under €13 million Media-Saturn generated more than €3.2 billion in sales with energy-efficient electrical appliances Anti-Corruption Measures Principle Commitments and management systems Measures 2015/16 Achievements 2015/16 PRINCIPLE 10: METRO GROUP Business Principles Group-wide compliance communications Examples of internal communication Combating providing staff with information in various measures: corruption Anti-corruption guidelines for dealings with formats, including METRO GROUP’s social business partners and officials network platform, in order to ensure compliCompliance Talks ant conduct and prevent anti-competitive Compliance presence on METRO Business partner questionnaires behaviour GROUP’s social network Campus Hour: information event on the OECD Guidelines for Multinational EnterImplementation of an internal control system Düsseldorf Campus prises, embedded in a variety of corporate for managing compliance risks within operaguidelines tional processes, including systematic checks, dual control and separation of funcExamples of external communication Supply Chain Initiative (SCI) tions measures: METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT S. 151 Principle Commitments and management systems Measures 2015/16 Achievements 2015/16 Regular monitoring of internal controls Membership of and active involvement within the operating processes in the Alliance for Integrity, an antiImplementation of internal controls in corruption initiative run by the Federal other processes relating to key Ministry for Economic Cooperation and compliance issues (e.g. anti-corruption Development and the United Nations measures) Global Compact network Due diligence assessments of business partTraining management optimisation for better ners based on the anti-corruption guidelines adaptation of all training in the area of by means of business partner questionnaires Corporate Legal Affairs & Compliance and to ensure there is a sufficient array of training Inclusion of an anti-corruption clause in for the target group, with defined mandatory contracts with business partners training seminars External auditing of METRO GROUP’s compliImplementation of anti-corruption training ance management system for the relevant target group in accordance with METRO GROUP’s training management In financial year 2015/16, training on the topic of anti-corruption measures was given to more than 90 per cent of the employees and executives in 84 per cent of the targeted business units. Over the same period, training on the topic of anti-corruption measures was given to fewer than 90 per cent of the employees and executives in 16 per cent of the targeted units. Measures to improve these training quotas have already been initiated. Additionally, training for new employees working in risk-based positions (such as purchasers) Governance of all the METRO GROUP units managed by the Corporate Legal Affairs & Compliance department METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT (TRANSLATION)1 S. 152 1 Independent Assurance Report (Translation) To the Management Board of METRO AG, Düsseldorf We have performed an independent limited assurance engagement on selected quantitative and qualitative sustainability performance information in the “Corporate Responsibility Report 2016” (further “Report”) for the business year 2015/2016 (October 1, 2015 to September 30, 2016) of METRO AG, Düsseldorf (further “METRO”), published online at http://reports. metrogroup.de/ 2015-2016/corporate-responsibility-report. The quantitative and qualitative sustainability performance information included in the scope of our assurance is marked with in the column “Links within this Report” of the GRI Content Index. It was not part of our engagement to review product and service related information, references to external websites and information sources, as well as future-related statements in the Report. Management’s Responsibility The legal representatives of METRO are responsible for the preparation of the Report and the determination and presentation of the quantitative and qualitative information in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. METRO applies the principles and standard disclosures of the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative, the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 1 and 2) and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard of World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development, supported by internal guidelines, as described in the explanations to the sustainability performance indicators (further: Reporting Criteria). This responsibility of the legal representatives includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the reported information and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures which are reasonable under the given circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the information in a way that is free of – intended or unintended – material misstatements. Independence and quality assurance on the part of the auditing firm We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA-Code), which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. The quality assurance system of KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft is based on the International Standard on Quality Control 1 “Quality Control for Audit, Assurance and Related Service Practices” (ISQC 1) and, in addition, on national statutory requirements and professional standards, especially the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and Chartered Accountants as well as the joint statement of WPK (German Chamber of Public Accountants) and IDW (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany): Requirements for quality assurance in the auditing practice (VO 1/2006). METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT (TRANSLATION)1 S. 153 Practitioner’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work performed and the evidence obtained on the quantitative and qualitative sustainability performance information included in the scope of our assurance is marked with in the GRI Content Index. Nature and extent of the assurance engagement We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” and the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3410: “Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements” of the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). These standards require that we comply with our professional duties and plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain a limited level of assurance to preclude that the information above is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the aforementioned Reporting Criteria. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence gathering procedures are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The choice of audit procedures is subject to the auditor’s own judgement. This includes the assessment of the risk of material misstatement of the assured information under consideration of the Reporting Criteria. Within the scope of our work, we performed amongst others the following procedures when conducting the limited assurance engagement: Interviewing employees at Group level in order to gain an understanding of the process for determining material sustainability topics and the respective boundaries of METRO. A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant sustainability aspects for METRO in the reporting period. Evaluation of the design and implementation of systems and processes for the collection, processing and controls of the selected sustainability performance indicators, including the consolidation of the data and the documentation of these activities. Interviews with relevant staff at Group level responsible for providing the data and information, carrying out internal control procedures and consolidating the data and information, including the explanations to the reported information. Visits to Media Markt Saturn Holding Nederland B.V. (Rotterdam) and METRO Cash & Carry Nederland B.V. (Amsterdam), and video conferences with Metro Grosmarket Bakirköy Alisveris Hizmetleri Ticaret Ltd. Sirketi (Istanbul) and MS Istanbul İç ve Dış Ticaret Ltd. Sirketi (Istanbul), to assess local data collection and reporting processes and the reliability of the reported data. Visits to two stores of Real and METRO Cash & Carry in Germany to assess local data collection and reporting processes and the reliability of the reported occupational safety data. Evaluation of internal and external documentation to determine whether the qualitative and quantitative information is supported by sufficient evidence and is presented correctly and balanced. Analytical review of the data and trend explanations submitted by all sales divisions for consolidation at Group level. Evaluation of the overall presentation of the quantitative and qualitative information on the sustainability performance in scope of our assurance engagement. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed and the evidence received, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that selected quantitative and qualitative sustainability performance information in the Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 of METRO, for the business year 2015/2016, published online at http://reports. metrogroup.de/2015-2016/corporate-responsibilityMETRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — GRI AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT (TRANSLATION)1 S. 154 report and marked in the GRI G4 Content Index with , is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Purpose of the assurance report This assurance report is issued based on an assurance engagement agreed upon with METRO. The assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance is conducted on behalf of METRO and the assurance report is solely for information purposes of METRO on the results of the assurance engagement. Limited liability This assurance report must not be used as a basis for (financial) decision-making by third parties of any kind. We have responsibility only towards METRO. We do not assume any responsibility towards third parties. Düsseldorf, December 14, 2016 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft [Original German version signed by:] Fischer Glöckner 1 Our engagement applied to the German Wirtschaftsprüferin Wirtschaftsprüfer version of the Report 2016. This text is a [German Public Auditor] [German Public Auditor] translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in German language, whereas the German text is authoritative. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — REPORT PROFILE REPORTING PERIOD S. 155 REPORT PROFILE This Corporate Responsibility Report 2015/16 was prepared in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting InitiaLimitations of the report tive (GRI G4) and fulfils the “Core” option. The scope of applicability of the information is given in the The GRI Content Index can be found here. respective texts, key performance indicators or goals. Reporting period United Nations Global Compact The reporting period is the current financial year 2015/16 (1 Since 2010, METRO GROUP has subscribed to the principles October 2015 to 30 September 2016). To provide updates on of the UN Global Compact, a United Nations-led global initiadevelopments, information has also been included that relates tive that aims to encourage businesses to adopt universal to periods prior to 2015/16. In the interests of topicality, we sustainability principles. By subscribing to the United Nations have also taken into account events which occurred up to the Global Compact, we have committed ourselves to continuous time of going to press (12 December 2016). The frame of referimprovements in the areas of human rights, labour standards, ence for each of our targets and measures is indicated in the environmental protection and anti-corruption measures. With relevant section. the Communication on Progress 2015/16 that is available online, METRO GROUP meets its obligation to demonstrate METRO GROUP reports on its sustainability performance each how improvements have been made within these areas. year by publishing either a progress report or a Corporate Responsibility Report. A progress report was produced for financial year 2014/15, which was published on 16 December Independent external assurance of 2015. the CR Report 2015/16 We constantly strive to improve our sustainability management. Having our report audited externally is a means of emphasising the credibility and transparency of our sustainability reporting. That is why the METRO GROUP Sustainability Board decided to increase its use of auditing. This year, the scope of information externally assured by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft was extended. The quantitative and qualitative sustainability performance information included in the scope of the assurance engagement that was conducted according to ISAE 3000 and ISAE 3410 is marked METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — REPORT PROFILE DISCLAIMER S. 156 with in the column “Links within this Report” of the GRI Content Index. It was not part of the engagement to review Join in the dialogue product and service related information, references to external websites and information sources, as well as futureDialogue with our readers is important to us because it shows related statements in the Report. The certificate can be found us what you expect of our company and where we can make here. further improvements. We would therefore like to hear any questions or comments you may have about the Disclaimer METRO GROUP Corporate Responsibility Report 2015/16 and our sustainability activities in general. This Corporate Responsibility Report contains forward-looking To share your thoughts, use one of our online dialogue tools or statements that are based on certain assumptions and expecsend us an e-mail: CR@metro.de tations at the time of its publication. These statements are therefore subject to risks and uncertainties, which means that We will also conduct another stakeholder survey in 2017 to actual results may differ substantially from the futureidentify the most important issues we face. We hope you will oriented statements made here. Many of these risks and visit our website and take part. uncertainties are determined by factors that are beyond the control of METRO GROUP and cannot be gauged with any certainty at this point in time. These include future market conditions and economic developments, the behaviour of other market participants, the achievement of expected synergy effects as well as legal and political decisions. METRO GROUP does not feel obliged to publish corrections to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the publication date of this material. METRO GROUP — CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015/16 — REPORT PROFILE FURTHER INFORMATION S. 157 Further information Film production Bastian Beuttel Publishing details Photo credits Magazine: all pictures (METRO AG) Publisher METRO AG Sustainability approaches of the sales lines – METRO Cash & Metro-Straße 1 Carry: METRO Sustainable (METRO Cash & Carry), Fair trade 40235 Düsseldorf, Germany coffee beans (METRO Cash & Carry), GSSI logo (GSSI), CorvPO Box 23 03 61 inus (METRO Cash & Carry Hungary), Alma Makro (METRO 40089 Düsseldorf, Germany Cash & Carry Spanien), Filiere (METRO Cash & Carry Italien), Fermove (METRO Cash & Carry Ukraine), MSLP (METRO AG), METRO GROUP on the internet WiT (METRO AG), LEAD Network (LEAD Network), Care & www.metrogroup.de Share (METRO AG), WFP (WFP). Corporate Responsibility Sustainability approaches of the sales lines – Media-Saturn: Veronika Pountcheva MH Imtron (Media-Saturn-Holding GmbH), Utopia empfiehlt Michael Goebbels (Utopia GmbH), Saturn Ingolstadt 078 (Media-Saturn-Holding Phone: +49 211 969-2240 GmbH), electronic price displays (Media-Saturn-Holding cr@metro.de GmbH), store energy consumption (Media-Saturn-Holding GmbH), parcel collection (Media-Saturn-Holding GmbH), vocational training (Media-Saturn-Holding GmbH), Fit bleibt Project responsibility, concept and editing vorn (Media-Saturn-Holding GmbH), diagrams: kaputt.de Chantal Wagner solutions (kaputt.de). Nina von Radowitz Sustainability approaches of the sales lines – Real: Portrait KPI editing of Patrick Müller-Sarmiento, Henning Gieseke (real,SBSilvio Schmidt Warenhaus GmbH ), sustainable textiles partnership (Partnership for Sustainable Textiles), Bangladesh Accord (Bangladesh GRI Index editing Accord), BSCI (Foreign Trade Association), “Gutes aus der Elmar Theile Heimat” poster (real,SB-Warenhaus GmbH), permaculture (real,SB Warenhaus GmbH), animal welfare at Real (real,Creative execution SB-Warenhaus GmbH), vegan and vegetarian product range Strichpunkt GmbH, Stuttgart/Berlin (real,SB-Warenhaus GmbH), Klick dich klug (real,SBWarenhaus GmbH), UNICEF cards and logo (UNICEF), wish Editing and project management tree campaign (real,SB-Warenhaus GmbH), “Alt gegen Neu” Ketchum Pleon GmbH, Düsseldorf campaign (real,SB-Warenhaus GmbH), food banks ® ® (Bundesverband Deutsche Tafel e. V.), FSC and FSC mix ® (FSC ), Good Rabbit Award (Compassion of World Farming), Online design, concept and realisation Inclusion Award (Inclusion Award), Trainer of the Year 2016 nexxar GmbH, Vienna Online annual reports and online (Lebensmittel Praxis), “Mit gutem Gewissen” sustainability sustainability reports award (Focus Money), Company Check 2015 (Die Verbraucher Initiative e. V.). Photography Thomas Rabsch (Management Board) Published on 14 December 2016 Urban Zintel (magazine) ANNUAL REPORT CONDENSED REPORT C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2015⁄16 2015⁄16 REPORT 2015⁄16 The present Corporate Responsibility Report is one of three METRO GROUP publications on financial year 2015/16. You will find the full annual report as well as the condensed report at www.metrogroup.de/clarity. WWW. METROGROUP. D E ⁄ CLARITY W W W. M E T R O G R O U P. D E / C L A R I T Y C L A R I T Y 2 0 1 5 / 1 6 W W W . M E T R O G R O U P. D E / C L A R I T Y
