IDLC is committed to sustainable development by creating long-term value – value for our stakeholders, value for the environment and value for the community. Table of Contents Subject PAGE NO Statement of the Chairman of the Board 1 Statement of the CEO and Managing Director 2 Reporting Parameters 3 CHAPTER 1 The World of IDLC 5 Our Philosophies –The Backbone of Our Enterprise 7 Shareholding Structure 8 Our Business Model 9 Business Segment Review 10 Our Extensive Range of Products and Services 20 Sectoral Exposure 21 Core Financial Highlights 2015 22 Value Added Statement 24 Market value added (MVA) statement 25 Economic value added (EVA) statement 26 Memberships 27 CHAPTER 2 Corporate Social Responsibility 28 Regulatory Bodies and Memberships 29 CHAPTER 3 Corporate Governance 31 Board of Directors 31 Committees of the Board & Management 33 Subject PAGE NO IDLC's Statement of Corporate Governance 37 Management Committee (Man-Com) 50 CHAPTER 4 Transforming lives through skills development 53 CHAPTER 5 Facilitating curative and preventive healthcare 56 CHAPTER 6 Environmental initiatives 59 Green Banking 62 CHAPTER 7 Our Human Capital 66 CHAPTER 8 Extended Responsibilities 71 CHAPTER 9 Stakeholder Engagement for Reporting 72 CHAPTER 10 GRI – G4 Reporting Index 75 General Standard Disclosures 75 Specific Standard Disclosures 76 Our Awards Showcase of 2015 78 IDLC CSR Highlights 2015 1,500 School children 1,000 58 participated in the Saplings planted under Marginalised women Environmental the Tree Plantation trained and facilitated Awareness Program with employment Campaign 103 30 273 Ready-made garment Blood bags donated to Intellectually disabled working mothers Thalassemia Samity for youth given vocational trained on infant care treatment of patients training and breastfeeding Abbreviations ADB Asian Development Bank AML Anti Money Laundering AUM Asset Under Management BB Bangladesh Bank BGMEA Bangladesh Garments Manufacturers and Exporters Association BKMEA Bangladesh Knitwear Manufacturers & Exporters Association Bn Billion CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate CDM Clean Development Mechanism CDMP Comprehensive Disaster Management Programme CEO Chief Executive Officer CoFI Cost of Fund Index CRMS Customer Relationship Management System CSE Chittagong Stock Exchange CSR Corporate Social Responsibility CP Cerebral Palsy DFID Department of International Development DFIM Department of Financial Institutions and Markets DKAP Dealers' Knowledge Advancement Programme DO Development Organisation DPM Discretionary Portfolio Management DSE Dhaka Stock Exchange DTE Directorate of Technical Education ECR Environmental Conservation Rules EEEF European Energy Efficient Fund EEK Energy-Efficient Brick Kiln EnvRR Environmental Risk Rating ESIA Environmental and Social Impact Assessment ESMS Environmental and Social Management System ETP Effluent Treatment Plant FDI Foreign Direct Investment FGD Focus Group Discussion FI Financial Institutions GB & CSR Green Banking and Corporate Social Responsibility GCPF Global Climate Partnership Fund GDP Gross Domestic Product GHG Green House Gas GRI Global Reporting Initiative GTSC Gazipur Technical School and College HNW High Net Worth ICC Internal Control & Compliance ICF International Climate Fund IDCOL Infrastructure Development Company Limited IDLC IL IDLC Investments Limited IDLC LF IDLC Ladies' Forum IDLC SL IDLC Securities Limited IFC International Finance Corporation IFG International Factoring Group IIDFC Industrial and Infrastructure Development Company Limited ILO International Labour Organisation IPFF Investment Promotion and Financing Facility IPO Initial Public Offering IT Information Technology JICA Japan International Cooperation Agency LEADS Livelihood Education and Development Services LDC Least Developed Country ManCom Management Committee MIS Management Information System Mn Million MoU Memorandum of Understanding NBFI Non-Banking Financial Institution NAPA National Adaptation Programme of Action NGO Non-Governmental Organisation NPS Net Promoter Score NRB Non-Resident Bangladeshis OJT On-the-Job Training PBT Profit Before Tax PPP Public-Private Partnership REHAB Real Estate and Housing Association of Bangladesh RMG Ready-Made Garments RMF Risk Management Forum RPO Repeat Public Offering SBBN Small Business Banking Network SHS Solar Home System SME Small and Medium Enterprise SOP Standard Operating Procedure SREDA Sustainable and Renewable Energy Development Authority TAHN Training & Assistance for Health & Nutrition TAT Turn Around Time TVET Technical and Vocational Education and Training UNDP United Nations Development Programme VAS Value Added Service WEL Women Entrepreneur Loan IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Statement of the Chairman of the Board Aziz Al Mahmood Chairman A t IDLC Finance Limited, as one of the most trusted I am happy to note that our employees are vibrant financial brands of Bangladesh, we recognise that examples of our success in ingraining the cultural fabric of our customers have placed their faith on us – and our organisation deep into their conscience. We dovetail we must uphold this confidence relentlessly every our focus of business growth as much as on our pursuit of single day. This is the context of our corporate values serving the communities we operate. We have chosen to influencing every aspect of our culture and business select areas where, leveraging collaborative and constructive activities and we recognise that values are best achieved partnerships, we can create the maximum impact. 1 when integrated into day-to-day practices. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 We invite you to learn more about us and our CSR practices It is with this spirit that our vision, mission and ethics are through the following pages. developed in conjunction with our operational businesses and help improve the way we initiate customer relationships and sustain them across their lifecycle. Our priority areas Best wishes, comprise business ethics, anti-bribery, corruption and human rights. To better reflect the focus which our values have within our organisation and the importance we place Aziz Al Mahmood upon ethics and sustainability, we continue to remain the Chairman only NBFI in our industry to have an integrated CSR reporting IDLC Finance Limited framework which is led by our Annual Report and Accounts. Statement of the CEO and Managing Director Arif Khan CEO & Managing Director A t IDLC Finance Limited, as a growing institution, With the help of our philanthropic and strategic partners, we have become more responsible in sharing we are committed to enhance the quality of lifestyle among the benefit of our growth with the communities our countrymen and ensure that our nation comes to be we serve with more and more of our resources counted as a responsible, emerging economy in the world. being invested in such ‘foundation-building’ programmes as education, vocational training, capacity building and 2 healthcare. I am happy to share with you that in the past Warm regards year alone, we actively supported the work of several SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 organisations by contributing time, talent, material and Arif Khan funds to their respective causes. While the hours, assistance CEO & Managing Director and supplies we gave cannot be fully enumerated,our IDLC Finance Limited financial contributions exceeded Taka 9.93 million in 2015. Our mission is to eliminate poverty by placing people on the path to prosperity. This builds strong local economies and makes sustainable progress possible. We focus our efforts on basic human needs that encompass education and the environment. IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Reporting parameters Reporting period Reporting cycle Report edition January 1 – Annual 5th December 31, 2015 Publication date GRI-G4 level of the most recent ‘In Accordance’ – previous report Core April 2015 METHODOLOGY AND MATERIALITY BOUNDARY GRI-G4 guidelines require stakeholder engagement to The report details how IDLC addresses the material issues identify the material CSR and sustainability aspects for stated above and how these significantly influence inclusion in the report. Accordingly, IDLC has identified performance both within and outside the organisation. priority issues through a small survey conducted involving LIMITATION selected stakeholders and discussions. Although sustainability reporting is gradually gaining The stakeholders revealed the following that influence ground among financial institutions and other industries, the IDLC’s economic, environmental and social performance concept and publication is still new in Bangladesh. As IDLC and guide its perception among them in the long run: publishes this report in-house, following the GRI guidelines, • Corporate governance, ethics and compliance it is not always possible to gain insights or receive guidance from similar publications locally. • Social and environmental obligations towards the society and the marginalised Moreover, the reporting methodology from G3.1 to G4 • Superior customer experience through continuous has undergone a paradigm shift, the biggest challenge improvement being engaging stakeholder groups to understand their expectations from the organisation. For this report, IDLC Creating an enabling environment for all IDLC staff based has not applied advanced engagement techniques such as on these issues, relevant material aspects were identified FGDs but only a survey using close-ended questions. from the G4 guidelines and the necessary information was provided against specific performance indicators, detailing CONTACT INFORMATION 3 how IDLC manages these concerns through its strategies We encourage and appreciate feedback from all our internal SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 and operations. and external stakeholders. Your suggestions are vital to help The process and list of material aspects have been detailed us improve the quality of our reporting. in the chapter “Stakeholder Engagement for Reporting”. Please email your suggestions and opinions to hayesha@idlc. SCOPE com, or contact Ayesha Haque, Head of CSR, IDLC Finance Limited at +88-0173-0374585 for further information. The core focus of this report is the CSR initiatives of IDLC. In addition, issues affecting the long-term sustainability of the company’s overall operations have also been covered that are not limited to CSR only. THE WORLD OF IDLC 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Chapter 1 | The world of IDLC We are a brand that Bangladesh is proud of IDLC is one of the most trusted and respected non-banking financial institutions (NBFI) of Bangladesh The Company is engaged in the country’s economic progress through fostering entrepreneurship by disbursing loans to SME and arranging and disbursing loans to corporate customers IDLC provides a better standard of living to the country’s citizens by disbursing a wide range of retail loans The Company ensures the financial security of a large population crosssection by providing access to high-quality, interest-yielding deposits We have focused on our niche to remain competitive Total loan book, 2014 The very ethos of IDLC is to walk the path that few choose Taka in million to take. Being an entrepreneurial organisation driven by the spirit of enterprise, the Company’s salubrious risk assessment 5 9, 59 and appraisal systems enables it to cater to segments of the economy that are typically considered to be risk-prone. 17,905 It is here where IDLC identifies its niche, provides a wide range of targeted and specific solutions and creates the 17,519 platform for mutual benefit and growth. Take for example IDLC’s SME loan book that has reported a sharp 40% Compounded Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) over Corporate SME Consumer the past five years, among the highest in the segment in the country. We have remained ambitious yet conservative with risk Or for instance IDLC’s Consumer loans division that grew a respectable 17.78% in size in 2015, led by good growth in We are ambitious, yet recognise that it is discipline that will car and home loan financing. Driven by significant 64.86% take us far. This prudent blend has always let us keep our growth in fund raised by structured finance department, the eyes on qualitative growth and not chase growth for the Company's corporate loan book also grew 10.72% during sake of growth itself. the year under report. Our ability to weigh and price risks has allowed us to not only grow our portfolio but do so oriented towards profitable Total loan book, 2015 and balanced growth. Taka in million 5 In our journey, as in the path of most businesses engaged in financial services, we reported NPLs, though controlled and SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ,6 2 10 3 with the necessary provisions provided for under prescribed 22,368 regulatory ambits. Through this approach, we have grown our loan book, 20,633 positioned it towards segments fetching us higher weighted average risk-return ratios and consolidated our position as a profitably sustainable enterprise. Corporate SME Consumer Non-Performing Loans Dividend per Share Cash dividend In percentage Stock dividend In percentage 2.32% 2.09% 1.63% 2.02% 3.06% 25% 10% 25% 25% 5% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 104 bps increase in 2015 over 2014 Net Asset Value per Share Taka We have consistently enriched shareholder value Beyond its financial assets, a financial institution needs to have certain intangible qualities if it wants to deliver sustainable returns to shareholders. At IDLC, we believe that our ability to spot opportunities faster than the market and providing for specific needs within this niche in the best possible way results in value 16 19 21 26 31 creation. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Take for example IDLC Purnota. This is a loan within our SME segment that is exclusively targeted to women entrepreneurs Return on Shareholders’ Equity in Bangladesh. In addition to loan disbursements, it provides In percentage a comprehensive set of advisory and capacity-building services. Introduced in June 2015, IDLC Purnota accelerated the growth in financing extended to women entrepreneurs which closed the year with a healthy book size of Taka 2,376.61 million. While we are disciplined in identifying ways where we can 13.04% 16.44% 13.31% 20.95% 20.39% add our financial resources and expertise to our customers’ aspirations so they can become a reality, we also value the investment and trust of our shareholders and workhard towards achieving sustainable success of our businesses. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Earnings per Share Market Capitalization (in Dhaka Stock Exchange) Taka Taka in million 6 10,119 15,022 15,987 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 1.99 2.84 2.66 4.95 5.81 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 31-Dec-13 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-15 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Our philosophies –the backbone of our enterprise  Grow and develop our talent pool  Fully leverage the core banking platform  Optimize distribution points Strategic  Grow and diversify funding sources Continue growing the SME portfolio objectives   Further grow sales and service capabilities in the Consumer division  Focus on top-tier clients and maintain industry relationships in the Corporate segment  Expand capital market operations and enhance capabilities  Embrace internationally-accepted corporate governance standards and sustainable business practices  Integrity  Customer Focus  Trust and Respect Core Values  Equal Opportunity  Eco-friendly  Passion  Simplicity In accordance with the approved and agreed Code of Conduct, IDLC employees shall:  Act with integrity, competence, dignity and in an ethical manner when Code of dealing with customers, prospects, colleagues, agencies and the public  Act and encourage others to behave in a professional and ethical manner that conduct and will reflect positively on IDLC employees, their profession and on IDLC at large ethics  Strive to maintain and improve the competence of all in the business  Use reasonable care and exercise independent professional judgment  Not restrain others from performing their professional obligations  Maintain knowledge of and comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations  Disclose all conflicts of interest  Deliver professional services in accordance with IDLC policies and relevant technical and professional standards  Respect the confidentiality and privacy of customers and people with whom we do business 7  Not engage in any professional conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation or commit any act that reflects adversely on our honesty, SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 trustworthiness or professional competence IDLC employees have an obligation to know and understand not only the guidance contained in the Code of Conduct but also the spirit on which it is based. Shareholding structure IDLC was incorporated in 1985 as a pioneering leasing enterprise in Bangladesh, under the collaboration of the International Finance Corporation (IFC), German Investment and Development Company (DEG), Kookmin Bank, Korea Development Financing Corporation, The Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development, The City Bank Limited, IPDC of Bangladesh Limited and Sadharan Bima Corporation. At present, it is a 100% locally-owned company, having a presence across the country through 32 branches,2booths and a workforce of more than 1200. As of December 31, 2015, IDLC has 251,367,187 shares outstanding, as per the following 2015 In percentage 20.04% 20.30% 59.66% Sponsors/Directors Institutions other than Individuals Sponsors/ Directors 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Our business model IDLC Finance Limited is one of Bangladesh’s fastest-growing IT Non-Bank Financial Institutions (NBFI) with its Assets Under • IDLC possesses a robust IT backbone that enhances Management (AUM) reporting a 19% CAGR over the past five business sustainability not just in terms of facilitating years. The company’s business model has been structured quick decision making but also with regards to quicker around meeting customer needs – both on the lending and loan TAT thanks to a leverage of technology deposit front – and meeting their growth expectations on the basis of trust and respect. • A strong IT infrastructure also results in enhancing transparency, helps detect bad accounts early and As an enterprise that has pioneered the Bangladeshi NBFI also enables environmental preservation through the industry, the company has consistently created value for its optimized use of paper etc. entire stakeholder ecosystem. Leading the critical anchors • Investments in IT stood at 1.17% and 1.47% of income of fostering the sense of governance and transparency, IDLC in 2014 and 2015, respectively presents integrated reporting of its business model that include such key facets as: Product and business exposure • Inputs • The company offers a wide range of lending products • Business activities across corporate and SME clients and for retail • Output customers that enables it to meet the tailor-made • Outcomes requirements of a wide demographic A brief description of each of these is provided below. • On the deposit side, IDLC offers a wide range of long and medium term savings products that enables it Inputs to meet the financial security and liquidity goals of a Acquaintance with the business number of consumers • IDLC enjoys almost 31 years of rich experience in the • IDLC also operates two wholly-owned subsidiaries NBFI business (IDLCIL and IDLCSL) that offers a vast range of capital market products and solutions • During this tenure, the company has witnessed several market cycles and created a business model that is not Business activities just resilient but also risk-mitigated IDLC Group provides financial solutions as non-banking • The company’s rich intellectual capital accretion is financial institution through IDLC Finance Limited and capital reflected in the low turn-over rate of its employees market solutions through its subsidiaries. IDLC Finance as Resources an NBFI, offers loans across its three well-structured and focused divisions: • One of the company’s significant competitive advantages comprises its robust human resource pool • Corporate: This segment effects lending to a large number of corporate customers across Bangladesh in • The company recruited a net 682 members during a variety of industries and sectors. The typical loan size 2015 with the result that its total workforce grew to categorised under this division is Taka 37.49 million and 1,227 members by the close of the year above • Constant productivity enhancement programmes have • SME: IDLC is among the fastest growing NBFIs in the resulted in a better output from employees. Our human country’s SME segment. Assets under this division have resources are highly sought-after in the market and grown at 24.92% year-on-year and loan size is typically IDLC prides itself in being able to consistently recruit classified as between Taka 2.70 million high-calibretalent and make it even better through unlocking our human resource potential. • Consumer: The Company offers retail and home loans under this segment, thereby meeting the lifestyle Financial capital requirements of its customers. Average loan sizes • The company possesses an experienced asset-liability under this segment comprises of Taka 3.58 million for management team that is continually appraising and Home Loan and Taka 1.76 million for Car Loan 9 analysing key trends including interest rates • Capital markets: IDLC Investments and IDLC Securities SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 • The result of this is that the company has been able to are two of IDLC’s fully-owned subsidiaries engaged in report a healthy and sustainable net interest margin providing brokerage, merchant banking and a wide (NIM) of 4.14% during 2015 range of capital market services • The company enjoys a healthy CRR that is much above the limits stipulated by the Bangladesh Bank Business segment review SME (Small and Medium Enterprises) division IDLC’s SME division is a priority business segment for the (information-communication-technology) entrepreneurs. Company. Sound business strategies, focused customer This unique product is a first-of-its-kind in Bangladesh acquisition efforts, high-quality service and a superior riskand we hope it will help boost the ICT sector and thereby adjusted appetite enabled SME portfolio CAGR of 40% over increase employment and grow contribution to the national the last five years, clearly one of the fastest growth rates in economic output. the industry. Significant investments in human resources and infrastructure – the two most critical building blocks – It has been discovered that a vast portion of SME clients have resulted in the creation of a robust structure that will are new to banking. Hence, in order to make the process facilitate sustainable growth, going forward. of repayment easier, a new wing under the name of CCMC (central customer monitoring cell) has been introduced. The In one of the most pioneering initiatives in the sector, function of this team is to actively monitor loan performance, the SME division launched a pilot under the automated communicate with clients on an ongoing basis and provide credit appraisal system, a mechanism that will not only early warning signals. The team welcomes new clients and reinforce the quality of our services but also save paper and also keeps a track of the relationship managers’ customer contribute to environmental preservation. The system will service levels. be synced with a data warehousing system and front end customer relationship management which will facilitate During the year 2015, the SME division signed a MoU with lead management, prospect management and help in the SME Foundation to reenergise the light engineering information-driven business decisions. sector in Old Dhaka. To date, over 30 clients have received financing through this window. We also signed-up for two At the SME division, our vision is to be the best SME financier refinancing schemes offered by Bangladesh Bank, one for in the country. We will continue to innovate and launch start-ups and the other for marginalised dairy farmers. We newer products and services to serve the SME market, have financed over 130 clients through the two refinancing which is both underserved and un-served in many areas. We schemes in 2015. believe that technology is at the forefront of our priorities and by the end of 2016 we hope to integrate online appraisal To further strengthen our distribution network and widen system into smartphones to be used by all our relationship our footprint, three new branches were inaugurated in managers for faster and more accurate decision-making. Habiganj, Mymensingh and Kushtia. Habiganj has been We will continue to focus on extending the ambit of nonan economically-vibrant catchment due to its excellent financial services and invest significantly in the capacity connectivity with the rest of the country. The government development of our talent pool. intends to establish a special economic zone (SEZ) that will further foster the region’s growth and development Core developments potential. The government has recently declared Mymensingh as a new division. The city is the divisional The year 2015 witnessed a host of new products and services headquarters and connects five districts. In alignment with added to the SME basket. A thorough diagnostic test was our strategic positioning of business centres and the need run by the IFC (International Finance Corporation) to gauge to come closer to growth pockets, we inaugurated a new the level of services offered by the division to women branch in Mymensingh. Kushtia is one of the most important entrepreneurs. Thereafter, a comprehensive solution for business zones of the Khulna division, widely considered as women entrepreneurs under IDLC Purnota was launched in the country’s agro hub, and our establishment of a branch in June 2015. Along with subsidised financial products, women Kushtia will enable us to capitalise on the growth potential. entrepreneurs are also offered various non-financial valueadded services including business facilitation services that Key financials help them obtain/ renew all kinds of regulatory documents. Moreover, Purnota insurance provides coverage from 10 unwanted events such as road bullying, rape and death SME Loan Portfolio Taka in million during pregnancy, at a minimal cost. Also, the Purnota SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Club arranges training and health awareness programmes among women entrepreneurs across Bangladesh. In spite of its excellent performance over the past and tremendous growth potential in the future, the IT sector has traditionally been avoided by the banking sector due to an inherent lack of understanding of the business model and 10,178 14,334 17,905 22,368 unpredictable revenue patterns. To target this particular segment, IDLC, in collaboration with BASIS (Bangladesh 6,870 Association of Software and Information Services), launched IDLC Udbhabon, a comprehensive solution for ICT 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED 2015, exceeding the target set by the Bangladesh Bank by SME Loan Disbursements 10.79% and thus served 60 SME sectors in such industries Taka in million as light engineering, handicraft, flower and fish processing, handloom, rice mills, jamdani, Rajshahi silk, khadi, biogas and compost fertilier, among others. However, private sector credit growth remained gloomy and fell short of targets at the close of 2015. Excess liquidity was a constant phenomenon for all the major players in the banking sector. Lack of credit demand forced the financial 10,392 12,053 15,656 industry to reduce both lending as well as deposit rates. 4,485 7,498 At the year end, average deposit rates fell way below the inflation rate and thus turned real return rates negative. To 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 spur investments, entrepreneurs were insistent on getting financing facilities at single digit interest rates. The average SME Division Active Customer Base lending rate fell throughout the year and stood at 11.18% in December 2015 and is expected to decline to single digits, going forward. In this prevailing scenario, only those banks/ NBFIs with strong fundamentals, good corporate governance frameworks, highly qualified human capital, robust asset quality and regular innovation will triumph. As a front-line player in SME financing, IDLC’s SME division has played a significant role in fostering growth and has created consistent value for shareholders. 3,462 5,222 6,638 7,619 9,325 Outlook 2016 On the back of the political stability witnessed in the country 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 for last few months of 2015 and the expansionary monetary policy adopted by the Central Bank, 2016 promises to be a Sector review – defining the potential of SMEs in significant year in terms of economic growth in Bangladesh. Bangladesh Both private and public sector investments are expected to flourish, positively impacting the SME entrepreneurs spread The financial sector of Bangladesh has reported a great throughout the country. IDLC is well positioned to support 2015 despite the gloomy start amidst the political chaos. these SME businesses with quick and hassle free financing. Rise in remittance inflows broke all previous records and led To better enable us to provide the SMEs with world class to sound growth of foreign currency reserves. With a y-o-y service, below are some of the initiatives to be taken in 2016: growth of 2.47% in remittance inflows, foreign currency reserves stood at $27.5 billion in December 2015. Exports, • Focus on business growth along with maintaining asset especially by the readymade garments sector (RMG), has quality and strengthening the IDLC SME brand in SME witnessed a y-o-y growth of 8%. By October 2015, reserves financing had touched a level of $27 billion, enough to support imports • Strengthen human capital to increase productivity to for seven months. On the other hand, because of a sharp optimal levels through extensive training and coaching downturn in oil prices from over $100 a barrel to a low of • Expand our footprint by establishing new branches and $30, punctuated by the concurrent decline in international exploring new business opportunities in markets of our commodity prices, imports witnessed a de-growth in 2015. existing presence Overall, a vibrant environment prevailed in the financial • Implement online credit appraisal across all our sector much through the year. branches which will not only hasten decision-making The biggest game-changer in the financial services sector but also reduce the loan turnaround time comprised mobile financial services. Real-time money • Launch new products and modify the existing basket to transfers became easier in remote areas thanks to mobile align with market demand 11 financial services. On the other hand, the emergence of • Implement web/ app-based client service tool to better RTGS (real-time gross settlement) made internet banking SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 serve our customers as well as create an institutional even more important and widespread. National Payment memory Gateway, a strong initiative by the Bangladesh Bank, has enabled withdrawals from any ATM regardless of the bank, • Tie-up with local and multi-lateral agencies to work thereby enhancing user convenience. towards the development of marginal sectors with significant embedded growth potential Small and medium enterprises (SMEs), the bedrock and engine • Introduce a customer loyalty program based on of Bangladesh’s economic growth, did well throughout customer segmentation 2015. Realising its potential, both the government and the Bangladesh Bank are putting significant emphasis on SMEs • Establish an objective-based performance evaluation by providing various stimulation initiatives. Put together, all model for all SME sales staff the banks and NBFIs disbursed a total of Taka 1.16 trillion in Consumer division IDLC’s Consumer division is one of the key drivers of (including fresh graduates and experienced resources sustainability. The division enjoys a proven track record with lateral entry) throughout the year. Today, the in Bangladesh’s consumer finance industry and enjoys a division has a solid employee base with expertise in high recall for its superior service standards, high levels of sales, customer service, customer acquisition and vendor transparency, dedicated sales force and robust customer relationship management and products & marketing, experience. The division has not only been a frontline player among others. It ensured continuous training and in the national consumer market but has also contributed development initiatives, clear communication strategies to the corporate bottom-line significantly over the last few with proper guidance and year-round employee years. The division’s two-pronged functions include funds engagement to retain the qualified and dedicated team mobilisation for the company as per requirements and grow members as well as to enhance productivity the asset business sustainably. • The division empowers its people with the objective Core developments of developing their decision-making, leadership and entrepreneurial capabilities The Consumer division offers term deposit products to cater • During the course of the year, over 45 training and to the needs of various individuals as well as institutions. development initiatives were conducted for the It also offers consumer loans to its targeted customer employees segments. As a result of continuous and focused efforts, the division possesses a significant market-share in home Performance strength loans and car loans businesses. The division has been able to consistently grow its home and car loan portfolios due to • In 2015, the Consumer division invested significant its sound business strategy, faster loan processing time and efforts towards increasing the customer acquisition other unique selling propositions. through its outstation (out of Dhaka city) branches by embracing several new initiatives. As a result, some of On account of these factors, the division registered the these branches performed quite well including those in highest-ever volume of home loan disbursement in a Sylhet, Khulna, Bogra and Savar. The division expects to Calendar year in 2015. Yet another landmark was achieved widen its geographical coverage to venture into other when the asset portfolio crossed the Taka 2,000 crore mark potential territories in the current and coming years during the same year. It must be noted that very few players (including banks and NBFIs) have been able to achieve such Key financials a milestone. Moreover, this remarkable achievement was not at the cost of compromising quality of the book. Product strength Consumer Loan Portfolio • In the year 2015, the consumer division launched Taka in million a variable rate car loan to meet the needs of the customers and widen its product basket • During the year, the division introduced the country’s most transparent variable rate home and car loans pricing model with the interest rate aligned with the benchmark rate. At IDLC, we consider the Cost of Fund Index (CoFI) for NBFIs, which is published and updated 9,851 12,950 17,519 20,633 on the website of Bangladesh Bank on a regular basis. This chart is available for all, accessible from anywhere 8,428 in the world through the web and is highly transparent. At the time of rate revision (of these variable rate loans), 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 customers enjoy the outcome of the updated CoFI (as per policy), which is added to the spread, offered to respective customer segments. This spread remains Number of Loan Customers of Consumer Division 12 unchanged throughout the tenor of the loan • The division introduced pre-owned (registered) car SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 loans and a few other product solutions in response to the demands of the marketplace • Based on the prevailing market environment and business strategy, the division focused on variable rate products (rather than fixed rate products) during the year People strength 3,525 5,169 6,013 7,402 7,803 • The Consumer division’s pride is its people. The division emphasized on recruiting the best possible talent 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Consumer Loan Disbursments Number of Deposit Customers of Consumer Division Taka in million 2,867 4,201 6,258 8,587 8,382 5,456 6,343 6,681 6,355 6,153 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Term Deposits Balance Initiatives planned for 2016 Taka in million • Establish two new branches outside Dhaka to expand our geographical coverage and come closer to our customers. • Increase financing for meeting construction requirements by launching specific and targeted products, thereby widening our customer base • Emphasise on portfolio retention, especially in the wake of rising competitive intensity • Increase employee productivity 16,828 22,008 29,164 35,241 46,174 • Assign profit-based targets to branch managers • Introduce new home loan products by concentrating on special rates of interest 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 • Restructure our existing organogram to make the business flow more efficient. Assign different projects and job responsibilities to enhance current job role across key positions • Develop effective employee retention plans by proper guidance and motivating them towards career advancement Corporate division Overview Bangladesh Bank schemes and participation in syndication arrangements, among others. IDLC’s Corporate division has made significant inroads into the confederation of local corporate conglomerates, large The robust infrastructure and resources that we have corporate houses and multinationals. This was made possible created helped our operations remain relatively insulated by our integrated relationship management approach, from economic headwinds and even domestic unrest strong customer orientation, innovative product offerings (most visible during the beginning of 2015). Resultantly, and superior service delivery. Progressively, the division our division posted positive growth during the year under has also widened its geographical coverage, deepening its review. In the backdrop of our focus on sustainable growth niche market comprising established corporate houses and is embedded our integrated relationship approach, deep upcoming enterprises. In parallel, the division also diversified understanding of business dynamics and customer risk 13 profile and the growth aspirations of our clients. its product basket to cater to specific customer funding SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 requirements comprising, but not limited to: Our expertise and innovative solutions to partner our customers in their journey is supported by several USPs  Establishment of greenfield projects including:  Capacity augmentation programmes  Faster service  Commercial space acquisition  Customised solutions  Meeting seasonal demand through working capital  Competitive rates Our wide array of products includes simple lease finance,  In-depth industry knowledge term loans, working capital finance (with suitable tenor),  Transparency asset finance, project finance, green finance under  Trust and credibility Key strengths Corporate Loan Disbursements Taka in million Unique client approach: Our distinguished client approach has enabled us to break the typical myth associated with being a non-banking financial institution. As an outcome, our Corporate clients have come to respect and trust our tailor-made solutions (within the regulatory ambit) delivered within the shortest possible time, backed by quick financing decisions from the management. We also take pride in sharing the latest market developments, sustainable business 4,032 4,806 6,504 5,421 6,484 practices and prevalent low-cost financing avenues to remain as the most preferred growth partner for our clients rather than being a mere financial associate. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Diversified portfolio and solid customer base: Our Corporate portfolio is well-diversified across major sectors and industries that include apparels and accessories, textiles, pharmaceuticals and healthcare, building and construction, Corporate Division Active Customer Base food and beverages, telecommunications, financial services, in number iron and steel and micro finance institutions, among others. Our diversified and rightly balanced portfolio helps mitigate concentration risks and ensures the sustenance of a quality credit portfolio. High workplace standards: Our division’s time-tested workplace practices emphasised our reform agenda on the pillars of corporate governance. We have set the highest quality threshold and continually raise the bar in terms of regulatory compliance and accountability and always 227 239 248 244 256 look for ways to strengthen our relationship with both our internal as well as external stakeholders. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Strong resource base: Our core strength is reflected in the intellect, dynamism and energy of our workforce that comprises a mix of experience and youth. The division’s Outlook 2016 strategic initiatives serve their quest for exposure on market and business mechanisms. Besides, career progression is  Focus on need-based financing to fuel the growth encouraged through regular ongoing training programmes appetite of our corporate clients and other professional development tools.  Foster business growth by providing long and short Strategic alliance: Our division works closely with other term financing among some of the country’s fastest banks, NBFIs and developmental organisations along with growing corporate houses IDLC’s own subsidiaries and business units to ensure the  Review the targeted niche market and growth sectors delivery of full-fledged and the most cost-effective financing influenced by the macro and micro economic indicators solutions to our clients. and Government policies Key financials  Structure bundled solutions comprising traditional as well as non-traditional financing products  Initiate strategic alliances with banks and developmental Corporate Loan Portfolio organisations to tap various business avenues to serve Taka in million corporate clients with cost-effective solutions  Continue to invest in people resources and technology 14 to enhance productivity  Explore green financing avenues to promote SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 sustainable business practices among existing as well as potential clients  Attain operational efficiency within the framework 6,332 7,963 10,213 9,595 10,623 of regulations to render flexible and delightful client services  Achieve stable but quality growth through maintaining 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 low NPLs IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Structured finance department (Unit of the Corporate Division) Providing Innovative Financing Solution to Customers Our Key Competence Making us a valued partner of our clients The Structured Finance Department (SFD) is a specialised • Successfully leveraging strategic relationships in order business unit of IDLC under the Corporate Division and it to provide the most appropriate and comprehensive was established with a purpose to facilitate syndication structured financial solutions to clients arrangements, arranging onshore as well as offshore • Concentrating on niche customers diverse needs and financing, agency and trusteeship services and corporate providing unique solutions through a multiproduct advisory services. The department commenced operations portfolio through loan syndication in the year 2000 to meet the • Experienced and highly knowledgeable team members increasing demands for large industrial and infrastructure with excellent track record in pioneering transactions and project financing. Over the years, the department has providing innovative customer-centric financial solutions continued to arrange syndication deals in the form of term • Strong network with corporate houses and in-house loans and working capital facilities. industry research help in the selection of the right At present, SFD is involved in deals that necessitate various clientele, which ensures growth and profitability as well as modes of financing. Being one of the leading structured the preservation of a quality credit portfolio finance solution providers of the country, the department • Focusing on new products that include short term fund arranges financing through a wide range of products arrangement through commercial paper, arrangement that include term-loans (both local and foreign currency), of zero-coupon bond for corporate houses and foreign working capital facilities, Investment Promotion and currency sourcing through IPFF and multilateral agencies Financing Facility (IPFF), subordinated bonds for Tier-II • Support from the IDLC management coupled with a regulatory capital requirement of commercial banks, zerostrong Corporate Governance framework coupon bond, commercial paper, etc. The department also • Reputation of IDLC contributes immensely for booking provides corporate advisory services depending on the loan syndication deals from large corporate houses of the needs of the customers. country Business and Financial Overview Particulars 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Taka 2,280 million and Taka 11,895 million Taka 10,510 million and USD Total Funds Raised Taka 9,550 million Taka 6,375 million USD 30 million and USD 40 million 10.20 million Total Fee Income Taka 2.64 million Taka 30.62 million Taka 47.39 million Taka 65.98 million Taka 60.03 million Number of Deals 1 2 4 4 10 United Commercial Bank Karnafuly Dry Dock Limited, Fareast Spinning Limited; The City Industries Limited, Summit Bibiyana ECPV Chittagong BSRM Steel Mills and Major Clients Bank Tier-2 bonds Confidence Steel Limited, Power Project Limited Best Holdings Ltd. and Mercantile KYCR Coil Industries Bank Tier-2 bonds Limited, Bangla Trac Limited and ACI Limited SFD Fee income Looking Back Achievements in 2015 Taka in million In 2015, SFD realised sluggish business income because of adverse market scenario. While many other players in the industry were struggling to survive, the department 15 focused on new products and managed to end up at a point SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 which was satisfactory for 2015. A significant portion of fee income was due to arranging Tier-II subordinated bonds for commercial banks. The department arranged Taka 5.00 billion in the form of coupon bearing Tier-II subordinated bonds for 30.62 47.39 65.98 60.03 one of the largest banks in the country in order to fulfill their 2.64 regulatory capital requirement under the BASEL-II framework. The department also arranged Taka 3.55 billion as commercial 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 paper for 4 (four) eminent corporate houses of the country. In addition to the regular business, the SFD sponsors several provide support to banks through its advisory services on knowledge sharing events. The department arranged compliance-related issues regarding BASEL-III accord. “IDLC Presents BLUEPRINTS 1.0” which is a platform where The department is also planning to introduce an Islamic participants can apply their financial knowledge into bond (Sukuk) to support clients who prefer the Islamic analysis and decision making, work with templates of actual banking framework. For 2016, the department will also focus financial models, get opportunities to interact with industry on developing new products, smaller deals, arrangement professionals, and build their skills as aspiring financial of foreign currency financing, product-wise cross-selling analysts. programs, and green banking products in the financing mix. Moving Forward – Strategies for 2016 The vision of the department is to be the most-preferred partner in loan syndication in Bangladesh and to achieve its In 2016, the department will strive to expand its product goal, the department intends to fortify its human resources, portfolio and include all possible structured finance accelerate its productivity, introduce new products in the products. It also plans to introduce new products like market and develop the best in class operating culture to asset securitization and corporate advisory services for give its clients an outstanding service experience that will be mergers and acquisitions. The department also intends to inimitable in the country. Green banking (Unit of the Corporate Division) Overview binding international legal instrument to address the issue acknowledged by 170 countries. The creation of UNFCCC Sustainable development and preservation of environment (United Nation Framework Convention on Climate Change), are now recognised globally as overriding imperatives to UNEP FI (United Nation Environment Program for Financial protect our planet from the ravages inflicted on it by mankind. Institution), Earth Summit, Signing of Kyoto Protocol Various global initiatives are underway to counter the ill strengthen the commitment of international community. effects of development such as global warming and climate change. Banks and financial institutions can play a major Bangladesh, the largest delta in the world, is vulnerable and decisive role in these global efforts to make our planet a to the impacts of climate change. In order to undertake better place to live in. Green Banking is comparatively a new appropriate adaptation and mitigation measures, development in the financial world. It is a form of banking government of Bangladesh institutionalise it through taking into account the social and environmental impacts NAPA (National Adaptation Program of Action), CDMP and its main motiveis to protect and preserve environment. (Comprehensive Disaster Management Programme), ECR As providers of finance, banks can ensure that businesses (Environmental Conservation Rules) etc. The creation of adop+t environment-friendly practices. Incentives by way SREDA (Sustainable and Renewable Energy Development of offering cheaper funds, one stop solution and availability Authority) and implication of clean energy in Renewable of grant for initial boosting for adopting green technologies Energy Policy, Sixth Five Year Plan etc embedded the path will have a long term beneficial impact on the environment. towards sustainability. The sole objective for such initiative is to reduce carbon footprint from banking activities as well as from financed Understanding the gravity of the situation, Bangladesh Bank projects. created a refinance scheme of Taka 200 crore for financing environment friendly products comprising five different Focusing sustainable growth: national and items of Renewable Energy and Waste Management back international initiatives 16 in 2009. Later in 2011, Bangladesh Bank provided all FIs The motto “Going Green” came in front in late 19th century with a guideline on Environmental Risk Management which SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 when mankind first realized that over exploitation of natural was subsequently revised in 2015 with Environmental and resources and environmental degradation shall dim the Social Risk Management Guideline. Also the number of effect of rapid industrialisation. It was first institutionalised green products eligible for refinance extended to 50 from in 1992 through Rio Declaration. It is considered as first just five within 2015. IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Capital market operations IDLC Finance Limited’s capital market operations have so far been covered by its two wholly-owned subsidiaries, IDLC Securities Limited (IDLC SL) and IDLC Investments Limited (IDLC IL). Going forward, the Capital Market Operations will further be strengthened by the newly formed IDLC Asset Management Limited. Though the Group’s capital market businesses were significantly impacted in the melt down of 2010 and the challenges that were brought forth by several global events, the operations have come out stronger since then with the full absorption of the impairment losses suffered on account of certain open exposures in the margin lending portfolio. Today, all the businesses have created robust platforms in terms of technology, processes, practices and human resources and are rightly positioned to capture the upturn as and when the political climate becomes harmonious and stable. Subsidiary review IDLC Securities Limited Brokerage services Overview Key strengths IDLC SL, one of the top brokerages of Bangladesh,  Strong Brand Equity commenced operations in 2006. The Company provides  Skilled traders with professional market insights brokerage services to more than 13,900 retail, institutional  Dedicated relationship manager for every investor and foreign investors through sophisticated and reliable trading platforms of both the Dhaka and Chittagong stock  Top notch sell side research team exchanges. It also serves around 2,500 customers of its  Wider branch network with reliable and user friendly enlisted merchant banks as a panel broker. It possesses online trading infrastructure a proven track record of delivering quality-led customer services in strict compliance with prevailing rules and  Culture of confidentially and secured custodianship of regulations. It maintains high standards for both corporate clients’ assets and employee ethics.  Performance management model that drives business and its quality The Company also offers premium brokerage services to High Net Worth (HNWs), Institutional and foreign investors. Key Achievement in 2015 Premium brokerage services is a prime bundle of research  Scaled up size of the business without additional capital and advisory support in addition to execution brokerage. investment Moreover, the Company has the most reliable online trading  Tuned up business model to achieve higher efficiency system under its in-house developed Order Management Unit (OMU), which was launched in 2010 with the principal  Expanded sell side research coverage objective is to facilitate those investors who prefer online  Deciphered knowledge into business growth through trading, thereby democratising market access. Dealers Knowledge Advancement Program (DKAP) Products  Enhanced retail and strategic sales effort  Consolidated foreign sales operation  Cash Account  Revamped operational risk management process  Margin Account through IDLC Investments Limited and other enlisted merchant banks Key Financials 2015  Easy IPO  Average daily turnover of IDLCSL increased by 6.1% to Taka 261 million despite 15.4% decline in market  Premium brokerage for HNWs, Institutions and Foreign average daily turnover. Thus, market share increased to 17 Investors 3.1% from only 2.5% of previous year SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Services  Net brokerage income increased by 18% to Taka 203 million  Trade execution through the Dhaka and Chittagong stock exchanges  Profit before tax and provision increased by 50.6% to Taka 147.5 million  Custodial and CDBL services  Net profit increased by 147% to Taka 96.1 million  Bloomberg terminal for foreign clients  Shareholder’s equity grew by 10.3% to Taka 1,025.3  Research and advisory services million Subsidiary review IDLC Investments Limited Merchant banking investment scheme that focuses on building a longterm portfolio with small regular investments (as little as  One of the leading merchant banking enterprises of Taka 3,000). IDLC Investments is pioneer in launching this Bangladesh and a wholly-owned subsidiary of IDLC innovative product in the Bangladesh capital market. Finance Limited  Product suite: Investment banking (IPO, RPO, rights Over the last nine years, the DPM team generated an average issue, corporate advisory on pre-IPO capital raising, return of 23% and the current portfolio AUM stands at Taka underwriting, pre-IPO placement of forthcoming IPOs 555 million. and mergers and acquisitions), research, discretionary Our primary strength lies in our ability to effectively manage portfolio management (DPM) and margin loans our overall portfolio to generate consistent returns for  Managed nine (9) IPOs to raise a cumulative Taka 6,515 our clients. We have a diversified product basket suitable million as of December 31, 2015 for different investor risk grades and our fund managers  Assisted in raising a total of Taka 16,820 million for embrace appropriate diversification strategies to maximize clients so far the return potential and minimize downside risk.  Discretionary portfolio management (DPM) services One of our major challenges comprises the ongoing volatility offer a full-fledged package comprising portfolio in the capital markets along with systemic risks arising from management services through its ‘MAXCAP’, ‘Profitpolitical or regulatory/ legislative changes. Since our DPM Loss Sharing Scheme’, ‘Capital Protected Scheme’, service is in its early stage of growth from a product life ‘Portfolio Advisory Service’ and ‘Easy Invest’ products cycle perspective, there exists significant potential to raise Overview of the Company awareness about this unique product and grow portfolio size. IDLC Finance commenced its merchant banking operations in 1999 through participating in underwriting of IPOs. The Margin loans: During 2004, IDLC Finance launched a margin Company managed its first IPO as issue manager in 2003. It lending product, ‘Cap Invest’ and since then, we have been also managed the first IPO under the book-building method considered as one of the top portfolio managers in the in the capital market history of Bangladesh. Aligning with Bangladesh capital markets. Subsequently, this business regulatory requirements, the merchant banking operation was transferred to IDLC Investments. Since the market crash was carved-out and transferred to IDLC Investments of 2010, IDLC Investments has reduced its margin loans Limited, a fully-owned subsidiary of IDLC Finance, which significantly. was established in 2011. During these times, we took the challenge of counselling our Services clients to build a constructive and risk-mitigated portfolio. Our advisory includes knowledge sharing on the market Investment banking: scenario, stock analysis, effects of leverage, effective risk management and the importance of disciplined portfolio  Initial public offering (IPO) management. Accordingly, we empowered our clients  Repeat public offering (RPO) with multiple value-added services (VAS) and put in our  Rights issue management best efforts to not take any further additional provisions in  Corporate advisory on pre-IPO capital raising the year 2015. Our sound human resource strategy, welldocumented processes, cutting-edge technology and high Underwriting quality research reports have been key for our clients to  Arranging pre-IPO placement/ capital raising of IPOs, realise their wealth management aspirations. substantial share acquisition and take over and equity valuation Discretionary portfolio management (DPM): IDLC Investments has been offering DPM services for the last nine years with a consistent track record. DPM manages funds Operating on behalf of investors, formulating appropriate investment Income strategies, constructing and re-balancing portfolios, Taka 18 monitoring market perspectives on a regular basis, actively 306 Net Proﬁt managing risk profiles and optimally diversifying portfolios. million before Tax SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Currently, we offer a variety of investment products with Taka different risk-return profiles, including: 192  MAXCAP Operating million Proﬁt  Profit-Loss Sharing Scheme Taka Net Proﬁt  Capital Protected Scheme 225 after Tax  Portfolio Advisory Service million Taka  Easy Invest 119 During 2015, IDLC Investments broadened its DPM product million basket through the initiation of ‘Easy Invest’, a monthly IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Key Financials 2015  Considering high market volatility, IDLC Investments Return on portfolio investment prudently effected a decline of its margin lending exposure to Taka 1,444.32 million in 2015, down from • During 2015, our operating income and operating Taka 2,020.44 million in 2014 profit stood at Taka 306.17 million and Taka 225.48 million, respectively  To capitalise on selected market opportunities, • NPAT grew from Taka 53.08 million in 2014 to Taka investment exposure amplified by 60.1% to Taka 184.21 119.32 million in 2015, representing a robust 125% million in 2015, up from Taka 113.63 million in the growth previous year • Higher net interest income (NII) and investment income  Higher profitability assisted retained earnings to be assisted healthy bottom line growth too positive in 2015 • Higher operating profit and lower-than-usual provisions Key strengths significantly boosted NPAT Our key strength lies on a strong brand image and Investment banking adoption of the highest ethical standards and rigorous compliance. We understand our clients’ needs and cater Our investment banking division also performed well during to these accordingly, meeting and even exceeding their 2015. Revenues stood at Taka 18.06 million during the year expectations. Regular customer counselling on the basis with significant contribution from corporate advisory fees of our research recommendations assists us in maintaining (67%) and issue management fees (26%). a balance between the upside potential and downside risk factors. Going forward, we intend to reinforce process Asset combination efficiency, leveraging our strong co-ordination capabilities with regulatory authorities and ensuring continuous value Margin Loan Investment Other Assets creation for our clients. Overcoming key challenges A few of the key challenges that impact our business include depressed secondary markets and the long-drawn IPO process alongside conservative valuations. Bringing well-governed companies to the market through regular advising has been crucial for the company as market 2,020.4 1,444.3 volatility continues to take a toll. Reaping the benefits of our 113.6 419.1 184.2 452.6 key strengths, we are actively looking at ways to overcome these challenges in the shortest possible time. 2014 2015 Subsidiary review IDLC Asset Management Limited IDLC Asset Management Limited (AML) was incorporated The principal objective of the company is to carry out in Bangladesh on 19 November 2015 vide registration no. the business of asset management, primarily, through C-127068/2015 as a private company limited by shares launching and managing mutual funds to cater to the under the Companies Act, 1994. The registered office diverse needs of investors. Besides, institutional fund of the Company is situated at D.R. Tower (4th Floor), 65/2/2, Bir Protik Gazi Dostogir Road, Paltan, Dhaka. It management, IDLC AML also aims at creating avenues is a subsidiary Company of IDLC Finance Ltd that holds for alternative investments through private equity and 99.99% ownership of the Company. venture capital. 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Our extensive range of products and services Small and Medium Enterprises o Working Capital Syndication • Small Enterprise Finance • Corporate Advisory/ other services: o Small Enterprise Loan/ Lease o Merger and Acquisitions o Seasonal Loan o Joint Venture Matchmaking o IDLC Purnota Women Entrepreneur Loan o Balance Sheet Restructuring o SME Shachal Loan o Feasibility Study o SME Surakkha Consumer Finance o Revolving Short Term Loan o Commercial Space Loan Loans o Commercial Vehicle Loan • Home Loans o IDLC Udbhabon • Car Loans o SME Deposit • Personal Loans • Loan Against Deposit • Medium Enterprise Finance o Medium Enterprise Loan/ Lease Deposit o Commercial Vehicle Finance • Flexible Term Deposit Package o Machinery Lease • Regular Earner Package o Healthcare Finance o Revolving Short Term Loan Treasury o SME Deposit o Overnight Borrowing/Placement o Commercial Space Loan o Term Deposits o Commercial Vehicle Loan o Bonds o Debentures • Supplier and Distributor Finance o Commercial Paper o Factoring of Accounts Receivable o Preference Shares o Bill/ Invoice Discounting o Equity Investments o Treasury Bills/Bonds o Work Order Financing o Distributor Financing Capital Markets Corporate Division • IDLC Securities Limited • Corporate Finance Products  Cash Account o Lease Financing  Margin Account through IDLC Investments o Term Loan Financing Limited and other enlisted merchant banks o Commercial Space Financing  Easy IPO o Project Financing  Premium Brokerage for High Networth o Short Term Loans(to meet working capital Individual (HNIs) and institutional and requirements) foreign investors o Specialised Products (for meeting seasonal Services demand)  Trade execution through the Dhaka and o Green Financing Chittagong stock exchanges  Custodial and CDBL services • Structured Finance Solutions  Bloomberg terminal for foreign clients 20 o Structured Finance Solutions/ Arrangement of Funds:  Research and Advisory Services SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 o Loan/ Lease Syndication • IDLC Investments Limited o Syndicated Fund raising for Bonds (Zero Coupon and Coupon Bearing) Products o Commercial Paper  Margin Loan o Preference Shares  Discretional Portfolio Management o Projects/ Infrastructure Finance Services o Foreign Currency Loans  Corporate Advisory o Structured Solutions  Issue Management o Private Placement of Equity Refinancing of Special Funds  Underwriting o Securitisation of Assets  Research IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Sectoral exposure IDLC enjoys a well-diversified industrial portfolio in which the credit risk is spread across different sectors of the economy, as detailed below: Sectoral Exposure -31 December 2015 Apparels & Accessories Healthcare Services Textiles Export In percentage 4% 10% Agro Based Industry Iron & Steel Textiles Local 4% 6% Building Materials, Cement, Information Technology 6% Glass,Ceramics, Pipes 0% 0% Leather & Leather Products Chemicals 7% 5% Packaging Construction & Contractors 1% 1% Power & Energy 1% 2% Education 3% Pharmaceuticals 2% Enginering Paper & Paper Products 3% Food and Beverage 2% 11% Financial Services Furniture & Related Products 3% 0% Household Products & Service 2% 1% Home Appliances Professional Service 6% 6% Hospitality & Leisure Services 2% 2% Tele Communications 10% Housing & Real Estate Transport 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Core financial highlights, 2015 Total Assets Taka in million Total Assets Taka 73,434 million 31,165 37,784 50,429 58,927 73,434 24.62% increase 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Operating Income Taka in million Operating Income Taka 4,588 million 25.43% increase 2,160 2,403 2,761 3,658 4,588 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Net Profit Taka in million Net Profit 22 Taka 1,459 million 17.16% increase 713 669 1,246 1,459 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 500 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Cost-to-income Ratio In percentage Cost-to-income Ratio 35.92% In 2015 42% 44% 45% 40% 36% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) In percentage Capital adequacy ratio 14.80% 13.61% 13.88% 15.43% 14.50% 14.80% In 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Value added statement for the year ended December 31, 2015 Value added is the wealth created by IDLC through extending lease financing, short-term finance (factoring of accounts receivable and work order financing), housing finance, merchant banking and corporate finance. The Value Added Statement shows the total worth created and how it was distributed to meet certain obligation and the portion retained for the continued operation and expansion of the Company. Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 % % Taka Taka Value added Operating revenue 8,354,699,891 7,499,882,290 Cost of borrowing (4,827,091,642) (4,530,353,027) 3,527,608,249 2,969,529,263 Other income 433,242,052 356,650,721 3,960,850,301 3,326,179,984 Provisions (291,570,010) (60,259,653) Operating expenses excluding staff costs and depreciation. (513,702,436) (483,127,835) Value added 3,155,577,855 100% 2,782,792,496 100% Distribution of value addition To Employees as remuneration 755,609,881 24% 642,751,643 23% To Government 1,031,699,212 33% 875,596,287 31% as taxes To Shareholders 628,417,968 20% 703,828,125 25% as stock dividend (cash and stock) Retained in the business 739,850,795 23% 560,616,441 20% as capital and revenue reserve 615,402,154 20% 449,706,891 16% as depreciation 124,448,641 4% 110,909,550 4% 3,155,577,855 100% 2,782,792,496 100% Number of employees 1,060 593 Value added per employee 2,976,960 4,692,736 2015 2014 In percentage In percentage 24 20% 23% 24% 33% SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 23% 25% 31% 20% To To To Retained in the To To To Retained in the Employees Government Shareholders business Employees Government Shareholders business IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Market value added (MVA) statement for the year ended December 31, 2015 Market value added statement reflects the Company's performance evaluated by the market through the share price of the company. This statement shows the difference between the market value of a company and the capital contributed by investors. In other words, it is the sum of all capital claims held against the company plus the market value of debt and equity. The higher the MVA the better indication. A high MVA indicates the company has created substantial wealth for the shareholders. A negative MVA means that the value of management's actions and investments are less than the value of the capital contributed to the company by the capital market (or that wealth and value have been destroyed). The following statement shows how the MVA has been calculated for the year ended December 31, 2015 and 2014: Taka in million 2015 2014 Market value of shares outstanding 15,987 15,022 Book value of shares outstanding 7,786 6,528 Market value added 8,201 8,494 Market Value Added (MVA) Statement Market Value Added Book Value of Shares Outstanding 8,201 8,494 15,987 15,022 7,786 6,528 2015 2014 25 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Economic value added (EVA) statement Economic Value-Added is the surplus generated by an entity after meeting an equitable charge towards providers of capital. It is the post-tax return on capital employed (adjusted for the tax shield on debt) less the cost of capital employed. Companies which earn higher returns than cost of capital create value, and companies which earn lower returns than cost of capital are deemed harmful for shareholder value. The aim of EVA is to provide management with a measure of their success in increasing shareholder's wealth: a better measure than profit of how much the company had made for shareholders. EVA has been calculated by the following formula: EVA = Net Operating Profit – Taxes – Cost of Capital Taka 2015 2014 Net operating profit 2,567,089,343 2,089,390,956 Provision for taxes (1,031,699,212) (875,596,287) Net Operating Profit after Tax (NOPAT) 1,535,390,131 1,213,794,669 Charges for capital Capital employed 7,240,313,834 6,081,130,977 Cost of equity (%) 9.36% 10.56% Capital charge 677,693,375 642,167,431 Economic Value added 857,696,756 571,627,238 Capital employed as on December 31 Shareholders' equity 6,736,546,722 5,693,820,351 Accumulated provision for doubtful accounts and future losses 1,160,433,026 889,827,568 Average shareholders' equity* 7,240,313,834 6,081,130,977 * Average shareholders equity has been derived from average of current year and previous years. 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Memberships ASSOCIATIONS Bangladesh Leasing and Finance Companies Association | Asian Financial Services Association | Bangladesh Merchant Bankers Association | Bangladesh Association of Publicly Listed Companies INSTITUTE The Institute of Bankers, Bangladesh CHAMBERS OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY International Chamber of Commerce – Bangladesh | Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce and Industry | Dhaka Chamber of Commerce and Industry | Bangladesh German Chamber of Commerce and Industry | The Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry OTHER MEMBERSHIPS United Nations Global Compact | United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative | CSR Center of Bangladesh | International Factors Group (IFG), an international association of factoring companies |Small Business Banking Network (SBBN), a global initiative to improve access to financial services by small businesses 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Chapter 2 | Corporate social responsibility IDLC focuses on responsible business practices and our IDLC has identified its CSR focus areas in consonance long-term strategy is not only anchored on making profits with its organisational vision, mission, values and but also contributing to the economic development and expertise. With its CSR initiatives, IDLC contributes to betterment of the community at large. socio-economic transformation of the underprivileged through better education, capacity development, incomeIDLC’s business strategies are based on the fundamental generationopportunities and other forms of assistance, concept of sustainability, integrating governance, leading to empowerment. It is also engaged in providing environmental issues and social concerns to create maximum health and hygiene facilities for the rural and urban poor, stakeholder value. Simply put, IDLC’s sustainability model is financing environment-friendly projects, embracing green based on the 3P approach People, Planet and Profit: banking initiatives (in terms of both in-house management  People, our stakeholders with whom we engage for our and external activities such as tree plantation and engaging business and the community where we live people through environmental awareness campaigns) and contributing to broad philanthropic initiatives.  Planet, our surrounding environment  Profit, our profit-generating capacity for long-term sustenance IDLC’S SUSTAINABILITY POSITION STATEMENT: IDLC is committed to sustainable development by creating long-term value – value for stakeholders, value for the environment and value for the community at large. d tin va g s lu ha ea e re Cr st r ain sin esp ab es on ility s p sib a ra le nd ct Su ic es ph C ila or co nth po bu m ro rat pl p e ia y nc an e d IDLC’s sustainable value creation process Sustainability objectives • Enhance the sense of transparency and governance With a vision that is anchored on the sustainability of our business enterprise, we uphold the highest regard to our • Be open to communicating our plans and progress on 28 an ongoing basis entire stakeholder ecosystem – by being honest and open to our employees, by being reasonable to our customers, by • Engage in fair dealings SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 being fair among our competitors and by being true to our • Ensure simplicity of terms and conditions and covenants shareholders by contributing to value creation in their hands. in our contracts with our customers IDLC’s sustainability value chain Sustainability outcome Sustainability anchors • Economic value • Vision • Social value • Mission • Environmental value • Values • Code of Conduct IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Regulatory bodies and memberships IDLC’s CSR activities are regulated by the Sustainable Finance Department of the Bangladesh Bank, formerly known as the CSR and Green Banking Department.We are also members of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and the CSR Center (local network of UNGC in Bangladesh). Moreover, IDLC is the first and only signatory to the UNEP FI from Bangladesh till date. We have also embraced their guiding principles in upholding human rights, labour standards, responsible environmental managementand anti-corruption policies and practices. Recently, IDLC also endorsed the UNEP FI Declaration “MOBILISING 100 FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY” at the COP 21-CMP11 Paris 2015, held at the Paris UN Climate Change Conference, thereby further reinstating its commitment to energy-efficient funding practices and exploring newer frontiers. The 10 principles of UNGC: PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of PRINCIPLE 7 association and the eﬀective recognition Businesses should of the right to support a collective bargaining precautionary approach to PRINCIPLE 4 environmental The elimination of all challenges forms of forced and PRINCIPLE 8 PRINCIPLE 1 compulsory labour Undertake initiatives Businesses should PRINCIPLE 5 to promote greater support and respect The eﬀective abolition environmental the protection of of child labour responsibility internationally-procla PRINCIPLE 6 PRINCIPLE 9 PRINCIPLE 10 imed human rights The elimination of Encourage the Businesses should PRINCIPLE 2 development and work against discrimination in Ensure that they are respect of adoption of corruption in all its not complicit in employment and environmentally-frien forms, including human rights abuse occupation dly technologies extortion and bribery 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICE AND STRONG CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Chapter 3 | Corporate Governance Board of Directors Aziz Al Mahmood Md. Shahidul Ahsan A.K.M. Shahidul Haque Chairman of the Board of Directors Director and Chairman of the Independent Director and Executive Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee Meherun Haque Faruq M. Ahmed S. M. Mashrur Arefin Director Director Director 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Board of Directors Mohammad Mahbubur Rahman, FCA Md. Kamrul Hassan, FCA Md. Rezaul Karim Director Director Director Atiqur Rahman Monower Uddin Ahmed Arif Khan CFA FCMA Director Independent Director CEO & Managing Director 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Committees of the Board & Management As per DFIM Circular Letter No. 18, dated October 26, 2011 of and strategic direction of IDLC. The role of the Management Bangladesh Bank on the policy regarding the responsibility Committee is to oversee IDLC in accordance with its and accountability of the Board of Directors, Chairman and Constitution under the Financial Institutions Act, 1993. Chief Executive Officer/ Managing Director of the Financial The Committee is responsible for all aspects of the ongoing Institutions, the Board of Directors of IDLC formed two suboperations of IDLC. It delegates day-to-day operations Committees of the Board: to the Executive Officer. An important feature of good • Executive Committee; and governance is a clear segregation of the responsibilities and • Audit Committee. accountability of the committee from those of the Executive Officer. All other Committees of IDLC are formed under the jurisdiction of the management. ManCom is always aware of IDLC’s operations, keeps an eye on the big picture, monitors the strategic plan and if and Executive Committee (EC) whether the goals are being met. It needs to be satisfied The matter related to ordinary business operations of that current events are in accordance with IDLC policies and the Company and the matters that the Board of Directors objectives within the overall budget. authorises from time to time are vested on this Committee. The Management Committee is tasked with making key Composition of Executive Committee decisions for the Company’s management and operations under the official delegation of authority from the Board. In compliance with the referred circular, the EC consists of The Committee comprises senior executives who are from five members. The members are as follows: various key functions and operations of the Company. Chairman Composition of Management Committee (ManCom) Mr. Md. Shahidul Ahsan, Director nominated by Arif Khan CFA FCMA, CEO & Managing Director Mercantile Bank Limited H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA, Deputy Managing Director Members M. Jamal Uddin, Deputy Managing Director Faruq M. Ahmed, Director nominated by The City Bank Limited Mir Tariquzzaman, Chief Technology Officer (CTO) Md. Rezaul Karim, Director nominated by SadharanBima Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit and Collection Corporation Bilquis Jahan, Group Head of Human Resources A. K. M. Shahidul Haque, Independent Director Ahmed Rashid, Head of SME Division Arif Khan CFA FCMA, CEO & Managing Director Mesbah Uddin Ahmed, Head of Corporate Audit Committee (AC) Ataur Rahman Chowdhury, Head of Operations The Committee is empowered, among other things, to Mohammad Morshedul Quader Khalili, Head of Internal examine any matter relating to the financial affairs of the Control & Compliance Company and to review all audit and inspection reports, Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer internal control systems and procedures, accounting policies and adherence to compliance requirements, among others. Mohammad Jobayer Alam, CFA, Head of Strategic Planning Composition of Audit Committee Md. Saifuddin, Managing Director, IDLC Securities Limited The AC consists of five members. The members are as Md. Moniruzzaman, CFA, Managing Director, IDLC follows: Investments Limited Chairman Credit Evaluation Committee (CEC) A. K. M. Shahidul Haque, Independent Director CEC evaluates all projects/ proposals of financing activities of the Company from the risk point of view. 33 Members Scope of the committee SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Mahbubur Rahman, FCA, Director nominated by The City Bank Limited CEC holds the rights to: Kamrul Hassan, FCA, Director nominated by Transcom Group  Approve an appraisal report as per the proposed terms Md. Rezaul Karim, Director nominated by Sadharan Bima and conditions for consideration of the sanctioning Corporation authority;  Request for additional information; Monower Uddin Ahmed, Independent Director  Request evidence regarding any information provided; Management Committee (ManCom)  Suggest changes in or inclusion of terms and conditions The Management Committee is a group elected among the regarding the client’s liability with IDLC Finance Limited management staff to take responsibility of the governance or any other financial institutions or banks;  Suggest changes in terms and conditions concerned HR and Compensation Committee with repayment including repayment schedule, transfer IDLC’s HR and Compensation Committee was formed price, late payment interest rate, true rate and effective on 24 May 2007 to provide a forum for discussion on the rate; Company’s various HR related issues. The main role and  Suggest to change or increase security; function of the HR and Compensation Committee is to  Suggest to change the loan amount; assist the human resource department in developing and  Suggest increasing the equity participation of the client; administering a fair and transparent procedure for setting  Suggest providing an additional guarantor; and policies on the overall human resource strategy of the Group.  Decline a financial proposal based on overall risk assessment. The responsibility of the committee is to ensure wide, Composition of Credit Evaluation Committee (CEC) equal opportunity and transparency in terms of suitable recruitment, compensation on the basis of merit, qualification Arif Khan CFA FCMA, CEO & Managing Director and competence, adequate training and development H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA, Deputy Managing Director facilities, performance evaluation and promotion based on individual performance and contribution and other benefitsM. Jamal Uddin, Deputy Managing Director related issues with regards to the Company’s operating Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit and Collection results and comparable market statistics. Head of Business Units The principal purpose of the Committee is to assist the management in fulfilling its corporate governance and Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO) oversight responsibilities in relation to establishing people The main responsibilities of the ALCO are to look after the management and remuneration policies. financial market activities, manage liquidity and interest Composition of HR and Compensation Committee rate risk and understand market position and competition among other activities. In carrying out its responsibilities, the Arif Khan CFA FCMA, CEO & Managing Director ALCO convene periodical meetings and regularly reviews H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA, Deputy Managing Director the decisions of the meetings with due consideration of the market situation. M. Jamal Uddin, Deputy Managing Director Composition of ALCO Mir Tariquzzaman, Chief Technology Officer (CTO) Chairman Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit and Collection Arif Khan CFA FCMA, CEO & Managing Director Bilquis Jahan, Group Head of Human Resources Members Head of Business units H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA, Deputy Managing Director Corporate Governance Committee M. Jamal Uddin, Deputy Managing Director The Committee ensures that the Corporate Governance Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit and Collection practice within the Company is as required by the Ahmed Rashid, Head of SME Division Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission (BSEC) Mesbah Uddin Ahmed, Head of Corporate and the Bangladesh Bank. The Committee also recommends and advises course of action in the areas where there is a Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer scope of improvement. Mohammad Jobayer Alam, CFA, Head of Strategic Planning Composition of Corporate Governance Committee Member and Organiser Arif Khan CFA FCMA, CEO & Managing Director H S Tareq Ahmed, Head of Treasury H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA, Deputy Managing Director Internal Control Committee Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit and Collection The Internal Control Committee addresses operational Mohammad Morshedul Quader Khalili, Head of Internal risks and frames and implements policies to encounter Control and Compliance 34 such risks. The Committee assesses operational risks across the Company as a whole and ensures that an appropriate Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer framework exists to identify, assess and manage operational SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Mohammad Jobair Rahman Khan, Head of Statutory risks. Reporting & Group Company Secretary Composition of Internal Control Committee BASEL Implementation Committee Arif Khan CFA FCMA, CEO & Managing Director The Basel Implementation Committee is responsible for the H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA, Deputy Managing Director implementation of Basel Accord for Financial Institution Mohammad Morshedul Quader Khalili, Head of Internal (BAFI) at IDLC. Managing risk based capital adequacy is Control and Compliance the most important responsibility of the Committee. The Basel Implementation Desk (BID) of the Risk Management Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer Department manages Basel activities. The results of risk Head of business units based capital analysis along with recommendations IDLC FINANCE LIMITED are placed in the Committee meeting by the BID where Composition of Integrity Committee important decisions are made to maintain minimum/ Headed by H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA, Deputy Managing regulatory capital and manage related risks. Director, the Committee consists of the following members: The BASEL Implementation Committee Charter states that Mir Tariquzzaman, Chief Technology Officer (CTO) the Committee has the following responsibilities Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit and Collection  Apply the action plan of BASEL-II and review thereof; Bilquis Jahan, Group Head of Human Resources  Communicate issues related to the implementation of BASEL-II to the management; Mohammad Morshedul Quader Khalili, Head of Internal  Assist in carrying out the quantitative impact study Control & Compliance (QIS), if necessary; Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer  Engage in capacity building and training according to Mohammad Jobayer Alam, CFA, Head of Strategic Planning the training need assessment (TNA) for the concerned officials; and Heads of Business Units  Establish a planning and supervisory review as required Central Compliance Unit (CCU) by Pillar-II of BASEL-II framework. Central Compliance Unit (CCU) is a committee responsible The reviews of the BASEL Implementation Committee for supervising the Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Antiinclude Terrorism activities (ATA) at IDLC Finance Limited, formed  Review of action taken in previous BIU meetings on November 1, 2012. The CCU was constituted as per the “Guidance Notes on Prevention of Money Laundering  Economic and market status and outlook and Terrorist Financing” issued by Bangladesh Financial  Credit, market and operational risks related to capital Intelligence Unit, Bangladesh Bank, BFIU Circular no.04 adequacy dated September 16, 2012.  Review of BASEL implementation status Objective of CCU  Action taken  To ensure compliance of regulatory rules and Composition of BASEL Implementation Committee regulations related to AML and ATA; Arif Khan CFA FCMA CEO & Managing Director  To implement and enforce IDLC’s AML policies to H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA, Deputy Managing Director prevent money laundering and terrorist financing; Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit and Collection  To ensure effective implementation of AML and ATA Mohammad Morshedul Quader Khalili, Head of Internal program across the company effectively. Control and Compliance Functions Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer Functions of the Committee are as follows: Mohammad Jobair Rahman Khan, Head of Statutory  Keeping updated with changes in regulations Reporting & Group Company Secretary regarding the combatting of money laundering and terrorist financing, and accordingly adopting changes Integrity Committee to IDLC’s AML and ATA compliance policy. Integrity Committee of IDLC was formed on October 22,  Supervising money laundering and terrorist financing 2013 in accordance with Bangladesh Bank’s letter no. HRcontrol procedures of the company so as to ensure 1(O&D) Focal-1/2013-2 dated October 10, 2013 to abide legal and regulatory requirements. by the code of integrity and good governance in line with National Integrity Strategy of Bangladesh.  Issuing necessary instructions across the company in line with company policy and Bangladesh Bank Functions directives. Functions of the Committee are as follows:  Ensuring that proper KYC along with effective risk  Create awareness on code of integrity and good assessment and control procedures are in place. governance across the company;  Providing advisory services to business and operational 35  Identify the scopes where efficiency of employee can units on various issues linked with alleged money SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 be developed and arrange appropriate training in this laundering activities or transactions. regards;  Maintaining ongoing awareness on evolving money  Amend existing policies and procedures as per laundering risks and their compliance procedures requirements; through formal and informal training, workshop and seminars.  Evaluate and reward the respective employees for integrity and good work;  Development of adequate testing procedures to detect and prevent lapses in compliance.  Improve e-governance system;  Monitoring business activities of branches through  Develop complaint management system; AML and ATA self-assessment procedure and provide  Implement code of conduct; corrective measures. Composition of Central Compliance Unit Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA, Deputy Managing Director H S Tareq Ahmed, Head of Treasury Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit & Collection Mohammad Jobair Rahman Khan, Head of Statutory Reporting & Group Company Secretary Mohammad Morshedul Quader Khalili, Head of Internal Control & Compliance Mohammad Jobayer Alam, CFA, Head of Strategic Planning Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer Risk Analysis Unit (RAU) Risk Management Forum (RMF) Concurrent with the formation of the RMF, the IDLC Risk Analysis Unit was formed to act as the secretariat of the Risk The Risk Management Forum was formed on April 15, 2013 in accordance with the Bangladesh Bank’s DFIM Circular no. 01 Management Forum with the responsibility for identifying dated April 07, 2013 to introduce proactive risk management and analysing various types of risks appropriately and in a procedures in line with the international best practices timely manner. The Head of Internal Control and Compliance framework. acts as the Head of RAU. Functions Functions  Design overall risk management strategy  RAU identifies and analyses all sorts of risks appropriately and in a timely manner  Communicate views of the Board and senior management regarding the risk management culture  Collect all relevant data related to the risk indicators and risk appetite across the Company from different sources and information systems  Prepare risk management policies and procedures  Assess the quality, completeness and correctness of this data  Monitor the prescribed/ threshold limits of risk appetite  Identify and quantify the risks and their exposures to set by the regulator and/ or by the Company itself material loss  Develop and observe the use of models to measure  Prepare a risk management paper on a monthly basis and monitor risks  Conduct periodic stress testing  Develop and oversee implementation of stress testing IDLC Ladies Forum (IDLCLF)  Oversee the capital management functions in IDLC has launched its first Ladies Forum through a formal accordance with the risk-based capital adequacy ceremony with the participation of all the female employees measurement accord, i.e. BASEL-II/ III from different levels of positions, working areas and  Determine the most cost-effective way to minimise distribution points to address their views, problems and risks opinions to facilitate a better working environment for them.  Highlight risks in portfolios and deficiencies of the Composition of IDLC Ladies’ Forum Company on a timely manner and report the analyses to the Managing Director as well as the Board of Directors President with specific recommendations and suggestions Bilquis Jahan, Group Head of Human Resources  Review market conditions, identify external threats Executive Committee and provide commensurate recommendations for precautionary measures Comprises 12 women employees representing different  Develop overall information system/ MIS to support the divisions and branches of the Group risk management functions of the Company Secretary Composition of Risk Management Forum (RMF) Ayesha Haque, Head of CSR Headed by H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan FCA, Deputy Managing Members Director, the Committee consists of the following members: All the women employees of the Group Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit and Collection This Forum will provide all women employees the opportunity Bilquis Jahan, Group Head of Human Resources for networking and provide a common platform to share 36 Ataur Rahman Chowdhury, Head of Operations and raise various issues and problems like discrimination, harassment, negative attitude towards women and any other SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Shafayet Hossain, Head of Special Asset Management issue that may affect women employees within the Company. Mohammad Morshedul Quader Khalili, Head of Internal This will enable IDLC’s management to better understand Control and Compliance and address these issues and develop strategies accordingly. IDLC FINANCE LIMITED IDLC's statement of corporate governance Corporate governance represents a strategy for companies of the Company’s management have been instituted and to ensure a framework of control for its administrative and institutionalised. management practices. This is achieved through procedures that are aligned with recognised standards that respond IDLC considers that its corporate governance practices comply with all the aspects of the revised Corporate to the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders. Governance Guideline (CGG) Notification No. SEC/ Proper governance ensures fairness, transparency CMMRRCD/2006-158/Admin/44, dated August 07, 2012, and accountability and safeguards the interests of all issued by the Bangladesh Securities and Exchange stakeholders, especially the minority shareholders. Empirical Commission (BSEC) and all aspects of Bangladesh Bank’s research also suggests that corporations that adhere to DFIM Circular No. 7, dated September 25, 2007. In addition good governance practices are not only more sustainable to establishing the highest standards of corporate but also tend to generate higher profitability. governance, IDLC also embraces best governance practices across all its activities. The independent role of the Board of Directors, separate and independent role of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, distinct roles of the Company Secretary, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Compliance Officer and different Board Committees enable IDLC to achieve excellence in corporate governance. As a listed Company, IDLC must comply with the BSEC’s revised CGG, which require the Company to provide a statement in the Annual Report disclosing the extent to which it has complied with the BSEC Corporate Governance circulars. The status of compliance shall be certified by a practicing Professional Accountant/ Secretary. BOARD OF DIRECTORS, CHAIRMAN AND CEO Board of Directors The Board of IDLC considers that its constitution should comprise Directors with an appropriate mix of skill, IDLC’s six core areas emphasise its effective corporate experience and personal attributes that allow the Directors governance strategy as demonstrated in the diagram. The individually and the Board collectively to discharge their company’s corporate governance model is rigorously aligned responsibilities and duties under the law efficiently and with its well-articulated vision, mission, goals and objectives. effectively, understand the business of the Company and The Company’s Board of Directors are responsible for proper assess the performance of the management. governance, which includes setting out the Company’s The composition of the Board embraces diversity. The strategic aims, providing the necessary leadership to Directors possess a wide range of local and international implement such aims, supervising the management of the experience, expertise and specialised skills to assist in business and reporting to shareholders on their stewardship. decision-making and leading the Company for the benefit The Board is collectively accountable to the Company’s of its shareholders. shareholders for good governance to facilitate efficient and effective management towards delivering long-term Nomination Committee shareholder value within appropriately established risk The Nomination Committee is responsible for composition, parameters. balance and expertise of the Board as a whole and appraising IDLC is committed to continually review all its corporate the contribution of individual Directors, including a review governance policies and guidelines to ensure transparency of their time commitment and attendance records. 37 in its practices and the delivery of the highest ethical The Board, as a whole, decides on the nomination of any Board SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 standards and quality information to its stakeholders on an member and composition of the Board and its committees. ongoing basis. IDLC’s policy on appointment of Directors The sustenance of effective corporate governance remains In relation to the selection and appointment of new a key priority of IDLC’s Board. To exercise clarity about the Directors, the existing Board of Directors possess the Directors’ responsibilities towards shareholders, corporate following duties and responsibilities: governance must be dynamic and remain focused on the Company’s business objectives and create a culture of  Regularly review the size and composition of the openness, transparency and accountability. Keeping this in Board and the mix of expertise, skills, experience and mind, clear structures and ownership supported by wellperspectives that may be desirable to permit the Board understood policies and procedures to guide the activities to execute its functions;  Identify any competencies not adequately represented of the Company; rather, they provide their valuable insights and agree to the process necessary to be assured that and guidance to the management in the meeting of the a candidate nominated by the shareholders with those Board and its committees. competencies is selected; Adequate number of Independent Directors in the Board  The Directors are appointed by the shareholders in and their independence the Annual General Meeting (AGM). Casual vacancies, if any, are filled by the Board in accordance with the As per the revised Corporate Governance Guideline of stipulations of the Companies Act, 1994, and the Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission (BSEC), Articles of IDLC; at least one-fifth of the total directors of the Board shall be Independent Directors. Thus, in compliance with the  The CEO & Managing Director is appointed by the guideline, three (3) Directors out of the total twelve (12) Board subject to the consent of the shareholders in Directors are independent, having no share or interest the Annual General Meeting (AGM) and approval of in IDLC. Independence of the respective Independent Bangladesh Bank; Directors is confirmed during selection and appointment of  Any change in the members of the Board requires the Directors and they remain committed to continue with intimation to the Bangladesh Bank, all scheduled banks such independence throughout their tenure. and Financial Institutions (FIs), Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission (BSEC) and the stock Role and responsibilities of the Board exchanges. The Board is committed to the Company to achieve superior Retirement and re-election of Directors financial performance and long-term prosperity, while meeting stakeholder expectations of sound corporate As per IDLC’s Articles of Association, one-third of the governance practices. The Board determines the corporate Directors are required to retire from the Board every year, governance arrangements for the Company. As with all its comprising those who have been in office the longest since business activities, the Board is proactive with regards to their last election. A retiring Director shall be eligible for recorporate governance and puts in place those arrangements election. that it considers are in the best interest of the Company and Composition of the Board, ensuring adequate number of its shareholders and consistent with its responsibilities to Non-Executive Directors and their independence other stakeholders. IDLC’s Board comprises twelve (12) Non-Executive Directors The Board duly complies with the guidelines issued by including three (3) Independent Directors and one (1) the Bangladesh Bank regarding the responsibility and Executive Director, the CEO & Managing Director as on accountability of the Board, its Chairman and Chief reporting date. Directors possess a wide range of skills and Executive/ Managing Director, vide DFIM Circular No. 7 experience over an array of professions, businesses and dated September 25, 2007. services. The Board of Directors is in full control of the Company’s All the Non-Executive Directors are nominated by their affairs and is also fully accountable to shareholders. It firmly respective institutions except for the Independent Directors. believes that the success of the Company hinges on the All the Directors bring forth independent judgment and credible corporate governance practices embraced by it. considerable knowledge to perform their roles effectively. Taking this into consideration, the Board of Directors set The Board of Directors ensures that the Company’s activities out its strategic focus and supervises the business and the are always conducted with adherence to stringent and the related affairs of the Company. The Board also formulates the highest possible ethical standards and in the best interests strategic objectives and policy framework for the Company. of all stakeholders. In discharging the above responsibilities, the Board carries out, inter alia, the following functions as per the charter of None of the directors of the Board, except the CEO & the Board and Bangladesh Bank’s DFIM Circular No. 7, dated Managing Director, are involved in the day-to-day operations September 25, 2007: Stakeholders Responsibilities reserved to the Board 38 Approval of business strategy and vision in line with efforts to drive shareholder value creation. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Approval of business plans, assuring that sufficient resources are available to implement Shareholders and monitor the strategy. Approval and monitoring of major investments or divestitures and strategic commitments. Determination of capital structure and dividend policy. Approval and monitoring of financial reporting. Oversight of risk management, internal controls and compliance systems as per the Bangladesh Bank’s ‘Core Risk Guideline’. Recommendation for appointment or removal of external auditors and determination of the remuneration and terms of appointment of the auditors. IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Stakeholders Responsibilities reserved to the Board Approval of annual budgets including major capital expenditure proposals. Regular review of financial performance and overdue situations. Monitoring the adequacy, appropriateness and operations of internal controls. Ensure that technology and information systems are sufficient to operate the organisation effectively and sustain competitiveness. Benchmarking value creation for customers, clients and partners. Customers Reinforcement of the corporate culture and core values and ensuring that the Company remains an employer of choice. Review and approval of the CEO and Executive Management team’s arrangements, remuneration and benefits. Employees Oversight of succession planning for the CEO, Executive Management team and such other Executives as the Board may deem fit. Oversight of the management of social, economic and environmental concerns consistent with the delivery of sustainable outcomes for stakeholders and achievement of the Community Company’s incident and injury-free vision. Reinforcement of reputation, brand and community relations. Review of the size and composition of the Board. Directors Director’s nomination, selection, removal, succession planning and remuneration. Review of the Board’s performance. The Chairman of the Board and the CEO of the Company  Supporting the CEO & Managing Director. are different individuals Responsibilities of the Chairman The Chairman of the Board is not the Chief Executive of the Company. The Chairman and the CEO & Managing Director The Chairman of the Board shall be responsible for the are different individuals. The role of the Chairman and the management, development and effective performance of CEO & Managing Director are independent and separate. the Board of Directors and provides leadership to the Board for all aspects of the Board’s functions. The Chairman is Role and responsibilities of the Chairman as defined by the responsible for leadership of the Board. In particular, s/he Board will: The Chairman runs the Board. The Chairman serves as the  Ensure effective operations of the Board and its primary link between the Board and the management and committees in conformance with the highest standards works with the CEO and Company Secretary to set the of corporate governance; agenda for Board meetings. It is the Chairman’s responsibility to provide leadership to the Board and ensure that the  Ensure effective communication with shareholders, Board works effectively and discharges its responsibilities as host governments and other relevant constituencies Directors of the Company. The role and responsibilities of and ensure that the views of these groups are the Chairman of the Board is defined and set by the Board. understood by the Board;  Set the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions to Role of the Chairman promote constructive debate and effective decisionThe Chairman’s primary role is to ensure that the Board making; is effective in its task of setting and implementing the  Ensure that all Board Committees are properly Company’s direction and strategy. The Chairman is established, composed and operated; appointed by the Board. The principal features of the role of  Support the CEO & Managing Director in strategy the Chairman comprise the following: formulation and, more broadly, provide support and  Providing leadership to the Board; give advice; 39  Taking responsibility for the Board’s composition and  Ensure an effective relationship among Directors, acting SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 development; as the principal conduit for communication and issues relating to business strategy, planned acquisitions and  Ensuring proper information for the Board; corporate governance;  Planning and conducting Board meetings effectively;  Establish a harmonious and open relationship with the  Getting all Directors involved in the Board’s work; CEO & Managing Director;  Ensuring the Board’s focus on key tasks;  Ensure that Board Committees are properly structured  Engaging the Board in assessing and improving its and all corporate governance matters are fully performance; addressed; and  Overseeing the induction and development of  Encourage active engagement by all members of the Directors; and Board. Annual evaluation of the CEO & Managing Director by the Among them, two Directors are Fellow members of the Board Institute of Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh (ICAB). They normally provide guidance in matters applicable to At the beginning of each year, the Board engages in extensive accounting and audit-related issues to ensure compliance discussions with the CEO & Managing Director and sets and reliable financial reporting. financial and non-financial goals. The annual financial budget and job objectives are discussed, reviewed and finalised Holding of Board meetings by the Board at the start of the financial year. The business and financial targets are evaluated each quarter with actual As advised by the Bangladesh Bank, the meeting of the achievements, by the Board. The non-financial achievements Board of a financial institution shall be held at its Corporate are also reviewed by the Board in each quarter. Moreover, an Head Office (CHO) or in the town in which its CHO is located. annual assessment and evaluation of the achievements of In compliance with this directive, the meeting of the Board pre-agreed targets are made at the close of the year along of Directors is normally held at the registered Corporate with deviations and reasons for deviations. Head Office of the Company. The meeting is held frequently, at least once a quarter, to help the Board discharge its Continuing development program of Directors responsibilities and functions as mentioned above. The meeting is scheduled well in advance and the notice of each All Directors are expected to make an informed contribution Board meeting is given in writing to each Director by the based on an understanding of IDLC’s business model and the Company Secretary. key challenges facing the Group as a whole. The Chairman ensures that all Directors receive a full, formal and tailored Process of holding Board meetings induction on joining the Board, facilitated by the senior management and comprising: The Company Secretary prepares the detailed agenda for the meeting. The Board papers comprising the agenda,  A formal corporate induction, including an explanatory notes and proposed resolutions are circulated to introduction to the Board, and a detailed overview the Directors well in advance for their review. The members of IDLC, its strategy, operational structures and of the Board have complete access to all the information business activities; of the Company, enabling them to work efficiently. The  The roles and responsibilities of a Director, including members of the Board are also free to recommend inclusion statutory duties and responsibilities; of any matter in the agenda for discussions, subject to the  A comprehensive induction programme tailored by permission of the Chairman of the meeting. The Company the Chairman and meetings with senior executives Secretary and the Chief Financial Officer always attend the across IDLC and sessions with IDLC’s business Board meetings and the senior management is invited to divisions; and attend the Board meetings to provide additional inputs of the items being discussed by the Board and make necessary  A detailed induction programme across risk, presentations, if required. focusing on risk appetite and the Group’s risk profile Directors’ remuneration Appraisal of performance of the Board Directors are not entitled to any remuneration other than Both new and existing Directors are provided with the Code attending the meeting of the Board and its committees. of Conduct for the Board members on general aspects of their Directorship and industry-specific matters. Moreover, Bangladesh Bank vide its DFIM Circular No. 13 dated the Board is immediately informed of any new rules, November 30, 2015, re-fixed the maximum limit of regulations and/ or changes in existing regulations. The remuneration to the Directors for attending meetings of Board is also always kept updated on any development the Board and its committees at Taka 8,000 per meeting and changes in the business environment, risk and industry per Director. The Board of IDLC adopted the said enhanced outlook to assist them to carry out their duties as Directors. remuneration on December 24, 2015. Till then, the Evaluation of the Board’s performance is conducted by remuneration was Taka 5,000 per meeting per Director. analysing the performance of the projects and proposals Number of Board meetings held in 2015 approved by it. A quarterly review of classified and non40 performing loans is always made by the Board to find out The number of Directors required to constitute a quorum deviations and embrace course of corrections, if required. is six (6), out of the twelve Directors. During 2015, a total of sixteen (16) Board meetings were held. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Financial and accounting knowledge and expertise of Directors Directors’ report on preparation and presentation of financial statements and corporate governance IDLC’s Board of Directors consists of members who possess a wide variety of knowledge and experience in finance, The Companies Act, 1994, requires the Directors to prepare economy, management, business administration, marketing financial statements for each accounting year. The Board and law. This ensures that together, they formulate the right of Directors accepts the responsibility for the preparation policy for the development of the business while having the of the financial statements, maintaining adequate records specialised skills and the ability to foresee developments for safeguarding the assets of the Company, preventing across a larger perspective and with enough independence and detecting fraud and/ or other irregularities, selecting to audit the management in a balanced manner. suitable accounting policies and applying those policies IDLC FINANCE LIMITED consistently and making reasonable and prudent judgments Position in the suband estimates where necessary. committee of the Board Members of the Board of The Board of Directors are also responsible for the Directors Executive Audit implementation of the best and the most suitable corporate committee committee governance practices. Monower Uddin Ahmed, Member Independent Director Role of the Company Secretary Arif Khan, CEO & MD (Ex-officio) Member The Company Secretary acts as a mediator between the Company, its Board of Directors, stakeholders, the Executive Committee government and regulatory authorities. He has expertise in A five (5) member Executive Committee, comprising Board corporate laws, capital markets, security laws and corporate members, is responsible for strategic and operational plans governance. He also advises the Board of Directors on the of the business. Matters related to the Company’s ordinary kind of practices to be adopted in upholding high levels of business operations and matters that the Board of Directors, corporate governance. from time to time, authorise, are vested in this committee in accordance with the Statement of General and Operational The Company Secretary ensures that the best management Policies established and sustained by the Board of Directors. practices and work ethics are embraced to create value for This committee assists IDLC in taking prompt decisions and the Company. He represents the Company among internal reacts swiftly to changes in the marketplace as they occur. and external stakeholders, co-ordinates the policies of the The rules of the Executive Committee is framed by the Board. Company, fulfills the management function and provides guidance on strategic decisions for the improvement and During the year under review, fourteen (14) meetings of the growth of the Company. Executive Committee were held. The Company Secretary acts as the secretary of the Executive Committee. In compliance with the Corporate Governance guidelines, the Company Secretary has a defined role and responsibilities IDLC’s VISION, MISSION AND STRATEGIES approved by the Board. The Board of Directors, at its 193rd meeting held on May 13, Committees of the Board 2012, redefined the Company’s vision, mission, strategic objectives and value statements. Adhering to our value The Board has established two permanent Committees to statements, we are driving towards our vision. assist, advice and make recommendations to the Board on matters falling within their respective responsibilities as per AUDIT COMMITTEE BSEC and Bangladesh Bank guidelines. IDLC’s Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the Board Each Committee is governed by a formal charter approved formed in compliance with the requirements of DFIM by the Board, setting out its objectives, responsibilities, Circular No. 13, dated 26 October 2011 of the Bangladesh structures and operations. The membership of the Board Bank and relevant BSEC notification(s) and international best committees, as at the date of authorisation of the financial practices on corporate governance. statements 2015, is set out in the table below: Composition of the Audit Committee consisting of an Position in the subIndependent Director and Non-Executive Directors Members of the Board of committee of the Board In compliance with the DFIM Circular No. 13, dated 26 Directors Executive Audit October 2011 of the Bangladesh Bank and Corporate committee committee Governance guidelines of BSEC, the Committee consists Aziz Al Mahmood, Chairman of of five (5) non-executive members of the Board including the Board an Independent Director who is the Chairman of the Committee. The quorum of the meeting shall not be filled Md. Shahidul Ahsan Chairman until and unless the Independent Director attends the A.K.M. Shahidul Haque, meeting. The Company Secretary acts as the secretary of the Member Chairman Independent Director Audit Committee. 41 Meherun Haque SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Qualification of members including the Chairman Faruq M. Ahmed Member Mr. A. K. M. Shahidul Haque, one of the Independent Directors, S. M. Mashrur Arefin is the Chairman of the Audit Committee, possessing 37 years of vast banking experience. Among others, two members, Mohammad Mahbubur Rahman, Member Mr. Kamrul Hassan and Mr. Mohammad Mahbubur Rahman, FCA are Fellow members of the Institute of Chartered Accounts of Md. Kamrul Hassan, FCA Member Bangladesh (ICAB). They also possess significant experience in finance and accounting. Md. Rezaul Karim Member Member All the members of the Committee are ‘financially literate’ as Atiqur Rahman defined by the revised corporate governance guidelines. Terms of reference of Audit Committee – empowering to 4. Placing recommendations before the Board of investigate employees and retain external counsel Directors in case of change of accounting policies. This role is further expounded on and clarified in the Terms  In respect of external audit of Reference (ToR) of the Audit Committee, which was revised in light of directives contained in DFIM Circular No. 1. Appraising the audit procedures and reviewing 13 dated 26 October, 2011 issued by the Bangladesh Bank. the management letter submitted by external According to the revised ToR of the Audit Committee, its auditors; principal duties and responsibilities include the following: 2. Assessing whether the management has appropriately considered the observations and  In respect of internal control recommendations made by the external auditors; 1. Evaluating whether the management: and a. Has an appropriate internal control and 3. Placing recommendations to the Board of Directors compliance culture with regards to risk regarding the appointment of external auditors. management;  In respect of compliance with existing regulations b. Has clearly defined the duties and responsibilities of its officials; Reviewing whether the rules and regulations set by regulatory authorities (Bangladesh Bank and other c. Has full control over the operations of the regulatory bodies) as well as internal policies and Company; guidelines approved by the Board of Directors are 2. Reviewing the appropriateness of being complied with. management information system (MIS) including information technology system and  Miscellaneous its use; 1. Placing quarterly reports before the Board of Directors 3. Reviewing whether the management is on rectification/ correction status of errors, fraud, complying with the recommendations made forgery and other irregularities identified by internal by internal and external auditors; auditors, external auditors and the Bangladesh Bank inspection teams; 4. Reviewing existing risk management procedures to ensure that processes are 2. Undertaking development functions through effectively run within the Company; and implementing an improved infrastructure and reporting 5 Reviewing all fraud, forgery and internal control system; and weaknesses discovered by internal, external or 3. Performing all other supervisory activities as assigned regulatory auditors and thereafter keeping the by the Board as well as evaluating its own efficiency on Board of Directors informed of all discoveries a regular basis. and subsequent corrective measures. Accessibility of Head of Internal Audit to the meeting of the  In respect of financial statements Audit Committee 1. Reviewing whether financial statements were The Head of Internal Control and Compliance has direct prepared in compliance with all directives and access to the Audit Committee, which in turn is directly guidelines prescribed by the Bangladesh Bank and accountable to the Board. other applicable standards Holding of the Audit Committee meeting during 2015 2. Engaging in discussions with external auditors and the management prior to the finalisation of the As per the Terms of Reference, the Audit Committee is financial statements required to hold at least four (4) meetings in a year. During 3. Attending and answering questions related to the year ended 31 December 2015, the Committee held six accounts and audit at the AGM (6) meetings. Quorum of the Audit Committee meetings 42  In respect of internal audit The number of Directors required to constitute a quorum 1. Reviewing the activities and organisational SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 is two (2). Of them, one shall be an Independent Director. structure of internal audit and ensuring that there The Company Secretary shall act as the secretary of the is no barrier or limitation to the performance of an Committee. independent internal audit; 2. Assessing the efficiency and effectiveness of internal The Audit Committee and Internal Control and Compliance audit; IDLC’s Internal Control and Compliance (ICC) department 3. Assessing whether the management is is tasked with reviewing the Company’s system of internal appropriately considering compliance of controls including the conduct of regular audits of all recommendations made by the internal auditors operational units. ICC is operationally independent in that with regards to the observations identified by its members are not involved in the Company’s operational them; and activities and that the Head of ICC (HoICC), in addition to his IDLC FINANCE LIMITED direct reporting line to the CEO & Managing Director, also The Company’s internal control system consists of five interhas access to the Audit Committee. related components: The Audit Committee is responsible for approving the  The control environment annual audit plan of ICC and reviewing the plan’s subsequent The control environment refers to the orientation, awareness implementation. and actions of those in the governance and management The internal audit reports or summaries thereof prepared by roles with regards to the Company’s internal control and the ICC are reviewed on a regular basis by the Committee. its importance in the entity. Elements under IDLC’s control environment include: Reporting of the Audit Committee  Active participation by those charged with governance The Audit Committee reports directly to the Board of as evidenced through regular meetings of its Board of Directors and under certain circumstances, can also report Directors and Audit Committee; to the BSEC.  The communication and fostering of an environment Immediate reporting to the Board of Directors that consistently requires integrity and ethical The Audit Committee shall immediately report to the Board behaviour as evidenced by regular communication and of Directors in the following cases confirmation of its Code of Conduct and zero tolerance for illegal or unethical behavior;  On conflict of interest;  A formal well-defined organisational structure, setting  Suspected and presumed fraud or irregularity or out key areas of authority and responsibility and material defect in the internal control system; appropriate reporting lines that is relevant to the nature and size of the Company’s business;  Suspected infringement of laws, including  Human resource policies that demonstrate the securities-related laws, rules and regulations; and Company’s commitment towards recruiting employees  Any other matter which should be disclosed to the who meet established standards of competence and Board of Directors immediately. ethical behavior.  Risk assessment No such issues arose at IDLC during the year ended 31 December 2015. Risk assessment refers to the process(es) with which the Company identifies and assesses risks in the Immediate reporting to the Bangladesh Securities and achievement of its objectives. A changing external Exchange Commission and internal environment means that risk assessment is a dynamic process and must occur at all levels of If the Audit Committee has reported to the Board of the organisational structure, ranging from branch and Directors about anything that has a material impact on department level reviews of portfolios, functions and the financial conditions and results of operations of and operations to Management Committee (ManCom) and where the Audit Committee finds that such rectification ALCO meetings at the very top level of the management. has been unreasonably ignored, the Audit Committee shall report such findings to the BSEC, upon reporting of such  Control activities matters to the Board of Directors for three such instances or Control activities are the policies and procedures that completion of a period of 9 (nine) months from the date of help ensure that the management directives are carried first reporting to the Board of Directors, whichever is earlier. out. Control activities have various objectives and are No such circumstances arose during the year ended 31 applied throughout the Company at all levels and in all December 2015. functions. These include activities such as authorisation, reviews, reconciliations and verifications. INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT  Information and communication Internal control The information and communication component IDLC has adopted the definition of internal control facilitates the functioning of the other components 43 provided by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations by providing information that is necessary for the SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in its Internal Control attainment of Company objectives and by establishing — Integrated Framework. Accordingly, the Company a continuous process for collecting, sharing and defines internal control as a process, affected by its Board disseminating necessary information from both within of Directors, management and other personnel, which is and outside the Company. Towards this end, the designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the Company has established information systems that achievements of objectives relating to the effectiveness deal with internally-generated data as well as external and efficiency of operations, reliability of both external events, activities and conditions relevant to business and internal financial and non-financial reporting and decision-making to produce operational, functional and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The compliance-related information. In addition to Flexcube, control system applies across the IDLC Group to all our other customised software have greatly enriched the divisions and departments of its operations. capabilities of the Company’s information systems. In a more general sense, the IDLC culture encourages sharing The new Integrated Risk Management Guidelines for Financial of information and opinions across the management Institutions specify a number of additional risks that financial hierarchy and among different businesses, functions and institutions are now required to manage and report in a more departments. structured manner. The key among these are:  Monitoring Strategic risk Monitoring ensures that controls are operating as Strategic risk has been defined as the risk of potential losses intended and that they are appropriately modified that might arise from adverse business decisions, subin response to changing conditions. At IDLC, this is standard execution and failure to respond adequately to achieved through a variety of measures including changes in the business environment. The guidelines set ongoing monitoring which occurs in the course of, and out the respective roles of the Board of Directors, senior as a part of, day-to-day operations as well as separate management and business units in managing strategic risks, management reviews, evaluations and periodic internal identify the minimum steps to be followed in the strategic audits of various departments and business functions. risk management process and also suggest measures for strategic risk control. Although the Board of IDLC is primarily responsible for ensuring that the Company has an adequate IDLC has been managing strategic risks ever since its and effective control system in place, ultimately, all inception. This is evident from the Company’s constantly employees are accountable for managing internal evolving business model over the years. The Company has controls. Business and operational units, particularly a clear strategic vision as to what it wants to become and department heads, are in-charge of ensuring that a mission statement that enumerates the steps required to internal controls are established, well-documented and achieve its vision. Strategic issues are discussed at a variety of maintained across his/ her department. The Internal forums including meetings of the Management Committee Control and Compliance (ICC) department acts as a and of the IDLC Board. Over the past few years, a separate second line of defence through conducting tests on Strategic Planning department has been instituted to assist the efficiency and effectiveness of the control systems senior management in this regard. The culmination of all through audit. these efforts are reflected in annual strategy and budget sessions, where the Company sets outs its plans for the next A prudently designed management structure, clearly year. With the introduction of the new guidelines, more defined responsibilities, delegation of authorities, risk changes will be made to the strategic risk management awareness, establishment of accountability at each level process as and when required. and a system of periodic reporting and performance Compliance risk monitoring represent the key elements of the internal control framework employed at IDLC. Compliance risk is defined as the current or prospective risk of legal actions and/or material financial losses that an Identification of key risks IDLC is exposed to – both organisation may suffer as a result of its failure to comply with internally and externally laws, its own regulations, code of conduct and standards of Risk is the element of uncertainty or the possibility of loss the best practice as well as from the possibility of incorrect that prevails in any business transaction in any place, in any interpretation of laws or regulations. The guidelines set out mode and at any time. Risk is an integral part of the financing the respective roles of the Board, senior management and business. Risk management entails the adoption of several compliance function units in managing compliance risks measures to strengthen the ability of an organisation to cope and also require formulation of a written compliance risk with the vagaries of the complex business environment in management policy. which it operates. Historically, IDLC has always fostered a compliance-oriented culture. This has been reinforced in a variety of ways, ranging IDLC always concentrates on delivering high value to its from formal requirements to sign declarations of compliance stakeholders through appropriate trade-off between risk and with the IDLC Code of Conduct (requiring compliance with return. In addition to the industry best practices for assessing, the laws and regulations) to ongoing communication identifying and measuring risks, IDLC also considers from the senior management stressing the need to do guidelines for managing core risks of financial instructions 44 business under the highest levels of compliance. In general, issued by Bangladesh Bank, vide FID Circular No. 10, dated compliance risk management is embedded in the daySeptember 18, 2005 for management of risks and, more SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 to-day management of business processes and practices recently, DFIM Circular No. 03 dated 24 January 2016. of the Company. With the introduction of the Integrated A well-structured and proactive risk management system is Risk Management Guidelines, the overall management of in place within the Company to address risks relating to: compliance risk is reviewed and appropriately amended to ensure conformity with the guidelines.  Credit risk;  Market risk; Reputation risk  Liquidity risk; Reputation risk may be defined as the risk of loss arising from damages to an organization's reputation. The  Operational risk; and guidelines set out the respective roles of the Board and  Money laundering and terrorist financing risk. the senior management in managing reputation risk and IDLC FINANCE LIMITED also require financial institutions to implement a sound ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE and comprehensive risk management process to identify, monitor, control and report all reputational risks. The IDLC Group remains committed to upholding the highest standards of ethics and compliance by its employees. This IDLC has already established a set of non‐financial commitment is reflected in its Code of Conduct that covers, reputational risk indicators and put in place a structured among other issues, the following areas: process for monitoring these and any other matters that might give rise to potential reputational risks. Till date, no  Their relationship with and responsibilities to IDLC; material reputational risk issue involving the Company has  Their relationship with and responsibilities to customers; been identified.  Compliance with laws and regulations; Environmental and social risk  Acting in a professional and ethical manner; IDLC is focused on sustainability, shifting from the traditional  Protection of business assets; financing approach. In this regard, the Company is  Disclosure of conflicts of interest; and strengthening its credit appraisal process to be much more  Prohibition of any conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, stringent from an environment and social (E&S) perspective, deceit or misrepresentation including insider trading. evaluating all the environmental and social factors such as project impacts on the environment and the community in Dissemination of the statement of ethics and Code of the long run, prior to sanctioning a loan. Conduct Acknowledgment of Directors’ responsibility in respect of All IDLC employees are required to sign an annual declaration internal control of IDLC confirming that they have read and understood the Code of Conduct. IDLC’s Board of Directors acknowledges its overall responsibility for maintaining the adequacy and Board’s commitment to establishing highest level of ethics effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal controls. The and compliance within IDLC Board is of the view that the internal control framework is designed to manage the Group’s risks within an acceptable The IDLC Board acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring risk profile, rather than completely eliminate the risk that the Company’s business activities are conducted of failure to achieve the policies, goals and objectives in accordance with the highest standards of ethics and of the Group. The Board therefore believes that it can compliance. provide only reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance The Board views adherence to ethical standards and regarding effectiveness against material mis-statements of compliance as an integral part of the broader corporate management and financial information or against financial governance framework and seeks to adopt a holistic losses and fraud. approach in ensuring its implementation. As part of this, Subject to the caveats of reasonable assurance mentioned it has instituted a number of approaches to underline its above, the Board confirms that it has reviewed and assessed commitment to high standards of ethical behavior: the Group’s system of internal controls with regards to its  Setting down standards of expected behavior through adequacy and effectiveness in providing reasonable assurance the formulation and communication of a Code of regarding the achievement of objectives relating to the Conduct; effectiveness and efficiency of operations, reliability of both external and internal financial and non-financial reporting and  Installing a system of internal controls, which is compliance with the applicable laws and regulations. reviewed, evaluated and updated on an ongoing basis;  Positioning Company policies and procedures on ethical The Board is of the view that the system of internal controls foundations to ensure that ethical considerations are in place is sound and adequate to provide reasonable integrated in the day-to-day decision-making, activities assurance regarding the objectives mentioned in the and processes; preceding paragraphs.  Establishing a clearly-defined organisational structure  Credit Evaluation Committee (CEC): To evaluates that assigns responsibility and authority for the conduct all projects/ proposals of financing activities of the of organisational functions while at the same time 45 Company from the risk point of view. ensuring accountability for individual actions; SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015  Risk Management Forum (RMF): To introduce proactive  Establishing a variety of monitoring mechanisms risk management procedures in line with international including the creation and empowerment of an best practices framework. operationally independent internal audit team with reporting responsibilities to the audit committee; and  Risk Analysis Unit (RAU): To act as the secretariat of the Risk Management Forum with responsibility for  Ensuring instant action with zero tolerance for identified identifying and analysing the various types of risks instances of unethical and/ or non-compliant behaviour. appropriately and in a timely manner. Code of Conduct for Board members  Central Compliance Unit (CCU): Responsible for The Board of Directors of IDLC is committed to the highest supervising the anti-money laundering (AML) and antistandards of conduct in their relationship with IDLC terrorism activities (ATA) at IDLC. employees, customers, members, shareholders, regulators and the public. This refers to conducting our business in The Board members shall avoid receiving or permitting accordance with all applicable laws and regulations and members of their immediate family to receive improper also represents our commitment to the spirit of the law. Our personal benefits from the Company, including loans from actions should reflect IDLC’s values, demonstrate ethical or guarantees of obligations by the Company. leadership and promote a work environment that upholds A Board member shall make a full disclosure to the entire IDLC’s reputation for integrity, ethical conduct and trust. This Board of any transaction or relationship that such a Code is intended to provide a statement of the fundamental member reasonably expects could give rise to an actual principles applicable to our Directors. conflict of interest with the Company and seek the Board’s Our Directors are encouraged to bring forth questions authorisation to pursue such transactions or relationships. about particular circumstances that may involve one or D. Company property more of the provisions of this Code to the Chairman of the Board. In carrying out their duties and responsibilities, the Board members shall endeavour to ensure that the management In compliance with the revised corporate governance is using the Company’s assets, proprietary information and guidelines issued by the BSEC, the Board shall lay down resources to be used by the Company and its employees the Code of Conduct of all Board members and annual only for legitimate business purposes. compliance of the Code has to be recorded. E. Confidential information General obligation The Board members shall maintain confidentiality of The Code of Conduct for Board members of the Company information entrusted to them in carrying out their duties includes: and responsibilities, except where disclosure is approved by A. Prudent conduct and behaviour the Company or legally mandated or if such information is in the public domain. Each Board member should seek to use due care in the performance of his/ her duties, be loyal to the Company, act The Company’s confidential and proprietary information in good faith and in a manner that such a Board member shall not be inappropriately disclosed or used for the reasonably believes to be not opposed to the best interests personal gain or advantage of any Board member other of the Company. than the Company. These obligations apply not only during a Board member’s term but thereafter as well. A Board member shall seek to: F. Fair dealing i. Make reasonable efforts to attend Board and Committee meetings; In carrying out their duties and responsibilities, the Board ii. Dedicate time and attention to the Company; members shall endeavour to deal fairly and should promote fair dealing by the Company, its employees and agents with iii. Seek to comply with all applicable laws, regulations, customers, suppliers and employees. confidentiality obligations and corporate policies of the Company; G. Compliance with laws and regulations iv. Act in the best interest of and fulfill their fiduciary In carrying out their duties and responsibilities, the Board obligations to, the Company’s shareholders; and members shall comply and endeavour to ensure that the v. Use due care and diligence in performing their duties management is causing the Company to comply with all of office and in exercising their powers attached to that applicable laws, rules and regulations. office In addition, if any Board member becomes aware of any B. Business opportunities information that he/ she believes constitutes evidence of material violation of any securities or other laws, rules and In carrying out their duties and responsibilities, the Board regulations applicable to the Company or the operation of its members shall avoid: business, by the Company or any employee or another Board (i) Appropriating corporate business opportunities for member, then such a Board member should bring such themselves that are discovered through the use of information to the attention of the CEO & Managing Director 46 Company property or information or their position as of the Company. Board member; H. Insider trading SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 (ii) Using Company property or information or their position as Board member, for personal gain; and The Board members shall not engage in insider trading (iii) Competing with the Company. with respect to the purchase and sale of the Company’s securities. C. Conflict of interest The Board members shall not buy or sell securities while in Each Board member shall endeavour to avoid having his or possession of material non-public information about the her private interests interfere with: issuer of that security, whether the issuer is IDLC or any (i) The interests of the Company; and another company. (ii) His or her ability to perform his or her duties and The Board members shall also not pass such information responsibilities objectively and effectively. to someone who may buy or sell securities. The Code IDLC FINANCE LIMITED of Conduct for Board members sets forth guidelines for managing IDLC’s performance and key business issues in conduct and they affirm compliance with the Code on an line with the Company’s long-term strategy and for talent annual basis. and performance management. The ManCom is chaired by the CEO & Managing Director and the team meets face-toAccordingly, IDLC’s Board designed the Code of Conduct for face on a regular basis. all the members of the Board and its annual compliance has been recorded for 2016. Management Committee (ManCom) Existence of effective anti-fraud programmes and controls The Management Committee is a group elected among the through whistle-blower mechanism management staff to take responsibility of the governance and strategic direction of IDLC. The role of the Management In recent times, the Company has come to identify the risk Committee is to oversee IDLC in accordance with its of fraud as one of the emerging issues in the overall risk constitution under the Financial Institutions Act, 1993. management framework. Planned anti-fraud initiatives include the introduction of a whistle-blower mechanism. The Committee is responsible for all aspects of the ongoing A whistle-blower policy has already been formulated and operations of IDLC. It delegates day-to-day operations to the placed before the senior management for review and Executive Officer. A significant feature of good governance is approval. Additionally, emphasis is placed on strengthening a clear segregation of the responsibilities and accountability existing processes or activity levels and anti-fraud controls of the committee from those of the Executive Officer. are embedded within the overall system of internal controls. ManCom is always aware of IDLC’s operations, keeps an eye Redress of investor’s complaints on the big picture, monitors the strategic plan and if and whether the goals are being met. It needs to be satisfied IDLC has a formal complaint management process that that current events are in accordance with IDLC policies and is open to all stakeholders including both investors and objectives within the overall budget. customers. A dedicated complaints cell is headed by a senior member of the management for dealing with complaints. Performance review Complaints may also be dropped at complaint boxes kept The CEO is responsible for setting financial targets as well as at all IDLC branches or can be submitted online on the IDLC operational and management goals for the members of the website: www.idlc.com. ManCom. Both short-term and long-term goals form part of the performance management of all senior executives. HUMAN CAPITAL Long-term goals are directly linked with the Company’s IDLC considers its human resources as its most important vision. Short-term goals are generally directly linked to the asset. We mobilize people and teams through engaging objectives of the Company. The CEO and the Evaluation them with leading and cutting-edge financial industry Committee conduct a detailed review of the performance practices and also as an attractive employer. IDLC offers of senior executives against these goals on an annual basis a broad spectrum of opportunities for both professional at the end of each year. and personal development as well as a work environment Remuneration of senior executives that is characterized by respect, trust, cooperation and Remuneration of all senior executives are based on collaboration. We do so because the knowledge, skills performance measured against financial and individual targets. and enthusiasm of our employees are a major force that enables us to achieve consistent growth. IDLC believes its HR and Compensation Committee human resource is the most important driver of building IDLC’s HR and Compensation Committee was established and running the Company. Each and every employee on 24 May 2007 to provide a forum for discussion on the is considered, developed and motivated to contribute Company’s various HR-related issues. The principal role optimally towards the achievement of corporate goals. and function of the HR and Compensation Committee is to Organisational chart assist the human resource department in developing and administering a fair and transparent procedure for setting IDLC’s organisational chart outlines the internal structure policies on the Group’s overall human resource strategy. of the Company. It emphasises on the roles, responsibilities The responsibility of the committee is to ensure wide, and relationships between individuals within the Company. 47 equal opportunity and transparency in terms of suitable It is used to depict the structure of IDLC as a whole as well recruitment, compensation on the basis of merit, qualification SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 as the Company segregated by divisions and departments. and competence, adequate training and development Structure facilities, performance evaluation and promotion based on individual performance and contribution and other benefitsThe Company’s management structure comprises the CEO & related issues with regards to the Company’s operating Managing Director and the Management Team (ManCom). results and comparable market statistics. The ManCom is responsible for developing organisational IDLC Ladies’ Forum (IDLCLF) and business strategies, embracing innovation and ensuring that the Company conforms to the best governance and IDLC has launched its first Ladies Forum through a formal operating practices. The ManCom is also responsible for ceremony with the participation of all the female employees organisational effectiveness and the development of from different levels of positions, working areas and IDLC’s values and culture. The ManCom is responsible for distribution points to address their views, problems and opinions to facilitate a better working environment for them.  Profit, our profit-generating capacity for long-term sustenance; This Forum provides all women employees the opportunity for networking and provide a common platform to share CSR and raise various issues and problems like discrimination, harassment, negative attitude towards women and any other issue that may affect women employees within the Profit People Planet Company. This will enable IDLC’s management to better understand and address these issues and develop strategies Accordingly, IDLC has aligned its CSR (corporate social accordingly. responsibility) initiatives to deliver on this commitment COMMUNICATION AND RELATIONSHIP WITH and aid community empowerment and responsible environmental management in a sustainable manner. SHAREHOLDERS IIDLC’s overall Governance It is the Company’s policy that all external communication by the Company will: At IDLC, the Board of Directors are responsible to shareholders for ensuring that the Company is appropriately managed  Be factual and subject to internal vetting and and that it achieves its strategic objectives. It meets regularly authorization before issue; to determine the Company’s strategic direction, to review  Not omit material information; and the Company’s operating and financial performance, to  Be expressed in a timely, clear and objective manner. set the Company’s risk appetite and to provide oversight that the Company is adequately resourced and effectively IDLC strongly believes that all stakeholders should have controlled. The specific duties of the Board are clearly set access to complete information on its activities, performance out in its Terms of Reference (ToR) that address a wide range and product initiatives. of corporate governance issues and list those items that Communication through quarterly reports are specifically reserved for decision by the Board. Matters requiring Board approval include: The Company reports to its shareholders four times a year through quarterly and half-yearly reports and a detailed  Group strategy, business plans and performance Annual Report. monitoring; Communication through AGM  Financial reporting and controls, capital structure and dividend policy; All shareholders have the right to attend the Annual General  Group risk appetite and framework and risk Meeting where they can meet and communicate with the management policies; Directors and express their views regarding the Company’s  Corporate governance; and business, its future prospects and other matters of interest. The shareholders are always encouraged to attend the  Others (shareholder documentation, Board and meetings or, if they are unable to attend, to appoint proxies. committee succession planning, constitution of Board committees,Board effectiveness review, committee Communication through website reports and key business policies). The Company’s website www.idlc.com displays, inter-alia, In pursuit of business sustainability and within the ambit the Annual Reports, half yearly reports, quarterly reports, of our integrated reporting framework, our governance monthly business reviews, product offerings, recent structure, stewarded by our well-composed Board (as announcements, presentations and event updates. detailed above with regards to their core responsibilities), helps in value creation over the medium and long term. All disclosures required by the Bangladesh Securities Some of the drivers that enable us to generate consistent and Exchange Commission, Listing Regulations of the value include the following: Dhaka Stock Exchange Limited and the Chittagong Stock Exchange Limited and the Bangladesh Bank in the form of  Our robust organisational leadership structure is Price Sensitive Information (PSI) are made adequately and composed of diversity that enables us to foster and promptly. In addition to ensuring timely compliance, this converge a range of opinions and perspectives that are 48 also enables dissemination of information to all stakeholders aligned with the long-term interests of the Company. and the public through print and online media. Our highest levels of compliance with all the statutory and regulatory requirements and un-compromised SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL OBLIGATION stance with regards to ethics in our day-to-day business have led to the creation of a robust governance structure At IDLC, we believe in the concept of a sustainable business, that ultimately delivers sustainable stakeholder value; one that integrates good governance, environmental issues and social concerns with its business strategies to maximize  We embrace a wide range of both generic as well as value for stakeholders. IDLC’s sustainability model is based specific processes to take strategic decisions and also on the 3P approach – People, Planet and Profit: establish and monitor the culture of the organisation on an ongoing basis, including its attitude to risk  People, our stakeholders with whom we engage for our and mechanisms for addressing integrity and ethical business and the community where we live; issues. As a core demonstration of our seriousness with  Planet, our surrounding environment and the planet; regards to governance and compliance with the laws IDLC FINANCE LIMITED of the land, we ensure that all our members thoroughly  In our focus on reinforcing our governance culture understand our comprehensive Code of Conduct and and framework, we are implementing ongoing sign it at the beginning of every year, ratifying their governance practices that go beyond the stipulated alignment with our ethics and philosophies; legal requirements. For instance, our focus on green  During the course of business, we take a wide range banking not only fosters the development of green of actions including analysing key financial metrics, assets and environment friendly practices but, in fact, aligning resources with our growth aspirations and aims to create an overall compliant corporate culture forecasting key risks that might impact our business over by helping clients understand and mitigate key the long-term and their potential mitigation strategies. environmental and social risks in their long-term plans These help us influence course corrections, if any, in and manufacturing facilities; the path to achieving our goals and objectives as well  One of the agenda of our Board is also to gauge the as monitor the strategic direction of the organisation levels of innovation fostered within the enterprise even within the ambit of our overall risk management as the diversity of our Board enables us to understand framework; the key trends shaping the market / industry and  Our robust organisational culture, ethics and values, convert these into relevant business opportunities. Our nurtured over the years with care and sensitivity, is women entrepreneur empowerment product, IDLC visible in the strength of our relationships with key Purnota, is an excellent case in point demonstrating our stakeholders. We are not only the financial destination ability to innovate a solution around a pressing need – of choice among our customers who have reposed that of ensuring viability among women in business; their faith and trust in us but also an employer of choice  Our best-in-class remuneration and incentives structures among our members due to an inspiring, engaging, are continually aligned with the market, ensuring that motivating and enriching workplace that we provide to our pay and benefit structures are among the best in the all our employees. Our high standards of governance industry. These not only enable us to attract and retain and the attractiveness of our long-term structural core talent but also keep our workforce motivated and growth prospects have made us an investment of engaged enough for the organisation to reach its short, choice among a broad range of shareholders and other medium and long range goals and objectives, thus reputed financial participants in the market; fostering a win-win relationship. 49 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Management Committee M. Jamal Uddin Ahmed Rashid Bilquis Jahan Deputy Managing Director Head of SME Group Head of Human Resources Md. Mesbah Uddin Ahmed Md. Saifuddin Asif Saad Bin Shams Mir Tariquzzaman Head of Corporate Managing Director, IDLC SL Head of Credit & Collection Chief Technology Officer Arif Khan CFA FCMA Md. Moniruzzaman, CFA Mohammad Jobayer Alam, CFA CEO & Managing Director Managing Director, IDLC IL Head of Strategic Planning Md. Morshedul Quader Khalili H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA Md. Masud K Majumder, ACA Ataur Rahman Chowdhury Head of Internal Control & Compliance Deputy Managing Director Group Chief Financial Officer Head of Operations 52 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 EDUCATION & SKILLS DEVELOPMENT IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Chapter 4 | Transforming lives through skills development Bangladesh has been ranked 99th among 124 countries coordinated effort from both the public and private sectors in the global ‘Human Capital Index 2015’, based on is the need of the hour to address this crucial issue. development and deployment of human capital, which is higher compared to its neighboring countries including To reduce this demand-supply gap and create win-win India, Nepal, Myanmar and Pakistan. The World Economic solutions for the industries and the community alike, IDLC Forum (WEF) recently released the Human Capital Report launched a project in June 2013 following the public2015 in Geneva, Switzerland. private partnership approach, targeting skills developed of marginal women and subsequent placement in the RMG In the index, WEF highlighted Bangladesh’s scarcity of sector as machine operators. The project satisfies IDLC’s skilled employees and poor ability to nurture talent through focus on creating equal opportunities for the marginalised education, training and employment. Talent, not capital, communities through sustainable livelihood generation and will be the key factor linking innovation, competitiveness to contribute to women empowerment – both part of its and growth in the 21st century, according to the WEF. The broader CSR commitment. countries are ranked on the basis of 46 indicators that trackhow well they are developing and deploying their The project model consists of 5 steps: 1) Trainee selection human capital focusing on education, skills and employment. and orientation in North Bengal 2) Relocation to Gazipur for a two-month institutional training 3) Transfer to the IDLC echoes the need for skilled and semi-skilled workforce factory for one-month for on-the-job training 4) Final skills in its sphere of operations as well as across adjacent assessment and certification 5) Placement in the industry. communities. Hence in 2015, IDLC continued with its CSR initiatives focusing on upgrading skills and training the marginalised. SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOOD FOR UNDERPRIVILEGED WOMEN In a country burdened by over-population, it is nothing short of an irony that lack of skilled manpower is one of the major challenges faced by businesses and industries today. A Certificate awarding ceremony at Far East Project snapshot Duration Jun 2013 – Dec 2016 Beneficiaries Marginalised women from North Bangladesh Commitment  Contribute to women socio-economic empowerment for an equitable society  Establish a replicable model to address the demand-supply gap of skilled manpower in Bangladesh Partners  Far east Knitting and Dyeing Industries Limited from the RMG sector as industry partner  Gazipur Technical School and College (GTSC) under the Directorate of Technical Education, Government of Bangladesh, as training partner  TVET (Technical and Vocational Education and Training) reform project of ILO as technical consultant 53  Care Bangladesh as community partner in North Bengal SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Project activities  Through GTSC, facilitate two months of institutional training and one month of on-the-job training at Far East factory, subject to which they are assessed, certified and recruited as machine operators Achievements  A total of 176 students have been trained among whom 61 have been employed at Far East as machine operators  A female who earlier had no income now earns between Taka 7,000 Taka 10,000 per month  Regular salaries and disposable income have allowed these workers to save for the future and supplement to the family’s income All project costs, including monthly stipend and trainee Recognising this untapped population, IDLC partnered with accommodation, initial orientation in North Bengal and a number of NGOs with the objective to provide education, transportation costs, remuneration for technical trainers skills training and, where possible, healthcare facilities to and operational expenses and material costs of the training underprivileged children and adolescents. Therefore, it is sessions are jointly sponsored by Far East and IDLC. The our goal to eventually empower them to either be absorbed training machineries were provided by ILO with funding from in the mainstream working population or become selfthe European Union. Besides technical training, the project employed. also focuses on issues such as factory rules and regulations, labour rights, gender issues, worker-management relations A brief account of the various initiatives is mentioned below: and occupational health and safety standards.  SEID Trust has been IDLC’s partner since 2011 and A healthcare session is also included for the trainees, in is working with over 400 children with physical and partnership with the TAHN Foundation, focusing on female mental disabilities including autism. These children, health and hygiene issues such as health and nutrition, afflicted by autism, cerebral palsy, Down’s syndrome personal hygiene, timing of marriage and first pregnancy, and intellectual and multiple disabilities, are often safe delivery of the baby and the importance of breastfeeding deprived of their fundamental rights. This project for both mothers and newborns, among others. TAHN not only facilitates their social rehabilitation and Foundation has conducted a three-day training session for acceptability, but also empowers them with incomeeach batch of trainees. TAHN Foundation specialises on generating skills. The 12-month training course is awareness and training of marginal female groups in Dhaka focused on two areas: tailoring (cutting and sewing) and Chittagong on female health and hygiene issues. and embroidery and block/ batik/ tie-dye Healthcare session being conducted at Gazipur TSC IDLC signs MoU with SEID for supporting 30 children  Shishu Bikash Chhaya, an orphanage based in Old Dhaka, accommodates and grooms around 30 children and has been IDLC’s partner since 2013  IDLC has been working with the Ahsania Mohila Trainees at GazipurTechical School & Training Centre Missionsince 2012 through sponsoring two female students who are currently enrolled for an Honors TOWARDS ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL SECURITY AND A degree in Bangla and a Diploma in Nursing. The DECENT STANDARD OF LIVING Mission houses underprivileged girls and supports their In Bangladesh, individuals with intellectual disability are still education up to completion of H.S.C. (Higher Secondary viewed as dependents rather than being recognised for their Certificate) astute capabilities to train and be absorbed in appropriate income-generating activities. The support and cooperation of IDLC Finance Limited in the journey of SEID from its very beginning has proved 54 much encouraging in the development of underprivileged children with disabilities, especially Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Down’s Syndrome and Intellectual Disabilities i.e. neuro-developmental disability (NDD). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 The assistance of IDLC over the years ranged from special education, school readiness program, rehabilitation services including physiotherapy, occupational therapy and speech and language therapy, counseling, referral services as well as vocational training that directed towards the mainstreaming of such children with disabilities as skilled human resources. Through these supports, a good number of children with such disabilities enrolled in mainstream schools and improved their skill in vocational trades which will help them to engage in income generating activities with the hope for a better future. Ms. Dilara Satter Mitu Executive Director, SEID IDLC FINANCE LIMITED 55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 HEALTHCARE Chapter 5 | Facilitating curative and preventive healthcare ENHANCING INFANT CARE AND SPREADING supervisors who are engaged in creating awareness and AWARENESS OF BREASTFEEDING AMONG FEMALE educating female RMG workers and influential members GARMENT FACTORY WORKERS IN CHITTAGONG of their families. Each counsellor is expected to spread awareness among 50 households. As part of its commitment towards the larger community, IDLC is implementing a project in collaboration with BGMEA, BSRM Foundation and TAHN Foundation,christened ‘Enhancing Infant Care and Breastfeeding Skills of Female Garment Factory Workers in Chittagong’. The project aims to enhance infant care and raise awareness on the importance of breastfeeding among female garment factory workers by developing community-based peer counsellors and support systems. IDLC and BSRM Foundation are the partial sponsors of the project. TAHN Foundation provides training and IDLC signs MoU for enhancing infant care skills of female development to community peer counsellors and garment workers ‘It has been a great experience for BSRM Group to partner with IDLC Finance Limited, TAHN Foundation and BGMEA on a CSR project for female readymade garment workers that aims to train them on infant care and nutrition, while maintaining a healthy work life balance. The project has been initiated as a pilot project in Chittagong, and the result is quite encouraging. Many young mothers have now changed their mindset, not to leave their job when they become pregnant. BSRM Group hopes this project will encourage others specially the garment industry to retain their trained workers.’ Ruhi M. Ahmed Head of CSR, PR & Communication BSRM Project snapshot Enhance infant care and raise awareness on the importance of breastfeeding among female garment factory workers by developing community-based peer counsellors and support systems. Activities The project will train and develop eight (8) community peer counsellors and one (1) local supervisor who will be engaged in creating awareness and educating female RMG workers and influential members of their families (husband and mother-in-law).  100% households with pregnant and lactating mothers in the peer counsellors’ coverage areas will receive information leaflets.  At least 60% of these mothers will initiate breastfeeding within one hour of the birth of their babies. 56 Expected outcome  At least 60% of these mothers with infants below six months of age will breastfeed exclusively for six months.  At least 60% of these mothers will initiate appropriate complementary feeding after babies SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 complete six months.  All the babies of the enrolled garment factory mothers will have their growth monitored. OTHER INITIATIVES IDLC EXTENDS ASSISTANCE TO THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF BURN AND PLASTIC SURGERY (NIBPS) OF DHAKA In 2015, with the aim of strengthening and enlarging MEDICAL COLLEGE HOSPITAL (DMCH) IDLC’s CSR activities in the areas of healthcare for both communities and individuals, several other small initiatives IDLC, as part of its CSR focus and commitment to contribute and events were conducted. towards greater environmental and social sustainability, IDLC FINANCE LIMITED extended assistance to NIBPS by purchasing a blood culture WORLD MENTAL HEALTH DAY 2015 machine and relevant accessories at DMCH. IDLC, as part of its CSR initiative, sponsored an event DMCH’s burn unit is currently the largest such facility in organised by Innovation for Wellbeing Foundation (IWF) to Bangladesh to treat burn victims and provides treatment to commemorate the World Mental Health Day 2015. 400-500 patients at a time on any given day. A major reason A mass gathering to celebrate the World Mental Health Day of casualty among burn victims is infection and to prevent was organised by IWF on 9 October 2015 at Dhanmondi this, the patient’s blood needs to be examined on a regular Robindro Shorobor, Dhaka. The theme for the Mental basis. Due to the absence of such a facility at DMCH, blood Health Day was ‘Dignity in Mental Health’. Widespread samples were sent to other hospitals, a process that was positive response was received from a large section of the both costly and time consuming. With the in-house facility, community who expressed solidarity with the movement the burn unit can provide faster and much better service to for mental health. burn patients and thereby reduce casualties. Dignitaries, academicians, celebrities, artists, students and Upon consultation with the Department of Microbiology activists were present on the occasion. Mr. Ziaul Hoque Khan, and National Institute of Burn and Plastic Surgery (NIBPS) Deputy Managing Director of IDLC, and other officials were of DMCH, IDLC purchased automated blood culture present to reinstate IDLC’s commitment towards raising equipment and relevant accessories for the DMCH Burn awareness of what could be done to ensure that individuals Unit. The equipment was installed and operationalised at with mental health problems could live with dignity. the DMCH during the first week of July 2015. Among others, the Vice Chancellor of Dhaka University, On 23 June 2015, a small event was held at IDLC Corporate Professor Dr. A. A. M. S. Arefin Siddique; Chairman, Head Office to handover the work order for procurement of Department of Educational and Counselling Psychology, the machine to the Head of Department of Burn and Plastic DU, Professor Shaheen Islam; Vice Chairman of Rangs Surgery and Project Director of National Institute of Burn Group, Mr. Amanullah Chowdhury and Director Finance of and Plastic Surgery, DMCH, Prof. Md. Abul Kalam. Selim R.F. Bangla Vision, Md. Ashraf Uddin Ahmed, FCA were present. Hussain, ex-CEO and Managing Director of IDLC, along with Moreover, popular cricketers Habibul Bashar and Taskin the Management Committee were present at the handover Ahmed and singers Haidar Ali and Krishnokoli and her band ceremony. were a part of the occasion too. IDLC extends support to National Institute of Burn and Plastic Unit of DMCH Inauguration ceremony of World Mental Health Day 2015 57 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 58 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Chapter 6 | Environmental initiatives IDLC’s environmental initiatives are conducted under the exploitation of natural resources. Instead of relying on banner of both CSR and Green Banking. While CSR is more government interventions solely, we, as individual citizens, focused on external initiatives such as awareness campaigns, cannot deny our responsibilities in improving the overall tree plantation and public events, Green Banking is aligned situation. with green financing, environmental and social risk management and in-house environmental management, in One of the methods of ensuring that this objective is met coordination with different departments (detailed under the is through responsible personal behaviour and practices by section “Green Banking at IDLC”). engaging children. The rationale behind targeting school children is that they are more receptive to new ideas, ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS AMONG SCHOOL thoughts and practices. CHILDREN With this conviction, IDLC joined hands with LEADS (a social Environmental challenges in developing countries organisation of TRK Consultancy Services) and initiated a normally revolve around such issues as lack of access to campaign titled ‘Our Environment Our Resource’ in January potable water and sanitation, air pollution, deforestation, 2013, by engaging children from different schools in Dhaka. unhygienic waste disposal and irresponsible use and The initiative ended in 2015. Project snapshot Target audience Children of Class VI and VII  Environmental pollution: How we are causing air, water, land and noise pollution and possible mitigation measures.  Responsible resource consumption: What we can do to reduce exploitation and wastage of Topics and content natural and national resources like electricity, water and natural gas, among others.  3R principle: How we can adopt the principles of reduce, reuse and recycle in our daily lives to reduce wastages and make resource utilisation more efficient. The campaign is conducted through four sessions/ activities:  Planning workshop with school teachers, explaining campaign objectives and modus operandi. Thereafter, the teachers act as coordinators within their respective schools.  Initial session with 50 children from each school is conducted through multimedia presentations, group activities and experience-sharing. After the session, each student is assigned the task to share this knowledge with their families, friends, classmates and neighbours. Moreover, stickers and posters with responsible messages and tri-colour waste Activities bins for source separation of waste materials are provided for use within the school premises.  Follow-up session with 100 children from each school. Fifty participants from the initial session(s) and 50 new students (each participant in the initial session brings over one friend). Tasks assigned in the initial session are accounted for during the follow-up session and students share their experience of practicing these lessons with others.  Posters with appropriate slogans are exhibited by the students, reflecting innovative solutions/ measures in addressing these issues. There is also a ‘Highest Communicator’ award for the student who has communicated better practices to the maximum number of people. In 2015, IDLC, jointly with LEADS, conducted the second phase of the Environment Awareness 59 Campaign with 1,500 students of Viqarunnisa Noon School, Agrani Government Girls High School, SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Achievements BAF Shaheen School, Shaheed Bir Uttam Ltd., Anwar College, Ramizuddin Cantonment College, Azampur Government Primary School, Dhaka Residential Model School and St. Joseph’s Higher Secondary School. To make the campaign a success through active participation The workshop focused on issues such as environmental from both the children and the respective school authorities, pollution and mitigation measures, responsible consumption a half-day workshop was organized for school teachers at of natural resources and the adoption of the 3R Principle of Dhanmondi’s Ambala Inn on 24 March 2015. As many as 30 Reduce, Reuse and Recycle to minimise wastages. Moreover, teachers from 20 different schools of Dhaka participated in it helped to bring the schools on board and plan ahead to the workshop and exchanged their opinions. conduct the sessions throughout the year. Ms. Bilquis Jahan, Head of HR, IDLC Finance Limited, inaugurated the event on behalf of the ex-CEO & Managing Director Mr. Selim R.F. Hussain. Mr. Mehbuboor Rahman, Assistant Manager, Green Banking Desk, Corporate Division, was also present during the program. Ms. Romina Dewan, Executive Director, LEADS, conducted the session. Mr Mehbuboor Rahman, Manager, Green Banking Desk IDLC Finance Limited judging the recycle products Judge Dr.Muhammad Enamul Haque examining the slogans Poster, Slogan and Recycle Competition (2nd Phase) As an outcome of the initial school awareness sessions and to assess the understanding of the participating children, a poster, slogan and recycle competition was organised on 30 and 31 October 2015, at Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy. Judge Mustafa Manwar with Ms. Romina Dewan at the competition More than 350 students from various Dhaka schools participated in the competition under four categories – poster, slogan, recycle and highest communicator. The competition arranged for the students to learn from the campaign, which was organised for the second time during 2015, on issues such as environmental pollution and mitigation and efficient resource utilisation by adopting the 3R principal of reduce, reuse and recycle. The competition entries were judged by veteran artist, Professor Mustafa Manwar; renowned artist and academician, Dr. Muhammad Enamul Haque and Mehbuboor Rahman, Manager, Green Banking Desk of IDLC. The exhibition was inaugurated by Winners of the Environment Awareness Competition 2015 Mr. M. Jamal Uddin, Deputy Managing Director of IDLC on 30 October 2015. On 31 October 2015, a prize distribution and cultural ceremony was held, where Dr. Md. Anwar Hossain Howlader, Director (Joint Secretary), Department of Environment, was present as Chief Guest. Mr. M. Ataur Rahman Chowdhury, DGM & Head of Operations of IDLC, was present during the award ceremony. Also present at the occasion was Ms. Romina Dewan, Executive Director of LEADS, along with other officials from IDLC and LEADS. 60 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Opening ceremony of Environment Awareness Competition 2015 Chittagong branch staff and other officials with the participants of the environment awareness session IDLC FINANCE LIMITED PILOTING ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS IN IDLC ENDORSES MOBILISATION OF FINANCIAL CHITTAGONG INSTITUTIONS TO INCREASE GLOBAL INVESTMENT IN ENERGY EFFICIENCY On the huge positive response received in Dhaka and several requests from IDLC branches located outside Dhaka, As part of the worldwide mobilisation of financial institutions in August 2015, IDLC’s CSR team piloted a small initiative to support the Declaration “Financial Institutions’ Statements at Chittagong. The basic aim was to create awareness and On Energy Efficiency Finance,” IDLC expressed solidarity enhance the knowledge of school children outside Dhaka with over 100 banks from 42 countries. This unprecedented on topics related to the environment, its conservation and international mobilisation of banks was successfully preservation. presented in different sessions of the COP held during 2-3 December 2015. It clearly raised the visibility of the topic Five sessions were conducted in Chittagong at four schools: St. and the positive role that can be played by the financial Placid’s School, Ramkrishna Mission High School, Chittagong community. It is to be noted that IDLC was the first among Collegiate School and KhajaAjmeri High School, whereby a all Financial Institutions to disburse green loans for Energy total of 435 students actively participated in the event. Efficiency Projectsunder the Bangladesh Bank refinance IDLC associated with the Karnafuly Leo Club of Chittagong scheme. Furthermore, six of IDLC’s employees have been Division and Youths Voice Foundation, a local volunteering trained and certified as Certified Energy Auditors (CEA), as a club, to ensure the effective execution of the campaign. Both part of its commitment towards clean and efficient energy organisations supported the event by providing volunteers financing. and logistics. Energy efficiency is key to climate change adaptation action TREE PLANTATION as well as for sustainable development. It is the measure expected to bring half of all emissions reductions needed to IDLC regularly conducts plantation activities across the reach a peak in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and stay country to contribute to the reduction of its carbon footprint. within a 2° C global average temperature increase scenario. In 2015, IDLC sponsored a plantation programme under It facilitates resource efficiency and industrial productivity, which 1,000 saplings were planted at Trishal, Mymensingh. strengthens energy security as well as better health and The plantation was conducted with the support of wellbeing. Jatio Kobi Kazi Nazrul Islam University and Toru Pallab, a voluntary organisation managed by renowned Bangladeshi For this reason, EBRD’s initiative and co-operation with the UN environmentalists. SE4 All Energy Efficiency Accelerator led to the endorsement by banks of the Statement by Financial Institutions on Energy Efficiency Finance. This effort was coordinated with the UNEP Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), associating banks, and mobilising investors on the G20 Energy Efficiency Investor Statement, in the context of the G20 work on energy efficiency in finance. Along with banks, UNEP FI also worked with investors, receiving support from investors managing close to $4 trillion and committing to further embed energy efficiency considerations into their investment process and engagement activities with companies. Tree plantation at Trishal Mymensingh UNEP Finance Initiative applauds IDLC on its commitment to sustainable finance, and particularly, to sustainability disclosure, by becoming in 2011 the first financial institution in Bangladesh to publish a sustainability report. IDLC is also a pioneer in promoting energy efficiency in the country, being the first to disburse a facility through the green refinance scheme of the Central Bank of Bangladesh. By endorsing the Statement by Financial Institutions 61 on Energy Efficiency put forward at the Paris Climate Summit in December 2015, IDLC was among the very first Asian banks to join a global, unprecedented mobilization of over 100 banks on a crucial topic at the cross roads SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 between resource efficiency and climate change action. IDLC's support paves the way for increased financing of the numerous untapped energy efficiency and low-carbon growth opportunities across all sectors of the economy in Bangladesh and other Asian countries. UNEP FI is pleased to continue its innovative collaboration with IDLC. Eric Usher Acting Head UNEP FI Green Banking Overview binding international legal instrument to address the issue acknowledged by 170 countries. The creation of UNFCCC Sustainable development and preservation of environment (United Nation Framework Convention on Climate Change), are now recognized globally as overriding imperatives to UNEP FI (United Nation Environment Program for Financial protect our planet from the ravages inflicted on it by mankind. Institution), Earth Summit, Signing of Kyoto Protocol Various global initiatives are underway to counter the ill strengthen the commitment of international community. effects of development such as global warming and climate change. Banks and financial institutions can play a major Bangladesh, the largest delta in the world, is vulnerable and decisive role in these global efforts to make our planet a to the impacts of climate change. In order to undertake better place to live in. Green Banking is comparatively a new appropriate adaptation and mitigation measures, development in the financial world. It is a form of banking government of Bangladesh institutionalise it through taking into account the social and environmental impacts NAPA (National Adaptation Program of Action), CDMP and its main motiveis to protect and preserve environment. (Comprehensive Disaster Management Programme), ECR As providers of finance, banks can ensure that businesses (Environmental Conservation Rules) etc. The creation of adopt environment-friendly practices. Incentives by way of SREDA (Sustainable and Renewable Energy Development offering cheaper funds, one stop solution and availability of Authority) and implication of clean energy in Renewable grant for initial boosting for adopting green technologies Energy Policy, Sixth Five Year Plan etc embedded the path will have a long term beneficial impact on the environment. towards sustainability. The sole objective for such initiative is to reduce carbon footprint from banking activities as well as from financed Understanding the gravity of the situation, Bangladesh Bank projects. created a refinance scheme of Taka 200 crore for financing environment friendly products comprising five different Focusing sustainable growth: national and items of Renewable Energy and Waste Management back international initiatives in 2009. Later in 2011, Bangladesh Bank provided all FIs The motto “Going Green” came in front in late 19th century with a guideline on Environmental Risk Management which when mankind first realized that over exploitation of natural was subsequently revised in 2015 with Environmental and resources and environmental degradation shall dim the Social Risk Management Guideline. Also the number of effect of rapid industrialisation. It was first institutionalise green products eligible for refinance extended to 50 from in 1992 through Rio Declaration. It is considered as first just five within 2015. IDLC’s road map towards sustainability Much before mandating Green Banking in the banking and financial sector of Bangladesh, IDLC had voluntarily adopted the codes of environmentally and socially responsible business by actively becoming members with the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and United Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), back in 2010. With the issuance of the Green Banking policy guidelines by the Bangladesh Bank, a number of new avenues opened up for IDLC in its quest to become green. The policy required much more than just pursuing ‘Green’ projects and technologies and resorting to initiatives that manage our environmental impact; it meant a total change in the organisation’s DNA. 62 Awareness and Green capacity building Establishment of Finance Internal SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Green Banking Client Unit Monitoring, Policy Stakeholders Green Reporting & Formulation Marketing Disclosure IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Establishment of Green Banking Unit (GBU) Management System (ESMS) across the organisation with assistance from FMO, a Dutch development bank, and In 2013, a Green banking Unit (GBU) was formed comprising FI Konsult, IDLC’s appointed consultant for this project. representatives from different relevant department to roll The overall goal of this project is to help IDLC identify out the designated task. Later on, dedicated personnel was customers with potentially high environmental and social recruited to carry on with the green motto. Separate GBU risks; enable them to evaluate the E&S performance of such with technical person can be considered as first step for our customers through its due diligence and credit appraisal journey towards sustainability. process; and make those customers, especially those who are not complying with local E&S regulations, behave Formulation of policy and framework more responsibly through the use of environmental or IDLC green unit formulated Green Banking Policy in line social covenants in the facility agreements. This project will with IFC Performance Standard, ADB Safeguard Policy and not only satisfy the Central Bank’s requirements, but also Bangladesh Bank guideline in 2014. During the formulation enable IDLC to comply with internationally acceptable risk assistance were provided by FMO, a Dutch development management standards. bank, and FI Konsult, IDLC’s appointed consultant for this 30 of IDLC’s employees were trained by a series of project. Policy and framework defined IDLC’s target and its workshop titled “Strengthening capacity and knowledge approach towards green growth. on Environmental and Social Risk and Opportunity In-house environment management Management (ESROM) among Financial Institutions in Bangladesh”. The workshop was a joint initiative of several Apart from financing green products, it is essential to development financial institutions like DEG, FMO, OeEB, implement similar ideas in branches and offices. Being Proparco, UNEPFI and their five Bangladeshi FI partners – inspired by such agenda, IDLC stepped in to establish first IDLC Finance Limited, Brac Bank, Eastern Bank, Dutch-Bangla ever Green Branch which is pursuing for LEED certification on Bank, and The City Bank.The objective of this program was to commercial interior. Chittagong Regional office is in process develop capacity for bankers with respect to environmental of attaining prestigious LEED certification from USGBC and social issues, identification of risks and opportunities (United State Green Building Council). EDS (Environmental and finding innovative & bankable green products for the Design Solution) has been appointed to carry on the financial market. responsibility. Together, both of the parties are practicing sustainable design methods to make the office equipped IDLC promoting ESMS throughout the organization with energy and resource efficient features. It is to be noted Capacity development of in-house human resources is a that, after availing certification, this would be the first case precondition for rolling out green finance and marketing. where a financial institution attained LEED certification for Hence a total of 29 trainings were conducted throughout the any of their branch in Bangladesh. year and more than 500 people were trained among which A major technological achievement is the server virtualisation 261 was IDLC employee. Trainings were provided mostly that was first implemented in 2010. Not only has this on salient features of green banking and its products and increased capacity and efficiency of the data centers, but also 17 of IDLC’s branches were reached by last year. Speakers significantly cut down on capital expenditure on physical included in house resource persons as well as personnel servers, reduced electricity consumption and CO2 emissions. from different professional institutes, DFIs, consultants like from USAID, IFC, FMO, EDS etc. Every server virtualised has a capacity to save 7,000 kWh of electricity and 4 tons of CO2 emissions thus in 2015 this In house capacity development & trainings resulted in saving over 290,000 kWh of electricity and 166 emissions from 63 virtual servers. Lack of awareness regarding the benefits of green projects and loosely regulated industries that overlook gross level Incorporation of environmental risk in CRM and ESMS non-compliance are some of the major challenges in (environmental and social management system) implementing green banking. To overcome this challenge, IDLC along with its partners such as USAID CCEB, IFC, FMO, In compliance to a part of the Green Banking Policy, EDS Global hosted several sessions to create awareness and the FIs has to abide by the instructions defined in the thus market demand of green products. The objective was to detailed guidelines on Environmental Risk Management create the market demand related to clean energy and green 63 (ERM). In order to assess a prospective borrower from industry development and offer IDLC’s one stop solution SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 both environment risk and credit perspective, the FIs has to do so. Senior executives from Bangladesh Bank, BKMEA, to integrate environmental risks in the checklists, audit Khulna and Chittagong Chamber of Commerce and Industry, guidelines and reporting formats. In this regard, IDLC has Development Partners had enlighten the dais. already made credit appraisal process much more stringent from an Environment and Social (E&S) perspective – Green marketing evaluating all the environmental and social factors such as Focusing on the objective to provide one stop solution to project impacts on the environment and the community in the clients through financial services, arrangement of fund the long run, prior to approving a loan. appropriate to the nature of transaction, advisory services for Taking this approach one step further, IDLC is in the appointment of consultants and service providers; green desk process of adopting an extensive Environmental and Social signed MoU with Spectrum Lanka Consultants Ltd and Rudra Communication Ltd. Furthermore, mandate signing was of meeting 5% direct green financing, a target set for all the performed for two state-of-the art tunnel kiln bricks projects banks and non-banking financial institutions from January having a capacity of producing 3 Lac bricks per day. IDLC also 2016 by Bangladesh Bank to ensure financing environmentparticipated in different market expo and program organised friendly projects. by IDCOL, Exponet etc to showcase green products. Few financed green projects by IDLC Product promotion and green events IDLC’s green finance has been recognised by FMO through Last year, IDLC’s investment in clean energy and sustainability their newsletter. Apart from that, Dutch Newspaper P+ projects picked up in a fascinating manner.As per Bangladesh published a cover story on green conference at The Hague, Bank Green Refinance Scheme, IDLC is also offering 50 Netherlands where IDLC’s contribution has been mentioned products under green financing umbrella covering the wholeheartedly. IFC is also publishing a newsletter on IDLC’s sectors like renewable energy, waste management, non-fire block brick, auto brick kiln, green industry, fire and safety drive towards clean energy financing as a role model in the measures, industrial energy efficiency and recycling etc. In industry. Green desk provided lecture in different programs the year 2015, IDLC have managed to disburse as much as and workshop arranged by BLFCA, USAID, BKMEA, GIZ etc. Taka 525.8 Million under Green Financing umbrella, despite Six of IDLC’s employee has been certified as Certified Energy the unstable economic condition. The number is almost 18 Auditor (CEA) by Association of Energy Engineers USA. times greater than the previous year which only indicates They received acknowledgement and certification from IDLC’s drive towards sustainability. Bolstered by such the governor of Bangladesh Bank which is a firm step for strong growth figures, IDLC is ready to take the challenge providing better services. 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED 65 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 STAKEHOLDERS Chapter 7 | Our Human Capital HUMAN CAPITAL OUR CORE STRENGTH we foster the spirit of teamwork and collaboration with a strong focus on quality in our day-to-day operations. Effective human resource management has proven to be a critical component in the success of a business. IDLC is OUR RESOURCES ARE PRECIOUS TO US focused on recruiting the best resources and implementing programs to develop and retain high quality human At IDLC, we are powered by talent. We consider our human resources. IDLC continues to implement human resource resource as the most important asset and mobilise people management policies and practices that are aimed at and teams by engaging them in cutting-edge financial growing and developing employees and ensuring their industry practices. As an attractive employer, we offer a active contribution towards the achievement of corporate broad spectrum of opportunities for both professional goals. Effective human resources have also been linked and personal development as well as encourage a work to better performance by the Company. IDLC believes environment that is characterized by respect, trust, that its human resource is critical in building and running cooperation and collaboration. We do so because the skills the Company. Each and every employee is considered, and enthusiasm of our employees are a major force that developed and motivated to contribute optimally towards helps us achieve sustainable results. the achievement of corporate goals. Being in the business for the past 31 years, we have provided challenging career prospects to young and enthusiastic Staff strength of IDLC Group as of December 31, 2015 professionals. IDLC’s Human Resource Department continuously works towards attaining the goal of attracting, retaining, growing and inspiring talent. The right people in the right place at the right time While the goal is to provide the best candidate for the Company’s needs, it is also important that we place people in the right positions at the right time. This requires us to emphasize on the efficiency of our hiring and staffing 1,060 138 29 processes even as we continue to look for ways to create efficiencies in our hiring methodologies. We also recognize IDLCFL IDLCSL IDLCIL the need to use further analytics in our recruitment efforts to enable us to understand our workforce needs, levels and the effectiveness of our recruitment strategies. The purpose Employment category 1% of IDLC’s merit-based recruitment and selection process is In percentage to ensure that vacancies are filled by the most competent 9% incumbents. IDLC provides equal employment opportunities to all applicants without any bias to race, religion, gender, 17% age, disability or any other criteria permissible by the statutory laws of the country. Recruitment and selection 73% is based solely on job-related criteria. The recruitment and selection process is consistently applied and promotes fairness, diversity and transparency. The process complies with all state laws, regulations and policies. Core Management Midlevel Management Non Staff Management Management PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL Performance appraisals can benefit employees and organizations by clarifying goals and expectations, and 66 OUR HUMAN RESOURCE DEPARTMENT (HRD) MISSION creating an environment of open communication. The IDLC’s HRD is committed to work strategically with diverse best performance appraisals offer positive feedback and SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 business segments in identifying and responding to the advice for improvement and typically consist of a healthy evolving business needs. conversation between the management and the employees. As a strategic business partner, IDLC’s HRD creates a work IDLC is a performance-driven company. Our performance environment that thrives on diversity, high individual and appraisal is the single-most important tool that enables organisational productivity and performance, continuous the Company to measure the performance of an individual improvement and exceptional customer service. and plan his/ her career progression accordingly. At IDLC, the sole motive of the performance appraisal system is to We are dedicated to construct an outstanding servicemaximize efficiency of the Company’s objectives with the oriented culture as well as maintain a strong work-life guidance to achieve each member’s career aspirations. The balance. Moreover, by encouraging employee engagement, performance appraisal system is fully structured to assess IDLC FINANCE LIMITED the competency of all full-time employees. This extensive development opportunities, employees are also encouraged process starts with the circulation of appraisal forms which to take responsibility for their own development. Since we are approved by the management. consider our employees as our most valuable asset, we invest considerable time and effort for their personal and PROMOTION professional development. We assist our employees to be the best through providing relevant training and workshops Promotion opportunities are the life-blood of staffing both at home and abroad. and retention. Without the proper use of incentives and coaching, employees are likely to refrain from maintaining relationships with a business for an extended period of time. Number of Trainings in 2015 Competitors take the best talent from other companies by offering individuals enhanced pay and benefits. Promotions and bonuses to the personnel help in ensuring that they do not feel the need to leave their employers. At IDLC, promotions signify our management’s commitment to recognize and reward outstanding performers. It motivates employees to aspire for advancement opportunities within the Company. It also contributes to employee satisfaction and retention. Employee promotion is made by examining 7 59 26 97 all factors necessary to determine the best qualifications and Foreign In House Customised Public capabilities to fill the position. Program EMPLOYEES ARE CONSIDERED FOR PROMOTION BASED ON THE FOLLOWING CRITERIA: Number of Attendees in 2015  Growth in the role dimension and complexity 15  Individual performance track record 315  Market liquidity  Attitude and behaviour 663 REWARDS THAT DRIVE EMPLOYEE MOTIVATION IDLC always recognises the efforts of individuals who aspire 2241 2241 to make a difference. Our employees receive a performance bonus annually in acknowledgement of their individual contribution, hard work and dedication. Moreover, we also Foreign In House Customised Public Program give ‘spot awards’ to appreciate those who have the spirit to take on new challenges and contribute to areas outside their regular responsibilities. A reward recognises an employee’s GRIEVANCE MANAGEMENT AND COUNSELING contribution that has exceeded expectations. It may or may IDLC focuses on providing a prompt and impartial not be accompanied by monetary value. At IDLC, employees resolution to grievances brought forward by employees are especially rewarded by the management to motivate based on any kind of discrimination and deprivation. IDLC and inspire to walk the extra mile. seeks to establish an environment of equal employment DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE THROUGH TRAINING where advancement and appreciation are solely on the basis of merit, talent and competency. If an employee A workforce consisting of individuals eager to learn and experiences a situation which is not in alignment with the grow is a sure sign of a company hiring well. Employees core values of the Company, he/ she is at liberty to bring engaged in their jobs and careers seek to know more about this to the notice of the management through the mandate their company and the industry and to learn skills that of this policy. Employees are assured that their complaints will improve their performance. Employers who want to 67 will be addressed without delay and judiciously by the harness the full value of their employees and foster loyalty management. On the other hand, employees are motivated SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 and retention find that training is a winning prospect for all through proper counselling and encouraged to have a involved. Training programmes strengthen knowledge and healthy conversation should any grievances arise. awareness of leadership. IDLC recognises the contribution of training towards enhancing efficiency and profitability. The SUCCESSION PLANNING Company’s training policy applies to all employees and aims IDLC’s management possesses succession plans to at ensuring that appropriate training is imparted to enable provide leadership continuity and avoid extended individuals to reach a satisfactory performance level. and costly vacancies in key positions, recognizing that IDLC develops and delivers high-quality learning and changes in management are inevitable. Our succession provides other suitable initiatives in response to the needs of plan is designed to identify and prepare candidates for individual employees. While we emphasise on training and high-level management positions that become vacant due to retirement, resignation, death or new business a sense of belonging towards the Company. Additionally, opportunities. It is IDLC’s policy to assess the leadership IDLC also fulfils its corporate social responsibility for needs of the Company in a way that ensures the selection of community and societal uplift. qualified leaders which matches its mission and goals. COMMUNICATION AND EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION HR AND COMPENSATION COMMITTEE IDLC considers communication as a critical success IDLC’s HR and Compensation Committee is a forum for the factor for a rapidly-growing knowledge-based business. discussion of various HR-related issues of the Company. The Communication is given importance in the sense that it main role and function of the Committee is to assist HRD helps create a robust network and ensures cooperation in developing and administering a fair and transparent whenever required. We emphasize on formal as well as procedure for setting policies on the overall human informal communication. Managers have a key role to resources strategy of the Company. play in effective communication that brings new ideas to contribute to better business performance. Additionally, The Committee’s responsibility is to ensure that the IDLC also provides the opportunity to conduct face-toCompany has a wide scope for equal opportunity and face meetings through the use of ‘live Internet meetings’. transparency in terms of: This net-based communication tool allows employees to  Suitable recruitment talk frequently and also get an opportunity to familiarise themselves with new technologies.  Compensation on the basis of merit, qualification and competence Moreover, IDLC ensures communication from the executive team through different media and also encourages  Adequate training and development facilities employee feedback through group discussions, employee surveys and email dialogue.  Performance appraisal and promotions based on individual performance and contribution IDLC LADIES FORUM (IDLC LF) In addition, the Committee looks into any other benefitsIDLC ‘Ladies Forum’ addresses its female employees’ related issues regarding the Company’s operating results views, problems and opinions to facilitate a good working and comparable market statistics. environment for women through the participation of all women employees from different levels of positions, FOSTERING A HEALTHY WORKPLACE working areas and distribution points. One of our goals is to move towards a comprehensive approach to creating a healthier workplace. This is in Gender Analysis our best interests as individuals and the institution as a In percentage whole. Employees enjoy favourable working hours so that they can ensure a balance between professional and 12% 13. personal interests. IDLC ensures that the health and safety at the workplace complies with internal health and safety policies and procedures. It also develops, coordinates and implements strategies to prevent workplace injuries and illnesses and sets standards for health and safety training. In this regard, it organises training on fire fighting and 86.88% vaccination programs. Moreover, a physician visits our premises weekly for consultation on health issues of the Male Female employees, if needed. IDLC covers hospitalisation insurance to ensure holistic medical security of its employees and also, group life insurance schemes cover the unforeseen risk of Composition/ hierarchy of IDLC LF is as follows: death as well. Moreover, special accidental issues related to the employee and his/ her family members are reviewed by  President Head of Human Resource the HR and Compensation Committee to compensate them 68  Executive Committee comprises 11 women employees in any way possible. representing different divisions and branches of the Group SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 LIFE AT IDLC  Secretary Head of CSR IDLC is focused on its employees as well as on the business  Members All the women employees of the Group and overall social environment. Throughout the year, it arranges multiple events including employee birthday This forum provides all women employees the opportunity celebrations, family days, picnics, celebrations on the birth to network and also provides a common platform to share of a child, iftar parties, pitha utshab, Children's Day, Pohela and raise various issues and problems like discrimination, Boishakh celebration and sporting events that help in harassment, negative attitude towards women and any creating stronger employee bonding. We arrange various other issues that may affect them within the Company. employee engagement programmes including team This enables IDLC’s management to better understand and building sessions that enhance employee commitment and address these issues and develop strategies accordingly. IDLC FINANCE LIMITED AUTOMATING HUMAN RESOURCE PROCESSES OBJECTIVES AND BENEFITS With a growing number of employees across different The aim of HR accounting is to depict the potential of the regions, efficient HR management is becoming a significant employees in monetary terms which mainly help in decision challenge. As such, technology driven solutions are the need making byascertaining the investment the company has of the moment to bring in place more robust processes made on its employees and the return it can expect from to increase efficiency, maximize productivity and ensure this investment. It furnishes cost/value information for precision and security. Consequently, IDLC’s HR Department making management decisions about acquiring, allocating, has an automated system in place for better personnel developing and maintaining human resources in order to management in the Group. attain cost effectiveness. It allows management personnel to monitor and effectively use human resources. It also ETHICAL STANDARDS provides valuable information to the investors interested in making long term investments in service sector companies. IDLC adheres to the highest ethical standards and considers it to be a key business priority. The management expects INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS employees to fully embrace statutory compliances. Each employee is required to read and sign the Code of Conduct While the IFRS do not currently have standards requiring HRA, every year as a sign of recurrence to the principles enshrined it could be argued that they are moving closer to providing in it. Additionally, IDLC encourages employees to act with more flexible approaches to accounting measurements and integrity and spread the message of social responsibility to reporting. For example, the international standards IAS 38 the community. Intangible Assets and IFRS 3 on Business Combinations allow for the recognition of the intangible asset goodwill, which HUMAN RESOURCES ACCOUNTING (HRA) indicates a willingness to allow for valuation of assets that Human Resource Accounting involves accounting for are not traditional tangible assets, such as human resources. the Company’s management and employees as human PRACTICE AT IDLC capital that provides future benefits. In the HRA approach, expenditures related to human resources are reported as At IDLC, we are following conventional accounting practices assets on the balance sheet as opposed to the traditional and, as there are no HR specific accounting standards, we accounting approach which treats costs related to the are not capitalising any HR cost in order to amortize it over company’s human resources as expenses on the income service life of employees. However, we are taking benefits statement that reduce profit. HRA suggests that in addition of HR accounting concepts and using HR accounting to the measures themselves, the process of measurement information (such as per employee cost to the company, has relevance in decision-making involving organizations. expected service life of employees, per capita productivity and its growth over periods and many more) in making IDLC Finance Ltd. BDT-Million important management decisions that will benefit the longrun strategic goals and profitability of the Company. 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 No. of FTE PRACTICE IN BANGLADESH 1,227* 742 642 609 559 (personnel) In Bangladesh,the concept of Human Resources Accounting Operating cost per has not yet been introduced as a requirement by any 1.34 1.97 1.94 1.74 1.63 employee statutory authority or any regulatory bodies. However, Training cost per as opposed to external financial reporting, managerial 0.009 0.018 0.016 0.003 0.020 reporting does not require adherence to a strict set of employee globally accepted Accounting Standards in specific financial Operating profit per 2.40 2.96 2.36 2.21 2.23 statements in an acceptable format reported to the public. employee Gross turnover per As a result, disclosure of such information has become 7.68 11.05 10.75 9.04 8.09 employee voluntary to our business management. Per Employee Productivity* So, we can say that HRA is the process of identifying and 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 69 measuring data on human resources and communicating this information to the interested parties. It is an attempt Operating Income 3.74 4.93 4.30 3.95 3.86 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 to identify and report the investment made in the human Profit Before Tax 2.14 2.95 2.06 2.06 2.18 resource of the Company that is currently not accounted for Profit After Tax 1.19 1.68 1.04 1.17 0.89 in the conventional accounting practices. Per Employee Productivity Operating Income Profit Before Tax Taka in million Profit After Tax 3.86 2.18 0.89 3.95 2.06 1.17 4.30 2.06 1.04 4.93 2.95 1.68 3.74 2.14 1.19 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 * In 2015, IDLC recruited 429 Full Time Employees (FTE) to strengthen its sales organisation. Resultantly, all the employee productivity measures, while reviewed without context, would seem to have worsened in 2015 compared to 2014. However, it should be noted that this recruitment marks a transition in the way IDLC’s sales streams work – the increase in number of FTEs and the subsequent increase in Operating Cost for Employees is greatly offset by savings accrued in other operating expenses that would have incurred had IDLC pursued with the earlier way of sales and customer acquisition. To put it into context, it should be noted that total Operating Expenditure for IDLC increased by 13% in 2015 over 2014 despite the number of employees increasing by 65% (from 742 to 1,227) in the same period. 70 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Chapter 8 | Extended responsibilities BLOOD DONATION PROGRAMME AT IDLC’S SYLHET BRANCH As part of its commitment to sustainability, IDLC organised a blood donation program on 21 November 2015 at its Sylhet branch with assistance from IDLC’s Consumer Division. IDLC regularly organizes blood donation programmes across its branches in partnership with the Bangladesh Thalassaemia Samity and Hospital, whereby both IDLC staff and external stakeholders donated blood for the treatment of patients suffering from thalassaemia. Thalassaemia is a blood disorder passed from parents to children and causes the body to Catastrophe of the storm caused at Bogra make fewer healthy red blood cells and less haemoglobin than normal. According to the Bangladesh Thalassaemia Foundation, there are more than 10 million carriers in the country. Rehabilitation of uprooted households BLANKET DISTRIBUTION IDLC staff donating blood at Sylhet Branch IDLC distributes blankets and warm clothes every winter among the underprivileged in areas most affected by The Chief Guest at the occasion, Dr. Md. Murshed Ahmed the extreme cold. In 2015, IDLC distributed a total of 450 Chowdhury, Principal M.A.G. Osmani Medical College blankets. Among these, 300 blankets were given to the and Dean, Faculty of Medicine, Shahjalal University of underprivileged of North Bengal by IDLC’s officials and 150 Science and Technology stated that thalassaemia can be blankets to Mokshudpur, Gopalganj, with the help of Dishari prevented by raising awareness. He appreciated IDLC’s Foundation. The distribution was carried out by IDLC officials efforts in both raising awareness and donating blood for at Bogra, Rangpur and Gaibandha. such a noble cause and hoped other corporate houses would come forward with more such initiatives as well. On behalf of IDLC, Mr. Nasar Hassan Khan, ex-GM and Head of Consumer Division, Mr. Ifham Siddiqui, AGM Consumer Division, Mr. Enam Ahmed Chowdhury, Head of the Sylhet branch and other officials from both IDLC Dhaka and Sylhet were present. Moreover, to facilitate blood collection and registration, a six-member team from the Bangladesh Thalassaemia Samity and Hospital was present during the program. A total of 103 blood bags were collected and subsequently donated to the Bangladesh Thalassemia Hospital. Darail Bazar, Noshkori Para 71 IDLC STANDS BY THE STORM-AFFECTED VICTIMS OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 BOGRA IDLC, as part of its CSR activities, coordinated a housing rehabilitation initiative for the storm-affected people of Bogra. A destructive storm struck Bogra and adjacent areas in late April 2015. Many families became homeless, among which 13 families suffered the worst as their houses were destroyed. IDLC stood by these families by rebuilding their houses and even provided emergency relief fund to one of the residents.The team of IDLC Bogra was actively engaged in the entire process. Bogra IDLC team distributing blankets Chapter 9 | Stakeholder engagement for reporting SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING the organisation). For this report, IDLC has only interacted with customers and service providers who closely interact IDLC since 2011 has been publishing the Annual Sustainability with the CSR department on pilot basis so that going Report in compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative forward, the process can be refined and more customers can (GRI) framework. The Report is prepared in accordance with be approached and information gathered more efficiently. sustainability reporting guidelines G4 issued by GRI which reflects IDLC’s contribution towards creating economic, Although the concept of CSR is slowly gaining ground, social and environmental value. In accordance with the practicing it to the full extent still remains a challenge for G4 stakeholder engagement section, we have collected many companies and organisations. Enhanced awareness information from several sources, financial and non-financial. and communication on the sustainability and strategic aspects of CSR needs to be imparted to stakeholders, ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS FOR REPORTING which will accordingly shape their expectations in terms of The IDLC team has tried to identify sustainable business the organisation’s CSR performance. IDLC is following and objectives by understanding stakeholder expectations piloting direct engagement with stakeholders in compliance which are correlated. This is to ensure that IDLC can meet with the G4 reporting guidelines for the first time. Hence, the objectives, modify existing practices and if required, employee understanding and engagement is crucial in this take corrective measures through the IDLC business model phase of reporting, as the employees will play the focal role annually. in engaging customers in future. Considering the nature of IDLC’s business operations, In consideration of the above, IDLC has engaged with the most important stakeholder groups are regulators, regulators, management and employees to identify their customers and employees (including key decision makers of preferences, concerns and expectations from IDLC. Sustainability Dimension Key Stakeholders Targeted Sustainable Business Objectives Economic Customers  Provide quality products that meet the needs of customers  Careful management of operations so as to protect customer interest, especially those of depositors Suppliers/Service providers  Adhere to proper procurement regulations while maintaining a good business relationship with the service providers Regulators  Ensure compliance with all regulatory guidelines and directives Stakeholders Engaged Engagement Process Key Issues raised by Stakeholders Social Employees  Continuously encouraging staff and working towards creating a healthy, ethical and supportive work environment  Engaging staff in activities and sports other than business as usual, to achieve a balanced productive environment which is beneficial to both employees and IDLC Local communities  Implementing programs and initiatives targeted at 72 marginalised communities and underprivileged to address the requirement of society in education/ skills development, healthcare and overall poverty SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 alleviation  Enhancing financial access to the marginalized Environmental Environmental/Non Conducting business without harming the Government Organisations environment Regulators  One-on-one Meetings  Corporate governance, ethics and compliance  Circular issued by  Anti-corruption measures implemented by the Bangladesh Bank on organization Green Banking & CSR  Responsibility of the organisation towards the environment and the community IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Stakeholders Engaged Engagement Process Key Issues raised by Stakeholders Management Discussions  Corporate governance, ethics and compliance  Anti-corruption measures implemented by the organization  Financial performance  Creating an enabling environment for all IDLC staff  Non-discrimination, diversity and equal opportunities  Social obligations through capacity development of the underprivileged and women empowerment  Environmental obligations through in-house management, CSR and Green Banking initiatives  Superior customer experience through continuous improvement Employees Discussions & Survey  Remuneration and benefits  Career growth and development opportunities  Fair treatment  Safe and healthy work environment  Work-life balance  Employee grievance management MATERIAL ASPECTS IDENTIFIED THROUGH STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT As per GRI, materiality is the threshold at the sustainability  Employment, Occupational Health and Safety subjects covered by the Guidelines – known as ‘Aspects’ –  Training and Education which become sufficiently important that they should be  Diversity and Equal Opportunity reported. Based on the issues raised by the stakeholders  Equal Remuneration for Women and Men during the engagement process, the following Material Aspects have been identified and included in this Report:  Non-discrimination  Local Communities  Economic  Anti-corruption  Biodiversity  Marketing Communications  Compliance  Customer Privacy BOUNDARY DEFINED FOR EACH MATERIAL ASPECT The Report details how IDLC addresses the material issues stated above and how these significantly influence performance both within and outside the organisation. Category Aspects Material within the Organization Material outside the Organization Economic  Economic performance Yes NA  Procurement practices Environmental  Energy Yes Yes  Biodiversity Any negative influence on This aspect is material for the protected and/or high biodiversity environment, and for communities 73  Compliance areas caused by IDLC’s operations living close to protected and/or SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 may lead to fines/sanctions/ loss high biodiversity areas. of license to operate/negative publicity. Social I. Labour Practices and Decent Work Employment and occupational health and safety Yes NA Training and education Yes NA Category Aspects Material within the Organization Material outside the Organization Diversity and equal opportunity Yes Yes This aspect is material for communities where IDLC creates job opportunities through its operations/ branch networks. Equal remuneration for women and men Yes NA II. Human Rights Child labour Yes NA Security practices Yes NA Non-discrimination Yes Yes This aspect is material for communities where IDLC creates job opportunities through its operations/branch networks. III. Society/ Local Communities Local communities NA Yes This aspect is material for local communities where IDLC has operations or investments in projects. Anti-corruption Yes Yes This aspect is material for IDLC’s customers and other stakeholders. IV. Product Responsibility Customer health and safety Yes Yes This aspect is material for IDLC’s customers. Marketing communications Yes Yes This aspect is material for IDLC’s existing and potential customer groups. Customer privacy Yes Yes Maintaining privacy of sensitive This aspect is material for IDLC’s customer information is one customers. of the major priorities of IDLC’s staff and a significant part of its employee Code of Conduct. 74 IDLC is committed to continually review all all the key stakeholders, IDLC envisions to uphold corporate governance policies and guidelines to and realize its sustainable business practices ensure transparency in its practices and delivery best clarified and anchored by its sustainability SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 of high standards and quality information to its positioning statement. stakeholders. Therefore, through continuous improvements IDLC is committed to sustainable development and aiming to attain the sustainability business by creating long-term value – value for our objectives by maintaining communication with stakeholders, value for the environment and value for the community. IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Chapter 10 | GRI – G4 Reporting Index The Report is ‘In Accordance’ with “Core” standards of the G4 guidelines. Accordingly, the General and Specific Standard Disclosures have been detailed below. General Standard Disclosures ‘IN ACCORDANCE’ – CORE CHAPTER PAGE NO STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Statement of the Chairman of the Board 1 Statement of the CEO & Managing Director 2 G4 – 1 Chapter 3 | Corporate Governance 37 41  IDLC’s statement of corporate governance ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4 – 3 IDLC Finance Limited Chapter 1 | The world of IDLC 20 G4 – 4  Our Extensive Range of Products and Services G4 – 5 Corporate Head Office: Bay’s Galleria (1st Floor), 57 Gulshan Avenue, Gulshan 1, Dhaka 1212 G4 – 6 Countries Served: Bangladesh G4 – 7 Nature of Ownership and Legal Form: Public Limited Company G4 – 8 Chapter 1 |The World of IDLC 5 – 21 Our branches our located across districts including Dhaka (Dhaka, Savar, Keraniganj and Imamganj), Narayanganj (Narayanganj and Bhulta), Gazipur (Gazipur and Tongi), Narshingdi, Chittagong, Kushtia, Mymensingh, Comilla, Bogra, Natore, Jessore, Khulna and Sylhet (Sylhet, Habiganj). G4 – 9 Chapter 1 |The World of IDLC 5 – 27 G4 – 10 Chapter 7 | Our Human Capital 66 70 G4 – 11 100% employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements G4 – 12 The nature of our operations limits dependence on material or service procurement from external bodies. Our major suppliers include providers of office equipment’s, including furniture, computers, kitchen appliances etc.; agencies for event organisation; contractors for maintenance of our branches; third-party agencies providing office assistants, security guards, cleaners etc. G4 – 13 Three new branches were opened at Mymensingh, Habiganj and Kushtia Two products were introduced by SME Division; “IDLC Purnota” and “IDLC Udbhabon” One product launched by subsidiary IDLC Investments Limited ; “Easy Invest” Chapter 1 | The World of IDLC  Business Segment Review (SME Division) 10 11  Subsidiary Review – IDLC Investments Limited 18 Chapter 3 | Corporate Governance G4 – 14  IDLC’s Statement of Corporate Governance 37 49 Chapter 2 | Corporate Social Responsibility G4 – 15  Regulatory Bodies and Memberships 29 Chapter 1 | The world of IDLC G4 – 16  Memberships 27 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4 – 17 IDLC’s two subsidiaries, IDLC Investments Limited and IDLC Securities Limited are included 75 in the consolidated financial statements and accordingly have been covered in the Annual Financial Report 2015 and Annual Sustainability Report 2015. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4 – 18 Reporting Parameters 3 Chapter 9 | Stakeholder Engagement for Reporting G4 – 19  Material Aspects identified through Stakeholder Engagement 73 G4 – 20 Chapter 9 | Stakeholder Engagement for Reporting G4 – 21  Boundary defined for each Material Aspect 73 G4 – 22 No information has been restated from that of the last report G4 – 23 This report has been prepared following the GRI-G4 guidelines. Major change in the scope of the report from G3.1 guidelines has been in terms of engaging with stakeholder groups to identify the most material aspects that influences the organisation’s economic, social and environmental performances, as well as influences stakeholder perception. ‘IN ACCORDANCE’ – CORE CHAPTER PAGE NO STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation include Regulators, Management G4 – 24 and Employees G4 – 25 Chapter 9 | Stakeholder Engagement for Reporting G4 – 26  Engagement with Stakeholders for Reporting 72 G4 – 27 REPORT PROFILE G4 – 28 January 1, 2015 – December 31, 2015 G4 – 29 April 2015 G4 – 30 Annual G4 – 31 Ayesha Haque, Head of CSR, Mobile +88-0173-0374585, Email hayesha@idlc.com G4 – 32 GRI Content Index G4 – 33 No external assurance has been sought for this report GOVERNANCE G4 – 34 33 G4 – 40 37 41 G4 – 45 Chapter 3 | Corporate Governance G4 – 46 37 49 G4 – 51 G4 – 52 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4 – 56 Chapter 1 |The World of IDLC 8 G4 – 58 Chapter 3 | Corporate Governance 45-49 Chapter 7 | Our Human Capital 69 Specific Standard Disclosures DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH IDLC has tried to identify sustainable businessobjectives by understanding stakeholder expectationswhich are correlated. This is to ensure that IDLC can meetthe objectives, modify existing practices and if required,take corrective measures through the business modelannually.For this report, IDLC has only coordinatedwith customers and service providers who closely interactwith the CSR department on pilot basis so that goingforward, the process can be refined and more customers canbe approached and information gathered more efficiently.As per GRI, materiality is the threshold at the sustainabilitysubjects covered by the Guidelines – known as ‘Aspects’ –which become sufficiently important that they should bereported. Based on the degree of importance and issues raised by the stakeholdersduring the engagement process, the following MaterialAspects have been identified and included in this Report. Indicators by Aspects CATEGORY : ECONOMIC Economic Performance PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE NO G4 – EC 1 Chapter 1 |The World of IDLC 24 26 G4 – EC 4 Chapter 6 |Environmental Initiatives 62 64 G4 – EC 8 Chapter 4 | Transforming Lives Through Skills Development 53 – 54 CATEGORY : ENVIRONMENTAL Energy PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE NO 76 G4 – EN6 Chapter 6 |Environmental Initiatives 63  Green Banking (In-house environment management) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Biodiversity PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE NO IDLC does not own, lease or manage any operational site that are adjacent to protected areas and/ G4 – EN 11 or areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas IDLC does not engage in any business or operation that has any form of direct and/or indirect G4 – EN 12 impact on biodiversity Compliance PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE NO IDLC has neither been party to any non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations of G4 – EN 29 the country nor has it faced any fines in this regard IDLC FINANCE LIMITED CATEGORY : SOCIAL PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE NO G4 – LA 1 Chapter 7 | Our Human Capital 66 & 70 G4 – LA 2 Chapter 7 | Our Human Capital 66 68 G4 – LA 3 5 staff underwent maternity leave in 2015, with a 100 percent retention rate Training and Education PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE NO G4 – LA 9 Chapter 7 | Our Human Capital 67 Training on basic banking operations, professional salesmanship, business etiquette and G4 – LA 10 professional excellence, credit risk management, environmental and social risk management, antimoney laundering and fraud etc. G4 – LA 11 Chapter 7 | Our Human Capital 66 68 Labour and Management Relations PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE NO G4 – LA 4 The standard notice period is one month for such operational changes; however, this period may vary depending on the nature of operation and duties and responsibilities of the concerned officials. Equal Remuneration for Women and Men PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE NO IDLC offers similar basic salaries to all male and female staff for each employment G4 – LA 13 category. Any difference in gross salary is determined by the individual’s performance, not his/her gender CATEGORY : HUMAN RIGHTS Non-discrimination PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE NO No incident of discrimination has been notified to the Human Resource Department by employees G4 – HR 3 through formal or informal channels. CATEGORY : SOCIETY Local Communities PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE NO G4 – SO 1 Chapter 4 | Transforming lives through skills development 53 54 Chapter 5 | Facilitating curative and preventive healthcare 56 57 Chapter 6 | Environmental initiatives 59 61 Chapter 8 | Extended responsibilities 71 Anti-corruption PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE NO G4 – SO 3 G4 – SO 4 Chapter 3 | Corporate Governance 43 – 47 G4 – SO 5 IDLC’s policy mandates immediate dismissal of employees proven to be involved in any form of corruption within and/or outside the organisation, and IDLC strictly adheres to this policy. Formal channels are in place for stakeholder to file complaints against any malpractice by any IDLC staff and accordingly actions are taken by the respective departments. Compliance 77 PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE NO IDLC has not been party to any non-compliance with laws and regulations of the country and has SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4 – SO 8 not faced any fines/ non-monetary sanctions in this regard. CATEGORY : PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Marketing Communications PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE NO IDLC has not been party to any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary G4 – PR 7 codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorships. Customer Privacy PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE NO G4 – PR 8 IDLC has not been party to any incident related to breaches of customer privacy and/or loss of customer data. Our awards showcase 15th ICAB National Awards for “Best Presented 15th ICAB National Awards for “Best Presented Annual Reports Annual Reports 2014” Financial Services First Prize 2014” Corporate Governance Disclosures Third Prize SAFA Best Presented Annual Report Awards 2013 2nd ICSB National Awards 2014 SAARC Anniversary Award for Corporate Silver Prize Governance Disclosures First Runner Up SAFA Best Presented Annual Report Awards 2014 78 SAARC Anniversary Award for Corporate Governance SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Disclosures First Runner Up Financial Services Sector First Runner Up SAFA Best Presented Annual Report Awards 2013 Financial Services Sector Certificate of Merit
