Commu unication On Progress (201 16) Stateme ent of Conntinued Support Device Services S Co., Ltd. is pleased p to o reaffirm its supportt of the Ten Principlees of the United U Nattional Glob bal Compaact. Our coommitment to the 10 principlees of UNGC which we w signed since 2013,, we fully support s thee ten princcipals of th he C Global Compact w respeccts to hum with man rights, labour, ennvironmen nt, and antti‐ corruption. In this annual communica c ation on progress, we desccribe our actions to t continually impro ove the integration i n of the Global Compact and a its teen principaal’s into our o strateggy, culturee and day to day o operations within ou ur compan ny and ourr employeees. We aree fully com mmitted and also enccouraged all a our stakkeholders to aware evene moree on the im mportance of the Ten Principlees of Globaal Compacct. We willl continue to supporrt the UNC CG Princip ook forwarrd to report ples and lo our proogress again next yeear. In ord der to suppport public accounttability an nd transparency con ncerning our efforrts, we are a commmitted to share this informaation with all our stakkeholders. Yours siincerely, Tin ZanKKyaw Managing Directo or Device Services S Co o., Ltd. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Device recognize that human rights are an integral part of corporate citizenship andDevice is committed to develop an organizational culture which supports internationally recognized human rights and supports equal opportunities, dignity and mutual respect. This is clearly stated in our Human Rights Statement, in line with international best practices. Implementation Device expresses the intention to support individual human rights and compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, which are also clearly stated in the employment contract.We make sure that employees enjoy fundamental labour rights like a safe workplace, non‐discriminatory work practices and collective bargaining. We create accessible workplace or providing a workplace free from discrimination. Device provides equal employment opportunities and complies with Employment Laws and Regulations. Device is committed to treat our employees with no illegal discrimination based on race, religion, gender, social status, physical or mental disability, and sexual orientation. Measurement of Outcomes We believe that as a result of these measures, there was no employees regarding any violation of Human Rights. We monitor and evaluate performance through our yearly employee survey. We conduct yearly performance appraisals with every employee on a one to one basis to ensure that everyone is heard. LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5:The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation We uphold the rights of employees to freedom of association and recognize the collective bargaining. An open door policy has been established where employees can report grievances to their upper management and HR Manager. We promote and support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. We do not employ any form of forced labour because we consider that as fundamental violation of human rights. Also, we are totally against the practice of child labour. All job applications are subjected to detailed screening by our HR personnel. All employees in Device are given equal opportunities; hiring and promotion of employees are based on criteria like academic qualifications, skills and track record. Implementation Device has always been supportive of the freedom of association and the effective recognition of theright to collective bargaining. Prior to employment, it is our policy to be transparent about the working terms and conditions. Device employee’s policies are specified within employment contracts which clearly state the actual working conditions and their rights (benefit, leave and holiday). So, all employees are aware of its existence and must agree upon it before signing. Training and communication are crucial for the livelihood of the development of all employees in Device with equal opportunities and provided valued international training to our employees.Device undertakes a healthy and safe work environment that motivates its employees. Device actively involved in supporting all Job Fairs Activities at Tatmataw Hall and taking responsibility for being a part of job creations in the country throughout the year. Device actively involved in Job Fairs at Tatmataw Hall Measurement of Outcomes No complaints were reported during this reporting period. It treats all its employees with dignity and respect, and not uses corporal punishment or threats of violence or other physical or mental abuse. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Device has publicly stated its commitment to the principles of sustainable development and highly committed to protect and make a positive impact on the local environment, while conducting our daily business activities. We manage our HSE performance in a manner equal to any other of our critical business performance measures and committed to protecting the environment. Implementation By increasing the deployment of ICT throughout society, Device will expand our contributions to solving environmental challenges together with customers and society. We will continually strive to lower the environmental burden of our business activities.By doing so, we will continue working together with our stakeholders in the global value chain including our customers, partners and suppliers to shape a sustainable and prosperous society. Device encouraged the staff to correspond and communicate via electronic mail in order to minimize paper usage. Measurement of Outcomes Device actively pursued recycling and waste management solutions to further reduce our environmental impacts, within the past years. ANTI‐CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Device managed its business with honesty, fairness, transparent and committed to responsibility to social and all stakeholders, in compliance with the accepted good corporate governance principles andbusiness ethics. Implementation Device prohibits corrupt practices including extortion and bribery in dealing with public officials and other private sector parties, these restrictions apply to our operations to ensure that this does not occur in the group's business activities. Over the past years, internal and external checks and balances system over transactions were audited by internal audits, external audits, finance, administration and HR department. Measurement of Outcomes Device has not experienced any cases of corruption within the past years. There have been no reported cases of attempted bribery or conflict of interest.
