CA Technologies Sustainability Report Executive Summary 1 A Message from The CEO & The Chairman CA Technologies We serve our customers, our colleagues and our communities by integrating sustainability into our work every day. We Sustainbility Report believe it’s not just the right thing to do, but also good business. Executive Summary This new world needs — and our customers increasingly demand — products that have sustainability built into them from the start. Products with the inherent agility to take advantage of today’s application economy, where customers are more likely to experience a brand through a software app than through a person. Developing and delivering superior user experiences that engage customers has become table stakes. And agile is a key principle in this process that has no end result, only an evolving, ever-present, ever-expanding development life cycle. Agile software also drives efficiencies for our customers, by enabling them to quickly assess how IT assets are performing within traditional data centers and cloud environments. This, in turn, enables them to easily optimize resource utilization and minimize unnecessary expenditures. These kinds of software solutions have contributed to a reduction in our carbon footprint of approximately 32 percent since 2006. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, that equates to 30,192 fewer metric tons of carbon emissions — equal to taking 6,356 passenger cars or 400 fully loaded tanker trucks off the road, or powering 2,755 U.S. homes for one year. Global issues — like security, the global footprint of customers, and talent management — are providing new opportunities and challenges for CA. And we’re closely watching key trends that will affect our footprint over the next few years, including the proliferation of connected devices, access and identity management, global carbon reduction commitments, and water shortages in key global areas. At the same time, we’re working globally with other companies, governments and nongovernmental organizations to address the gap in science, technology, engineering and math, or STEM skills. This includes the Tech Girls Rock initiative we created in partnership with Boys & Girls Clubs of America, and Create Tomorrow, an initiative CA launched to address Europe’s critical skills shortage in STEM. Our goal remains to help transform the lives of young people and encourage the next generation of innovators and tech leaders. We understand that we will remain at the forefront of a world driven by software only if we put people at the center. With the support of our customers, partners, shareholders and employees, CA Technologies is committed to building a brighter future for all of us. Mike Gregoire Art Weinbach Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the Board 2 Operational Efficiency CA Technologies Operating our business efficiently is at the heart of our sustainability efforts. We focus on managing our energy use, Sustainbility Report developing and maintaining smart facilities, reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, and forming strategic alliances Executive Summary with business partners that contribute to our operating efficiencies. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions In 2014, our GHG emissions were 7.7 percent lower than in 2013 (2015 data will be available at the end of June). Since 2006, we have reduced our own GHG emissions by approximately 32 percent, keeping us on track to meet our GHG reduction goal of 35 percent by 2020. Energy Management and IT IT Devices. From the data center to mobile devices, IT devices are one of the fastest-growing components of enterprise energy consumption. We’re helping drive efficiency — both at CA Technologies and for our customers — through server management and network optimization. We’re also reducing our energy use by moving to virtual servers instead of adding hardware. Renewable Energy Certificates. Our procurement strategy for energy includes buying renewable energy certificates (RECs) from a commercial electricity supplier. The RECs, which are generated from wind farms, are verified and certified by Green-e Energy, the nation’s leading independent certification and verification program for renewable energy. Smart Facilities Because facilities represent one of our largest environmental impacts, they are where we focus most of our own operational efficiency efforts. Green Buildings and Green Leases. We work with our global real estate service providers to incorporate sustainability elements into all new leases, including provisions requiring the use of efficient and regularly serviced building systems, use of cleaning materials that are Green Seal–certified, inclusion of building-recycling programs, use of lighting sensors in common areas, and landscape irrigation systems that utilize rain sensor devices to minimize water use. Water & Waste Management. Our data centers utilize closed-loop water systems for cooling, thereby minimizing water use. In addition, we reclaim 100 percent of rainwater from surfaces at our Hyderabad, India, facility and use it for our landscaping needs. As for managing waste, we have made a corporate-wide global commitment to minimize our impact on landfills by reducing, reusing and recycling. Supply Chain Management We are proud to use the power of collaboration to work with our vendors to ensure they are committed to sustainable, ethical practices. We continually monitor related issues throughout our supply chain, and we determine the material impact, if any, of all suppliers. Supplier Code of Conduct. We require compliance with a Code of Conduct that defines our expectations as a partner. UN Global Compact. We are a signatory to the UN Global Compact, which supports human rights as well as labor, anticorruption, and environmental standards. All of our supplier agreements include human rights clauses. Global Due Diligence. Outside the U.S., we use an independent third-party agency to provide us with a global due diligence service for on-boarding CA Technologies partners. The third party performs background checks on both individuals and firms following FCPA (Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) requirements. 3 Customer Solutions CA Technologies CA Technologies customers around the globe use our software solutions to meet their business challenges and create Sustainbility Report new market opportunities. Our solutions help customers throughout the agile development life cycle, enabling them to Executive Summary plan and prioritize development; develop and test; release and deploy; manage and monitor; and connect and secure. To ensure our products’ effectiveness, we use our own solutions within CA. Customer Experience. Delivering a superior customer experience is at the heart of what we do. It drives higher levels of loyalty, creates competitive differentiation, and enables growth for CA. In short, we continue to build on a customercentric culture aimed at delivering a superior experience for our customers and partners. This approach has pushed our customer satisfaction scores to the highest levels they’ve reached in many years, while our Net Promoter Score continues to move higher. Security and Privacy. To succeed in today’s digital world, companies increasingly need to adopt openness and transparency so that users, employees and partners can access the data they need. But the more open these businesses are, the more vulnerable they become to debilitating data breaches and other security risks. The security and stability our solutions provide make CA a compelling partner for global organizations in building customer confidence with great user experiences — while keeping valuable data secure. Our end-to-end security solutions enable companies to connect, transact and communicate everything to everyone from everywhere with the confidence that their critical data is still safe and secure. API. An application programming interface (API) is a set of routines, protocols and tools for building software and applications. For example, Web APIs play a critical role in connecting applications and services over the Internet. APIs are also used to launch innovative services, and will power the next generation of mobile and Internet of Things (IoT) applications. We believe that, in the future, employees and customers will access data, apps and other digital tools by leveraging APIs, putting a large emphasis on both the user experience and data security. At CA Technologies, we help companies accelerate their digital transformation with APIs by managing them from all perspectives: business strategy, design and architecture, governance and tooling — all while providing the required levels of security. Products That Promote Sustainability. As customers become more aware of the impact of IT on the environment and IT’s use of limited natural resources, they are increasingly seeking solutions that are more resource-efficient. In the context of software solutions, “sustainability” largely refers to solutions that have been designed and built to minimize the consumption of resources such as energy during development, operations and maintenance. At CA Technologies, we work to maximize opportunities for our customers’ IT operations by providing them with an efficient platform that limits resource use. Our product design strives for sustainability in all respects. For example, to reduce paper consumption, all of our solutions default to electronic documentation. To reduce our customers’ electricity consumption, we require algorithms to be written efficiently and all idle times to be minimized. In this way, we aim to ensure our products make efficient use of physical resources, such as materials and energy, throughout their life cycles. 4 Employee Empowerment CA Technologies Trust and empowerment are the tools that enable CA employees to present new ideas and display their individual Sustainbility Report talents. This is how we effect change. We believe that speed, execution and problem-solving are delivered when Executive Summary initiative is nurtured and people can easily brainstorm and develop new ideas in a supportive environment. Our role as a company is to provide the spark to ignite ideas. This helps create avenues for employees to advance innovation organically. Striving to be an employer of choice and attracting, developing, retaining and inspiring top talent help ensure that we can create and deliver the most effective solutions to our customers. Toward that end, we have a competitive global compensation structure, top-tier health benefits, and on-site child development centers and wellness programs. Employee Surveys. We conduct a comprehensive Employee Opinion Survey (EOS) every 18 to 24 months. In between each EOS, we also conduct a Pulse Survey to monitor progress. Here are some key results from our 2015 EOS: • Employee engagement remains strong and is consistent with other high-tech companies. • Increases were seen in overall job satisfaction, pride in working for CA, and being motivated to go beyond what is expected to help CA succeed. • Overall strengths reported in the survey include manager and team effectiveness, understanding and alignment with the organization’s mission and purpose, a positive work environment, total rewards, and overall job satisfaction. CA Communities. CA Communities is where members go every day to collaborate on CA Technologies products. Customers, partners and CA employees come to the communities to get answers to product-related questions, submit product ideas, view product tips and tricks, and more. Members help customers become experts on the products they use every day, and even help shape the future of CA Technologies products by submitting product enhancement requests and voting on the ideas of other community members. CA Communities’ members are located in more than 170 countries and can participate in hundreds of thousands of conversations in more than 40 communities. CA Sustain. This Web-based platform offers employees the opportunity and information to take steps toward a more environmentally and socially responsible lifestyle. When interacting within the site, employees are recognized when they commit to actions they care about. Through the use of social networks, employees can share their commitments and recruit others to join them to multiply the positive impact on the environment, community and workplace culture. Green Teams. Our Green Teams are employee-led groups that volunteer their time to work on sustainability by managing local office-greening activities and encouraging more environmentally friendly behavior. These teams leverage our employees’ energy and ideas, and empower them to move our sustainability strategy forward. THRIVE: Workforce Diversity and Inclusion. As we move forward in the application economy, the pace of change makes it necessary to continually adapt in order to compete. To do so, we need the best talent — a broad range of diverse thinkers, doers and teams working to innovate and execute with speed. THRIVE — a foundational pillar of CA Technologies People strategy — is a program designed to help create the best inclusive and flexible workplace for our employees. THRIVE’s goals are to: • Create the best place to do business by attracting, enabling and retaining a diverse workforce to win in our marketplaces, workplaces and communities across the world. • Create the best workplace by leveraging an inclusive, flexible work environment that values and leverages uniqueness, and encourages and motivates employees to unleash their full potential. 5 Working at CA Technologies CA Technologies To meet the company’s business and cultural goals, our HR organization has moved to a centralized structure that Sustainbility Report includes a Talent Development Center of Expertise. This structure enables a consistent and standard delivery of Executive Summary corporate learning solutions, but with the flexibility to localize content to accommodate regional goals and local customs, allowing the program to be relevant for all employees. Regional Talent Development Leads and local HR Business Partners support the execution of the programs. Our Talent Development strategy focuses on enabling CA Technologies to successfully attract, develop and retain the talent CA needs for organizational sustainability and scalability. Leaders at All Levels. Our award-winning Leaders at all Levels program and website provide employees with the tools and resources they need to develop key skills centered on our Leadership Attributes: Leading Yourself, Leading the Organization and Leading Through Others. We have conducted a full analysis of all content across the Leadership Attributes and associated competencies to ensure appropriate alignment to the best resources. Leadership Development Program (LDP). This program is designed to ensure a pipeline of highly capable leaders at all levels across the organization. The target participants are mid-level managers and individual contributors who want to enhance their leadership capabilities. Participants increase their self-awareness, reflect on and challenge their current ways of thinking, experience new ways of working that optimize their chances of success, and learn from both senior leaders and others within the program. Through the program, employees develop themselves in ways that will move the organization forward. Highlights and findings from the LDP in 2015 include: • 95 percent of participants felt the program exceeded targets. • 91 percent of participants indicated they can directly apply what they have learned to their leadership journey. • 93 percent felt the program was a worthwhile investment in their career development. 6 Corporate Social Responsibility CA Technologies CA Technologies is a global corporation with a local commitment. We work to improve the quality of life in communities Sustainbility Report where our employees live and work worldwide, and are fully committed to advancing social, environmental and Executive Summary economic sustainability. CSR at CA Technologies. CA Together, our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program, is driven by the core philanthropic focus of improving the lives of underserved children and communities around the world. We do this by supporting organizations, programs and initiatives that enrich the lives and well-being of others, with a primary focus on the advancement of Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) learning. STEM Education. As a software company, CA Technologies has a clear and vested interest in advancing STEM education. To grow our business in a highly competitive market, we need the brightest software engineers, data scientists and computer scientists. This is a long-term investment by, CA and we are committed to encouraging the next generation of leaders in IT. CA Together in Action. The company’s worldwide employee volunteer initiative, CA Together in Action, takes place during the week of Earth Day in April. CA employees around the globe can take time out of their workday to participate in a variety of community-based activities. Projects include supporting the advancement of STEM learning for young people, conducting environmental cleanups, building affordable housing, and assisting food banks with feeding the hungry. Product Donations. Through our CA Together IT program, we share our world-class software solutions with charitable organizations around the globe. Our goal is to help strengthen their IT infrastructures and build organizational capacity to better serve their beneficiaries. Matching Gifts. Our Matching Gifts program is driven by the passion and commitment of CA Technologies employees to help others. Employees can contribute to nonprofits of their choice with a one-to-one match of up to $10,000 each fiscal year. In FY 2016, the company matched more than $1.3 million in gifts to more than 1,600 organizations. Awards and Recognition • Inclusion in Global Compact 100 • 2015 Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes • Newsweek’s Green Rankings CA Technologies Sustainbility Report • Leader in IDC Marketscape Executive Summary • 2015 Computerworld’s Best Places to Work in IT • 2015 Working Mother 100 Best Companies • 2016 Fatherly 50 Best Places to Work for New Dads • 2016 HRC Corporate Equality Index • 2016 World’s Most Ethical Company Stakeholder Engagement • UN Global Compact • Ceres/BICEP Learn More To learn more about CA Technologies sustainability initiatives and products: ca.com/sustainability-report @CAinc facebook.com/CATechnologies Contact Us CA Technologies 520 Madison Avenue, 22nd Floor New York, NY 10022 ca.com Copyright © 2015 CA Inc. All rights reserved. All trademarks, trade names, service marks and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies.
