KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report About This Report This is the fifth KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report since 2006, Third Party Assurance when the company became the first Korean securities firm to publish a To ensure the internal and external credibility of this report, we requested sustainability report. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 an independent assurance statement from the Business Institute for will look back on the sustainability activities that have taken place during Sustainable Development (BISD) of the Korea Chamber of Commerce the period covered, based on our mission of “Dream with us”, and we will and Industry, which is a professional assurance organization. The also report on the outcomes of our activities, as part of our commitment BISD’s detailed opinion is on page 89 of this report. to disclose information to our stakeholders in a transparent way. Major Characteristics of the Report Reporting Guidelines KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 was derived from This report was compiled based on the Core option of the G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are global guidelines for selecting issues that have the most influence on stakeholders, in sustainability reports, and on the Financial Services Sector Supplement accordance with the requirements set forth in the amended GRI G4 Guidelines (FSSS). It is also based on the ten major principles of the UN Guidelines. We provide details on the current state of and management Global Compact, which the company has embraced since 2006. approach to each issue, through the disclosure on management approach (DMA), and stakeholder interviews are included in the Reporting Period Magazine Section to share stakeholder opinions on all relevant issues. All information in this report is based on the three years from 2012 Information on initiatives related to sustainability strategies and their to 2014 inclusive. Financial information is given according to the outcomes in the “Sustainability Framework” section offers extensive company’s fiscal years, and non-financial information uses calendar detail on the company’s sustainability management performance. years, with footnotes added for information where necessary. Information deemed important from the first half of 2015 has also been Additional Information of the Report included. For further information or any suggestions on the report, please contact: Reporting Scope The scope of information included in this report encompasses the company headquarters, the Human Resources Development Center, the IT Center, our domestic branch network, and our overseas subsidiaries Address and offices. This covers most of where KDB Daewoo Securities KDB Daewoo Securities Bldg., 56, Gukjegeumyung-ro, performs actual business activities; however, where data collection was Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea difficult owing to physical limitations in relation to material management and assessment, the scope of reporting has been limited to business Tel: +82-2-768-2130 sites solely in Korea, excluding overseas business sites such as Fax: +82-2-768-2119 overseas subsidiaries, offices, etc. E-mail: irteam@dwsec.com What is more important than putting talk into action is thinking. KDB Daewoo Securities thinks from diverse stakeholders’ perspectives. KDB Daewoo neither rests on its laurels nor fears challenges to come. By seeing first what’s looming on the horizon, touching all the bases, and constantly renewing our constitution, we will build a better world, a sustainable future through finance. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 T hink is the key word for the company’s brand communications strategy. It is also the slogan 04 for the KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015, embodying our philosophy of thinking first about our stakeholders at all times. E This report has been published in Korean and English to promote more efficient communication with stakeholders at home and abroad. The PDF version of this report can be downloaded from the company web site at http://english.kdbdw.com. Report Contents 06 CEO Message 52 Sustainability Performance 05 08 54 Customers 60 Shareholders/Investors 66 Employees 72 Local Communities KDB Daewoo Securities Highlight 10 Overview 78 Appendix 28 Strategic Focus 32 35 Corporate Governance Risk Management 40 Global Financial Expert 45 Multicultural Society 48 Social Contribution through Finance KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 CEO Message We will continue to create economic, social and environmental values, and to stay ahead of the competition in thinking clearly, all to bring to reality bigger dreams together with all stakeholders. 06 CEO & Chairman of Board of Directors, KDB Daewoo Securities Sungguk Hong Report CEO Message This year marks the 45th anniversary of KDB Daewoo Securities. Over the years the company has been growing together with the Korean capital markets, persevering in study, enduring the pains of innovation, and reaping many firsts: the nation’s first ‘Korea Fund’, the nation’s first private economic research institute, the industry’s first overseas business presence, the industry’s first research forum, and Asia’s first listing of a Special Purpose Acquisition Company (SPAC), to name but some more significant. The path that KDB Daewoo Securities has taken mirrors the history of the Korean securities market. These accomplishments have been made possible with the help of our stakeholders, whom I would like to take this opportunity to thank from the bottom of my heart for your unwavering trust in and support. It has been a decade since we became Korea’s first securities firm to issue a sustainability report, and a great deal of change has taken place since then. For one, investors’ view and understanding of sustainability management has improved to a degree unimaginable before. As a result, corporate sustainability now plays a very important role in investor decisions as well as in corporate valuation. 07 In fact, sustainability is the most important factor to financial consumers in search of financial institutions to trust with their assets. As for financial companies, since customer assets are the primary sources of sustainable growth, sustainability has become the fundamental source of corporate competitiveness. As a member of its local communities, KDB Daewoo Securities has recognized, long before its peers, the need for and the importance of sustainability management and made continued efforts to put such awareness into action. In the process, the company in 2015 made the Dow Jones Sustainability World (DJSI) Index for a fourth consecutive year. Another milestone was set in the same year when we were chosen as the Carbon Management Sector (Finance) Winner for the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Korea, which attest to our competitiveness as a global sustainable company. The KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 is the fifth one we have published. The report illuminates some of the activities and subsequent results that we carried out after a long deliberation, in pursuit of sustainable economic, social, and environmental values. With the continued trust of our stakeholders, all of us will remain focused on fortifying the creative and caring sustainability management culture we have been known for. We also will continue our study to help all stakeholders realize their financial goals. Thank you. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 KDB Daewoo Securities Highlight Improving understanding Total client assets exceed of multiculturalism KRW 135 trillion Together with KBS, Global Village of Love, KDB Daewoo Securities has engaged in and the Seoul National University of Education, a variety of sales activities to offer the best KDB Daewoo Securities created an animation financial services to customers. In the last that improves people’s understanding of few years marked by low interest rates and multiculturalism. We also developed teaching slowing growth in particular, the company materials that boost elementary school has focused on developing viable investment students’ understanding of multiculturalism, alternatives by enhancing product and supplied them to around 4,500 elementary competitiveness. In 2014 the company schools across the nation. This will help children set its all-time record of KRW 135 trillion in learn about living with people coming from total client assets with differentiated branch different cultural backgrounds. operation and asset management. 08 2013 2014 Published an ‘Easy-to-Understand Financial Terminology’ booklet KDB Daewoo Securities published a booklet entitled ‘Easy-to-Understand Financial Terminology’, written by 3,000 people at the company with the goal of providing easy-to-understand explanations of financial terminologies. The booklet was the result of gathering ideas from ‘Think you very MATCH’, an internal contest about explaining financial terminology in easy terms that was held from April to June 2014. Customers who found finance difficult and were more likely to be indifferent to it, are thus encouraged to see finance as something that they can understand, and that they need, with the aim that they will become more interested in it. Designated Financial Consumer Protection Day KDB Daewoo Securities has designated the first Wednesday of each quarter as the ‘Financial Consumer Protection Day’, a day on which the ‘Think you’ Charter of the KDB Daewoo Securities’ financial consumer protection principles is shared with all staff. We are aware of the importance of protecting financial consumer rights and interests, and are taking the lead in establishing a consumer-oriented organizational culture. Report KDB DAEWOO SECURITIES Highlight Established the ‘PB Academy’ to foster premier private Listed in the DJSI bankers World Index for a fourth As the competencies of private bankers consecutive year (PBs), who directly manage customer The Dow Jones Sustainability Index assets, are essential to its goal of Launched ‘Do Dream’, (DJSI) evaluates the sustainability becoming a ‘Premier PB House’, an internal bulletin board management of companies around the KDB Daewoo Securities has established for suggestions world in economic, environmental, and ‘PB Academy’ as one of its innovative KDB Daewoo Securities listens to social categories. In September 2015, human resources development programs. its employees through an internal KDB Daewoo Securities was listed in New graduates enroll at the eight-month communication channel dubbed the DJSI World Index, the highest grade, training camp and receive a systematic ‘Do Dream’. Through ‘Do Dream’ for a fourth consecutive year. After training unparalleled in the Korean employees share ideas and find ways being listed in the DJSI Asia Pacific for securities industry. By producing PBs to makes business operations more the first time in 2010, the company has worthy of customer trust and respect, efficient and creative. The collected continually listed itself in the DJSI World we will build a premier reputation in the ideas are actively used for the as well. This has further reinforced our area of wealth management. company’s development. reputation as a sustainable company. 09 2015 Received a ‘Certificate of Merit for Contributing to Capital Market Development’ in Mongolia In 2013, KDB Daewoo Securities became the first securities firm in Korea to establish a Mongolian subsidiary; this has enabled us to share the financial know-how that we have built in Korea, and has contributed to the development of Mongolian financial markets. These efforts were recognized in June 2015, when KDB Daewoo Securities was awarded a ‘Certificate of Merit for Contributing to Capital Market Development’ Issued the Chinese Environmental by the Mongolian Stock Exchange. We plan to Protection Company Report improve our competitiveness in Mongolia based on our strong network in the market. In response to China’s enforcement of a new Environmental Protection Law, revised for the first time in 25 years, KDB Daewoo Securities issued a report on China’s environmental protection policies and an outline summary of 20 relevant companies listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. This report helps readers to better understand environmental protection industry on which the Chines government puts emphasis, and reviews relevant companies. We plan to release a series of industry analyses in China by selecting issues that reflect midto longterm trends. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Over the past 45 years KDB Daewoo Securities has continued to progress, shoring up its position as Korea’s leading financial company. Staying a few steps ahead, the company will expand its business sphere overseas and 10 lead the industry in pursuit of advanced finance. At the center of its successes lies the by-the-book, responsible management the company has steadfastly adhere to. Going forward, KDB Daewoo Securities will continue to grow upright, invest thus-generated financial fruits in creating social value, and open a new path to sustainable finance. Report 1 Overview Company Profile Vision & Strategies Sustainability Framework Ethical Management Creating and Sharing Economic Value Stakeholder Communication Materiality Assessment 12 16 18 20 23 24 26 11 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Company Profile As a leading financial investment company in Korea, KDB Daewoo Securities has been achieving continued growth by creating new opportunities and leading the market. Company Overview Key Information Founded in 1970, KDB Daewoo Securities is a comprehensive financial Name KDB Daewoo Securities Co., Ltd. investment company that is celebrating its 45th anniversary this year. Its major Headquarters KDB Daewoo Securities Bldg. business areas include brokerage, 56, Gukjegeumyung-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea wealth management, sales & trading, Establishment September 23, 1970 and investment banking, and the company offers a wide array of financial products CEO Sungguk Hong and services to customers in Korea and 99 Branches, 3 Stores Domestic Network abroad. Overseas Network 8 Overseas Subsidiaries, 1 Branch, 3 Representative Offices Size and Status No. of Employees 2,968 12 KDB Daewoo Securities is a Key Business Areas Brokerage, Wealth Management, Sales & Trading, Investment Banking comprehensive financial investment Share Ownership KDB Bank 43%, Individuals 29%, Foreigners 17%, Institutions 10%, company, with 102 domestic branches (As of December 31, 2014) Treasury Stock 1% as well as eight subsidiaries, one branch, and three representative offices overseas. * As of the end of September 2015 Headquartered in Yeouido, Seoul, KDB Daewoo Securities’ 2,968 employees are striving to offer top-quality financial Organization Chart services to customers in Korea and abroad. BOD BOD Secretariat Audit Committee CEO Business Unit Prime Brokerage Service Unit financial product Business Division development & trading unit business support unit risk management unit compliance unit research center Wealth Management Investment Banking Sales & Trading Wholesale Strategic Planning Business Division Business Division Business Division Business Division Division information technology center * As of the end of September 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Company Profile • Vision & Strategies • Sustainability Framework • Ethical Management Creating and Sharing Economic Value • Stakeholder Communication • Materiality Assessment Global Network Beijing, China New York, USA · Beijing Representative Office · Daewoo Securities (America) Inc. · Daewoo Investment Advisory (Beijing) Co., Ltd. Shanghai, China · Shanghai Representative Office Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia Tokyo, Japan · Daewoo Securities (Mongolia) LLC · Tokyo Branch London, UK · Daewoo Securities (Europe) Ltd. 13 Hong Kong · Daewoo Securities (Hong Kong) Ltd. · KDB Daewoo Investment Asia Ltd. Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Singapore · Hochiminh Representative Office · Daewoo Securities (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Jakarta, Indonesia · PT. Daewoo Securities Indonesia KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Milestones Sustainability Milestones Since its establishment in 1970, KDB Daewoo Securities has been performing a pivotal role in the development of 2000s 2010s Korean capital markets. The company has grown in partnership with its stakeholders, Apr. 15, 2003 Jul. 21, 2010 and has opened up new paths for the Received the Grand Prize at the ‘Outstanding Chosen by Korea Management Association Korean financial markets. KDB Daewoo Case of Corporate Innovation Conference’ Consulting (KMAC) to receive the Grand Securities continues to pursue strong hosted by Mercer HR Consulting Prize at the ‘2010 the Proud Customer Value’ and honest growth. Sep. 01, 2003 Sep. 08, 2010 Chosen as Korea’s No. 1 securities firm Received a Prime Minister’s Citation on the (21st globally) in ‘Outstanding Corporate 11th Social Welfare Day Governance in Emerging Markets’ by Management Milestones Oct. 07, 2011 Britain’s Euromoney magazine Received the Minister of Gender Equality & Jun. 20, 2004 Family’s Citation for supporting multicultural Sep. 23, 1970 Ranked first in the securities industry chosen families Establishment of Dong Yang Securities from among the ‘30 Most Respected Dec. 15, 2011 Co., Ltd., former Daewoo Securities Companies’ selected by Dong-A Ilbo Newspaper and IBM BCS Korea Received the Business Innovation Grand 14 Sep. 01, 1973 Prize at the ‘2011 Aju Business Daily’s Merged with Daewoo Corporation Aug. 01, 2005 Finance and Securities Awards’ Chosen as a leading brand in the securities Sep. 30, 1975 Sep. 10, 2012 sector at the ‘Economic Review 2005 Initial Public Offering: paid-in capital Consumer Love’ Received a Presidential Citation for increased to KRW 2 billion supporting multicultural families at the Dec. 13, 2005 ‘2012 Nationwide Multicultural Family Oct. 20, 1983 Ranked first in the securities sector of ‘2005 Support Contest’ Renamed Daewoo Securities Co., Ltd. National Customer Satisfaction index (NCSI)’ Oct. 09, 2012 Oct. 01, 1999 Nov. 07, 2006 Listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Spun off from the Daewoo Group Received the Grand Prize in customer World Index for 2012/2013 Oct. 28, 2009 satisfaction category at the ‘Seoul Dec. 06, 2012 Economy’s 2006 Korea Securities Award’ Launch of the KDB Financial Group, with Received the Grand Prize in the securities the majority shareholder of KDB Daewoo Nov. 09, 2006 category at the ‘9th Web Awards Korea’ Securities changed from KDB Bank to Received the Grand Prize in the culture KDB Financial Group Jan. 23, 2013 and arts category at the ‘2006 Social Contribution Company Awards’ Received the Grand Prize in the on-line Dec. 31, 2014 category at the ‘2013 Consumer Best KoFC and KDB Bank merged, with the Nov. 24, 2006 Brand Awards’ majority shareholder of KDB Daewoo Received the Grand Prize (Presidential Securities changed from KDB Financial Oct. 22, 2013 Award) at the ‘13th Corporate Innovation Group to KDB Bank Awards’ Ranked first in the securities sector of ‘2013 Korea Highest Brand Awards’ Feb. 14, 2008 Oct. 29, 2013 Received the Grand Prize at the ‘2008 Korea Ethical Management Awards’ Chosen as the best company in the risk management category at the ‘2013 Asia Dec. 04, 2008 Today Finance Awards’ Received the Grand Prize in the customer satisfaction category at the ‘Seoul Economy’s 2008 Korea Securities Award’ Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Company Profile • Vision & Strategies • Sustainability Framework • Ethical Management Creating and Sharing Economic Value • Stakeholder Communication • Materiality Assessment 2015 Oct. 30, 2013 Oct. 16, 2014 Apr. 21, 2015 Listed in the DJSI World Index for Listed in the DJSI World Index for KDB Daewoo Securities’ CMA chosen 2013/2014 2014/2015 as an outstanding product on the ‘Korea Financial Investors Protection Nov. 04, 2013 Nov. 19, 2014 Foundation’s Investors List’ Received the Carbon Management Ranked first in the securities category Special Awards at the CDP Korea Awards at the ‘2014 KS-CQI Call Center Quality Apr. 30, 2015 Index’ Chosen as the No. 1 securities firm at the Nov. 20, 2013 ‘2015 K-CSBI’ Ranked first in the securities category Dec. 04, 2014 at the ‘2013 KS-CQI Call Center Quality Received a Seoul City Mayor Special May 26, 2015 Index’ Award for contributing to the settlement of Received the Grand Prize in the personal North Korean defectors pension and securities category at the Nov. 26, 2013 ‘2nd Korea Pension Awards’ Received the Best CEO Award and the Dec. 17, 2014 Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy Received the Grand Prize in the common Jun. 26, 2015 15 Award at the ‘20th Corporate Innovation benefit development category at the Received Certificate of Merit by Mongolia Awards’ ‘2014 Aju Business Daily’s Finance and Stock Exchange for Capital Market Securities Awards’ Development contribution Dec. 11, 2013 Received a Special Grand Prize at the Dec. 24, 2014 Jul. 20, 2015 ‘10th Web Awards Korea’ Received a Minister’s Citation for Chosen as the No. 1 in the securities Best Public-Private Partnership CSR category at the ‘Second Quarter of 2015 Apr. 25, 2014 Corporation by the Ministry of Gender BSTI’ Chosen as the No. 1 securities firm at the Equality & Family ‘2014 Korea Customer Surprise Brand Oct. 28, 2015 Index (K-CSBI)’ Listed in the DJSI World Index for 2015/2016 Apr. 28, 2014 Received the Grand Prize in Customer Nov. 05, 2015 Satisfaction at the ‘2014 Herald Business Selected as the Carbon Management Capital Market Awards’ Sector (Finance) Winner at the CDP Korea Awards Jul. 02, 2014 Received the Grand Prize in the consumer evaluation category at the ‘Korea Economic Daily’s 2014 Korea Mobile Trading System Evaluation Awards’ Sep. 30, 2014 Chosen as the No. 1 in the securities category at the ‘Third Quarter of 2014 Brand Stock Top Index (BSTI)’ KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Vision & Strategies KDB Daewoo Securities operates from a long-term perspective to become a ‘Premier PB House’, with our mission ‘Dream with us’. Vision KDB Daewoo Securities dreams of creating a better world through finance, Dream with us in partnership with all its stakeholders, Mission including customers, shareholders, and KDB Daewoo Securities will create opportunities for better living, stronger growth, and a brighter future, local communities. Our financial experts through unlimited possibilities of finance. focus their abilities on offering best-quality products optimal to all customer needs with outstanding contents in every wealth management-related area, creating opportunities for a better future. vision slogan Premier 16 PB House Premier PB House Eyeing Korea’s In every wealth With all the competencies top spot management-related area the company can muster Strategies Contents Products Outstanding, best contents Best-quality products developed by first-rate optimal to all customer needs experts Passion Unwavering can-do spirit, strong ownership and leadership, and dynamic teamwork Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Company Profile • Vision & Strategies • Sustainability Framework • Ethical Management Creating and Sharing Economic Value • Stakeholder Communication • Materiality Assessment Strategies To realize its vision into reality, KDB Daewoo Securities has targeted 2015 as a year for building the foundations for sustainable growth. We established Achieving balanced growth by becoming strategies in three major areas, a ‘Premier PB House’ in WM and defined a long-term growth direction for the next decade. First, we will foster Korea’s most skilled PBs and bolster our Wealth Management (WM), competencies to offer distinctive products with optimal contents for Balanced Vitalizing venture capital exploring new business our customers. To this end, we set and Private Equity Fund Growth opportunities in S&T, IB, up the ‘Premier PB House Task Force (PEF) investment overseas business, and WM 17 Team’, and established a system to enforce collaboration between different business divisions in product and service development, as well as content supply. For Sales & Trading (S&T), Investment Banking (IB), and overseas business, Creative New Revenue we will concentrate on creating new Finance Sources business to develop new sources of revenue. To achieve this goal, we are creating synergy, developing new hybrid products, and expanding into new markets, such as emerging markets. We are also looking into various ways to generate opportunities from Creative Finance*. For example, we will provide the financial services that are needed to foster small giants by leveraging our wide relationship management (RM) network, and will also build other types of financial models that promote win-win Build the foundation relationships. for KDB Daewoo Securities’ These efforts will enable us to share sustainable growth in 2015 a healthy investment culture, and to export Korean financial models, thus taking a lead in advancing Korea’s finance industry. * Creative Finance is one of the government’s measures, in order to link financial investors to companies which have great ideas yet lacking in funds. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Framework KDB Daewoo Securities has set up collaborative sustainability management systems to help with sustainable growth for all of its stakeholders. Sustainability Framework Our Approach to Sustainability Overview KDB Daewoo Securities’ sustainability approach is closely aligned with the MISSION Dream with us company’s business strategies. With the adoption of a new vision, we have redefined initiatives based vision Premier PB House on six core values, and re-established our organizational systems. The new sustainability framework reflects the needs of our four major stakeholders and Sustainability the company’s future direction, based on Strategy which we identified areas and tasks with Shareholders/ Local strategic focus. Stakeholder Customers Employees Investors Communities 18 Strategic Create customer Hire and foster Maximize Fulfill social Focus value talent shareholder value responsibilities Sustainability Governance • Improve customer • Enhance financial • Manage risks • Spread a culture The CEO of KDB Daewoo Securities satisfaction (CS) expertise • Generate of sharing is in charge of decision-making Initiatives • Strengthen • Promote welfare sustainable • Foster small giants CS capabilities returns for its sustainability management • Address to climate change activities. The Head of the Strategic Planning Unit formulates, adjusts, and evaluates corporate-wide sustainability management plans. Each department, Sustainability Governance including the Strategy & Planning, HR, and General Affairs Departments, suggests, reviews, and implements sustainability management missions. BOD In the area of social contributions, CEO the CSR Steering Committee, which CSR Steering Committee consists of five executives designated by Strategic Planning Unit •Monitor social contribution strategies and activities the CEO, deliberates strategies, evaluates Donation Beneficiary Selection Committee the appropriateness of project budgets, •Determines donation beneficiaries, and in what amounts and inspects project execution. In terms of donations, the Donation Beneficiary Selection Committee determines which Strategy & Planning CSR Heads at Department Department Each Division organizations are to be supported, and in what amounts. The social contribution •Responsible for overall •Corporate-wide •Suggest, confirm, execute, and review missions of sustainability strategy control tower of social each department activity plan and performance are on the economic and contributions reported to the Board of Directors (BOD) environmental aspects •Responsible for social Each Department Auditor and twice a year. •Engages in contribution project and Part Compliance Officer sustainability initiatives strategies •Execute individual •Monitor activities in relation missions to ethics and compliance •Issues sustainability reports Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Company Profile • Vision & Strategies • Sustainability Framework • Ethical Management Creating and Sharing Economic Value • Stakeholder Communication • Materiality Assessment Sustainability Performance Achievements in Sustainability To ensure transparent reporting, KDB Daewoo Securities has organized Stakeholder Initiatives Goals Achievements data concerning the performance of its • Enhance customers • Ensure objectivity in • Reformed customer satisfaction initiatives from 2013 to 2014, as well as on satisfaction customer satisfaction measuring system the performance of some major initiatives • Strengthen employees’ results • Developed the SelfMotivation in 2015 that fall within the reporting CS skills • Strengthen Course period. This data was focused on the • Build brand training for face• Opened three ‘Stores’, innovative to-face customer execution of plans based on the new Customers communication communications new concept of sales point sustainability strategy. We will continue to strategies • Improve accessibility • Launched ‘Let’s Talk about Finance engage in practical initiatives that reflect for customers the Easy Way’ and ‘Personal Pension stakeholder needs. Fitness’ brand communications • Increase brand preference and awareness • Improve employees’ • Plan and execute • 14 PBs completed the first PB 19 expertise in finance the PB Academy Academy program program • Promote employee • Operated ‘Do Dream’, an employee welfare • Expand the ‘Family suggestion system Employees Day’ • Innovate work, system • Expanded the ‘Family Day’ to twice and culture • Establish a culture a month that promotes open employee communications • Manage risk • Strengthen expertise • Created the Finance Assessment in risk management and Investment Management Teams • Establish a foundation for sustainable growth • Develop new revenue • Set up the Premier PB House Task sources and promote Force Team • Publish sustainability balanced growth Shareholders/ reports across all business • Abolished progressive retirement Investors sectors benefits plan to secure cost efficiency • Address to sustainability • Listed in the DJSI World Index for a initiatives fourth consecutive year • Published the Sustainability Report 2015 • Initiate social • Undertake consistent • Developed content that improves contribution programs strategies for social people’s understanding of based on joint growth contributions multiculturalism • Promote global social • Look for • Carried out social contribution contribution activities environmental programs and volunteer activities in in line with overseas business Indonesia and the Philippines Local expansion strategies opportunities Communities • Continued to implement the • Develop society • Devise projects that Jump Up project to foster young contributable products address to climate social entrepreneurs change • Address to • Financed power plant projects, climate change including a biomass project in Fiji • Improved our CDP score KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Ethical Management KDB Daewoo Securities has built a transparent corporate culture based on ethical management and strategic priority shared by the entire company, to earn customer trust. Ethical Management System The Code of Ethics 2014 Oath of Ethics and Compliance KDB Daewoo Securities regards ethical The Code of Ethics refers to vocational management as a top priority for the ethics standards that help employees An annual oath is held to raise staff financial industry, and has enacted a Code engage in appropriate behavior and awareness of the importance of ethics of Ethics so that ethical management can make proper value judgments. It is based and compliance. In 2014, KDB Daewoo be fully reflected in our work environment. on principles and trust, and reflects KDB Securities celebrated the 44th anniversary There is also a Code of Conduct to Daewoo Securities’ resolve to maximize of its founding, and the ethics oath was improve staff understanding of the corporate value by practicing customer, held jointly with a ceremony to celebrate importance of ethical behavior. company, shareholder, and societythe company’s founding on September centered ethical management, and to 23. A representative of the company’s contribute to the sound development of staff read and signed the ‘Pledge of financial markets. All employees have the Ethics and Compliance’, and all staff responsibility and duty to comply with the participated through TOSS, an integrated Code of Ethics. Every year, a ceremony groupware system. The commitment 20 is held for employees to take an oath on requires staff to perform their duties ethics and compliance to fully establish according to the highest standards of a culture of ethics. ethical conduct, to abide by the letter and spirit of all relevant laws, not to infringe upon customer interests, to protect the rights and interests of shareholders KDB Daewoo Securities Code of Ethics through efficient and faithful business activities, and to avoid anything that Stakeholder Principles is counter to social development and the company’s goals. In addition to All the officers and employees of KDB Daewoo Securities always think and behave from a customer’s point of view with a belief that customers are the very these four elements that are common foundation on which KDB Daewoo Securities stands and the reason for KDB for all employees, the written oath puts Customers Daewoo Securities’ businesses. We create and provide a full range of valuable forth missions and detailed matters by services by fair and active methods to fulfill the needs of our valued customers and take it as our top-prioritized mission. business division or type of work and duties. The ceremony was held for all All the officers and employees of KDB Daewoo Securities clearly understand and employees and provided opportunities share the business objective to enhance prestige and trustworthiness of KDB to remind them of the importance of Company Daewoo Securities, and actively practice management philosophy to accomplish our duties. We consider honesty and trustworthiness as our highest virtues and ethical management, and they pledged implement properly the businesses of KDB Daewoo Securities. to do their utmost in order to maximize customer value based on integrity and All officers and employees of KDB Daewoo Securities shall protect sincerely trust. Shareholders shareholders’ interests by realizing sound profits through efficient management. All officers and employees of KDB Daewoo Securities provide valuable services Ethics and Governance Society to the society and citizen. By employing information, knowledge, human KDB Daewoo Securities appoints the resources, and technology rationally, efficiently and ethically, we contribute to the Compliance Officer for the independent development of the state and to the enhancement of the national’s quality of life. supervision of corporate-wide ethics and compliance. The Compliance Unit takes charge of the systematic supervision of our ethics management. The Compliance Department is responsible for establishing and managing the company’s overall Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Company Profile • Vision & Strategies • Sustainability Framework • Ethical Management Creating and Sharing Economic Value • Stakeholder Communication • Materiality Assessment ethical management execution system. Ethical Management Organization It helps staff to gain a full understanding of the Code of Ethics, and to put it into BOD practice. CEO Audit Committee Ethics and Compliance Statutory Auditor Training Compliance Officer Audit Department KDB Daewoo Securities strives to strengthen the ethical and compliance mindset of its employees through Compliance Department Financial Consumer Protection Department regular training. The Compliance Department provided a total of 142 Compliance Consulting Part Financial Consumer Protection Part ethics and compliance training sessions Establish an ethics and compliance culture Screen investment advertisements 21 in 2014; these included on-line training, Build and support the compliance monitoring system Build and support the consumer protection system dissemination of information on Protect information assets compliance issues, employee securities Advise on compliance issues transaction training, and education on the prevention of unfair transaction. Compliance Monitoring Part Complaints Part The Financial Consumer Protection Operate the money laundering prevention system Investigate complaints and other matters Monitor unfair transactions Department provided training to prevent Monitor any other matters improper sales of financial investment Total of 23 Persons products, and also implemented internal mystery shoppers. internal reports, and the Audit Department Ethics and Compliance Training Ethics and Compliance Day receives reports on corruption and KDB Daewoo Securities has designated irregularities. To encourage employee 274.5 the first Wednesday of each month as the participation in the reporting system, ‘Ethics and Compliance Day’ and once a incentives and protection of anonymity quarter, in March, June, September, and are provided to employees who submit 229.5 December, there is a ‘Financial Consumer such reports. Protection Day’. Each department and branch provides ethics and compliance Financial Irregularities & Corruption training to all employees, and conducts Reporting Center 207 143.0 self inspections to prevent financial The Voice of Customer (VOC) system Training hours* (Hour) irregularities. at our Customer Center, the homepage 166 No. of trainings provided complaints section run by Financial (Case) Ethics and Compliance Reporting Systems Consumer Protection Department, and the Corruption Reporting Center of the 142 KDB Daewoo Securities receives reports Audit Department for our customers to on ethics and compliance violations report matters related to any employee through various channels, including the financial irregularities and corruption. 2012 2013 2014 company intranet, telephone, and e-mail. The Compliance Department receives * Total training hours were determined by multiplying training hours by each case of training KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Occurrences of Corruption Mandatory Training on the Prevention of Internal Check Lists Money Laundering To build an effective internal control 3 system, KDB Daewoo Securities has an To promote employee understanding internal inspection check list for each of the importance of preventing money department and branch. The check lists laundering, KDB Daewoo Securities note what needs to be inspected on a provides mandatory annual training on 2 money laundering prevention, differentiated daily, weekly, monthly, and half-yearly basis, and each one reflects the individual Violations of ethics for each duty and work. This training is and compliance characteristics of the department or 2 part of the company’s efforts to establish a (Case) branch. sound basis for all its financial transactions. 2012 2013 2014 TMS System * The number of violations is determined by a case resulting in a reprimand or worse, having come about due to illegal conduct in pursuit of personal interests 22 Internal Control System KDB Daewoo Securities has set up KYC1): Customer management obligations, risk evaluation management, watch lists company-wide internal control system Obligation to confirm management, CTR2) report, etc. as part of its continued efforts to hold in customers & database ETL3): Organize KYC materials, transaction high degree in ethics and transparency. integration materials, account materials, etc. in a data The company prohibits employees warehouse from engaging in political activities, and assesses exposure to the risk of Data extraction corruption at all company premises, Behavior detection engine: Scenario which will help the company to fulfill its management, behavior detection, management of extraction threshold for each scenario social responsibilities. Money laundering Suspicious transaction investigation: Suspicious prevention transaction management, alert management Preventing the Inflow of Illegal Funds STR4) report status management: Organization KDB Daewoo Securities has an internal of reports and relevant information, Korea Financial system in place that is designed to root Intelligence Unit (KoFIU) on-line reports, report file out illegal financial transactions such encryption management as money laundering and the financing of terrorism. Staff training also helps in business integrity. Internal interface: STR program Internal and external External interface: KoFIU receives reports and system interface provides feedback Money Laundering Monitoring KDB Daewoo Securities has been operating its Transaction Monitoring System, to block the inflow and outflow of illegal funds since 2009. This system is designed to ensure the active and effective prevention of financial crimes by 1) KYC: Know Your Customer undertaking scenario analyses concerning 2) CTR: Currency Transaction Report money laundering, and by undertaking 3) ETL: Extract, Transformation, Loading mandatory customer-checking functions. 4) STR: Suspicious Transaction Report Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Company Profile • Vision & Strategies • Sustainability Framework • Ethical Management Creating and Sharing Economic Value • Stakeholder Communication • Materiality Assessment Creating and Sharing Economic Value Because sustainable growth can only be achieved when all stakeholders work in unison, KDB Daewoo Securities creates and shares economic value with our stakeholders. Sharing Economic Value Distribution of Economic Value by Stakeholders A company’s sustainable growth cannot (Unit: KRW billion) happen through the company’s efforts FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 alone. KDB Daewoo Securities seeks Generated to enhance stakeholder value through economic Operating Revenues 3,273.9 2,468.4 4,013.8 the distribution of economic value. value In 2014, KDB Daewoo Securities recorded Customers Interest expenses 264.2 201.8 264.3 operating revenues of KRW 4,013.8 billion, Shareholders/ Dividends 40.3 0 84.1 which were returned to support the Investors Distributed company’s major stakeholders, including economic Employees Salaries and employee welfare 349.7 243.5 341.9 customers, shareholders and investors, value Local Communities Donations and social employees, and local communities. and NGOs contribution expenses 2.7 1.7 1.7 Government Income taxes and other taxes 57.9 6.4 84.9 * Based on Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS) consolidated financial statements 23 1.7 341.9 Local Communities and NGOs Employees FY2014 84.1 FY2014 Shareholders/Investors Generated Distributed economic value economic value 4,013.8 776.9 KRW billion 84.9 KRW billion Government 264.3 Customers KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Stakeholder Communication KDB Daewoo Securities actively communicates with stakeholders through diverse channels, to generate distinctive value and become a socially respected company. Definition of Stakeholders Stakeholder Communication A company’s stakeholders are the Channels individuals or groups that have an KDB Daewoo Securities has established influence on the company and vice versa. various communication channels to listen Prudent management of stakeholders is to stakeholder opinions and expectations. required for the sustainable growth of KDB The company undertakes stakeholder Daewoo Securities, and the company interviews and surveys to establish what has defined four major stakeholders they believe is important, and uses – customers, shareholders/investors, the results to determine major issues. employees, and local communities – and Information on these is also disclosed manages its relationships with all of them in the sustainability report. on a systematic basis. 24 Retail Customers, Consumer Organizations Shareholders, Evaluation Organizations Customers Shareholders/Investors Customer Service Improvement Council, Annual General Meeting, Disclosure, Voice Of Customer (VOC), Website, Investment Forums Company Forums, Investor Relations These stakeholders purchase and use KDB Daewoo These stakeholders own shares of KDB Daewoo Securities Securities’ financial products and services by engaging in and take part in the company’s decision-making process. transactions with the company. KDB Daewoo Securities KDB Daewoo Securities strives to maximize shareholder and makes efforts to leverage its expertise in which financial investor value by generating competitive financial returns. consumers can undertake convenient and safe transactions. CSR Steering Committee, Company Newsletter ‘KDB Daewoo Securities People’, Social Contribution Agencies Do-Dream, Labor-Management Council, WM Community KDB Daewoo Securities conducts its social contributions Earning trust from customers requires complete integrity by collaborating with various organizations, including and expertise from our employees. KDB Daewoo Securities NGOs, and thus strives to fulfill its role as a member of is strengthening employee competencies to build a ‘Premier local communities and deliver positive social impact. PB House’, and engages in diverse activities to build a healthy corporate culture. Local Communities Employees Agencies, Beneficiaries Staff, Executives Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Company Profile • Vision & Strategies • Sustainability Framework • Ethical Management Creating and Sharing Economic Value • Stakeholder Communication • Materiality Assessment Stakeholder Communications in 2014 Interviewee Major Issues Report Page In advance to publish the Sustainability Report 2015, KDB Daewoo Securities Sungwon Chang • Increase active communications M1) 06 conducted interviews with stakeholders with customers Customers Manager, TONYMOLY to hear their opinions and to make • Conduct social contribution sure that we reflected major issues in activities through finance the report. Representative figures from each stakeholder group were invited Daejin Lim • Facilitate communications with M 09 various stakeholders for in-depth, face-to-face, one-on-one Portfolio Manager, interviews for around four weeks from Teachers’ Pension • Make investments that reflect the company’s vision and values August 4 through August 26, 2015. Shareholders/ Investors Miji Son • Build a systematic risk M 10 Senior Analyst, management system Shinhan Investment Corp. • Establish a clear corporate 25 vision and disclose relevant performance Youngcheol Bae • Senior management M 13 Executive Managing commitment to sustainability Director, Compliance Unit management • Foster experts through systematic human resources management Jeongyun Kim • Enhance customer satisfaction M 14 Employees Deputy Manager, • Provide training to foster Fixed Income Product financial talent Department Jihye Ko • Offer services that generate M 15 Senior Associate, customer value Operations & Settlement • Offer employee welfare Department and benefits for greater job satisfaction Minjung Yang • Conduct social contribution M 18 Director, Hankuk activities using expertise and University of Foreign experiences in finance Studies Center for • Create synergy by promoting Multicultural Education social contributions based on Local private-public cooperation Communities Myungsook Cho • Conduct distinctive social M 20 Vice-President contributions considering Yeomyung School special circumstance of Korea • Develop social contribution programs in partnership with NGOs 1) M: Magazine Section KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Materiality Assessment KDB Daewoo Securities identifies issues that matter to our stakeholders and report in a balanced way, in order to ensure in-depth communications with stakeholders. Materiality Assessment Process To carry out a materiality assessment for the KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015, we analyzed the 2013 report, and then redefined the overall Step issue pool in accordance with the 01 company’s current status, reaching to the identification of 16 issues. Based on Ascertaining this, we conducted a media analysis, Determined the relevance the issue pool benchmarked major companies, and of issues by analyzing the looked at global guidelines to ascertain previous report, and redefined the level of importance to stakeholders, 16 issues as well as reviewing business strategies, annual reports, and internal documents Step 02 26 to identify the business impact of different issues. As a result, five major issues were identified, and the relevant disclosures on Determining management approaches for each issues the level of influence Measured the level of influence were also provided. on stakeholders on stakeholders by conducting media analysis, benchmarking major companies, and analyzing global guidelines, Step including DJSI and GRI 03 Determining Reviewed business strategies, business impact annual reports, and internal documents to determine priorities in relation to the impact on KDB Daewoo Step Securities’ business 04 Identifying Selected and reported five major issues major issues that were judged to be of highest importance based on the outcomes of the measurements of stakeholder influence and business impact Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Company Profile • Vision & Strategies • Sustainability Framework • Ethical Management Creating and Sharing Economic Value • Stakeholder Communication • Materiality Assessment Materiality Assessment Results 100.00 Social Interest The materiality analysis led to the selection 90.00 I 1 of five major issues – strengthening 80.00 transparency and expertise of corporate 70.00 governance, enhancing business k a D 3 continuity through risk management, 60.00 4 fostering Global Financial Leaders 50.00 G through systematic human resources B I HC 5 2 40.00 management, making social contributions to grow with local communities, and II 30.00 contributing to society through finance. 20.00 F E J Other stakeholder issues that were raised, 10.00 but at a lower level of priority, can be found in the relevant sections of this report. 0.00 10.00 20.00 30.00 40.00 50.00 60.00 70.00 80.00 90.00 100.00 27 Business Impact I. 5 Major Issues Report No. Issue Definition Page Status of monitoring and control systems that allow executives to perform their roles in the interests Strengthening transparency and 1 of stakeholders, especially shareholders; corporate governance related to sustainability management 32~34 expertise of corporate governance and governance of risk management Enhancing business continuity Preemptive risk management activities to protect assets and business capabilities from the adverse 2 35~39 through risk management effects of financial and non-financial risks Fostering global financial Organizational strategies and other activities to recruit and retain the best staff, and to promote the 3 leaders through systematic 40~44 development of the careers of individual employees in partnership with organizational growth human resources management Social contribution strategies and activities which support local communities and the Making social contributions to 4 under-privileged, as part of our corporate social responsibility; our impacts on local communities; 45~47 grow with local communities support activities for local communities Pursuance of eco-friendliness through the financial business; support for small-to medium-sized Contributing to society through 5 companies; development of financial products that promote the development of local communities 48~51 finance (the underprivileged and multicultural families, etc.) and relevant support activities II. Other Important Issues No. Issue No. Issue Ensuring the determination of top management to practice sustainability F Enhancing the corporate image through effective brand management A management G Generating sustainable economic performance Building an ethical and transparent corporate culture that is free from B Establishing a sound labor-management culture based on mutual corruption H respect C Engaging in active stakeholder communication I Providing fair and reasonable compensation to employees Enhancing customer satisfaction through customer-oriented D Establishing an eco-friendly management system and addressing management J climate change E Earning customer trust through business ethics and integrity K Making inroads into the global financial market KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 KDB Daewoo Securities has thought hard and long about most important things on which it should focus while building a sustainable future: What would stakeholders need most; what are they that we can and 28 do better than others. We have thus decided on five tasks: transparent governance, sound risk management, fostering financial experts, multicultural family support, and social contribution through finance. Focusing its resources and energies on these five tasks, we will do our best to create outstanding values in the areas of related issues. Report 2 Strategic Focus Sustainability Highlight 30 Corporate Governance 32 Risk Management 35 Global Financial Expert 40 Multicultural Society 45 Social Contribution through Finance 48 29 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Highlight Sustainability Story of KDB Daewoo Securities KDB Daewoo Securities studies its customers to realize a better future through finance. We will continue our sustainable growth based on active communication and mutual trust. 30 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Sustainable YOU Perfect fit for personal pension savings The essence of the financial services business lies in customer relations. Thus, it is extremely important to study when and what kinds of financial services customers need, and to accurately gage customer needs through proactive communication. According to a report by Statistics Korea, people aged 60 and above accounted for 17.8% of the total population in Korea as of the end of 2014. In another words, Korea is rapidly becoming an aging society, which is fueling a growing anxiety about early retirement or post-retirement financial prospects. As Korea has an ignoble honor of being the No. 1 in elderly poverty among the OECD members, preparation for retirement has become a must, not a choice. The government is showing an unprecedented level of interest in the personal pension market, implementing varied policies of promoting private pension plans for a stable retirement life. Personal Pension Management KDB Daewoo Securities analyzes social and economic impacts to provide products that customers truly need. 31 In an effort to become a ‘Premier PB House’, we have adopted the personal pension business as a priority task and unveiled ‘Personal Pension Fitness’, an in-depth management service. The service reflects our conviction that personal pension should not be another legal means of tax saving, but an essential tool for retirement, and that it should require steady earnings management. With a unique approach emphasizing pension savings investment management, we offer personal pension products fine-tuned to the lifecycle of customers and thus optimal for the enjoyment of a stable retirement life. Achievements The release of Personal Pension Fitness has generated an enthusiastic consumer interest in customized services. As of the end of September 2015, the number of personal pension subscribers stood at 29,693, a 623% increase, compared to 4,107 in the end of 2014. The popularity of the service led to a May 2015 receipt of the grand prize in the personal pension and securities category at the ‘2nd Korea Pension Awards’. 623 % No. of personal pension subscribers rose 623% in nine months KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Strategic Focus 1 Corporate Governance KDB Daewoo Securities has a stable, efficient and transparent corporate governance structure in an effort to maintain sustainable growth and protect stakeholder interests. 32 Disclosure on Management Approach For a company to maintain sustainable growth is essential stakeholders trust based on transparent corporate governance. KDB Daewoo Securities pursues stable and advanced corporate governance through appropriate checks and balances among its governing members, through selection of the members based on expertise and diversity, and through adherence to transparency in the process and standard of handing business activities. Our Focus Our Progress Improve expertise and efficiency of BOD Outside director rate accounted for 67% Promote activities of BOD BOD attendance rate recorded 93% Build sustainability governance Reported to BOD on CSR activities of BOD twice a year Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Corporate Governance • Risk Management Global Financial Expert • Multicultural Society • Social Contribution through Finance BOD Policies and Activities BOD Composition KDB Daewoo Securities operates a one-tier BOD system1) comprising two executive directors, four outside directors and one non-standing director. Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Outside directors account for 67% of the Sungguk Hong Hojoo Shin BOD membership. By composing the (Present) President & CEO and BOD Chairman, (Present) Representative Non-Executive Director, KDB Daewoo Securities KDB Daewoo Securities majority of the BOD with outside directors completely free of conflicting interests, Major Experience Major Experience • Head of Investment Research, • Director-General Council at Finance and the Company ensures the independence KDB Daewoo Securities Economy Cooperation of the BOD from the influence of senior • Head of Wholesale Business Division, (present Ministry of Strategy and Finance) management. KDB Daewoo Securities • President & CEO, KOSDAQ Market • Head of Future Planning Institute, • Advisor, Samil PwC Consulting KDB Daewoo Securities • (Present) Standing Advisory Committee Member, Expertise and Diversity of BOD • Head of Research Center, Institute for Global Economics KDB Daewoo Securities The BOD consists of experts in diverse Member fields to maintain expertise and diversity Member • Steering Committee, • Steering Committee (Chairperson), Outside Director Nomination Committee (Chairperson) in its major decision-making process. Outside Director Nomination Committee, We also seek to maintain the composition Compensation Committee, Jangsoo Hwang of the BOD in such a way that would Risk Management Committee (Present) Non-Executive Director, prevent the concentration of any specific KDB Daewoo Securities background or profession. As of the end Changwon Lee Major Experience • President, Korea Information Center for 33 of September 2015, the BOD comprises (Present) Statutory Auditor, Agriculture, Forestry & Fisheries two financial experts, two business KDB Daewoo Securities • (Present) President, Future Management Institute management and economic experts, Major Experience • (Present) Adjunct Professor, Business Administration • Tax Official, National Tax Service at Soongeui Women’s College one accounting expert, one legal expert, • Adjunct Professor, Kangnam University and one tax expert. Moreover, both Member • Director, The Korean Association Of Public Policy regular and ad-hoc meetings are held • Outside Director Nomination Committee, Member Compensation Committee, to enable the different specialties of Risk Management Committee (Chairperson) • Audit Committee directors to merge and complement one another. Hwancheol Byun (Present) Non-Executive Director, KDB Daewoo Securities BOD Decision Making Process Major Experience Unless otherwise specified, all BOD • Judge at Seoul District Court Non-Standing Director • Non-Executive Director (Chairman), resolutions require the presence of Korea Housing Guarantee a majority of the directors and the vote of Youngsam Jun • Professor, Chung Ang University Law School a majority present. Any directors who (Present) Non-Standing Director, KDB Daewoo Securities • (Present) Representative Lawyer, the Law Firm Ilheung have a special interest in the agenda of Major Experience the meeting are recused from exercising • Head of Corporate Restoration Department, Member • Outside Director Nomination Committee, their voting rights. Outside director KDB Bank Risk Management Committee, candidates are chosen by Outside • Head of Debt Capital Markets Department, Audit Committee (Chairperson) KDB Bank Director Nomination Committee, which • (Present) Head of Planning Department, Donghyun Ahn then recommends its nominees to the KDB Bank (Present) Non-Executive Director, General Shareholders’ Meeting for final KDB Daewoo Securities Member approval. Major Experience • Steering Committee • Member of the Market Oversight Commission • Non-Executive Director, NH Nonghyup Bank • (Present) Non-Executive Director, POSCO • (Present) Professor, Department of Economics at Seoul National University Member • Compensation Committee (Chairperson), 1) Audit Committee BOD structure where the BOD simultaneously performs management and supervision roles * As of the end of September 2015 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 BOD Performance Evaluation Committees under the BOD KDB Daewoo Securities limits the tenure KDB Daewoo Securities has established the following committees under the BOD to of its outside directors to two years; when enhance the efficiency and expertise of the latter’s decision-making process. a director is reappointed, the subsequent tenure is reduced to one year; the limit of combined tenures is set at five years. Committee Duties After the end of each business year, • Opening, relocation, and closure of domestic branches and sales offices outside directors conduct a self-evaluation • Appointment and dismissal of managers Steering Committee in accordance with ‘Criteria for Model • Resolution on major changes to the financial structure Operations of the Audit Committee and • Appointment and dismissal of executive officers Outside Directors Systems for Financial Services Companies’. They review such • Development and implementation of internal audit plans, evaluation of outcomes, and follow-up measures factors as job performance, the efficiency • Development and assessment of internal control systems of BOD operations, the governance Audit Committee structure, and the activity of BOD • Consent for appointment of the Assistant Auditor committees. The findings of the evaluation • Appointment of outside auditors are disclosed on both websites of the • Follow-up measures on matters that were pointed out during audits Korea Financial Investment Association Outside Director and KDB Daewoo Securities, prior to the • Nomination of candidates for outside directors and Audit Committee members Nomination who are outside directors Annual General Meeting. The findings Committee are also made public through Corporate • Assessment on adequacy of compensation system operations Governance Annual Report. 34 • Examination of compensation system, financial position and risk relevancy Compensation • Evaluation of annual compensation BOD Activities Committee • Review and discuss those subject to variable compensation In 2014, the BOD was convened 16 times, • Review and discuss scope of compensation policies with an average 93% of the directors attending. • Establishment of basic policies on risk management Risk Management • Decide acceptable levels of risk Committee • Approval for adequate investment ceilings and ceiling amount for risks • Establishing and changing risk management criteria BOD Meetings and Activities 97 BOD Accountability on Sustainability 95 93 To widely publicize the CEO’s strong Director Attendance stance for sustainability management (%) both internally and externally, and to build Number of BOD 18 Meetings a sustainability governance structure, KDB Daewoo Securities reports to the 13 16 BOD its corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities twice a year. The first report of 2015, which covers 2014 activities, includes the status of budget executions, their results and future plans related to three major projects— support for multicultural families, fostering of the social enterprises, and global 2012 2013 2014 contribution; details of the covered Details of major BOD agendas are disclosed matters have been fully discussed and on Corporate Governance Annual Report and * Based on fiscal year approved. the Company’s website under BOD Activity. Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Corporate Governance • Risk Management Global Financial Expert • Multicultural Society • Social Contribution through Finance Strategic Focus 2 Risk Management Facing rapid changes in the business environment, KDB Daewoo Securities is protecting customer assets and maximizing shareholder value through thorough risk management. 35 Disclosure on Management Approach Risk management plays a very important role in corporate growth and development. Increasing life expectancy, global financial crises, growing foreign exchange risks, and other risks have increased the level of uncertainty in the business environment. Against this backdrop, KDB Daewoo Securities seeks to enhance its corporate value as a sustainable company through a preemptive and systematic practice of risk management. Our Focus Our Progress Facilitate the operation of Risk Management Committee Risk Management Committee attendance rate recorded 100% in 2014 Improve expertise of risk management Launched Finance Assessment Team and Investment Management Team KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Definition of Risk Risk Management Organization KDB Daewoo Securities defines risk as a potential loss or losses that arise in the course of its various management BOD Risk Management Committee or business activities. Risk always lurks behind every income opportunity; but an CEO Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council undue exposure to risk can deal a blow to both shareholder interests and corporate Investment Review Chief Risk Officer Client Asset Risk Committee value. We are making utmost efforts to Management Council generate an optimum amount of revenue Working-Level within an acceptable range of risk. Review Council Investment & Risk Management Finance Investment Risk Management Governance Credit Assessment Department Assessment Team Management Team Department KDB Daewoo Securities operates Risk Management Committee under Risk Manager the supervision of the BOD as the Risk Reporter top decision-making body managing 36 risks in accordance with a set of established guidelines. All decisions made and subsequent steps outlined by Risk Management Committee are implemented by Proprietary Asset Risk Proprietary Asset Risk Management policies made by the Risk Management Management Council and Client Asset Council and Client Asset Risk Committee, the Proprietary Council, and Management Council the Client Council. Risk Management Council. Near the end of 2014, Finance Assessment Team and Proprietary Asset Risk Management Investment Management Team were set Council (‘the Proprietary Council’) and Investment & Credit Assessment up to secure expertise in preparation Client Asset Risk Management Council Department and Finance Assessment for expansion of investment finance (‘the Client Council’) execute all specific Team operations, including corporate credit duties of decisions made by Risk Investment & Credit Assessment business, and to better control risks. Management Committee and tasks Department and Finance Assessment delegated to them, and report the results Team both provide rational opinions Risk Management Committee to the committee. based on comprehensive analyses of transactions related to proprietary trading, Risk Management Committee is the Investment Review Committee IB underwriting, and credit offering. They company’s top risk management Investment Review Committee reviews also preview the company’s investment decision-making body, formulating risk the company’s investment transactions. decisions, independent of sales management strategies in line with Composed of executive directors only, departments, and carry out the policies of overall business strategies and ensuring it convenes frequently to facilitate smooth Investment Review Committee. that all risk-related specific duties are implemented appropriately. Risk investment decision making. Management Committee is composed of Investment Management Team only BOD directors with verified expertise Risk Management Department Investment Management Team performs in risk management, which also ensures Risk Management Department conducts post-management functions such as its independence. To further enhance all risk management-related matters monitoring of investment positions, debt its operation efficiencies, it maintains of the company in accordance with collection and management of nona risk management councils under its established procedures and approved peforming loans. supervison. systems, executing all risk management Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Corporate Governance • Risk Management Global Financial Expert • Multicultural Society • Social Contribution through Finance Risk Management Regulations Regulations & Guidelines KDB Daewoo Securities sets various regulations, rules for operation, guidelines Risk Management Matters necessary for the composition and operation of Risk and standards to build a comprehensive, Committee Regulations Management Committee and its councils company-wide risk management system. Risk Management Matters necessary for effective execution of risk management Regulations operations company-wide Risk Management Framework For systematic management of all risks Day-to-day matters related to managing market/credit/liquidity Rules for Operation on facing the company, they are classified in risks associated with proprietary asset management as well as Risk Management the aspects of market, credit, liquidity, and for operational risk management operational risks. The company also has established management systems and Standards for Risk Procedures and matters that need to be observed when Management of Real criteria in accord with the characteristics conducting activities related to real estate project financing (PF) Estate PF of each risk, and use them to effectively identify, analyze, evaluate, and control Criteria for Determining Matters neccesary for determining standard interest rates for the risks. Standard Interest Rates for reviewing and operating retirement pension products based on Retirement Pension internal control standards 37 Measurement and Management Overseas Branch Risk Specific guidelines on risk management for operating overseas of Risks Management Guidelines branch Market Risk ELS(B) and DLS(B) Criteria and procedures that need to be observed in issuing In measuring market risks, KDB Daewoo Issuance and Management equity-linked securities and derivatives-linked securities, and in Guidelines managing hedged assets Securities uses standardized methods set in ‘Financial Investment Industry Regulations’. The company has adopted Trust Asset Risk Day-to-day matters related to managing risks associated with Management Guidelines trust asset operations and operates SunGard’s market riskmeasuring system, which enables the calculation of internal market VaR (Value Day-to-day matters related to managing risks associated Wrap Asset Risk with customer wrap accounts deposited in accordance with at Risk)1). Management Guidelines discretionary investment contracts Credit Risk In managing credit risk, KDB Daewoo As transactions involving credit risk are Liquidity Risk Securities sets acceptable exposure limits usually large and difficult to securitize, In managing liquidity risk, KDB Daewoo by counterparty type or credit rating. developing proactive risk management Securities uses liquidity gaps and ratios We also maintain an appropriate level strategies is essential. In consideration as key indicators. Departments related of capital adequacy by controlling credit of such credit risk characteristics, to managing risk or funds regularly VaR limits based on standard models. In we conduct a preliminary evaluation monitor liquidity risks and report to senior addition, we identify and closely monitor process that involves both qualitative and management. major counterparties in the high risk quantitative analyses of all high credit risk category through regular monitoring of transactions. our credit risk status. 1) Maximum losses expected from an investment over a given period of time and at a given confidence level when market prices move in an adverse direction under normal market conditions KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Integrated Risk Management System Potential loss or losses the company may incur in the course of conducting the asset management due to the Potential loss or losses the company may fluctuation of market factors, including incur due to an inappropriate or faulty stock prices, interest rates, and internal process, personal behavior, or exchange rates system, or an unexpected external event Market Risk Operational Risk KDB Daewoo Securities Integrated Risk Management 38 Liquidity Risk Credit Risk Potential loss or losses the company may Potential loss or losses the company may incur incur in the course of conducting the asset in the event of a counterparty’s failure to fulfill its management due to its inability to acquire obligation of payment or repayment of principal or dispose of assets at normal market or interest, or breach of a contract of derivative prices due to a lack of liquidity in the market transactions such as swaps or in assets under management Operational Risk Risk Management Systems for Risk Management at Securities KDB Daewoo Securities manages and Firms’ recommended by the financial The business scope of financial controls operational risks through Risk authorities, and to support strengthening investment companies is expanding in & Control Self Assessment (RCSA), of total risk management. We thus tandem with their development of various Key Risk Indicator (KRI) management, have built the foundation for calculating financial investment products. As a result, loss data management, establishment total capital at risk, managing risk, and there is an increasing need for sound of countermeasures, and calculation measuring risk-adjusted performances. risk management and thorough internal of operational VaR based on internal We also have formulated a long-term controls. KDB Daewoo Securities has models. Regular RCSAs are carried out to plan for integrateing and improving established a stable, comprehensive risk gage the level of risks of concern facing risk management systems to flexibly management structure comparable to its each department. If an indication of risk respond to changes in the net operating reputation as Korea’s leading financial is found, countermeasures are applied capital ratio (NCR) system, to increase investment firm and is contributing to to manage it preemptively, and we also work efficiencies between business build an advanced financial environment. keep a close track of all of our financial departments and Risk Management losses. For company-wide operational Department personnel, and to Total Risk Management System risk measurement and management, we enhance our overall risk management In February 2011, KDB Daewoo Securities competencies. We have been modifing plan to expand the scope of operational established a total risk management and improving the risk management risk management to include overseas system to meet ‘Minimal Requirements systems by phase. As of 2015, the system subsidiaries. Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Corporate Governance • Risk Management Global Financial Expert • Multicultural Society • Social Contribution through Finance development is in its second phase. We the spot market, and other changes were Total Crisis Management also are in the process of computerizing made in price stabilization mechanisms. Systems the standardarized method-based risk In response to the increasing market KDB Daewoo Securities has a total amount calculation process across all risk of securities-related products, we crisis system in place to preemptively sales department as well as the daily preemptively manage risks associated and actively respond to crisis situations, NCR calculation process. The third with changes in the mechanisms through including the spread of risks and market phase will center on computerization of the systematic risk management system. shocks. We devide the development the consolidated financial statementof crisis situations into three phases— based NCR calculation process and Operational Risk Management System caution, alert, and risk—depending development of a system of assigning KDB Daewoo Securities has been on the liquidity status and stability of and managing limits on various risks. operating its internal operational risk financial markets. We have formulated management system since 2009 to a detail execution plan for each phase New Risk Management System minimize the likelihood of financial losses to thoroughly prepare ourselves for In May 2008, KDB Daewoo Securities and potential losses associated with its crisis situations. We also closely monitor developed a new risk management own operational risk. financial markets for any sign of instability system in response to increased needs for by applying specific indicators that reflect risk management in new areas emerging Corporate Credit-Rating System the characteristics of each department. due to an expedited development of new KDB Daewoo Securities has been running To prevent risks that arise from natural financial products and the enforcement its own corporate credit-rating system 39 disasters, such as fire, floods, and of the Capital Market Act. Included in this since 2011. The system gages the earthquakes, we have developed a system is a real-time risk management credit risk level of corporations deemed business continuity plan and share it process for over-the-counter (OTC) less than sound thorugh analysis of company-wide. As for risks related to derivatives. As the daily price range in the both financial and non-financial factors. an IT system failure, we have created securities market was expanded to ±30% We are keeping in pace with the fastan emergency IT manual centering in the first half of 2015, the range limit expanding investment finance business on seamless provision of IT services, aslo increased for individual stock futures by continuing efforts at improving the to ensure the continuity and stability and options that are directly connected to corporate credit-rating models. of business activities even during a company-wide IT failure. KDB Daewoo Securities Integrated Risk Management Total New Operational Corporate Risk Management Risk Management Risk Management Credit-Rating System System System System Risk type Total risks Market/Credit risks Operational risks Credit risks Assessment Consolidation of Market/Credit VaR, Operational VaR Internal credit rating results individual risks sensitivity • Capital adequacy • Integrated risk • Risk & Control • Information on the management database Self-Assessment company’s current (RCSA) status • Risk-adjusted • Market/credit risk performance measurement • Key Risk Indicators • Corporate financial Major measurement system (KRI) information functions • Analysis of crisis • Risk analysis • Loss data • Probability of situations by department/ default • Risk measurement product/type • Integrated risk data and reporting and reports • Review and report results KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Strategic Focus 3 Global Financial Expert Through our creative organizational culture, KDB Daewoo Securities is supporting its individual employees’ endeavors to become the best in their field. 40 Disclosure on Management Approach Since talent management is essential in corporate competitiveness, companies implement various strategies to recruit or retain talent. As employees are the source of corporate innovation and culture, KDB Daewoo Securities places the highest priority on talent management, and strives to foster true financial experts who can lead change and innovation and offer the best value to customers. By doing so, we stay ahead in the pursuit of advanced finance. Our Focus Our Progress Cultivate Professional financial certificates financial experts increased by 3.7% Foster PBs to build 14 recruits completed a ‘Premier PB House’ the 1st PB Academy Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Corporate Governance • Risk Management Global Financial Expert • Multicultural Society • Social Contribution through Finance KDB Daewoo Securities People People of KDB Daewoo Securities KDB Daewoo Securities envisions its exemplary employee as someone who pursues global financial leadership by putting the highest value on the customer, acquiring a wide range of first-rate knowledge, and seeking creative challenges. We seek to cultivate future global financial leaders who relish new challenges, develop worldleading professional skills, and dedicate Creative themselves to customer satisfaction We pursue the leadership attitude that Challenge based on a customer-oriented mindset. actively responds to rapid changes in the business environment and relishes new challenge and active innovation. HRD System KDB Daewoo Securities has established a human resources development (HRD) system with focus on helping its 41 employees develop competencies to their aptitudes. Consisting of four curricula Professionalism We endeavor to develop the world’s designed considering specialty, the best capabilities. The fierce competition system offers programs in line with the serves as the corner stone of growth, training objectives of each area. and the instructions and coaching by seniors are driving forces to become Leadership Curriculum a global financial leader. Leadership Curriculum offers leadership training to executives, department managers, branch managers, and staff Customer being promoted. In 2014, we developed We put our customers first, treat them Orientation a leadership pipeline system that is as life-time partners and devote our full continuous, practical and suitable for attention to them. relevant positions and duties, and expanded a field-centric leadership education that focuses on generating profit and performance. Professional Curriculum Professional Curriculum consists of Honor & Pride We cherish honor and pride ourselves completed training phases ranging from as world-leading financial experts well PB Academy to Expert Course, and of respected by customers. With a mindset specialized training courses for such that we represent the Korean financial sectors as WM, corporate investment industry and compete with global banking (CIB), and management. In 2014, players, we pursue a level of dignity and the global training course was expanded refinement worthy of such a mindset. to strengthen employee proficiencies to communicate with overseas communities and to help them gain the knowledge of advanced finance. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Leadership Insight Faculty Professional Curriculum Curriculum Curriculum Curriculum One KDB Value Introductory course for new experienced recruits Biz accomplishments Retail CIB Management Global Executive Executives Global experience Global MBA Global business skill-up Expert Course Expert Course Expert Course Officer leadership Sales strategies for CIB synergy Case study Coverage Biz Skill branch managers External Branch Manager/ Conference for professional Branch Manager/General Internal lecturer development course Fostering future leaders branch managers degree curriculum Facilitator development course Advanced Case study General Manager Manager leadership Understanding customers Stock investment Financial products Wealth management Sales skill Sharing duties with External trainings Deputy other departments related to duties Manager Basic Part/Team Head Manager Promotion leadership leadership 42 KDB Daewoo Securities Academy Customer Support Team associate training Assistant Duty leadership Working-level CIB case application Manager competition Working-level skill Management improvement Mandatory for advanced duties (Coverage, Products advanced regulation, etc.) Senior Customer Support Team Basics for securities business Associate Management PB Academy CIB boot camp orientation Head leadership Basic common training Introductory course for new associate (organization, expertise) Junior Associate Financial products + OA + Basic knowledge Branch duties Introductory course for Counter Associate + Jump Up course Insight Curriculum Faculty Curriculum once a year to help them retain their Insight Curriculum consists of various Faculty Curriculum aims at improving mastery of financial knowledge as contents related to humanities, including the lecture-giving skills of employees KDB Daewoo Securities professionals culture, history, and philosophy, and chosen as lecturers of various in-house and develop a global mindset in tune aims to share the values of KDB Daewoo education/training programs. In 2014, with rapid changes in the financial Securities and to foster creative talents. a systematic program was created to environment. We also run an introductory In 2014, diverse contents were added foster employees into lecturers who give program twice a year for new employees that reflect changes in the business seminars to customers. with professional experiences to help environment and trends that can enhance them familiarize with the organization and employee satisfaction. the core values of the company. Others In addition to the training programs of the four different curricula, the company provides training to assistant managers Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Corporate Governance • Risk Management Global Financial Expert • Multicultural Society • Social Contribution through Finance Daily Routine of Learning, HRD Programs finance/PIB; in the latter, participants Mastering, and Teaching receive hands-on coaching at actual KDB Daewoo Securities is often called a sales sites. ‘talent academy’ or ‘securities academy’ with its high level of investment in Completed 1st PB Academy Course Learning (學) developing HRD programs to enhance expertise of its employees. In particular, In 2015 the PB Academy trained its first (07:00~12:30) many of our programs aim at developing 14 new PBs. The new PBs went through Morning conference, Learn knowledge skills that can be applied to daily the content accumulation phase from business operations, as part of our efforts April through June, learning the training to maintain job relevancy of training contents through a daily exercise of Mastering (習) programs to the filed. learning, mastering, and teaching, which make up the training concept of the (13:30~17:30) Test, Extendible learning1), PB Academy academy. After training, the PBs provided Acquisition of sales content the instructors with feedbacks on what they PB Academy is a distinctive introductory individually had learned and then received training program for new PB entrants advice on contents that can be applied Teaching (敎)* * Twice a week as the foundation for the ‘Premier PB to actual sales. Trainees organized the House’. The academy is a training knowledge on a sales contents notepad (18:30~20:30) system that helps new PBs develop and to create an individual manual. By PT(L&T)2), Role play 43 professional skills and immediately apply employing this process, PB Academy these skills to their jobs. This eight-month has broken away from the traditional training system consists of two phases: 1) Look for materials that can be related to actual sales, unilateral training approach and instead in addition to reviewing what was learned, and share ‘content accumulation’ and ‘sales skill with others has developed a distinctive curriculum development’. In the former, participants 2) that centers on the repeated process of At the level of learning that allows participants to develop a basic understanding of teach what they have learned learning, mastering, and teaching. This professionalism including a sense of training method, unprecedented in the purpose and a sales mindset as well financial industry, even of the world, has as financial knowledge, including of been noted by many industry experts for economics, securities, products, and its distinctive approach. PB Academy Program The five-month training period is divided into two phases: ‘content accumulation’ (three months) and ‘sales skill development’ (two months) Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Content accumulation Sales skill development Knowledge of Knowledge of Introductory First branch OJT Boot camp Second branch economics products Actual sales and coaching course + March (branch work (overall securities OJT (the instructor accompanies Knowledge of Knowledge of experience) industry) (product-centric) each trainee to actual sales equities finance/PIB activities and provides coaching Passion/pride/sense of purpose/ on developing sales know-how) sales mind PB Academy KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 DWS Learning Center Fostering Financial Experts Employees with Professional Financial Certificates DWS Learning Center provides a one-stop To strengthen the financial expertise of (Unit: Person) service, covering from provision of diverse its employees, KDB Daewoo Securities knowledge and information for employees developed a training system, with the to HRD work function. It is an on-line area of focus divided into three—CIB 1,244 knowledge and content-providing service (HQ sales), WM (branch sales), and 1,281 AFPK 1) exclusive to KDB Daewoo Securities. Management (HQ management)—and 1,052 Eschewing traditional training methods, has since run the expert course once a the center features diverse programs year since 2013. This optional course, that focus on field-oriented training and a break from the mandatory training, motivate trainees to strengthen their invites self-motivated participants and competencies. It has enhanced the thus registers a higher level of course convenience of learning by connecting its effectiveness. To increase the expertise knowledge search function to a popular of all employees, KDB Daewoo Securities search engine, in addition to utilizing TOSS has made available courses that offer and WM Community, the company’s professional certificates, and as a result, 208 internal on-line platforms. In 2015, a mobile the number of AFPK and CFP holders has 181 226 course was adopted to further expand been growing over the years. CFP 2) 44 employee participation. 26 25 26 CFA3)(Level 3) 2012 2013 2014 1) Associate Financial Planner Korea 2) Chartered Financial Planner 3) Chartered Financial Analyst DWS Learning Center Website Rewarding Outstanding Trainees DWS Learning Center Functions In addition to focusing on training its employees, KDB Daewoo Securities identifies and rewards outstanding Apply for course and Share knowledge Search for E-Learning trainees. Around 5 to 10 percent of check results resources knowledge trainees are chosen as outstanding trainees based on their course • Staff can view history • Staff can choose • Staff can search My HRD performances on test, PT and role information on learning learning content that for knowledge through the DWS they need to develop through IT systems playing, and their class attitudes as well. Learning Center relevant competencies and the knowledge This practice improves the effectiveness or acquire a certificate bulletin board • Staff can check of training by facilitating a positive sense Learning information on the • Staff can apply for • Staff can of competition and raising the level of training history, internal training, participate in customized training, external training, communities, participation among trainees. and certificates online training, produce UCC, Knowledge Sharing real-time training, and engage in or correspondence online and video learning meetings Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Corporate Governance • Risk Management Global Financial Expert • Multicultural Society • Social Contribution through Finance Strategic Focus 4 Multicultural Society KDB Daewoo Securities supports multicultural families and implements programs educating the public on multiculturalism, in an effort to create a more mature multicultural society. 45 Disclosure on Management Approach In 2015, according to a Ministry of the Interior, the number of foreigners residing in Korea reached around 1.74 million, which accounts for 3.4% of the total population, and the number will soon reach 2 million. Korea is fast transforming into a nation of many cultures and ethnicities. In response, the nation is looking into ways of promoting social integration and improving the public’s understanding of multicultural society. KDB Daewoo Securities regards ‘fusion of diverse cultures’ as a core task for the social development, and in collaboration with experts in various fields, implements distinctive programs to help multicultural families settle down and lead a life of dignity. Our Focus Our Progress Hold a bilingual contest 40 students participated (The 4th Mother Tongue Contest) in the contest Expand budget to The budget increased support multicultural society 26.3% year-on-year KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 All proceeds from the sale of the cookbook go to multicultural family support programs. Every year we deliver the cookbook for free, to newly-arrieved female immigrants. Bilingual Educational Supports Children of multicultural families naturally learn, from their parents, the languages and cultures of their both parents and thus develop a deep understanding of the two countries, which makes them ideal candidates to grow into global experts. In collaboration with Hankuk University of Published cookbooks in multiple languages Foreign Studies, KDB Daewoo Securities has developed Korean language learning Supporting Multiculturalism materials in five languages—Chinese, Vietnamese, Mongolian, Japanese, and A harmonious fusion of various cultures Russian—to help Korean-challenged is essential to a sustainable social 46 mothers teach their children their mother development. KDB Daewoo Securities tongue. These materials have been supplied is executing projects together with great to 205 multicultural family support centers partners in diverse fields to support multicultural families in their efforts to settle down in the Korean society and become financially independent. Its social contributions made through private-public cooperation have been honored with a Presidential Citation and a Minister of Cookbooks in multiple languages Gender Equality & Family Citation. We plan to continue our multicultural family supports aimed at helping them live happily in Korea as a member of society. ㄱ ㄴ ㄷ Korean Cookbooks in Multiple Published bilingual teaching materials Languages Bilingual educational supports The Korean language and cooking have for children from multicultural families been found to be the two most difficult challenges facing marriage migrant women. In response, KDB Daewoo Securities in 2009 published free recipe calendars in seven languages, including Chinese and Vietnamese, and commercially published ‘Korean Teaching materials publication Family Foods: 45 Food Most Commonly to improve the understanding of Served at the Korean Family Table’, in multiculturalism Received a Minister of Gender Equality & Family Citation ten different languages. In addition to recipes, the cookbook contains a general knowledge essential to understanding Korean sentiments and culture. Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Corporate Governance • Risk Management Global Financial Expert • Multicultural Society • Social Contribution through Finance across the nation that offer language Helping Improve the Public’s classes. The materials also are available Understanding of Multiculturalism in the digital format on the company’s Through a KBS program titled ‘Red website. Of the five-language editions, the Bicycle’, featuring experiences of the Chinese and Vietnamese versions have minority group, we aired an animation been developed in the e-book format to series aimed at improving the public make target children more receptive to understanding of multiculturalism. Each learning. We plan to develop in 2015 the episode about four minutes long, the Thai and Cambodian editions. series talks about understanding and To motivate children to learn the The 4th Mother Tongue Contest embracing different cultulres, and about languages of their both parents, we have communication. The senarios were been holding an annual ‘Mother Tongue produced with help from KBS, Global Contest’ since 2011 in cooperation Village of Love, and the Seoul National with the Ministry of Gender Equality & University of Education. Based on the Family. The contest is participated by total 63 episodes aired through the Red preschoolers and elementary school Bicycle, we have published a teaching students who are recommended by their plan, ‘Understanding Multiculturalism with multicultural family support centers. An an Animation’, to help remove prejudices average of around 200 children and against multiculturalism and raise the 47 their family members have participated public awareness of the importance of in the final each year. Starting in 2015, Published a teaching plan cultural diversity and mutual respect. the contest will be hosted jointly with the The teaching plan and animation DVDs Ministry of Education, and expanded to have been distributed to around 5,000 include students from elementary to high elementary schools, the Ministry of schools, which is expected to increase Gender Equality & Family, and National the number of partipants. Police Agency to be used as educational materials for improving the public On November 22, 2014 the 4th Mother understanding of multiculturalism. Tongue Contest was held at KDB Daewoo Securities’ Gwacheon Human In April 2014 the ‘Red Bicycle’ was Resource Development Center. It was selected for International Panorama hosted jointly by KDB Daewoo Securities (the non-competitive division) in the and the Ministry of Gender Equality & educational issue category of the Family. Some 200 people attended the Pulcinella Awards Best Teen TV Series at contest, including Assistant Minister Aeri ‘Cartoons on the Bay’, an international Son of the Youth & Family Policy Office animation film festival held in Venice, Italy. under the Ministry of Gender Equality & Family, President Inchul Kim of Hankuk University of Foreign Studies (HUFS), Director Minjung Yang of HUFS Center for Multicultural Education. It consisted Produced an animation series to improve the understanding of a category for preschoolers and lowerof multiculturalism grade school students and another one for the higher-grade students. The Grand Prize winner in each category was presented with a KRW 2 million scholarship and a plaque. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Strategic Focus 5 Social Contribution through Finance Based on its financial expertise, KDB Daewoo Securities is developing various projects that can resolve social issues, to take a lead in generating sustainable values. 48 Disclosure on Management Approach For corporations facing competition worldwide is essential to secure new growth models. As a sustainable growth strategy, many multinational financial firms pursue development of diverse products. KDB Daewoo Securities also endeavors to stay in the forefront of building a sustainable financial society. Specifically, we consider business models with strong growth potential, including socially responsible investment, climate change, financial services for the socially marginalized, and other social issues. Our Focus Our Progress Increase financial accessibility Received the Special Grand Prize for minorities at the ‘Web Award Korea’ Expand eco-friendly projects to Arranged first overseas energy project: counter climate change Fiji biomass power plant Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Corporate Governance • Risk Management Global Financial Expert • Multicultural Society • Social Contribution through Finance Providing ESG Financial Golden Age No. 3 Web Accessibility Certifications and Awards Products Released in 2011, KDB Daewoo As a financial investment institution, KDB Securities’ Golden Age No. 3 is a product Daewoo Securities strives to contribute that provides stable wealth management May 2013 Acquired WA certifications to the establishment of a sustainable services, including monthly pension for the company website, the company introduction site, society through finance. The company payments, to customers who entrust and the WTS has developed ESG(Environment, Social, their retirement savings to the company. Governance)-related financial products Asset allocation generates a stable flow Oct. 2013 Acquired WA certifications of returns, and this investment diversity for the career page, pension and advisory services that reflect social page, the ‘KDB Daewoo issues, such as new and renewable shields from the danger of the inevitable Direct/Direct+’ page, the table energy, aging society, and socially fluctuation of financial market factors. tennis team page responsible investment (SRI). Moreover, the portfolio can be adjusted to Dec. 2013 Received a Special Grand suit the investment needs and appetites Prize at the ‘2013 Web Award KDB Daewoo Securities is reviewing of customers. The product is gaining Korea’ 49 diverse financial products, including SRIs, traction among those intersted in stable clean energy funds, and donation-type profitability for their post-retirement life, funds for its customers and stakeholders. thanks to its superior benefits, including ‘KDB Bank SRI Fund for a Better World’ is sufficient monthly payments, substantial company received a Special Grand Prize an ESG product that invests in companies tax reduction, and an inflation-headging at the ‘2013 Web Award Korea’. Since outstanding in sustainability management. asset growth. the receipt of the certification, we have Also, ‘KDB Bank S&P Clean Energy Fund’ been managing digital contents with invests in the S&P Global Clean Energy focus on web accessibility and carried Index, which consists of new and renewable Financial Services for Minorities out accessibility assessments, which led energy-related companies. ‘Dongbu KDB Daewoo Securities is making to the retention of the certification in 2014 Econation Fund’ is a private equity fund utmost efforts to make its financial and 2015. We will continue to make our established by KDB Daewoo Securities’ services equally available to the socially digital contents easy for customers to high net worth customers interested in marginalized. access irrespective of user environments social contribution through donation. It is or conditions. a socially responsible private equity fund Increasing Web Accessibility to the (PEF) that allocates a certain percentage of Disabled Programs to Protect the Financial its returns to a scholarhsip fund. Consumer Rights of Minorities In making its financial services accessbile to the socially marginalized in pursuant Through the Financial Consumer Financial Products for to relevant laws, KDB Daewoo Securities Protection Department created in 2014 Retirement became the first in the Korean financial solely for financial consumer protection, investment industry to apply the web KDB Daewoo Securities has been As the average life expectancy rises, an conducting various financial consumer standards and web accessibility to its increasing number of people think and protection education programs aimed web trading system (WTS) and all its do more and more about their lives after at strengthening financial services websites, which entitled the company to retirement. Accordingly, KDB Daewoo accessibility to the financially vulnerable, the Web Accessibility (WA) certification. Securities has been developing financial including the elderly, North Korean The websites have a screen reader products that help people plan a financially defectors, livelihood program recipients, program for the visually-impaired, and secured post-retirement life. and low-income households. are also designed to help investors with color blindness or weakness easily check the web contents. For these efforts, the KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Introducing ‘S-Loan’, a Small Loan PIB Service Service In August 2014, KDB Daewoo Securities launched ‘S-Loan’, a loan service that allows customers to use only a small PB IB PIB amount of equities as collateral. The service is designed for people who have PB consulting for IB and institutional Assign dedicated PIB major shareholders, sales targeting personnel of KDB Daewoo difficulty getting loans from primary CEOs and executives corporate clients Securities financial institutions. Individual customers of corporate clients Provide one-stop services in Class Six or lower credit ratings, who specialized for SMEs account for around 80% of all citizen in Korea, can easily and quickly receive a loan up to KRW 40 million. The range of equities that can be used as collateral has been expanded to 1,700 stocks to to such companies. Through its PIB was selected to manage ‘K-Growth make the service more accessible. This operations, KDB Daewoo Securities is Global Fund’, which supports SMEs that loan service is available both off-line and offering such SME-oriented services as are experiencing difficulties in advancing on-line, including HTS and smartphones. corporate value and image improvement. into overseas markets due to a lack of PIB is a new concept business in that it resources or experience despite their 50 combines wealth management and IB. technological prowess. Fund operation Financial Edution for Future details are available on the Growth Ladder KDB Daewoo Securities provides its PBs Generation Fund website run by Financial Services with PIB sales trainings and increased the Commission. One-Company-One-School Financial number of PIB Centers from two to four for Education more systematic and efficient operations. We will continue to expand our SMEParticipating in New & KDB Daewoo Securities has signed an focused services by listening more closely Renewable Energy Projects agreement with elementary, middle and to SME customers concerned about their high schools nearby its branches located KDB Daewoo Securities is involved in new growth strategies. throughout the country, to provide a and renewable energy projects as part financial education and help teenagers of its commitment to fight global climate Growth Ladder Fund develop a basic knowledge of finance changes and to develop new growth and build a smart consumption habit. Growth Ladder Fund is a governmentengines. created fund that is based on a new concept of backing promising ventures Jeju Gimnyeong Wind Power Plant Creative Finance and SMEs in need of capital supports for Project KDB Daewoo Securities is contributing further growth. The goal is to establish The Jeju Gimnyeong Wind Power Plant, to the spread of Creative Finance* by a healthy corporate growth ecosystem. whose shareholders include GS EPS and expanding sales activities targeting small In January 2015, KDB Daewoo Securities Jeju Holdings, commenced commercial and medium-size enterprises (SME). operations in June 2015. This 30MW * Refer to the footnote on Creative Finance on page 17 Partners Club To grow together with SMEs, KDB Daewoo Securities has commenced ‘Partners Club’, a consulting service offered to sound 49.0 % SMEs. Social roles played by SMEs are PIB Balance Increase Rate growing in prominence with the emergence of the era of Creative Economy, but there PIB balance rose 49.0% as of September 30, 2015 since started aggregating in April 2015 are not many securities services dedicated Jeju Gimnyeong Wind Power Plant Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Corporate Governance • Risk Management Global Financial Expert • Multicultural Society • Social Contribution through Finance a 18% stake. The power plant will have a power generation capacity of 38.9MW. Once this project has been registered as a CDM project, it also is expected to generate an extra profit dependent on the amount of carbon dioxide it reduces. PEF for Environmental Waste Management In accordance with relevant environmental laws, KDB Daewoo Securities is managing and supervising waste treatment companies acquired by a Private Equity Fund (PEF). We make sure that landfill waste is buried safely and leachate not spill out of landfills and cause environmental pollution. Also ensured are thorough management and supervision 51 of the eco-friendly treatment of such byThe bird’s eye view of the biomass power plant in Fiji products generated by waste incineration as exhaust gas and fumes. Moreover, onshore wind power plant, located in overseas energy projects. The biomass waste heat generated through waste the northeastern side of Jeju Island, is wood chip power plant1) in Nabou, Fiji, incineration is converted into energy and the first wind power generation project is a case in point. This 12MW project is sold to nearby plants. These efforts have in Korea to be funded in a non-recourse expected to cost KRW 50 billion. This led to a substantially reduced use of fossil method. KDB Daewoo Securities has project is significant in two ways: it is fuels such as liquefied natural gas (LNG) provided financial advice and funding an overseas investment development and bunker C oil, which encourages us to arrangements totaling KRW 78.3 billion, being pursued jointly by domestic SMEs proceed more eco-friendly projects. and is serving as the plant’s primary and large corprations; and it is the first bank. overseas energy development for which a private Korean financial company is Yeonggwang Baeksu Wind Power Plant arranging the funding participation of local financial institutions. This project is The Yeonggwang Baeksu Wind expected to generate additional profits Power Plant, located in Baeksu-eup, once it has been registered as a clean Yeonggwang-gun, South Jeolla Province, development mechanism (CDM) project. commenced commercial operations in June 2015. Unison, Toshiba, Korea EastWest Power, and Daehan Green Energy Yeongwol Photovoltaic Generation Project are shareholders in this 40MW onshore wind power generation project. KDB This project involves building Asia’s Daewoo Securities has provided financial largest photovoltaic power plant, in advice and funding arrangements totaling Nam-myeon, Yeongwol-gun, Gangwon KRW 106 billion, and is also serving as Province. KDB Daewoo Securities has the plant’s primary bank. provided financial advice and arranged funding, and is serving as the primary Biomass Power Plant Project in Fiji bank of the KRW 140 billion project. The company also is participating in the KDB Daewoo Securities provides financial 1) Roots, branches and other wood wastes, that cannot be project as a major shareholder with used as construction materials, are separated and chopped advice, arranges funding and invests in into chips to be used as raw materials for cogeneration KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 KDB Daewoo Securities aspires to grow together with all of its stakeholders, including customers, shareholders/investors, employees, and local communities. Such aspiration transpires into a ceaseless pursuit of challenge and innovation toward creation 52 of a sustainable progress enjoyed by all stakeholders. By thinking ahead and taking great steps toward creating economic, social, and environmental values, KDB Daewoo Securities will earn stakeholders’ trust and support and achieve more meaningful performances and sustainable progress. Report 3 Sustainability Performance Customers 54 Shareholders/Investors 60 Employees 66 Local Communities 72 53 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 1 Customers Major Issues 1 Build customer relationship strategies and a system to improve customer satisfaction 2 Conduct responsible activities to protect financial consumers 3 Strengthen personal information protection Opportunities & Risks There has been a sharp rise in incidents where financial consumers have not been given the right explanations about products, which has led to consumer damage. There has also been an increase in financial fraud, whereby customers’ personal information has been leaked and abused through voice phishing. We make efforts to ensure the complete sales of our financial investment products, and we also undertake continuous management and training to prevent the leaking of personal information. 54 Key Performance Employee training on customer Customer satisfaction score File encryption information protection 95.1/100 All documents 100% (plan to be implemented in 2016) No. 1 securities firm category of the K-CSBI New sales channel 44th anniversary of the founding Two consecutive years, Stores in Songdo, Pangyo and Invited the St. Petersburg 2014 & 2015 Sejong City Philharmonic Orchestra Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities KDB Daewoo Securities places the highest priority on customer satisfaction, and strives to grow together with customers, protecting their rights and interests. Financial Consumer Protection Improving Customer All of us at Satisfaction A major goal for KDB Daewoo Securities KDB Daewoo Securities is to enable financial consumers to make KDB Daewoo Securities offers a wide profits through the financial services that 1 range of customer satisfaction services to we provide. We also ensure business ensure the best in customer satisfaction. place the highest priority on the integrity to protect financial consumers. interests of financial consumers We will further enhance customer as our key business goal; satisfaction by listening to our customers Financial Consumer Protection Charter and providing better financial products 2 KDB Daewoo Securities regards it as and services. provide clear explanation vital for its customers to receive accurate and information on financial Voice of Customer and complete information, to minimize investment products and services potential losses from lack of information. so that financial consumers can The Voice of Customer (VOC) system was As an industry leader, we became the make reasonable investment built to enable KDB Daewoo Securities first company in the Korean financial decisions; customers to deliver their opinions 55 investment industry to announce a 3 through branches, the company website, financial consumer protection charter, the the Customer Center, regular mail, and ‘Think you’ Charter, to protect the rights actively protect the financial and e-mail. The opinions that we hear are personal information of and interests of financial consumers. then actively used to improve customer financial consumers; services and policies. In addition, we Policies for the Perfect Sale of Financial 4 provide responsive customer feedback to Products all our staff members through a process make sure that there is be no Financial products are purchased as discriminatory acts against any of review, handling, and improvement. a result of our staff explaining and financial consumers; recommending them; it is therefore 5 Customer Complaint Management essential that sales process is perfect. System KDB Daewoo Securities established make maximum efforts when KDB Daewoo Securities has developed a to handle customer complaints an internal system based on the basic Customer Complaint Management System properly, and to protect customers principle of perfect sales, taking a lead from damages; (CCMS) that is more comprehensive than in building a healthy investment culture. ‘Dreami VOC’, the previous VOC system, 6 We have also established the ‘Financial and manages complaints in an integrated Product Quality Assurance System’ under protect the rights and interests of and systematic way through such various which, if our staff sell a product that is financial consumers by obeying channels as phone, website, HTS, MTS, not completely adequate, or if product all laws and regulations, and e-mail, and customer opinion postcards. explanation is not sufficient, the product engaging in responsible activities; Customer comments are broken down by can be recalled within 15 days, and 7 different channels, types (compliments, customers can be compensated. suggestions, complaints), and themes protect financial consumers’ (customer service, home trading system, assets safely; and policy) to create a database. The response 8 status and feedback process are shared help the growth and development with all staff members in real time. The of the financial investment CCMS will be leveraged to improve industry by protecting financial customer satisfaction and to formulate consumers. strategies on customer relations. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 VOC Receipt and Handling Process Channel through which Sharing among Classification Review, Handle, Improve opinions are received all employees ① The relevant department reviews whether to Customer Service Improvement Council reflect the opinion (on the same day) Feedback program Main Line ② T  he Customer Service Improvement Council CCMS: Real time Phone Within a week re-examines the matter → Mainly opinions management of subject to rejection and re-examination receiving, handling, (Weekly) and all other processes Suggestion ③ F  eedbacks to customers on the company’s Website plan on reflecting the suggestion Qway NEO On-line ④ IT development and business improvements – Smart NEO E-mail ⑤ Feedbacks to customers on the result Posting on TOSS or (outstanding suggestion, complimented employee, complaint) CCMS on a weekly and monthly basis 56 ① Thank the customer for making the compliment Immediately Postcard on customer Branch Compliment ② Feedbacks to the complimented employee → opinion Provide compliment card and CS Gold Emblem Monthly ① First response given by VOC personnel (Customer Center) Viewfinder D Hidden VOC Premeptive and active ② S  econd response given by relevant department after Immediately Complaint response confirming and reviewing the matter Diversified channel Quickly handle the matter and review from the customer perspective Service improvements Enhanced accessibility (Deliver customer feedback immediately or within a week depending on the matter) Customer satisfaction Viewfinder D Customer Service Improvement Council KDB Daewoo Securities set up Viewfinder D The Customer Service Improvement at its corporate headquarters in December Council is an internal consultative body 2012 as a communication channel to help that is in charge of quickly acting on us understand customer thoughts and customer service requests and media. It perspectives. Customers’ compliments, consists of staff from related departments, suggestions, and complaints, as well including the Customer Center, IT Center, as how customers felt when using our and Smart Financial Department. The services, are collected and posted on a Council holds a meeting every two weekly basis. Viewfinder D enables us Viewfinder D helps us understand customer thoughts and weeks, to ensure that customer service perspectives to learn in greater detail what customers improvements are made as quickly as expect from the company. possible. Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities Customer Satisfaction 2012 2013 2014 Customer satisfaction score 98.8 96.2 95.1 (Unit: Point) Branch with less than 90 points – – 1 (Unit: Branch) Opening of the ‘Store’ in Sejong City Customer Satisfaction Surveys Customer Satisfaction Award List KDB Daewoo Securities used to conduct customer satisfaction surveys with new unveiled the ‘Store’, a new concept sales 2013 • Received the Grand Prize in the customers, but in October 2014, we on-line category at the ‘2013 point, in Songdo, Pangyo, and other expanded the scope to include existing Consumer Best Brand Awards’ business districts with growing financial customers. This has enabled us to listen needs. The Store consists of personnel • Ranked first in the securities sector to more opinions, and also provided of ‘2013 Korea Highest Brand and space that are about one-quarter opportunities to make improvements to Awards’ of those at a regular sales point. This 57 services. innovative sales point is intended to 2014 • Chosen as the No. 1 securities firm at the ‘2014 K-CSBI’ increase customer contact points and Employee Training on Customer Service strengthen a feeling of closeness. In • Received the Grand Prize in KDB Daewoo Securities provides training Customer Satisfaction at the ‘2014 addition, we have established overseas to its employees to strengthen their Herald Business Capital Market subsidiaries in developing countries, skills in dealing with customers and to Awards’ including Indonesia and Mongolia, in enhance customer satisfaction. We have • Ranked first in the securities sector addition to the overseas subsidiaries developed the ‘Self-Motivation Course’, a of ‘2014 Korea Highest Brand that have already been opened in major self-development program that is offered Awards’ economies. KDB Daewoo Securities has to all staff at headquarters and in the 12 overseas networks, the most of any 2015 • Chosen as the No. 1 securities firm branches once a year. In addition, we at the ‘2015 K-CSBI’ Korean financial investment company. use role playing to examine our sales We plan to continue to open sales points processes. The third Wednesday of every based on diverse concepts, and in month is a training day for staff who locations that reflect customer needs. take on customer and PB roles; after Closer to Customers the training is complete, a report is sent In changing times, KDB Daewoo Family Office Service ‘Insight’ to the Financial Consumer Protection Securities continues to make the utmost ‘Insight’ is an integrated consulting Department. efforts to communicate with customers so service that includes management that we can develop customized services of a family’s assets and investments, Customer Recognition and satisfy their financial needs as their tax planning, succession of the family KDB Daewoo Securities’ efforts to achieve needs change and diversify. These efforts business, risk management, real estate greater customer satisfaction have been have been supported by an expanded management, and corporate advice. The recognized by its customers, which in sales network, and more customized Insight service is available to customers turn is helping the company to build services. with financial assets of KRW 3 billion or sustainable growth. more, and the number of families using it Expanding the Sales Network has risen steadily since it was launched in KDB Daewoo Securities focuses on 2013; more than 100 families now use the establishing a sales network that offers Insight service. customers greater accessibility and convenience. As a result, we have KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Improving Personal Pension Products security measure, we prohibit the use Activities to Prevent Leakage of of customers’ personal information for Customers’ Personal Information KDB Daewoo Securities has focused on the personal pension market in 2015, as marketing purposes from three months part of its ‘Premier PB House’ strategy. after the end of customer transactions. User Terminal Activity The personal pension is being shown Also, a personal information database Information is stored separately from five years after Detect and block external to customers as a financial resource leakage leakage of customer and for active wealth management, not just the end of customer transactions. We prevention personal information have also created a manual to help us to system a product aimed at tax deduction or life after retirement. A target earnings minimize customer damage even in the Encrypt all documents and Encryption of all event of a leak of personal information. files (plan to be implemented rate is set after studying the customer’s documents in 2016) circumstances, and then a customized Personal Information Security Policy Document Encrypt personal information portfolio is constructed. Our unique security files that are stored in PCs personal pension product also features Managing Customers’ Personal Information Secure USB Block external media, and continuous, in-depth management, tax The Compliance Department is in charge and blocking of screen if files were moved with benefits, and various other services. It of protecting personal information, and media secure USB embodies our strong determination to has established customer information Detect and remove viruses look after customer assets as best we Vaccine protection and management regulations and malicious code can, and to manage them with care. in order to systematically protect Server and Prevent server and database 58 customers’ personal information. These database access by unapproved users Comprehensive Consulting Service regulations apply to all staff at KDB access control A one-on-one consulting service is offered Daewoo Securities as well as our partner to high net worth customers. Experts in companies, so that we can keep all of our various fields, including investments, customer information safe. Marketing Activities for retirement planning, tax affairs, and real Customers Staff Training on Information Protection estate, visit our branches, so customers In order to prevent incidents related Performance to Celebrate the 44th can benefit from comprehensive, oneto electronic banking and information Anniversary stop wealth management. protection, KDB Daewoo Securities KDB Daewoo Securities has hosted provides a regular training on informtaion cultural performances for customers on Protecting Customers’ Personal protection to all staff every year. Staff in the anniversary of the company’s founding Information charge of information protection receive every year since 2006. The world’s top additional in-depth training, including on The increased use of the Internet has artists are invited to offer the company’s the ethics of information protection and enabled the easy management and loyal customers an opportunity to enjoy an IT training course. 100% of executives, sharing of information, but on the negative high-quality performances. For our 44th general staff, IT staff, and staff in charge side, it has also made it much easier anniversary in 2014, the St. Petersburg of information protection completed for private information to be exposed. Philharmonic Orchestra was invited. information protection training in 2014. Financial companies handle sensitive private information, which is why KDB Relief from Losses Caused by Daewoo Securities undertakes various Telecommunications Fraud activities to give the strong protection to our customers’ personal information. KDB Daewoo Securities enables the suspension of payments for 24 hours Strengthened Personal Information to minimize customer losses caused by Security telecommunications fraud. We undertake careful monitoring of accounts that are KDB Daewoo Securities currently suspected of fraud, and share all relevant encrypts important files, but we will information using the information network begin encrypting all documents in 2016, of the Korea Federation of Banks. Performance to celebrate the 44th anniversary of in order to enhance document security. the founding of KDB Daewoo Securities As an additional personal information Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities Family Product Service Customized Marketing related to Transparent Supply Chain Finance and Investment Management In September 2013, KDB Daewoo Securities released its family product KDB Daewoo Securities held a service, which offers more benefits when seminar on ongoing economic issues, Reports on Corruption more family members invest in a greater including real estate and the Chinese To root out corruption by employees, variety of products. On-line and off-line PR stock market turmoil. These seminars KDB Daewoo Securities operates the activities, including a random box event, provide resolutions to customers, ‘Corruption Sinmungo’. This system supported the launch of the service, and and our experts can offer consulting allows employees, stakeholders, and led to a high level of interest with around services on investment trends and the third parties to report employee violations 15,000 customers applying for the service global outlook. In addition, we provide of laws and company regulations. The within just three months of its release. customized regional services; for anonymity of the person’s suggestion is example, local residents who are subject protected throughout the entire process, Co-Marketing to land compensation are provided with from reporting stage to feedback stage. information on the land compensation We also have an IP tracing prevention KDB Daewoo Securities cooperates process and ways to use land system. We inform on this corruptionwith partner companies to do marketing compensation funds, and we also hosted fighting system when we send requests that can approach to the partner a seminar on recent financial trends for for proposals to outside parties, and companies’ customer base to attract CEOs and CFOs in industrial complexes. also post information on our website. potential customers. For example, we Launched in October 2014, the Corruption 59 put advertisements on clothes hangers Monthly Letter for VIPs Sinmungo has received two reports so at Cleantopia Cleaners’ franchises, KDB Daewoo Securities issues a regular far, both of which have been handled. and offered a dry-cleaning gift card to our customers. We partnered with KT monthly letter to its VIP customers with to offer the ‘KDB Daewoo Securities – the Royal class (average balance for Transparent and Thorough Supply the last three months, or a balance at Chain Management KT Communication Expense Support Service’ to KT customers who open the end of the previous month, of KRW KDB Daewoo Securities has established a cash management account (CMA) 100 million to 1 billion) and above. The regulations on the purchase of items and and custodial account, and sign for the email letter shares information on wealth services, to enhance transparency in the automatic standing order of mobile phone management strategies, major news on selection of partner companies and in bills. The users of this service exceeded taxes, real estate, and investments, and purchasing. There are thorough reviews 30,000 in just three months. informs customers about any relevant of a potential partner’s both financial and events. non-financial aspects, depending on the Cheer up! Join us! item being purchased, to ensure correct Finance Camp for Juniors decisions on purchases. There were no KDB Daewoo Securities undertook cases of violations of fair trade during the marketing activities to attract customers The ‘Finance Camp for Juniors’ is offered latest reporting period, including unfair under the slogan ‘Cheer up! Join us!’ to customers and their children to help competition or anti-trust. in 2014. We offered special benefits them develop good financial sense. Fun to a greater number of customers games are used to enable participants to easily understand and familiarize Procurement Assessment Committee by supplying targeted products, and provided customers with investment themselves with finance, which children When a purchase is over a certain guides for the market environment and might otherwise think is too difficult. amount, a Procurement Assessment their needs, as well as releasing financial Committee meeting is held to evaluate the products that reflected their requirements. purchase. The General Affairs Department Promotions informed customers about the is in charge of convening meetings, products in detail, thus helping customers while detailed work related to meeting to manage their wealth wisely. proceedings is handled by the department that wishes to make the purchase, or jointly by that department and the Procurement Department. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 2 Shareholders/Investors Major Issues 1 2 3 Provide transparent reports Build a sustainable business Increase shareholder and on economic performance model for a changing investor interest in and increase active corporate environment non-financial information communications Opportunities & Risks The stock market continues to remain unstable, due to uncertainty in the business environment in Korea and overseas. The continued low interest trend across the globe has also triggered major changes in the Korean financial market environment. KDB Daewoo Securities is implementing business strategies that are appropriate for such financial environment, in order to build a revenue base that can continue to grow. 60 Key Performance Number of HNWI with investments Industry’s top-level Total client asset as of of KRW 100 million and above credit ratings the end of June 2015 as of the end of June 2015 AA+, Baa2 Over KRW 135 trillion Recorded 61,193 Received three awards at the Indonesian subsidiary ‘2015 thebell League Table Awards’ DJSI World Index acquired underwriting license Best Equity Deal, For a fourth consecutive year Best Financial Bond House, Best Bond Deal (ABS) Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities KDB Daewoo Securities responds flexibly to the financial market, and strives to build foundations for sustainable growth, all in an effort to maximize value for shareholders. Sustainable Business Model 6 Capitals of KDB Daewoo Securities Impacts on Stakeholders It is important to present a sustainable business model to shareholders and Financial Capital investors, and to provide them with • Contribute to Korea’s Capital used by the company to provide products and services capital market transparent information on corporate value. KDB Daewoo Securities uses an • Return to investors and Total shareholders’ equity Tax expenses employees integrated reporting framework how we KRW 4.2 trillion KRW 84.9 billion facilitate our capitals and create synergy among them, in order to provide our Manufactured Capital products and services. Buildings, facilities, and infrastructure that the company can use to produce products or provide services • Enhance customer satisfaction Domestic network Global network • Facilitate the local economy overseas 102 12 61 Human Capital Support for the corporate governance and ethical values for human resources, competencies, experiences and innovation • Share skills and knowhow among staff Total number of employees Number of trainings on ethics • Maintain a transparent 2,968 142 corporate culture Intellectual Capital Knowledge-based intangible assets, including brand image and other reputation developed by the company • Develop customeroriented products Number of Number of professional staff trainings financial certificates • Strengthen employee 343 1,533 expertise Natural Capital All environmental resources and relevant products and services • Realize a low-carbon society Greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) CDP score 33.9% decrease year-on-year 99/100 • Build an eco-friendly business environment Social Capital Systems and relations within or among communities, stakeholders, and other networks • Realize a society where Social contribution Hours of participation in CSR diversity is respected expenditures activities per person per annum • Promote the regional KRW 2.1 billion 2.9 economy * Based on the performance in 2014 and 2015 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Revenue by Business in FY2014 32.7% KRW 236.6 billion 32.2 % KRW 97.0 billion 35.5 % 471.5 % KRW 58.8 billion KRW 214.9 billion Brokerage WM IB S&T 1) KDB Daewoo Securities’ fiscal period increased from 9 months to 12 months after a change in settlement date. 2) As of the end of 2014. The increase (%) indicates performance compared to the previous year. Sustainable Economic Markets (ECM), which had previously Credit Ratings Performance been stagnant. We successfully led the In November 2011, KDB Daewoo IPO for Cheil Industries, one of the largest KDB Daewoo Securities continues to Securities received AA+ grade from ever in Korea, which highlighted our create opportunities to enhance corporate Korea Ratings and the Korea Investors outstanding capabilities. Sales & Trading value, and strives to share a strong culture Service for its non-guaranteed corporate (S&T) revenue stood at KRW 214.9 billion, of investment to take a lead in advancing bonds, the best credit rating given to helped by an excellent performance finance. a financial investment company since from investing in fixed income issued in 62 the Asian financial crisis of 1998. The Korea and offshore, thanks to our active Summary of Economic Performance company received AA+ grade from NICE response to the interest rate environment Investors Service in September 2012, In 2014, KDB Daewoo Securities recorded at home and abroad. and also received Baa2 grade for foreign net operating revenue of KRW 798.7 currency-denominated long-term fixed billion, operating income of KRW 270.8 * Refer to page 81 for more information on economic performance income from Moody’s in January 2011, billion, income before income tax of KRW and has maintained that rating. 273.8 billion, and net income of KRW 205.2 billion, our best performance since Operational Size 2011. As of the end of 2014, the company AA+ KDB Daewoo Securities strives to support Korea Investors had KRW 30,613.3 billion in total assets, Service KRW 26,439 billion in total liabilities, and shareholders and investors through KRW 4,174.3 billion in total shareholders’ distinctive sales strategies based on trust and expertise. Our strategies to build equity. Brokerage revenue reached KRW 236.6 the foundations for sustainable growth in Korea Ratings AA+ 2014 resulted in total client assets rising billion. The company saw slight recoveries 19.1% from the end of 2013 to reach KRW in both commissions and turnover market shares, and revenues were also helped 136.6 trillion. WM assets reached KRW 55.3 trillion, a year-on-year increase of NICE Investors Service AA+ by an increase in profits from investments. 6.1%, and the number of High Net Worth Wealth Management (WM: financial product sales) revenue stood at KRW 97.0 Individuals (HNWI) with investments of KRW 100 million or more rose from 47,280 Moody’s Baa2 billion. Efforts to expand our customer in 2013 to 51,337 at the end of 2014. * As of the end of September 2015 contact points resulted in a KRW 2.8 trillion increase in our retail financial product assets compared to end-2013. In addition, total financial product assets Client Assets WM Assets Number of HNW Clients rose KRW 3.2 trillion in 2014, to reach 19.1% increase YoY 6.1% increase YoY 8.6% increase YoY KRW 55.3 trillion. Investment Banking KRW 136.6 trillion KRW 55.3 trillion 51,337 persons (IB) revenue recorded KRW 58.8 billion, with major Initial Public Offerings (IPO) * As of the end of 2014. The increase (%) indicates performance compared to the previous year. helping a strong recovery in Equity Capital Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities Performance and Plan by Business Revenue by Business To strengthen our retail business, the Investment Information Support Department, 20.6 an organization dedicated to retail operations Interest income 30.9 provides direct and indirect support for the retail brokerage operations. There are also Brokerage active customer communication activities, FY2014 including seminars at branches, one-on(Unit: %) one investment consulting for VIPs, and companion visits to companies. In domestic 28.1 wholesale brokerage, our market share was 4.7%, thus maintaining our leading Sales & Trading 12.7 position even without having a major asset Wealth management management affiliate; this was enabled 7.7 by increasing the number of institutions Investment banking we do business with and developing new sources of revenues. Our market share for international wholesale brokerage saw year63 * Revenues before commission expenses; on-year growth of 0.1%p to reach 2.8%. Excluding other net operating revenues In the area of prime brokerage service (PBS), we served as a prime broker for five asset managers and nine Korean hedge Brokerage funds in 2014, providing a comprehensive range of services, from brokerage and margin transactions to credit offerings, portfolio swaps, and Repurchase Overview Agreements (Repos). Our focus for 2014 was on increasing the balance of margin Our brokerage business offers broking transactions, with the result that our balance services for securities transaction for doubled over the previous year, making us a individual, institutional, and foreign investors. leading company in the industry. Performance Plans Brokerage revenue went up by KRW 58.3 billion to record KRW 236.6 billion. • Improve distinctive sales Commission and turnover market shares competitiveness and research skills were up slightly, by 0.4%p and 0.1%p, • Create synergy with retail sales respectively over the previous year, and channels, to expand the network and revenues were up as a result of our fiscal diversify sources of revenue period increasing from nine months to • Actively participate in IB deals, including twelve months because of a change in the block deals and IPOs, in addition to settlement date. The daily average trading traditional brokerage volume in 2014 remained around KRW 6 trillion, with individual investors accounting • Prepare for the passing of a Bill for less than 59%. In this challenging on reforming the PEF system, and business environment, our commission successful positioning in the market revenues dropped, but our retail commission market share rose by 0.2%p, to 5.2%. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 financial product assets totaling KRW 33.3 financial company, and the first nonWealth Management trillion at the end of 2014, the highest in the resident Renminbi bonds in Korea. These industry in Korea. Retirement pensions are achievements all helped us to remain seeing high growth, with many individual at the top of the league tables for IB in customers being added. Korea. Overview In the M&A sector, we were ahead of Plans others in cross-border M&A. We attracted The WM sector sells financial products •Optimize the sales point network Limited Partners (LP), including the and offers financial consulting services. • Formulate differentiated marketing National Pension Service, based on existing PEFs, and continued our efforts Performance strategies through market, customer, to diversify our profit structure such as by and trend analyses WM revenue rose KRW 23.6 billion in 2014, successfully providing financial advice for to reach KRW 97.0 billion. The issuance • Improve the quality and competitiveness large-scale wind power generation, and of Equity-Linked Securities (ELS) and of contents achieved significant accomplishments. Derivative-Linked Securities (DLS) reached • Strengthen PB skills and improve Our accomplishments in the IB sector KRW 13.7 trillion. Wrap account and Repo customer processes were recognized with many awards, 64 assets stood at KRW 12.6 trillion and helping to further enhance the reputation • Ensure co-work system between KRW 6.7 trillion respectively, indicating our of KDB Daewoo Securities. In particular, different business divisions in the stable revenue base based on diversified we won three categories – Best Equity company products. Deal, Best Financial Bond House, and Best Bond Deal (ABS) – at the 2015 KDB Daewoo Securities has opened thebell League Table Awards, hosted by small, specialized sales points to increase MoneyToday thebell. customer contact points, and strives Investment Banking to expand the customer base through Plans various contents and a line-up of distinctive products. Our WM assets in 2014 were up • Implement a two-track strategy by by KRW 3.2 trillion from the previous year achieving a balance between large and to KRW 55.3 trillion, making us the industry Business Overview smallto mid-sized deals leader. • Generate synergy by providing total The IB sector provides corporate financing, services within IB We opened additional sales points in 2014 PEF, and M&A-related services. to increase customer contact points, and • Establish a foothold in consulting provided diverse products and services to Performance services for Korean companies’ meet customer needs. We are also trying acquisition of overseas companies IB revenue rose KRW 15.5 billion from to improve customer satisfaction and build 2013 to reach KRW 58.8 billion. We our brand image by offering distinctive increased revenue in the recovering ECM consulting services to different customer market by acting as a lead manager of the bases. Bancassurance is one of our leading IPO of Cheil Industries, one of the biggest products for retirement and tax planning, deals in Korea, and by arranging largeand is contributing to the establishment scale block sales. In Debt Capital Markets of a stable revenue base. We ranked (DCM), there was increased competition the industry’s No. 1 in bancassurance after measures to stabilize the corporate product sales, as measured by converting bond market were adopted. We pursued all assets into single payment. Our ability business diversification by successfully to offer financial products that satisfy issuing a new type of convertible bond, the customer needs led to domestic wholesale first hybrid bonds from a credit-specialized Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities investment products and focused on airline; we also offered products related to Sales & Trading generating competitive and sustainable this deal to domestic investors. In addition, investment revenues, leading improvements we launched a PEF in relation to a Korean in PI performance. shipping company project. Our Hong Kong subsidiary, which had shareholders’ equity Plans of USD 300 million and a net income of KRW Overview 8.7 billion in 2014, has been a great success • Improve revenues by enhancing the The S&T sector offers fixed income and – this subsidiary is unrivaled in terms of both exchange-traded and over-the-counter competitiveness of key businesses size and profitability among the overseas derivative products, manages hedge • Create new sources of revenue and networks of Korean securities firms. funds, and invests the company’s equity increase overseas investments We are implementing a midto long-term capital. • Increase customer satisfaction by plan for emerging markets with strong offering distinctive products growth potential. This strategy involves Performance developing our overseas subsidiaries S&T revenues in 2014 was KRW 214.9 into full-service securities firms by billion, a year-on-year increase of leveraging our personnel and knowKRW 177.3 billion. Despite increasing Global Business 65 how. For example, in Indonesia, we are uncertainties at home and abroad, with two combining our IT technologies and onbase interest rate reductions of the Bank of line business know-how, and, as a result, Korea and the postponement of the US exit the Indonesian subsidiary is building a strategy, there was a favorable interest rate reputation as the biggest and best on-line Overview environment which KDB Daewoo Securities securities firm in Indonesia. In 2014, our actively leveraged to achieve an outstanding KDB Daewoo Securities has distinctive Indonesian subsidiary, after obtaining its performance in fixed income issued in Korea strategies and products for different regions, underwriting license and completed its first and offshore. We increased overseas fixed which strengthens local businesses, IB deal, and we now plan to make it into income investments, including investments including IB and direct investment. Indonesia’s leading full-service securities in Europe and emerging markets, and firm. Elsewhere around the world, we can expanded overseas returns to around Performance adopt Korea’s advanced finance model to 30% of the total, reflecting our success in supply distinctive products that leverage We continue to advance into overseas diversifying revenue sources. KDB Daewoo Securities’ unique strengths. markets as a means of overcoming In 2014, this has enabled us to offer a Derivatives became more attractive structural issues in the Korean market, USD Certificate of Deposit (CD) fund from investments in a low interest rate including an aging society, low growth, and Mongolia’s TDB Bank, and to sell deposits environment, and with the market mostly the global financial crisis. As of the end in the Agricultural Bank of China and a being range-bound in 2014. Total market of 2014, we have 12 offices (8 overseas Convertible Bond (CB) trust of the Bank of issuance was at a record high, and we subsidiaries, 1 branch, 3 representative China. recorded the industry’s best issuance offices) in nine countries around the globe, performance. In Alternative Investment (AI) with around 400 personnel. Strengthening proprietary trading, we made selective and our overseas business will improve our Plans focused investments, aiming at stability overall competitiveness. • Formulate distinctive strategies that are and profitability; we used our knowledge right for local circumstances We aim to maximize revenues in major of domestic and overseas real estate economies by making direct investments • Boost competitiveness and identify new PF to make good investments in those in assets. In 2014, KDB Daewoo Securities businesses in regions where we already areas and, as a result, our revenues and became the first securities firm in Korea have a presence investment earnings rates improved over to invest in aircraft when we invested in • Build a ‘Premier PB House’ by the past three years. In Principal Investment aircraft used by Finnair, the Finnish state-run developing unique products (PI), we controlled volatility by specializing KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 3 Employees Major Issues 1 2 3 Increased emphasis on Intensified competition Share visions and establish respecting diversity and to recruit and retain a corporate culture through protecting employees’ outstanding talent employee communication human rights Opportunities & Risks Increased specialization and segmentation in the financial industry is making it more important to recruit and retain the talent. KDB Daewoo Securities seeks to be an attractive company, for those wishing to join us, where they can fulfill their dreams of becoming financial experts. We also strive to help our staff achieve a balance between their personal and work lives, and develop their careers. That is why we place the highest priority on employee satisfaction when 66 we build our HR system, ranging from recruitment and welfare to labor-management relations, performance evaluation and compensation, training, and communications. Key Performance Participation rate in training on 2012~2014 Labor union membership preventing sexual harassment in 2014 Open HR percentage in 2014 100% 64 employees were 93% transferred to their desired positions Family Day Promotions assessment system Expanded to twice a month Reformed Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities KDB Daewoo Securities develops talent in a spirit of challenge and passion, to build a creative and open corporate culture. Workforce Qualifications KDB Daewoo Securities’ total workforce • Staffs who have been with KDB Daewoo stood at 3,044 at the end of 2014, of Securities for more than four years whom 1,836 were male and 1,208 were female. Female employees account • Must have worked in current department for 39.7% of the total. The company for three years or more, or two years for is providing equal opportunities in branch staff consideration of diversity. Non-regular workers comprise approximately 15.7% Process of the total workface, and we aim to make 109 departments and branches have more of them into permanent employees submitted applications using the Open HR Notice for the second Open HR in 2014 so as to enable greater harmony and unity system, and, following a strictly confidential among all staff. screening process, 64 employees were selected and assigned to the relevant 67 departments and branches. Many staff Principles Recruitment and Retention of members have shown an interest in the Outstanding Personnel •Staffs chosen are immediately appointed Open HR system, and a Q&A session was to the appropriate department or branch We recruited 115 people in 2014, to held to provide answers to their questions. acquire outstanding talent and promote •The manager of the department or employment. The turnover rate was 5.7% branch from which the staff will be for male employees and 4.3% for female departing is notified after the selection employees in 2013, but these figures fell process, to ensure there is no substantially in 2014, to 3.1% and 2.6%, Each department and branch disadvantage to the employee, such respectively, as a result of our efforts to seeking internal recruitment applies to participate as evaluation and compensation for retain the best people. We will continue to performance share our vision and improve employee satisfaction in order to recruit and retain •Strict confidentiality is maintained until outstanding talents. the final appointments are made Departments and branches subject to internal recruitment are finalized •Any fraudulent conduct is strictly Open HR prohibited KDB Daewoo Securities implemented its •If there is a fraudulent act, such as ‘Open HR’ system from 2012 to 2014, Individuals apply for internal making personal requests or violating the aimed at unlocking outstanding talent and recruitment principle of confidentiality in the selection enabling individual employees accomplish process, the competition is cancelled their personal visions. Open HR puts the and a penalty is applied for the following best talent in the right positions, allowing recruitment staff to expand their work experience A screening process takes place at each appropriate department and and thus increase their expertise and •The number of employees selected by branch (screening for selection) skills. Departments and branches that one department or branch is restricted need more personnel publish a notice of to no more than 10% of the total number the number of people needed and the of employees in that department or qualifications required, after which the branch (where the number of selected Announcement is made on selected optimal talent is chosen through open employees employees exceeds 10%, the longestcompetition. serving are given priority) KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 100 % Diversity in Employment in 2014 Labor-Management Council KDB Daewoo Securities enacted its Labor-Management Council regulations in 1990, and holds a Labor-Management 319 Participation rate in training on Council meeting every quarter. The preventing sexual harassment in 2014 Labor-Management Council represents all employees at the company, and is in Protecting Human Rights charge of engaging in discussions with High school graduates senior management with regard to major KDB Daewoo Securities joined the UN employee-related issues. Four meetings Global Compact (UNGC) in October were held in 2014, during which there 57 2006, and abides firmly by its ten were discussions on 38 agendas. In 2014, principles concerning human rights, through a labor-management agreement, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. we abolished our previous severance The company also prohibits any forms pay system, in which it was progressive of child labor and forced labor, or any Disabled as of the years of service. This system discrimination based on employees’ had placed a burden on the company’s backgrounds. There were no incidences cost management, and the changes have 27 related to employee discrimination in the helped to build stronger foundations for 68 latest reporting period. the company’s financial structure and KDB Daewoo Securities gives mandatory competitiveness. training on sexual harassment prevention Foreigners once a year to its entire workforce. Internal Labor Union Operation and In 2014, all staff completed their onMembership 68 line training on sexual harassment KDB Daewoo Securities upholds the prevention from November 17th through labor rights stipulated in Article 33 of the to December 18th. Constitution of Korea, and does not have any internal regulations or guidelines Men of national merit that counter or curtail the application Respecting Diversity of the law. The company does not take KDB Daewoo Securities is active in its any measures against employees for efforts to abolish discrimination based on engaging in labor union activities. academic background, and selects talent To guarantee these rights in practice, by focusing on skills. Pursuant to the unemployment, and to seek to hire skilled KDB Daewoo Securities protects the Framework Act on Employment Policy, high school graduates; this included labor union activities and labor disputes the company does not discriminate employment counseling sessions for job that are stipulated in the collective against people on grounds of gender, seekers. agreement. As of the end of 2014, labor religion, physical condition, social status, union membership stands at 93% of the educational background, marriage, workforce, with 2,134 union members Labor-Management Relations from among the 2,283 employees who pregnancy, medical history, etc. during its recruitment process, and guarantees KDB Daewoo Securities respects are entitled to membership. equal opportunities for employment. The voluntary labor union activities that company pursues diversity in employment obey all relevant laws and regulations. by offering opportunities to women, the The company engages in transparent Welfare disabled, and non-Koreans. KDB Daewoo communications through the LaborKDB Daewoo Securities operates various Securities participated in the ‘2014 Job Management Council and the company’s welfare programs to help our staff to Concert for High School Graduates’ labor union, and strives to improve the maintain a positive balance between their to help to address the issue of youth work environment for employees. personal and work lives. Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities Key Welfare Programs Employee Safety and Health KDB Daewoo Securities’ employee safety Program Details and health system supports health care, Support for leisure life Operate condominiums, and provide subsidies for club activities so that we have a safe work environment and our staff can enjoy healthy lives. Support for Provide paid maternity leave before and after birth, new mothers congratulatory fund for birth Employee Safety and Health System Housing support Provide housing loans, and support employees living outside of Korea was suffered from Middle East their hometown to increase sense of stability Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) in 2015, Medical and health Support medical expenses, health checkup, dispensary and KDB Daewoo Securities raised the support risk level under its business continuity Educational support Support schooling expenses plan to ‘alert’ in June 2015. A separate work space was set up for selected Physiological leave, parental leave before and after birth, employees in order to continue daily Vacation system paternity leave for spouse, annual leave, regular leave, other leaves related to congratulatory and consolatory events business in case of infectee occurs, and disease control measures were Transportation expenses for overtime and compensation for implemented at branches, with all relevant working on holidays, reward for continuous service, employee Support for daily life association operation, fitness center, group term life insurance, information being provided to customers. 69 support in relation to congratulatory and consolatory events, etc. We also measured the temperatures of all visitors at the company headquarters The second Friday and fourth Wednesday of each month are Family Day designated as Family Day to help employees enjoy cultural and the Gwacheon Human Resource events with families and colleagues Development Center, and restricted access to visitors with a temperature of 37 degrees or higher. These measures helped to prevent the spread of this Welfare System As of the end of 2014, the number of staff infectious disease, while continuing to covered by the retirement pension system provide customer services. KDB Daewoo Securities runs facilities and provides subsidies for various club was 2,852. Fitness Center activities so that staff can enjoy their leisure time. The company provides Maternity and Child Care Leave KDB Daewoo Securities has a fitness housing loans to increase our employees’ To encourage childbirth and protect center on the 17th floor of its headquarters sense of stability, and financial support for mothers’ rights in Korea, which is building in Yeouido, to promote the health tuition and medical expenses. In addition, struggling with a low birthrate, KDB Daewoo of its staff. The center is available for use KDB Daewoo Securities has a group term Securities guarantees maternity and child at any time throughout the day, except life insurance policy for its entire staff, and care leave. In 2014, the retention rate after during work hours. It helps employees pays all related premiums. child care leave was 91.8%. relieve themselves from stress and strengthen their physical health. Retiree Support Program Child Care Center We offer various career development Pursuant to Article 14 ‘Establishment of programs for re-employment and business Company Child Care Center’ of the Infant start-ups so that employees can enjoy a Care Act, KDB Daewoo Securities shares stable post-retirement life. We adopted child care center jointly with other owners a retirement pension system in October since 2011. This measure was taken as 2014, and use the Defined Benefit (DB) a part of the company’s welfare programs or Defined Contribution (DC) plans, to help employees feel less burdened depending on an employee’s position. from childbirth and child care. Fitness center for employees KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Promoting Employees’ Emotional Health Fair Evaluation and KDB Daewoo Securities began its Compensation Employee Assistance Program (EAP) KDB Daewoo Securities evaluates in 2010, to provide professional performance through transparent psychological counseling and coaching procedures and the right criteria. There services to resolve issues that our staff are various incentives based on the come across inside and outside of work. outcome of evaluations, thus motivating A total of 590 cases were consulted as of staff and increasing efficiency. 2013; it has been reforming since 2014. Performance Evaluation Process Employees are graded on their performance and capabilities, and feedback from evaluations is provided so as to ensure fairness. There are upward appraisals of executives, department managers, branch managers, and team Notice for 2014 performance evaluation heads to enable communication between and promotion senior and junior staff, and to build the 70 skills of unit heads. Colleague evaluations Reforming the Promotions Assessment are conducted to build mutual trust System and share constructive advice. These multifaceted evaluations allow impartial KDB Daewoo Securities has reformed performance evaluations. In addition, all the promotions assessment system to employees have an interview with their enhance fairness and transparency. The department or branch manager to go reformation centered on the creation Notice for EAP service through their personnel evaluation, and of Promotion Assessment Committee, also engage in more communications on which evaluates the qualifications and a regular basis. competencies of the promoted in light of the characteristics of each position and duty involved. When promotions are Performance Evaluation Process announced, information on base scores for promotions and the promotion ratio are also revealed, to ensure confidence in Downward the system’s fairness. Upward Evaluation Evaluation Department and Category Main details branch Employee Compensation System manager interviews Target of Executive, department manager, branch manager, evaluation and part manager (team manager) evaluation Employees receive both financial and 1 Self-evaluation Executive Department Part manager non-financial compensation according to manager (Team manager) 2 Initial evaluation a fair and transparent evaluation process. Compliance Compensation includes basic salaries, 3 Feedback Leadership bonuses, and welfare benefits. KDB Evaluated Policy categories competencies Organizational culture Daewoo Securities does not discriminate 4 Final evaluation improvements based on gender in basic salaries. In 5 Finalization Organization value oriented 2014, the new employee wage was 271% of evaluation of the Korean minimum wage. Job Work drive 6 Application competencies for objection Use of Referenced for provision of opportunities for top-down communication, 7 Finalization evaluation skill development of unit organizational managers, and of grade results organizational operations Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities Employee Communications Benefits of Do Dream By facilitating various communication channels, promoting communications across hierarchy, and acting on the ideas and opinions of our staff, KDB Daewoo Securities is creating our own corporate culture. Create a culture of Launch of Do Dream open communication The ‘Do Dream’ internal bulletin board KOK – a WM solution provider for suggestions was set up to expedite work, system, and cultural innovation, and to promote a culture of open ‘KOK’ has a dual meaning – it stands for communication. Employees can suggest Share ideas ‘Key of Knowledge’, but ‘kok’ in Korean ideas or opinions, and anyone can also means to ‘pinpoint’ referring to make comments on them. Relevant the fact that the sales material shared departments review and discuss the on this forum pinpoints customer suggestions, and adopt them in their needs. The latest sales materials and 71 policies as appropriate. There is also Facilitate product information are delivered to collective intelligence the ‘Sharing Best Practice’ board PBs every quarter, helping them to through which employees can share offer the best advice to customers, to information on how they improved work formulate strategies on how to respond to make it more efficient, and the ‘Plan a to different scenarios, and to suggest Proposal’ board, where departments at customized portfolios. The material can Accelerate headquarters offer plans, and staff can be downloaded from our bulletin board, management innovation comment and suggest ideas on them. and can be viewed conveniently using a smartphone or tablet PC, anytime and Communications for a Transparent anywhere. Corporate Culture information that helps employees to take WM Community Audit Department Newsletter appropriate measures in the event of an To build a ‘Premier PB House’, KDB KDB Daewoo Securities’ Audit issue related to compliance. Daewoo Securities undertook major Department releases its ‘Newsletter from improvements to the ‘WM Community’, the Audit Department’ every month, to Specialist Work Communications our forum for enterprise-wide WM share information on audit-related issues CS Talk for Customer Service communications. Previous sales support throughout the company. The newsletter Employees use the CS Talk to share channels were all integrated into WM talks about the company’s internal audit their know-how and ideas, so that the Community in 2013, and this was schedule, various internal and external company can always effectively respond followed by improvements to the userissues, and information on how staff can to customer needs. Independent and customized content search function, the be fully aware of audit-related issues and voluntary participation makes sure that provision of real-time, open information, prevent problems in advance. information that is needed in the field is and the establishment of an improved Compliance Issue available, and related know-how can be forum for information-sharing in the open The Compliance Department shares shared. CS Talk is also used to share the community. We have now established a information on ethics and compliance results of customer satisfaction surveys. web environment that allows users to find with all employees, compliance issues and view content at a single glance; this WM Solution KOK will help our staff share their professional that might easily be overlooked, and amendments to finance-related laws. The This sales material enables employees financial knowledge and contribute to department also organizes and supplies to conveniently obtain information that maximize synergy. is essential for customer consulting. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 4 Local Communities Major Issues 1 Increase social contribution activities that reflect our business and culture 2 Diversify activities that are aimed at resolving social issues 3 Minimize the company’s environmental impact to counter climate change Opportunities & Risks Social contribution activities are growing in importance at home and abroad. KDB Daewoo Securities supports a wide array of programs that seek to resolve social issues and make best use of our financial expertise, rather than just making one-time donations. By considering the needs of the beneficiaries, and encouraging sincere staff participation, our activities continue over time, and increase opportunities for a win-win relationship 72 with local communities. Key Performance Direct greenhouse gas Per-capita greenhouse gas Employee participation rate in emissions in 2014 (Scope 1) emissions in 2014 Lovemeter in 2014 Decreased by 33.9% Decreased by 5.5% 88.3% year-on-year year-on-year Number of companies supported through the Jump Up project Consumption of paper in 2014 2015 CDP sore 16 (2013~2014) Decreased by 3.7% Improved by 18 points year-on-year year-on-year Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities KDB Daewoo Securities’ social contributions aim to fulfill our responsibilities as part of local communities, and put into practice our sustainability management through sharing. Social Contributions to CSR Vision System Grow with Local Communities KDB Daewoo Securities undertakes localized CSR activities based on its Slogan Dream with us commitment to grow together with local communities through equal opportunities. Finance to Multicultural Family Support CSR Vision grow together Program Major programs to help multicultural families settle down in Korea and become independent include a cookbook in Core Value Grow together through equal opportunities multiple languages, bilingual educational 73 Localized CSR activities through support for the children of multicultural Strategic Direction empathy and participation families, and the sharing of educational Core Businesses content to improve people’s understanding of multiculturalism. KDB Daewoo Securities Multicultural Under-developed Social chose multiculturalism as one of its key family support nation support entrepreneurship program program program CSR programs, and details are provided on page 45~47 at the Strategic Focus section of this Sustainability Report. with the World Food Program (WFP), KDB Plan Korea, an international child support Under-developed Nation Daewoo Securities began construction of group with expertise and a network in Support Program the KDB Daewoo Securities School and Indonesia. Supporting under-developed nations is a completed construction in 2013. KDB social responsibility of global community Daewoo Securities supports the school’s members. KDB Daewoo Securities meal program, which enables around 400 operates a ‘safe educational environment students to enjoy a good meal at school to program’ for children in the world’s poorest help them study. The school is also used by nations and in countries where some of local residents as a venue for community the company’s overseas subsidiaries are activities. located. This has helped us to develop our local network, and to support the Repairing and Remodeling Elementary CSR activities in the DRC development of local communities in those Schools in Indonesia countries. KDB Daewoo Securities provides support in Indonesia so that elementary schools Meal Support for an Elementary School in disaster-affected areas can be repaired in the DRC and remodeled, and local residents helped An African research project by the to learn what to do in the case of natural company’s Junior Board in 2011 led disasters. The impact of this program has to a school project in the Democratic been increased through our collaboration Republic of the Congo (DRC). Together with our Indonesian subsidiary and with CSR activities in Indonesia KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Social Entrepreneurship Working Capital for Social Enterprises Program KDB Daewoo Securities signed a A good way to address social issues is memorandum of understanding for the to support young entrepreneurs which promotion of social enterprises with create social value through innovative the Korea Social Enterprise Promotion ideas. KDB Daewoo Securities makes Agency and Social Solidarity Bank, to diverse efforts to help outstanding social provide one-year low interest rate working entrepreneurs achieve independence, capital loans to social enterprises that find and to facilitate the establishment of a it difficult to get loans from established Performance evaluation of the Jump Up project social economy ecosystem. In recognition financial institutions. Support was given to of these efforts, KDB Daewoo Securities 25 enterprises from 2011 through 2014, won the Minister of Employment and helping them to resolve short-term cashLabor Award in 2013. flow difficulties and improve business continuity. Project to Develop Young Social Entrepreneurs Educational Support for KDB Daewoo Securities’ Jump Up project Teenagers involves discovering outstanding business 74 start-up teams established by young KDB Daewoo Securities’ educational people and providing them with the support programs are based on Received the ‘Education Donation Award’ from the Ministry of Education funds that they need to grow into a social customized sponsorship – we ascertain enterprise. We have provided support to the needs of recipients, and tailor the a total of 26 teams from 2012 through best educational program for them. 2014, and the results have been very We collaborate with local partners that positive, with half of the teams being are best-placed to provide the right designated as preliminary social educational support for children, such as enterprises. We also hold an annual social enterprises and college student research paper contest for college and volunteer groups. graduate school students across the nation; this increases understanding of the social economy and builds a foundation for supporting potential young enterpreneurs. Support for Social Enterprises Project Size Project Year Note (KRW 100 million) Customized education programs offered 8 business teams (16 enterprises) chosen as part of through ‘Go! Dream Tree Class’ 2014 2.1 the Jump Up project were provided with growth funds Fostering social Held an annual research paper contest for college and entrepreneurs graduate school students across the nation 2013 2.0 (21 winners from 70 entries) and publicized the collected papers Supporting 2014 1.05 5 enterprises (Average of KRW 21 million per enterprise) short-term working 2013 1.5 5 enterprises (KRW 30 million per enterprise) capital Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities ‘Go! Dream Tree Class’ Program Learning Aid Equipment Support In 2013, KDB Daewoo Securities began Since 2010, KDB Daewoo Securities has an educational program for children in provided 40 Braille terminals for visually small study rooms. ‘Go! Dream Tree impaired college students from lowClass’ was offered in nine areas in 2013 income families, to help young people and 13 areas in 2014. It is tailored for who are passionate about learning each study room and includes a variety but cannot afford expensive learning of content to help children to develop equipment. In 2013, KDB Daewoo and live happy lives. In recognition Securities bought 20 hearing aids from of the program’s commitment and a social enterprise and donated them to effectiveness, KDB Daewoo Securities hearing-impaired college students. won the ‘Education Donation Award’ from Received the ‘Seoul City Mayor Award’ the Ministry of Education in 2013. Staff Participation in Sponsorship for Alternative Schools for CSR Activities North Korean Defectors KDB Daewoo Securities’ culture of KDB Daewoo Securities sponsors the sharing grows every year, thanks to the ‘Heavenly Dream School’ and ‘Yeomyung continued and enthusiastic participation School’, alternative schools for teenage of our staff. 75 North Korean defectors. These schools help teenagers overcome the sense of Volunteering Programs cultural difference that they experience in KDB Daewoo Securities’ regular South Korea, and enables them to settle volunteering involves departments and T-SKY, a volunteer education group consisting of down in a new society. In addition to high school students branches cleaning local facilities at least sponsorship, the KDB Daewoo Securities’ once a year. These facilities include table tennis team visits Heavenly Dream nursing homes, facilities for the disabled, School every month to provide a table nurseries, and hospices. KDB Daewoo tennis class. KDB Daewoo Securities won Securities also offers volunteer programs the ‘Seoul City Mayor Award’ in 2014 in with such themes as painting walls, recognition of our efforts. In the second making kimchi, lending a hand on farms, half of 2015, we plan to teach Yeomyung and delivering charcoal briquettes. These School students about the economy. programs enable staff to share time with colleagues and families, and contribute to Support for Student Volunteer Education the local communities which are the root Groups Wall painting volunteer program of our company. KDB Daewoo Securities’ regular volunteering involves departments and Volunteering with Customers branches cleaning local facilities at least Volunteering with customers not only once a year. These facilities include helps the underprivileged as part of nursing homes, facilities for the disabled, our social responsibilities, but it also nurseries, and hospices. KDB Daewoo strengthens relationships with our Securities also offers volunteer programs customers. KDB Daewoo Securities with such themes as painting walls, provided support for these volunteering making kimchi, lending a hand on farms, activities on 13 occasions in 2013, and 24 and delivering charcoal briquettes. These occasions in 2014. Charcoal briquettes delivery volunteer program programs enable staff to share time with colleagues and families, and to contribute to the local communities which are the root of our company. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Breakdown of Social Contribution Expenditures in 2014 3.2 Project and volunteer support 2.1 Total 9.6 Support for social Support for enterprises 20.8 (Unit: KRW 100 million) multicultural families 2.1 Global social contributions Donating goods through Emptying Out & Filling Up 2.4 76 Support for social welfare facilities 1.4 (the disabled, childcare, senior) Educational support for teenagers from low-income families Employee Participation in ‘Lovemeter’ ‘Lovemeter’ – Donations from Salaries Use of Social Contribution Budget Each month, KDB Daewoo Securities’ Funds for our CSR programs come from 88.0 employees donate a portion of their the donations made through Lovemeter 88.3 salaries through ‘Lovemeter’, our internal and from the social contribution funds that Participation rate fund-raising system. The funds are used the company sets aside every year. The 84.4 (Unit: %) to sponsor welfare facilities recommended company openly discloses all information by each of our regional headquarters. on use of the social contribution budget No. of employees through its internal Intranet. who participated 2,660 2,718 (Unit: Person) ‘Emptying Out & Filling Up’ Event 2,687 ‘Emptying Out & Filling Up’ takes place Eco-friendly Green Management every spring and autumn under the slogan ‘Let’s empty our closets and bookshelves, KDB Daewoo Securities undertakes and fill our hearts with love’. Staff donate eco-friendly green management by items such as books, clothing and bags, reducing ecological footprints involved and proceeds are used to create jobs in its business, and by participating for the underprivileged and help them in international initiatives aimed at achieve independence. countering climate change, such as the CDP and Change for Climate (C4C). The 20121) 20132) 20143) company also strives to minimize the environmental impact, thus establishing a 1) 2012: Based on total of 3,150 employees green working environment. 2) 2013: Based on total of 3,090 employees 3) 2014: Based on total of 3,044 employees Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities Environmental Management System Greenhouse Gas Reduction KDB Daewoo Securities set up its KDB Daewoo Securities looks to reduce environmental policies in 2006, and now greenhouse gas emissions throughout focuses on enterprise-wide environmental its 12 company buildings including the processes to implement these policies. Yeouido headquarters, and the Gwacheon company building. As a result, emissions Participation in the CDP in 2014 were down 6.9% compared to the previous year, with per-capita emissions As a member of the CDP, KDB Daewoo down 5.5%. Securities has disclosed its carbon Energy-saving campaign video emission information since 2010. The company won the Carbon Management Eco-Friendly Business Reducing Paper Usage Special Award at the 2013 CDP Korea Operations Awards, and the Carbon Management KDB Daewoo Securities seeks to reduce Sector (Finance) Winner Award in 2015 as As a financial investment company, the amount of paper that is wasted in its a result of our evaluation score rising from KDB Daewoo Securities’ business activities business activities, which also reduces 81 points in 2014 to 99 points in 2015. We do not have a substantial impact on the relevant expenses. Staff are encouraged have also joined C4C, a corporate climate environment, but the company is still to use black-and-white, double-sided, and change initiative based on the UNGC. committed to being eco-friendly. We collect 2-up (printing two pages on one side of and use environmental performance data, a piece of paper) printing. The amount of 77 such as on energy and paper usage paper used for photocopying and printing and on greenhouse gas emissions, and fell 5.2% year-on-year in 2014, and total CDP Score undertake activities that seek to reduce our paper usage was down 5.0%. impact on the environment. 99 Establishing a Green Work Environment Chinese Environmental KDB Daewoo In order to improve energy efficiency, Protection Company Report Securities KDB Daewoo Securities maintains an KDB Daewoo Securities has issued a 81 79 average indoor temperature of 26°C or higher at all sales points during summer, report that detailed China’s environmental protection policies and an outline Finance 75 summary of 20 relevant companies listed Sector and recommends an indoor temperature Average of 20°C or lower in the winter. We use a on the Shanghai Stock Exchange and 59 central cooling and heating system, and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. China’s 54 refrain from using ceiling air-conditioning new Environmental Protection Law was and heating units as much as possible. revised to specify legal liabilities and Unnecessary lighting is turned off during strengthen regulations, for the first time lunchtimes and nights. A video on our in 25 years, which is expected to present energy-saving campaign is played in significant opportunities to companies in our elevators and first-floor lobbies. the environmental protection business. 2013 2014 2015 We have also implemented ‘Cool-Biz’, We plan to release a series of industry whereby staff can wear short-sleeve shirts analyses of China by selecting issues that and do not have to wear suit jackets reflect midto long-term trends, such as during the summer. This creates a more electric vehicles. comfortable work environment, which in turn allows our staff to do their job better. A ‘no tie’ policy is implemented flexibly throughout the year, depending on the particular circumstances at departments and branches, such as whether they are involved in customer service or sales. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 78 Appendix Facts & Figures 79 UN Global Compact 88 Independent Assurance Statement 89 GRI Index 91 Membership 97 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Facts & Figures GRI G4 1. General Standard Disclosures G4-10 Total number of employees by gender, employment contract and region (Unit: Person) G4-1 2012 2013 2014 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the Total number of employees 3,150 3,090 3,044 organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing Male 1,918 1,860 1,836 sustainability By gender Female 1,232 1,230 1,208 Refer to the CEO Message on page 6~7 By Permanent 2,661 2,599 2,566 employment contract Non-regular 489 491 478 G4-3 Name of the organization Domestic 3,112 3,053 3,006 By region KDB Daewoo Securities Overseas 38 37 38 High school 391 338 319 graduates G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services Disabled 55 58 57 Minority group Refer to the Company Profile on page 12~15 Foreigners 33 31 27 Men of national 74 65 68 merit G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 79 KDB Daewoo Securities Bldg., 56, Gukjegeumyung-ro, G4-11 Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (Unit: Person) G4-6 2012 2013 2014 Number and names of countries where the organization operates Number of employees Refer to the Global Network on page 13 entitled to labor union 2,367 2,329 2,283 membership Number of employees with G4-7 2,116 2,147 2,134 labor union membership Nature of ownership and legal form Labor union membership Refer to the Company Overview on page 12 percentage 89 92 93 (%) G4-8 Markets served (including sectors served, and types of customers) G4-12 Organization’s supply chain Refer to the Company Profile on page 12~15 Refer to the Company Profile on page 12~15 G4-9 Scale of the organization G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period Refer to the Organization Chart on page 12 Refer to the Company Overview on page 12 Refer to the Sustainable Economic Performance on page 62 Refer to the Milestones on page 14 ~15 Refer to the Expanding the Sales Network on page 57 G4-14 Precautionary approach and principles Refer to the Environmental Management System on page 77 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 G4-15 G4-29 Externally developed economic, environmental and social Date of most recent previous report charters, principles, or other initiatives which the organization KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 endorses (Publication date: November 2013) Refer to the Membership on page 97 G4-30 G4-16 Reporting cycle Memberships of associations Biennial Refer to the Membership on page 97 G4-31 G4-18 Contact point for questions regarding the report Process for defining the report content, and reporting principle IR Team, KDB Daewoo Securities +82-2-768-2130 G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report G4-32 content GRI Content Index for the chosen option, and the reference to the External Assurance Report G4-20 Refer to the About This Report on page 2 Aspect Boundaries within the organization Refer to the Independent Assurance Statement on page 89 Refer to the GRI Index on page 91~96 80 G4-21 Aspect Boundaries outside the organization G4-33 Organization’s policy and current practice on external assurance Refer to the Materiality Assessment Process on page 26 of the report; relationship between the organization and the assurance providers; whether senior executives are involved in G4-24 external assurance List of stakeholder groups To ensure the internal and external credibility of this report, we requested an independent assurance statement from the Business Institute for Sustainable Development (BISD) of the Korea Chamber G4-25 of Commerce and Industry, which is a professional assurance Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders organization. The BISD’s detailed opinion is on page 89 of this report. G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement G4-34 Refer to the Stakeholder Communication Channels on page 24 Governance structure of the organization; any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts G4-27 With a mission to ‘Dream with us’, the CSR Dept., which is responsible Key topics and concerns that have been raised through for actual project execution, takes charge of the social sector stakeholder engagement together with the CSR Steering Committee and Donation Beneficiary Refer to the Stakeholder Communications in 2014 on page 25 Selection Committee. Sustainability management in the economic and environmental sectors is handled by the Strategy & Planning Dept. under the Strategic Planning Unit. The CSR Dept. and Strategy & G4-28 Planning Dept. are organized under the Strategic Planning Unit, thus Reporting period enabling systematic decision-making at the company level. Reporting period for this report is from January 1st 2013 to December 31st 2014. Performance indicators are based on three years from 2012 to 2014. Information deemed important and G4-56 relevant from 2015 has also been included. Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior Refer to the Ethical Management on page 20~22 Refer to the Code of Ethics on page 20 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix GRI G4 2. Specific Standard Disclosures Revenue by Business (Unit: %) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 EC (Economic) Brokerage 33.0 42.8 30.9 Wealth management 13.9 17.6 12.7 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Investment banking 5.0 10.4 7.7 Business Performance (Unit: KRW billion) Sales & Trading 28.7 9.1 28.1 FY20121) FY20132) FY20143) Interest income 19.4 20.1 20.6 Net operating revenue 711.1 362.9 798.7 * Revenues before commission expenses; Excluding other net operating revenues Brokerage 241.5 178.3 236.6 Wealth management 101.9 73.4 97.0 Customer Base (Unit: Person) Investment banking 36.5 43.4 58.8 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Sales & Trading 210.0 37.6 214.9 Number of HNWI with investments of 44,029 47,280 51,337 KRW 100 million and above Interest income 142.2 83.8 157.5 Others (1.9) (31.8) 54.9 WM Assets & Revenue Commissions expenses (19.2) (21.8) (21.0) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 * Based on K-IFRS consolidated financial statements 1) FY 2012: Apr. 1, 2012 ~ Mar. 31, 2013 WM assets (Unit: KRW trillion) 52.7 52.1 55.3 2) FY 2013: Apr. 1, 2013 ~ Dec. 31, 2013 81 3) FY 2014: Jan. 1, 2014 ~ Dec. 31, 2014 WM revenue (Unit: KRW billion) 101.9 73.4 97.0 (Unit: KRW billion) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Total Client Assets (Unit: KRW trillion) SG&A expenses 547.7 398.3 527.9 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Operating income 163.4 (35.4) 270.8 Total client assets 114.0 114.7 136.6 Non-operating income 16.1 (0.6) 3.0 Income before income tax 179.5 (36.0) 273.8 Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: KRW billion) Income tax expenses (35.8) 7.3 (68.0) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 1) Net income 143.7 (29.2) 205.2 Generated economic Operating revenues 3,273.9 2,468.4 4,013.8 * Based on K-IFRS consolidated financial statements 1) value Net income represents the net income/loss attributable to equity ownership of controlled entity Interest Customers 264.2 201.8 264.3 expenses Financial Stability (Unit: KRW billion) Shareholders/ FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Dividends 40.3 0 84.1 Investors Total assets 25,437.4 26,005.0 30,613.3 Salaries and Total liabilities 21,385.7 22,090.5 26,439.0 Employees employee 349.7 243.5 341.9 Distributed welfare economic Total shareholders’ equity 4,051.7 3,914.5 4,174.3 value Donations Local and social Communities 2.7 1.7 1.7 contribution and NGOs expenses Income Government taxes and 57.9 6.4 84.9 other taxes * Based on Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS) consolidated financial statements KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 G4-EC2 G4-EC6 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Proportion of senior management hired from the local community organization’s activities due to climate change Locally Hired Executives Risks and opportunities at the company level KDB Daewoo 2012 2013 2014 Securities recognizes that climate change is an important factor in corporate competitiveness, and analyzes and considers its Number of locally hired executives1) 6 52 59 opportunities and risks. In addition, the company is actively (Unit: Person) participating in CDP at the company level. Portion of locally hired executives 11.3 14.3 17.5 (Unit: %) Risks and opportunities at the client asset level KDB Daewoo Securities strives to reflect environmental regulation-related * The Indonesian subsidiary was established on August 1, 2013 (acquired management rights to eTrading securities), and was included in the number of locally hired persons starting from opportunities and risks in its investment decision-making process, the end of 2013 placing priority on opportunities and risks that are related to 1) Executive refers to a network manager, a part manager and the equivalent. In case of the individual assets of customers. Indonesian subsidiary, this includes a team head as well as a supervisor or a team head at the Open Gallery & Education which is an independent branch similar to an agent in Korea In addition, the company checks the financial impacts on individual asset resulted from government subsidies, such as Feed in Tariff (FIT) and Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS), and reflects them in G4-EC7 investment decisions. Infrastructure investments and services supported Social Contributions 2012 2013 2014 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Expenditures in social contributions 35.5 26.2 20.8 82 Retirement Pension (Unit: KRW 100 million) Cash values of pension liabilities1) KRW 202,448,970,004 Amount to support volunteer activities 0.6 0.6 0.5 Number of people covered by 67 (Unit: KRW 100 million) a defined benefit plan2) Number of hours participated Number of people covered by 10,333 8,818 8,836 2,785 (Unit: Hour) a defined contribution plan3) Number of participants Total number of staff covered by retirement 2,322 2,195 2,164 2,852 (Unit: Person) pension plans * As of December 31, 2014 Social contribution expenditures 20,671 18,251 16,491 1) Defined contribution plans only per person (Unit: KRW) 2) Subject to executives and directors 3) A system where the company pays an amount that is worth 1/12 of next year’s total Number of hours participated 3.3 2.9 2.9 annual wages to the retirement pension provider and employees decide how to manage per person (Unit: Hour) the contributions Breakdown of Social Contribution Expenditures (Unit: KRW 100 million) G4-EC5 2012 2013 2014 Ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum Support for multicultural families 6.7 7.6 9.6 wage Educational support for teenagers 6.2 4.8 1.4 2014 from low-income families Ratios of standard entry level wage Support for social enterprises 2.5 2.0 2.1 271% compared to local minimum wage Global social contributions 1.3 1.1 2.1 Support for social welfare facilities 4.6 3.6 2.4 (the disabled, childcare, senior) Donation to KDB Sharing 9.8 3.0 0.0 Foundation Project and volunteer support 0.7 3.8 3.2 Emergency and distress relief 3.7 0.3 0.0 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix G4-EC8 G4-EN6 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of Reduction of energy consumption impacts KDB Daewoo Securities’ total energy consumption went down Refer to Direct economic value generated and distributed (G4-EC1) 4.2% in 2014. In detail, the company recorded a year-on-year rise on page 81 of 10.8% in the use of city gas for heating, reduction of 14.8% in kerosene, rise of 10.7% in heating oil, fall of 15.6% in district heater, and reduction of 4.4% in electricity. EN (Environmental) G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source (Unit: m3) G4-EN1 2012 2013 2014 Materials used by weight or volume Consumption of water 134,337 124,799 117,417 Consumption of Paper (Unit: Ton) 1) Based on the figures collected at 12 company buildings including the Yeouido headquarters, 2012 2013 2014 and the Gwacheon company building 2) Water consumption has decreased by 5.9% from the previous year as of December 31, 2014. Photocopying and printing 198.0 209.0 201.0 Disposable cups 0.2 0.3 0.3 Direct mailers 10.0 9.0 9.0 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) Total 208.2 218.3 210.3 1) The consumption of paper for photocopying and printing has decreased by 3.8% from the previous year as of the end of 2014 G4-EN16 2) Total paper consumption has decreased by 3.7% from the previous year as of the end of 2014 83 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) G4-EN3 G4-EN17 Energy consumption within the organization Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) (Unit: CO2e) 2012 2013 2014 G4-EN4 Scope 1 1,272 1,113 736 Energy consumption outside the organization Scope 2 14,465 13,898 13,241 Scope 3 258 235 259 G4-EN5 1) Based on the CDP report (The 2012 figure was recalculated according to the change in the Energy intensity (based on KRW) calculation criteria) 2) Based on the figures collected at 12 company buildings including the Yeouido headquarters, Consumption of Energy (Unit: MWh) and the Gwacheon company building 3) Scope 1 has decreased by 33.9% from the previous year as of the end of 2014 2012 2013 2014 4) Scope 3 is the sum of greenhouse gas emissions by a waste treatment company during City gas 1,361 1,082 1,199 incineration process and emissions by supply companies in paper manufacturing process, recording a year-on-year rise of 10.2%, based on the figures collected at the Yeouido headquarters and the Gwacheon company building as of the end of 2014 Kerosene 55 54 46 Heating oil 26 28 31 District heater 815 895 755 Electricity 29,979 29,706 28,399 Total energy consumption 32,236 31,765 30,430 Energy intensity (Unit: Person) 3,109 3,090 3,044 Energy consumption per 10.4 10.3 10.0 person 1) Based on the figures collected at 12 company buildings including the Yeouido headquarters, and the Gwacheon company building 2) Energy consumption per person has decreased by 2.9% from the previous year as of the end of 2014 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 G4-EN18 LA (Labor) Greenhouse gas emissions intensity (Unit: CO2 e) 2012 2013 2014 G4-LA1 Greenhouse gas emissions Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee 15,737 15,011 13,977 turnover (Scope 1+2) Intensity Employment (Unit: Person) 3,109 3,090 3,044 (Number of employees, Unit: Person) 2012 2013 2014 Per-capita greenhouse gas emissions 5.1 4.9 4.6 Male 111 85 85 1) Based on the figures collected at 12 company buildings including the Yeouido headquarters, Female 63 72 30 and the Gwacheon company building 2) Greenhous gas emissions have decreased by 6.9% from the previous year as of the end of 2014 Non-experienced 80 56 53 3) Per-capita greenhouse gas emissions have decreased by 6.1% from the previous year as of December 31, 2014 Experienced 94 101 62 Total 174 157 115 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Turnover Rate (Unit: %) In Korea, companies are engaging in a wider variety of activities to 2012 2013 2014 reduce energy consumption and counter climate change with the adoption of the greenhouse gas target management system and Male 4.9 5.7 3.1 emissions trading scheme. In response to increased awareness Female 3.7 4.3 2.6 towards climate change, KDB Daewoo Securities is taking 84 measures that reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gases emissions, in addition to curtailing costs. For example, the G4-LA2 company promotes to refrain from excessive use of air-conditioners and heater, ceiling-types in particular, and turn off unnecessary Benefits provided to full-time employees lighting during lunch time and night hours. In 2014, the company Refer to the Welfare on page 68~69 recorded a year-on-year reduction of 6.9% in Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions. G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave by gender G4-EN23 Number of employees on child care leave (Unit: Person) Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (Unit: Liter) 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Male 0 1 4 Waste 389,000 327,500 360,600 Female 68 92 85 1) Based on the figures collected at the Yeouido headquarters and the Gwacheon company building 2) Total amount of wastes has decreased by 10.1% from the previous year as of the end of 2014 Retention rate after child care leave (Unit: %) 2012 2013 2014 Retention rate after child care leave 87.7 94.6 91.8 More than 12 months retention rate 73.5 82.7 71.8 after returning to work * Based on female employees G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in joint management– worker health and safety committees that monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs As of the end of 2014, labor union membership stood at 93%, with 2,134 labor union members from among the 2,283 persons who are entitled to membership. Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix G4-LA6 G4-LA13 Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, and work-related Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by fatalities by region and gender employee category 2012 2013 2014 KDB Daewoo Securities does not discriminate based on gender in remuneration. Total workforce (Unit: Person) 3,150 3,090 3,044 Number of absentees due Male 10 10 7 G4-LA16 to occupational diseases or injuries (Unit: Person) Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and Female 10 12 6 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Rate of absentees due to occupational Operation of EAP 0.6 0.7 0.4 diseases or injuries (Unit: %) 2012 2013 2014 Lost days (Unit: Day) 570 841 720 Satisfaction level 4.3 4.4 (Unit: Point) Improving and Number of people using the service G4-LA9 152 131 reviewing the (Unit: Person) service Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and employee category Number of times the service used 762 590 (Unit: Case) 2012 2013 2014 Number of trainings 528 424 343 (Unit: Case) Training hours per person 85 82 70 40 (Unit: Hour) HR (Human Rights) Training expenses per person 126 104 84 (Unit: KRW 10 thousand) G4-HR2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights G4-LA10 Sexual Harassment Prevention Training Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that 2012 2013 2014 support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Participation Rate (Unit: %) 100 100 100 Refer to the Retiree Support Program on page 69 Number of people 2,943 2,891 3,000 participating (Unit: Person) G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and G4-HR4 career development reviews by gender and employee category Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise 2012 2013 2014 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at risk, and measures taken Number of employees receiving 2,858 2,789 2,732 performance reviews (Unit: Person) Refer to the Labor-Management Relations on page 68 Percentage of employees receiving 91 90 90 performance reviews (Unit: %) G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken G4-LA12 Refer to the adhering to the ten principles of the UN Global Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees Compact on page 88 by indicators of diversity such as gender, age group and minority group membership As of the end of 2014, the number of KDB Daewoo Securities’ G4-HR6 employees stood at 3,044, of which 1,836 (60.3%) were male and Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for 1,208 (39.7%) were female. Non-permanent workers accounted for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures taken 15.7% of the total. In terms of employment diversity, 319 were high Refer to the adhering to the ten principles of the UN Global school graduates, 57 were the disabled, 27 were foreigners, and 68 Compact on page 88 were men of national merit. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 SO (Society) PR (Product Responsibility) G4-SO1 G4-PR3 Percentage of operations with implemented local community Product and service information required by the organization’s engagement, impact assessments, and development programs procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject Refer to the Multicultural Society on page 45~47 to such information requirements Refer to the Policies for the Perfect Sale of Financial Products on G4-SO3 page 55 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-PR5 Refer to the Ethical Management Organization, and the Financial Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Irregularities & Corruption Reporting Center on page 21 Customer Satisfaction 2012 2013 2014 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and Customer satisfaction score 98.8 96.2 95.1 procedures (Unit: Point) Ethics and Compliance Training Branch with less than 90 points – – 1 (Unit: Branch) 2012 2013 2014 Number of trainings provided 207 166 142 (Unit: Case) 86 Information Protection Trainings in 2014 Training hours (Unit: Hour) 274.6 229.5 143.0 Number Training Completion of people hours rate taking G4-SO5 Executives 3.0 31 100% Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken General staff 6.8 2,680 100% Occurrences of Corruption (Unit: Case) IT staff 9.8 176 100% 2012 2013 2014 Staff in charge of information Violations of ethics and 12.0 – 100% 3 2 2 protection compliance * The number of violations is determined by a case resulting in a reprimand or worse, having come about due to illegal conduct in pursuit of personal interests FS (Financial Service Sector) G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and beneficiary G4-DMA There are no political contributions in the company. General standard disclosures (Economic performance) Refer to the Social Contributions to Grow with Local Communities on page 73 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Refer to G4-EC1 on page 81 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix G4-EN23 FS6 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size and sector Refer to G4-EN23 on page 84 Refer to the Revenues by Business on 62~65 Refer to G4-EC1 on page 81 G4-DMA General standard disclosures (Occupational Health and Safety) FS7 Refer to the Employee Safety and Health on page 69 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a Refer to the Employee Assistance Program on page 70 (Service specific social benefit for each business line was temporarily shut down in 2014, and is being considered to be implemented as of 2015) Refer to the ESG Financial Products on page 48~51 Refer to the Creative Finance on page 50 FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged FS8 areas by type Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line Refer to the Financial Services for Minorities Refer to the Educational Support for Teenagers and the Refer to the Participating in New & Renewable Energy Projects on Underprivileged on page 49~50 and 74 ~76 page 50 ~51 FS14 G4-DMA (Former FS9) Initiatives to improve access to financial services for Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation disadvantaged people of environmental and social policies and risk assessment 87 procedures Refer to the Financial Services for Minorities on page 49 ~50 Refer to the Ethics and Compliance Reporting Systems, and the Financial Irregularities & Corruption Reporting Center on page 21 G4-DMA Refer to the Internal Control System on page 22 General standard disclosures (Product and service labeling) Refer to the Risk Management and the Risk Management G4-DMA (Former FS12) Framework on page 37~38 Voting policies applied to environmental or social issues for Refer to the Code of Ethics on page 20 shares over which the reporting organization holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting G4-DMA (Former FS15, 16) Refer to the BOD Policies and Activities on page 33 Policies for the fair sale of financial products and services, and initiatives to enhance financial literacy Refer to the Policies for the Perfect Sale of Financial Products on page 55 Refer to the Social Contribution through Finance on page 48~51 G4-DMA (Former FS1, 2, 3, 4, 5) Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines, procedures for assessing and screening, process for improving staff competency, and risks and opportunities Refer to the Local Communities on page 72~77 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 UN Global Compact Principles & Pledges In October 2006, KDB Daewoo Securities joined the UN Global Compact, a voluntary initiative that calls for the fulfillment of corporate social responsibilities. By signing up to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, on human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption, KDB Daewoo Securities is committing itself to abiding by global standards on corporate social responsibility, and has thus declared its determination to practice sustainability management in Korea and abroad. KDB Daewoo Securities will fulfill its social responsibilities as a global financial investment company by adhering to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. The company’s activities in this area, and the outcomes of those activities, are listed in the table below. 10 Principles of UN Global Compact Relevant Principle Performance Indicators GRI G4 Content G4-HR1, G4-HR2, 1. Businesses  should support G4-HR3, G4-HR4, and respect the protection •Join the UN Global Compact and obey its 10 principles G4-HR5, G4-HR6, of internationally proclaimed Human •Pursue employment diversity for high school graduates, G4-HR7, G4-HR8, human rights; and 68, 88 Rights the disabled, and foreigners G4-HR10 2. m  ake sure that they are not •Provide employee education to prevent sexual harassment G4-HR1, G4-HR7, complicit in human rights G4-HR10 abuses. 3. B  usinesses should uphold the •Operate a labor-management council that represents all 88 freedom of association and employees G4-HR4, G4-11, 68 the effective recognition of the •Operate an internal labor union and guarantee the three G4-LA4 right to collective bargaining; labor rights of employees 4. the elimination of all forms of G4-HR6 88 forced and compulsory labour; Labour •Join the UN Global Compact and obey its 10 principles 5. the effective abolition of child G4-HR5 88 labour; and •Pursue employment diversity for high school graduates, 6. the elimination of discrimination the disabled, and foreigners G4-HR3, G4-LA1, in respect of employment and G4-LA9, G4-LA12, 67, 68 •Provide employee education to prevent sexual harassment occupation. G4-LA13 •There is no wage discrimination based on gender 7. B  usinesses should support •Practice eco-friendly green management a precautionary approach to •Build and fully establish a corporate-wide environmental G4-14 76, 77 environmental challenges; management process •Participate in CDP and listed as one of Korean signatories •Join C4C, an initiative under the UN Global Compact that G4-EN6, G4-EN7, 8. u  ndertake initiatives to is intended to counter climate change G4-EN10, G4promote greater environmental 76, 77 •Carry out activities to reduce energy use in the summer EN19, G4-EN27, responsibility; and and winter G4-EN28 Environment •Conduct activities to reduce paper use •Provide green finance products: KDB SRI Funds for a Better World, KDB S&P Clean Energy Fund, etc. G4-EN2, G4-EN6, 9. e ncourage the development •Participate in new and renewable energy generation G4-EN7, G4-EN10, 49, 50, and diffusion of environmentally projects: Jeju Gimnyeong Wind Power Plant Project, G4-EN19, G451 friendly technologies. Yeonggwang Baeksu Wind Power Plant, Biomass Power EN27, G4-EN28 Plant Project in Fiji, Yeongwol Photovoltaic Generation Project •Enact the code of ethics and hold a ceremony for 10. B  usinesses should work employees to take an oath on ethics and compliance Antiagainst corruption in all its •The first Wednesday of each month was designated as the G4-SO3, G4-SO4, 20, 21, corruption forms, including extortion Day of Ethics and Compliance G4-SO5 22 and bribery. •Establish and operate the he money laundering prevention system Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Independent Assurance Statement The Business Institute for Sustainable Development (the Assurer), led by the Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry, was requested by KDB Daewoo Securities to serve as an independent “third-party assurance institute” for the “KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015” (the DWSEC Report), and submits the assurance statement as follows. Purpose The purpose of this assurance report is to identify any major errors or biases in the DWSEC Report, to conduct an independent evaluation to determine whether the sustainability management issues of KDB Daewoo Securities were appropriately reported, and to present an assurance opinion. Responsibilities and Independence This report covers issues relating to KDB Daewoo Securities’ sustainability management efforts, achievements, and future plans in 2013 and 2014. KDB Daewoo Securities maintains all responsibility regarding the drafting of the DWSEC Report. In conducting assurance procedures on the DWSEC Report and providing assurance opinions to the board of directors, the Assurer has no management-related interests in profits with KDB Daewoo Securities, aside from carrying out third-party assurance, in order to maintain independence and autonomy. Assurance Standards and Restriction The Assurer performed the assurance engagement in consideration of the three accountability principles (inclusivity, materiality and 89 responsiveness) of AA1000AS (2008), the principles for defining report content and report quality of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines. Physical inspections were conducted at the Headquarters located in Seoul. The scope of the assurance was limited to only those performances stated in this Report and excludes data from previous years and data reported online. Major Assurance Procedures For the assurance process, results of the interviews with KDB Daewoo Securities’ employees and other relevant documents provided by KDB Daewoo Securities were examined. Major assurance procedures undertaken are as follows:  Review of the application of the company’s internal sustainability reporting standards  Review of the DWSEC Report contents and the information collection process  Review of the DWSEC Report contents related to the materiality test, core issues, and company policies  Performance of physical inspections and interviews with employees Opinions The Assurer performed the assurance evaluation in accordance with the procedures identified above, and the report was modified by KDB Daewoo Securities if and when deemed necessary. Based on the assurance evaluation, The Assurer is not aware of any significant errors in the DWSEC Report and confirmed that the DWSEC Report was written in accordance with GRI G4 guidelines (Core option). The opinions of The Assurer in consideration of the AA1000APS accountability standards are explained below. Inclusivity Does KDB Daewoo Securities adhere to the principle of stakeholder engagement in order to ensure a responsible and strategic response in advancing sustainability management? – KDB Daewoo Securities is gathering major concerns and opinions from core stakeholders, including its customers, employees, local communities, shareholders and investors through stakeholder communication channels. – The Assurer is not aware of any significant stakeholder groups that were omitted from the process of gathering sustainability management issues through KDB Daewoo Securities’ stakeholder communication channels. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Responsiveness Does KDB Daewoo Securities respond appropriately to stakeholder issues? – KDB Daewoo Securities identified major sustainability management issues through the materiality test. – The Assurer is not aware of any significant issues that were omitted from the materiality test process. Materiality Does KDB Daewoo Securities include core issues that affect stakeholders in the entire spectrum of sustainability management in the DWSEC Report? – KDB Daewoo Securities responded properly to the issues in which stakeholders are interested by reporting plans and evaluating core sustainability management issues that are identified. – The Assurer is not aware of any violations of the principle of responsiveness in KDB Daewoo Securities’ response to major sustainability management or performance issues that are described in the DWSEC Report, from the perspective of materiality. Recommendations The Assurer makes the following recommendations within a scope that does not affect the assurance results: 90  It is impressive that KDB Daewoo Securities received favorable evaluations in sustainability management, such as having been listed in the DJSI World for four years in a row through its untiring efforts, despite a difficult business environment. Also, as its new CEO’s leadership for addressing sustainability is accelerating internal innovation, KDB Daewoo Securities is expected to make continued progress in this area. We recommend that KDB Daewoo Securities report key performance metrics on material issues to increase the favorable evaluations by its stakeholders.  The scale of social finance has been expanded as a result of receiving attention from the world’s leading countries and global investment banks. Based on its expertise and network, KDB Daewoo Securities has been achieving good results in ‘the supporting social economy’ since 2012. It is expected that KDB Daewoo Securities will continue growing together with society through active investment and partnership.  As KDB Daewoo Securities publishes its sustainability report every two years, some issues included in its report are out of date. It diminishes the effectiveness of the sustainability report when issues are discussed that have already been superseded by the significant changes that have already occurred in KDB Daewoo Securities related to its internal and external growth. We recommend KDB Daewoo Securities consider publishing the report every year so that major performances are shared with stakeholders in a timely manner. October 2015 President Chun, Subong Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix GRI Index 1. General Standard Disclosures Level of Disclosure ●Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Non-reported ◇ Not Applicable GRI Index Description Page Note Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 6 ~7 ● G4-3 Name of the organization 12~15 ● G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services 12~15 ● G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters 12~15 ● G4-6 Countries with significant operations 12~15 ● G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 12~15 ● G4-8 Markets served 12~15 ● G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 12~15 ● a. Total number of employees by employment contract and gender b. Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender c. Total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender G4-10 d. Total workforce by region and gender 12~13, 79 ● Organizational Profile e. Whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers f. Significant variations in employment numbers 91 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 79 ● G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain 12~15 ● Significant changes during the reporting period relating to size, structure, or 12, 14~15, G4-13 ● ownership or its supply chain 57, 62 G4-14 Implementation of the precautionary approach or principle 77 ● External economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other G4-15 97 ● initiatives which the organization subscribes to or endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations such as industry associations 97 ● a. Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents G4-17 2 ● b. Whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report a. Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries G4-18 b. How the organization has implemented the reporting principles for defining 2, 26~27 ● report content Identified Material Aspects And G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 26~27 ● Boundaries G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization 26~27 ● G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization 26~27 ● Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the G4-22 2 ● reasons for such restatements Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect G4-23 2 ● Boundaries G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 24~25 ● G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 24~25 ● Stakeholder Engagement G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement by type and by stakeholder group 24~25 ● Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the G4-27 24~25 ● organization has responded to them KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Level of Disclosure ●Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Non-reported ◇ Not Applicable GRI Index Description Page Note G4-28 Reporting period 2 ● G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 80 ● Nov. 2013 G4-30 Reporting cycle 80 ● Biennial G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 2 ● a. ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen Report Profile G4-32 b. GRI Content Index for the chosen option 2, 89, 91 ● c. Reference to the External Assurance Report a. The organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report b. Scope and basis of any external assurance provided G4-33 2, 89 ● c. Relationship between the organization and the assurance providers d. Whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest Governance G4-34 32~34, 80 ● governance body Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 20~22 ● 92 2. Specific Standard Disclosure Level of Disclosure ●Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Non-reported ◇ Not Applicable GRI Index Description Page Note a. Reason and impacts that make this Aspect material Disclosures on 32, 35, 40, G4-DMA b. How the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts ● Management Approach 45, 48 c. Evaluation of the management approach Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 23 ● Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s Economic G4-EC2 82 ● activities due to climate change Performance G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 82 ● G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government ◇ Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage G4-EC5 82 ● at significant locations of operation Market Presence Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant G4-EC6 82 ● locations of operation Indirect Economic G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 82 ● Impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 83 ● Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation ○ Not counted Environmental G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 77, 83 ● Materials G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ○ Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Level of Disclosure ●Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Non-reported ◇ Not Applicable GRI Index Description Page Note G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 83 ● G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 83 ● Energy G4-EN5 Energy intensity 83 ● G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 83 ● G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services ○ G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 83 ● Water G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ◇ G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ◇ Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas G4-EN11 ◇ and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on G4-EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside ◇ Biodiversity protected areas G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored ◇ Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with G4-EN14 ◇ habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 83~84 ● G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 83~84 ● 93 G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) 83 ● Emissions G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity 84 ● G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions 84 ● G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances ◇ G4-EN21 NO X, SO X, and other significant air emissions ◇ G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination ◇ G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 84 ● G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills ◇ Effluents and Waste Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous G4-EN25 under the terms of the Basel Convention2 Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage ◇ of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related G4-EN26 habitats significantly affected by the organization’s discharges of water and ◇ runoff G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 48~51 ◐ Products and Services Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by G4-EN28 ◇ category Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions No violation Compliance G4-EN29 ○ for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations reported Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and Transport G4-EN30 materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the ◇ workforce Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 48~51 ◐ G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria ○ Supplier Environmental Assessment Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply G4-EN33 ○ chain and actions taken Not counted Environmental Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and G4-EN34 ○ Grievance Mechanisms resolved through formal grievance mechanisms KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Level of Disclosure ●Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Non-reported ◇ Not Applicable GRI Index Description Page Note Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age G4-LA1 84 ● group, gender, and region Employment Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or G4-LA2 68~69 ● part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 84 ● Labor/Management Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these Legal G4-LA4 60 Days ● Relations are specified in collective agreements requirement Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker G4-LA5 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational 84 ● health and safety programs Occupational Health Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and and Safety G4-LA6 85 ● absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation ○ Not counted G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 69 ◐ Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and employee G4-LA9 40~44, 85 ● category Training and Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued G4-LA10 69 ● Education employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings 94 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development G4-LA11 85 ● reviews by gender and employee category Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee Diversity and Equal G4-LA12 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other 85 ● Opportunity indicators of diversity Equal Remuneration Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category G4-LA13 85 ● for Women and Men and significant locations of operation G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria ○ Supplier Assessment Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply Not counted for Labor Practices G4-LA15 ○ chain and actions taken Labor Practices Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved G4-LA16 85 ● Grievance Mechanisms through formal grievance mechanisms Human Rights Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts G4-HR1 ○ Not counted that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Investment Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures G4-HR2 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the 85 ● percentage of employees trained No Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ● discrimination reported Freedom of Association Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of and Collective G4-HR4 association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and 68 ● Bargaining measures taken to support these rights Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child Child Labor G4-HR5 88 ● labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of Forced or Compulsory G4-HR6 forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all 88 ● Labor forms of forced or compulsory labor Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Level of Disclosure ●Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Non-reported ◇ Not Applicable GRI Index Description Page Note Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights Security Practices G4-HR7 ○ Not counted policies or procedures that are relevant to operations Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 ◇ actions taken Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human Assessment G4-HR9 ◇ rights reviews or impact assessments G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria ○ Supplier Human Rights Assessment Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply G4-HR11 ○ chain and actions taken Not counted Human Rights Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and G4-HR12 ○ Grievance Mechanisms resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Society Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, 45~47, G4-SO1 ● impact assessments, and development programs 72~76 Local Communities Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local No case G4-SO2 ◇ communities reported Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to G4-SO3 21~22 ● corruption and the significant risks identified Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 20~22, 86 ● G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 22, 86 ● 95 No political Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary ◇ contributions reported Anti-competitive Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and G4-SO7 20~22 ◐ Behavior monopoly practices and their outcomes Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions Compliance G4-SO8 20~22 ◐ for non-compliance with laws and regulations Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on G4-SO9 ○ Supplier Assessment society for Impacts on Society Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain G4-SO10 ○ Not counted and actions taken Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved G4-SO11 ○ for Impacts on Society through formal grievance mechanisms Product Responsibility Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and G4-PR1 54~55 ● safety impacts are assessed for improvement Customer Health and Safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary G4-PR2 codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during 54~55 ● their life cycle, by type of outcomes Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage G4-PR3 54~55 ● of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Product and Service Labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary G4-PR4 codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of 54~55 ● outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 56~57, 86 ● KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Level of Disclosure ●Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Non-reported ◇ Not Applicable GRI Index Description Page Note G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products 54~55 ● Marketing Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Communications G4-PR7 codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, 54~55 ● and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer Customer Privacy G4-PR8 58~59 ● privacy and losses of customer data Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations Compliance G4-PR9 58~59 ◐ concerning the provision and use of products and services Financial Services Sector Disclosures The organization’s community investment strategy in association with community G4-DMA 73 ● Economic Performance development G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 81 ● G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions resulting from employees’ business travel ○ G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions resulting from employees’ business travel ○ Emissions G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions resulting from employees’ business travel ○ G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 84 ● Occupational Health The organization’s policies and practices regarding threats and violence in place G4-DMA 69~70 ● and Safety to assist workforce members or community members G4-HR1 Policies and procedures on human rights 88 ● 96 49~50, Human Rights G4-FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type ● 74~76 G4-FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people 49~50 ● Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services Product and Service G4-DMA (former FS15) 48~51, 55 ● Labeling Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary (former FS16) Policies with specific environmental and social components, assessing, G4-DMA monitoring, improving staff competency, and environmental and social risks and 72~77 ● opportunities, applied to business lines (former FS1, FS2, FS3, FS4, FS5) G4-FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region and sector 62~65 ● Product Portfolio Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver social benefits for G4-FS7 48~51 ● each business line Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver environmental G4-FS8 50~51 ● benefits for each business line Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental Audit G4-DMA 21~22 ● and social policies and risk assessment procedures (former FS9) Voting policies applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which G4-DMA 33 ● the organization holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting (former FS12) Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which Active Ownership G4-FS10 ○ the organization has interacted on environmental or social issues Not counted Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social G4-FS11 ○ screening Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Membership Year Name of Group and Association 2015 Financial Security Institute 2014 Asia Society Korea Center National Strategy Institute 2013 Committee on Financial Informatization Promotion UNGC: UN Global Compact 2012 Korean Pension Association This is a voluntary corporate initiative to observe ten major 2011 ISDA principles, including those on the environment, human rights, labour, and anti-corruption. KDB Daewoo Securities joined in Financial Security Forum October 2006. 2010 Korea Economic Research Institute Institute for Global Economies Korean Securities Law Association 2009 C4C: Caring for Climate Global Finance Forum This is a voluntary corporate initiative aimed at fighting climate Korea Money and Finance Association 2008 change that is under the UN Global Compact. KDB Daewoo Seoul IB Forum Securities joined in 2010. 2007 Korea Center for International Finance UN Global Compact 2006 Korea Capital Market Institute CDP: Carbon Disclosure Project 97 Internal Auditor’s Society of Korea Listed Companies 2005 Association KDB Daewoo Securities signed the CDP, and has been taking part Center for Financial Law of Seoul National University in the carbon management disclosure program every year since 2010. 2002 Financial Information Security Council 2000 Korea Management Association 1991 Korea Employers Federation 1983 Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry 1981 The Institute of Internal Auditors 1980 Korean Securities Association DJSI: Dow Jones Sustainability Index For the last four years, KDB Daewoo Securities has been listed in The Federation of Korean Industries 1975 the DJSI World Index, a world-renown sustainability management Korea Listed Companies Association evaluation index. The paper used in printing the KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 is certified as acid-free and Elemental Chlorine-Free by the FSC™ (Forest Stewardship Council), an NGO that promotes forest management. In addition, the soybean oil ink used in its printing minimizes the impact on the environment. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 think Magazine M agazine This magazine consists of interviews of various stakeholders of KDB Daewoo Securities, including customers, investors, employees, and local communities. It is a story of stakeholders’ thoughts, experiences, and hopes in relation to the company’s sustainability management. Going forward, we will stay closer to our stakeholders, always listening to their opinions and proactively communicating with them, all in an effort to achieve sustainable growth together with our stakeholders. This report has been published in Korean and English to promote more efficient communication with stakeholders at home and abroad. It is also available in the PDF format to allow readers to move easily through the pages of this report, and to take advantage of digital technologies that enable an effortless retrieval of data and information. The PDF version can be downloaded from the company web site at http://english.kdbdw.com. Related page in the Report section Related web pages Contents 04 Customers 17 Local Communities 08 Investors 22 Think You 12 Employees 23 Thank You T HINK Customers are our raison d’être. 04 The Beauty of “Think you very much” We see things from the customer’s perspective, think deeper and speak more from the heart, and put customer interests above the bottom line, all to earn customer trust and satisfaction. Based on our efforts to ‘Think you very much’, we will grow together with our customers. P. 54~59 sin e of Bu e/ les y l Ke ho sa ics l ss W tai et ea s Se adqu re osm Ar ou arte c l, K rs He or ea 2015 On July 10, 2015, TONYMOLY became the first Korean cosmetics brand shop to be listed Esta on the Korea Composite Stock Price Index (KOSPI). blish July d e KDB Daewoo Securities served as the lead manager of the nue n 2006 Reve 5.1 billio initial public offering (IPO), which attracted KRW 7.5 trillion in 2014 20 KRW subscription and generated an intense investor interest. On the day of TONYMOLY’s listing, its stock price surpassed the offering price of KRW 32,000 to reach over KRW 50,000. The successful listing of TONYMOLY is considered by many a monumental deal to both TONYMOLY and KDB Daewoo Securities: TONYMOLY has laid the foundation for growing into a trendsetter in the global cosmetics market; and KDB Daewoo Securities has gained the know-how of being a lead manager in 05 cosmetics brand IPOs. In fact, many Korean cosmetics IPO LY companies have since chosen the securities firm to July MO 201 ONY 5 Abo ut T .com lead-manage their IPOs. ly mo .etony We will continually help customers plan ng ://e http their future and grow with them by leveraging our industry-leading product competitiveness, planning ability, and know-how in overseas operations accumulated through various cases of successful overseas experiences. The relationship between KDB Daewoo Securities and TONYMOLY dates back to 2009 when TONYMOLY, founded in 2006, was a latecomer to the cosmetics business in Korea. From 2009 to the moment TONYMOLY was listed on the stock market, KDB It is clear to me that Daewoo Securities never stopped thinking from the customer’s KDB Daewoo Securities perspective. Owing no small part to such customer-first efforts, TONYMOLY always thinks about made a strong debut on the market. and studies its TONYMOLY has begun a new winwin relationship with KDB Daewoo customer needs. I hope Securities toward a brighter future. Manager Sungwon Chang of KDB Daewoo Securities Management Support Team at TONYMOLY talks about his experience continues to leverage with KDB Daewoo Securities’ customer-oriented management its advanced financial and makes a few suggestions on sustainability management. competencies to the fullest for the mutual 06 growth with us. Sungwon Chang ship p a rtner ers Manager at Management gic m a s trate ith custo Support Team, TONYMOLY in w ys king alwa Wor S e c u rities la es c ewoo s. It p t K D B Da e r need rovid es tha usto m nd p m e s c , a er lear t o It is c ut and stu n custom dies it er va lu e for cu sto m Susta opt im a l Dae w oo Tip inabi s abo t priority o ices KDB our lity think hes s e r v I ho p e LY a s e h ig c t s and n e r. M O th odu a n ely m r with TO N Y eing a n c ial pr a t im e y o nd b fin s in geth e go b to a Comm need r o ws to e c t it will d g row in Y unicat g exp ny a n MOL ing w rities also mpa ONY Secu r. I c o . T KDB D ith cus artn e finan cia l tatio n ess in aewoo tomer a t e gic p in g a r repu u r succ o manag S e curities s, rele s t r a’s le a d a st e ll on o ues t ement practic ntlessly Kore n y with a s b ased s c ontin t h e and im a n d takes e s c ustome p a se curit ie s to proving the lea r-oriente l com ding over o Se encie nies. the work d in su d globa a n Da e w o m p e t a Howev er, it is environ pportin o exp KDB ial co wo comp d if m e g local commu is als . I h ope e d fi nanc t h e t compa ny con fi cult for stakeho n t for its employ nities a anc th o f Kore s adv tual grow told ab d u c ts its su ld e rs to fu lly gras e e s. r age it u out its a stainab ility ma p how ity le v e the m compa ctions d nagem the t for ny end etail. W fulles er e a hy not ent with osp such p v o rs to gro publiciz out bein Pr Tip Daewo ublicati o Secu on will contrib w in a s u te ustaina ble ma e how h ard the g rities’ b a great n ner? I b unders rand im deal to elieve tand th age an enhanc e comp d h e e KDB The pe a n y. lp it s stake ople I h holders pride in ave me better their co t from KD always m pany. I B D a ewoo S do their was de ecuritie be more jobs to eply im s have th eir bes presse great active in t a d by ho part of risk ma b il ity. How w they its susta nagem ever, I th the com inability ent and ink it sh pany p manag commu ould ro v e m e n nity serv its custo iding m t. I w o u ic e a s mers s ore com ld also service o that th munica like to s s, and e y can b ti o n oppo e e corpora etter un rtunities te cultu derstan to re. d its pro ducts, 07 The IPO of TONYMOLY was a meaningful deal from the perspective of financial experts who believe in providing the best services possible to their customers. It also was a historic moment for consumers who want quality cosmetics. Kyoungmi Kim Deputy Manager at IPO Department, KDB Daewoo Securities T HINK Investors Shareholder value is our top priority. Sustainability Socially Finance Str 08 New Formula for Growth We seek a path toward sustainable growth by maximizing shareholder value, and grow strong and proud by achieving balanced growth and contributing to society through finance. The new win-win strategy of sustainable growth is what KDB Daewoo Securities pursues. P. 60~65 Corporations grow strong through sustainability management. The bigger corporations grow, the bigger their social responsibilities are. KDB Daewoo Securities grows together with its communities through finance, fulfilling our social responsibility, and contributing to a better tomorrow for all. If investors are convinced that a company is on the right path to sustainable growth, they should provide capital and reap benefits from its growth, as true partners should. Portfolio Manager Daejin Lim is in charge of funds management at the Teachers’ Pension, one of the pension funds shareholders whom KDB Daewoo Securities has been serving for a long time. Management Responsible onger Growth 05 09 Q How do investors evaluate Q Do corporations have to change Q What roles can investors play to help corporate value? when they release information? corporations grow in a sustainable manner? A Investors do not evaluate a company’s A More and more corporations become A Investors also have to change. If they are worth by using financial information alone. aware of the value of and practice convinced that a company is on the right path They use a wide variety of valuation sustainability management. However, to sustainable growth, they should provide indicators such as corporate governance, it is difficult for the general public capital and reap benefits from its growth, business status, and sustainability to see the growing trend. For this as true partners should. In order for this to performance. This is why socially reason, companies need to actively happen, the company should give top priority responsible funds were created in the communicate with various stakeholders, to raising its employees’ understanding of the first place. As more corporate information including investors. In addition to importance of sustainability management. becomes available that investors want transparent reports detailing economic Accordingly, KDB Daewoo Securities should to know about, companies should more performances, they need to inform see its business under the light of not only readily disclose a variety of information, investors how they establish and execute finance but also all the indicators, including to validate their corporate value. It is their core values, vision, and mid-to longthe mid-to long-term plan, and inform investor. difficult to say if Korean investors are really term plans so that investors can properly practicing socially responsible investment evaluate their corporate value. When in comparison to overseas investors. It is KDB Daewoo Securities makes public its now time for domestic investors to evaluate economic performances, it should also the value of corporations more objectively disclose its non-financial information as by looking at the sustainability, rather than well as future plans, which would help focus solely on the profitability of their confirm that all of its activities boil down investment targets. to sustainable management. We know that the answer to finance lies in the minds of customers. By thinking of and studying our customers in detail, we will speak of finance in the way they would understand. Enjoy finance. KDB Daewoo Securities will make it easier for you. Easy Finance Stakehol 10 Q Sustainable How do you assess ‘Easy Finance’ Q How significant is sustainability of KDB Daewoo Securities? in corporate analyses? A Finance is not a subject that anyone can A One of the most important factors in the easily approach. For this reason, it is good growth of financial companies is trust. that KDB Daewoo Securities is conducting However, an increasing number of people a brand enhancement campaign and are developing a negative view of finance communicating with its stakeholders based because of the global financial crisis. on the motto, ‘Easy Finance’. KDB Daewoo The recent financial incidents also have dealt Securities is explaining difficult financial a blow to the credibility of financial companies. concepts in easy-to-understand terms, It is a relief to know that large financial helping people better understand finance. companies are looking back on their business This approach is significant in that it helps practices and making efforts to earn back the expand the industry base, and create diverse public trust. Sustainability is important also values through finance. The ‘Think you very for risk management, and for this reason, much’ slogan ubiquitous in its ad campaigns companies should manage performance from also is a brilliant and creative concept. the long-term perspective rather than focus I believe it effectively communicates the on short-term gains. Now Investors include company’s will to deliver benefits of finance some non-financial information as well as to a greater number of people. financial performance data in their evaluation of corporate value. This trend will spread to all aspects of sustainability management. There is a high possibility that non-financial information will be included as an equivalent evaluation factor in corporate analysis reports. Q As a corporate analyst, what do you expect to see in KDB Daewoo Securities? A KDB Daewoo Securities should establish, execute, and publicize its vision in detail to raise its investment appeal and to have its true value known. The company should go beyond short-term performances, and provide details on how it has derived its business strategies, future profit structure, and execution roadmap. This would give shareholders and investors a better understanding of the company’s value and growth potential. der Trust Growth 11 I think it is good that KDB Daewoo Securities is conducting a brand enhancement campaign and communicating with its stakeholders based on the Easy Finance. Senior Analyst Miji Son is in charge of securities and insurance industry sector analysis at Research Center of Shinhan Investment Corp., and regularly issues KDB Daewoo Securities earnings reviews and industry outlook reports. T HINK Our people is our sustainable core. Employees 12 Always One Step Ahead In a workplace where passion and creativity rule, we study about customers and practice expertise. Our goals are the same; but individual perspectives are different, which help us learn from each other. Discovering unlimited potentials of finance, we are the driving force of KDB Daewoo Securities. P. 66~71 2 Step 2 Fostering a culture of sustainability Step 3 The will of senior management is the 3 most important factor for the sustainability Growing together with management mindset to take root across local communities the company. KDB Daewoo Securities has a well-established sustainability KDB Daewoo Securities is a company of management system in place. financial experts. This is why it is referred What is needed now is its employees take to as a “securities academy”. I think interest in the system and conduct their contributing to society through use of jobs in accordance with it. We will grow one’s competencies is meaningful for the further when all employees internalize nation and is an achievement that should sustainability as their own and foster it into be extensively publicized. I hope to see a permanent component of the corporate continued improvements in employees’ culture. Many corporations used to see expertise, and that such competencies sustainability as a PR tool to maintain will substantially contribute to a win-win or enhance their reputation. However, relationship with local communities. sustainability is what corporations must practice as a member of local communities, Step 1 and is what shareholders and investors are demanding. In other words, sustainability Understanding risk, is a mindset KDB Daewoo Securities must a starting point in develop, in order to grow in a sustainable sustainability management manner. As such, the company needs to comprehensively establish sustainability For KDB Daewoo Securities to grow in management strategies and direction, a sustainable manner, first, each and and move in the same direction together 1 every one of its employees should fully with its employees. 13 understand risks associated with the company’s business and management activities and focus on preventing the risks. From the perspective of sustainability there are diverse risks. One in particular is related to the task of selling financial products and service in full compliance, which is a type of risk that should be managed at all cost, to protect financial consumers and preserve their trust. For management of such risk, employees should enhance their financial expertise, with institutional supports at the company level. Always One Step Ahead With Integrity Youngcheol Bae Executive Managing Director at Compliance Unit In charge of financial consumer protection and compliance-related risk management as a head of Compliance Unit Always One Step Ahead With Expertise Growing into a respected company KDB Daewoo Securities focuses on sharing growth with its local communities. The company encourages, with appropriate supports, its employees to join community service programs of their choice or to feel free to take part in social contribution activities on a regular basis. I hope KDB Daewoo Securities takes an extra step toward taking the lead in building an eco-friendly green workplace, slowing climate change, and growing into a truly world-leading company fulfilling its corporate responsibility in the area of environmental protection. Step 2 Step 1 14 Developing human resources, a first step toward customer satisfaction From the perspective of sustainability management, KDB Daewoo Securities’ human resources development (HRD) system is its great strength. The company is famous in the industry for its emphasis on HRD. We foster top leaders in various fields through internal training, which reflects the strong will of senior management. Irrespective of market circumstances, KDB Daewoo Securities has been providing various types of training, ranging from off-site to on-line trainings, and spared no resources in developing employee competencies and fostering talent. These efforts are what have enabled us to offer distinctive products and services and maintain our stellar reputation in the industry. Based on such expertise, all of us at KDB Daewoo Securities combine our strengths and work in unison to achieve premier customer satisfaction. Jeongyun Kim Deputy Manager at Fixed Income Product Department In charge of repurchase agreement (RP) sales and fixed income trading B Step 2 A premier corporate culture without discrimination or prejudice Reflective of its business characteristics, KDB Daewoo Securities has many female employees. Even though I have not been with KDB Daewoo Securities for long, I can really feel the efforts of the company to help its female employees continue their careers and to create a good work environment for them. I also believe that the company evaluates and expects the competencies of female employees as are. I am glad to be working for a company that strives to foster all of its Step 3 employees into financial talents without any discrimination or prejudice. I will make full C use of my capabilities to contribute to the Building mutual understanding company’s development. and respect for local communities KDB Daewoo Securities is the kind of Step 1 company I would like to stay with for a long time. I want to be a financial expert the company is proud of, and hope to receive Respecting people, a cornerstone active company supports for my ambition. of sustainable growth I would also like to see many sustainability management programs in which employees A company cannot grow sustainably 15 can participate and improve their job without satisfying its employees. competencies, through which they can KDB Daewoo Securities spares no effort A contribute to local communities. or resources in helping its employees adapt to the organization, and at the same time, conducts employee job training in a thorough and strict manner. I believe one of the greatest strengths of KDB Daewoo Securities in the area of HRD is its mentoring system, through which employees are exposed to the experiences and knowledge of senior staff. Always One Step Ahead With Respect Jihye Ko Senior Associate at Operations & Settlement Department In charge of FX (Foreign Exchange) derivatives settlement as a senior associate who joined KDB Daewoo Securities in 2014 KDB Daewoo Securities is known as “talent academy” or “securities academy” in the Korean financial market. This is because we have fostered many financial experts through systematic and customized training. We have built a premier corporate culture that promotes open communication and respects 16 passion and creativity. This corporate culture underlies our competitiveness and strengths. We will continue to stay ahead based on the belief that “people equal innovation”. KDB Daewoo Securities will foster financial professionals who have every qualification to be success partners to our customers and to contribute to the sustainable growth of the company and society. Transform Ideas into Impact With passion and abilities for the pursuit of excellence, we envision a society where all can enjoy the benefits of finance. We also support the sustainable growth of local communities. When we coexist with local communities and fulfill our social responsibilities, the world opens to a better future, and we all grow stronger as a whole. P. 72~77 T HINK We bring positive change to communities. Local COMMUNITIES 17 diversity Many different types of people live in harmony. A multicultural society where understanding and mutual respect rule, is what KDB Daewoo Securities is helping build. In supporting multicultural families, educational contents, holding a bilingual KDB Daewoo Securities collaborates contest, ‘Mother Tongue Contest’, and through a partnership with the Hankuk adopting various language education University of Foreign Studies (HUFS) approaches. The company also creates Center for Multicultural Education. animation materials to improve the The company offers distinctive public’s understanding of multicultural programs supporting multicultural societies”. 18 families, and the Director Minjung Yang regards this as an example case Regarding a future direction of a company sharing value with its KDB Daewoo Securities can take in communities. She thinks highly of how social contribution, Director Yang hopes the company is extensively engaged the company develop more diverse in a wide variety of social contribution programs and help the multicultural activities and creatively and innovatively society in Korea make progress together leverage its corporate competencies with their local communities. to contribute to and share with local In particular, she suggests such communities, thereby setting examples ideas that can be of practical use to in creating a better society. multicultural families as development of a financial terminology dictionary According to Director Yang, in multiple languages, educating the “KDB Daewoo Securities contributes to families on how to conduct basic the development of local communities financial transactions, and improving in various ways. The company has financial institution employees’ made and distributed recipe calendars understanding of multicultural societies. and a cookbook in multiple languages, She thinks that such programs would and also translated learning materials improve KDB Daewoo Securities’ on economy in many different unique brand value in sustainability languages, all to help immigrant management. women settle down in Korea and gain a good financial understanding. The company also helps children of multicultural families become global talents by developing and providing bilingual teaching materials and HUFS Center for Multicultural Education Providing consulting and social services Description related to multiculturalism Interpretation and translation services Key Business for marriage-bound immigrants, Areas education of children gifted in language, Multicultural School of Love project unity Established April 2007 www.hufsmcs.org KDB Daewoo Securities is a pioneer in social contributions based on 19 finance. I would like to ask the company to develop more programs and help the multicultural society make progress together with their local communities. Minjung Yang Director, HUFS Center for Multicultural Education Since 2013 KDB Daewoo Securities has helped solve the problem, finding has been providing Yeomyung School the school an optimal location to build financial supports for rent payment classrooms and a playground. and facility maintenance through the Community Chest of Korea. Yeomyung Vice-President Myungsook Cho of School is an alternative school for North Yeomyung School gives the following Korean teenage defectors and children descriptions about the school’s roles of families who have defected from and KDB Daewoo Securities’ support: the North. Schools in general need a “Germany went through a crisis for place for students to study and play, but a decade after its unification: Adults Yeomyung School lacked funds for such had a tendency to develop a fixed a place. By regulation, schools cannot mindset after going through secondary be too close to a shopping center or and high school educations, and this an adult entertainment district; but it presented problems in educating them was difficult for Yeomyung School to on unification. Yeomyung School is an find a suitable location due to financial institution that is preparing for unification constraints. KDB Daewoo Securities KDB Daewoo Securities provides essential 20 supports when they are truly needed. The company’s timely and learn appropriate supports of Yeomyung School has greatly helped us run the school in a stable manner. Myungsook Cho Vice-President, Yeomyung School of the two Koreas. After undergoing Vice-President Cho suggests trials and errors, we have established an KDB Daewoo Securities to implement education system based on the model social contribution programs that neither of South Korea nor of North Korea leverage its business expertise. North but of a third country, and are using Korean teenage defectors do not fully this system in educating our students. understand such economic concepts as We believe that a peaceful unification banking and interest rates, and social can be successfully achieved through contribution programs teaching basic education. KDB Daewoo Securities financial concepts would help them provides various supports that enable develop a good understanding of how us to make progress towards our goal to succeed in a market economy. She of peaceful unification.” also hopes that KDB Daewoo Securities makes more efforts to let the scope of its social contribution activities known to the general public, which would help make available more diverse financebased social contribution activities. 21 earn Through learning we project a more prosperous tomorrow. A society where all are free to learn and grow, is what KDB Daewoo Securities is helping build. Yeomyung School An alternative school for North Korean Description youth defectors, troubled adolescents, and teenagers of multicultural families Key Business Self-directed learning, reading, character Areas building, volunteering, and health Established September 2004 www.ymschool.org 22 THINK The more we think, the easier it gets. The deeper we go, the clearer it becomes. How to help more people lead better lives, how to bring about a better future, we ‘Think you very much’. Thank We thank you very much. We are empowered by your trust in us. By pursuing unlimited possibilities of finance, we will continue to realize the true value behind ‘Think you very much’. 23
