UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 2015 The 10 principles of the STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 2015 has proven to be another year that demonstrated our relentless efforts to enrich the local and regional communities with the mentality of CSR, CSV, sustainability, corporate citizenship, and the like. For the last seven years, we remained committed to the UN Global Compact principles and we vow to continue our efforts in this domain. Lebanon and the Middle East have some of the most pressing socioeconomic and environmental problems in the world along with political instability and insecurity, and companies are still lagging behind their global counterparts in responding to these issues. Uncertainty has almost become the epitome for businesses in Lebanon. However, it is in such circumstances that embedding CSR is particularly important. Whether this is in taking initiative in efficient management of resources, engaging with stakeholders, creating partnerships, collaborating with governments, or backing investments in social causes; all are indispensable ingredients for alleviating the risks generated by uncertainty and stimulating transformative social and environmental impacts. The private sector is not only expected to be the main active player, but also a powerful force for social progress. One of CSR LEBANON’s main achievements in 2015 was organizing the 5th CSR LEBANON FORUMTM that discussed innovative strategies in the various sectors for driving sustainability throughout the supply chains with major focus on establishing winning partnerships with customers and suppliers as key stakeholders, and how these strategies would reflect on corporations’ brand value and reputation in the long term. International, regional and local experts gathered for the two-day annual networking event to highlight the importance of CSR in addressing the challenges businesses face today. The role of CSR in enhancing band value and reputation was the main topic of the agenda. Our continued commitment to promoting and implementing the GC Principles is based on: First, proving our support for the Global Compact. The UNGC continues to represent the most widely accepted set of international business standards in relation to CSR and human rights. CSR LEBANON 5 Second, demonstrating the positive impact of the ten principles that we have achieved, despite our small size and the country’s dramatic situation, mainly through our awareness-raising activities which we have been relentlessly working on. In 2015, through the 5th CSR LEBANON FORUMTM, titled ‘How Sustainability Enhances Brand Value and Reputation’ (October 26-27, 2015) which was held under the patronage of the Governor of Banque du Liban, H.E. Mr. Riad Salamé, and was strongly supported by the European Union, the Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Environment, and the American Lebanese Chamber of Commerce and garnered recognition from the Government of Sweden. The Forum attracted key leaders from the Lebanese private sector and corporations and hosted a number of prestigious international speakers who introduced CSR and sustainability concepts and know-how to participants. We also facilitated a large scale training course and workshop which aimed at helping participants identify the key to getting the most value from stakeholder relationships and how they can look at CSR issues from a business perspective towards identifying the business case. The two-day event was attended by more than 800 participants mainly from Lebanon and the Arab business communities (kindly find details on pages 16-28). We also continued to publish our Responsible Business Quarterly Review despite the difficulty in the publishing world (kindly find details on pages 30-31). Third, ensuring that as our business grows, it does so in a socially responsible way. Using the Global Compact self-assessment procedure has enabled us to identify areas where further improvements are needed to ensure that the business grows sustainably and continues to have a positive impact in society. We will continue to use it as a tool for evaluation and improvement. We live in a country and region which still suffer from the prevalence of uncommitted business leaders dealing with CSR agendas as a fashionable PR tool, and compromising on their credibility and reputation in an era where disclosure has become the norm. However, we will continue our sole efforts to provide the proper international standard knowledge on CSR among the private sector, in order to help businesses meet the genuine CSR values: materiality, stakeholder engagement, and social impact. Khaled Kassar Founder and CEO CSR LEBANON IT’S OUR BUSINESS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Established in 2009, CSR LEBANON LLC. is an independent consulting firm, a social enterprise, aiming to raise awareness about Corporate Social Responsibility and to enhance CSR dialogue in Lebanon and the region. Through our consultancy, from strategy to reporting, we provide a better understanding of the CSR concept among the public and private sectors, and in the community. | From Strategy to Reporting TM www.csrlebanon.com ABOUT CSR LEBANON ABOUT CSR LEBANON CSR is Our Business CSR LEBANON is a social enterprise aiming to raise awareness about Corporate Social Responsibility and to enhance CSR dialogue in Lebanon and the Middle East region. Through our consultancy, research, communication strategies, events, and regional media platform, we pave the way to a better understanding of the CSR concept among the public and private sectors and Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), striving towards a National CSR Strategy. CSR LEBANON is devoted to improving relationships between corporations and the society, with the support of leading business figures, business associations, governmental institutions, academics, media, CSOs, and international organizations. CSR LEBANON provides CSR strategies and report development, policies, training, and CSR reports evaluation, quality assurance, and endorsement based on accredited international guidelines. Our Vision To make CSR an essential part of our national culture; TOWARDS A NATIONAL CSR STRATEGYTM. Our Mission To provide an informative platform to companies and support them in embodying CSR in their core business strategies and operations, aiming to align profitability with sustainability and human development. Our Values At CSR LEBANON, we strongly believe that business with no ethics is no business at all. Ethical values are deeply entrenched in our daily operations, with an unrelenting sense of responsibility towards our stakeholders and society at large. Since our work is CSR, transparency, openness, communication, collaboration, and engagement are of the CSR LEBANON 9 top values at our company. We vigorously strive towards creating a two-way dialogue with our stakeholders, engaging them continuously in our initiatives and providing a dynamic work environment where everyone is knowledgeable and engaged in the business. Our Sources of Income CSR LEBANON continues to succeed as a result of its professional team’s efforts, transparency in its relationships and partnerships, and commitment to quality and high level of expertise. But such an approach can also generate high expenditures which means that the company engages heavy efforts to maintain its sustainability and continuity. Our sources of income are as follows: Direct personal funding by the founder of CSR LEBANON Strategic Partnerships with the private sector Advertising spaces in Responsible Business Magazine Sponsorships Training fees Profits generated from CSR LEBANON’s initiatives are completely reinvested in the social enterprise’s mission. ABOUT CSR LEBANON Why CSR LEBANON Lebanon is a country with extensive human capital as well as a strong and continuously growing private sector. Despite substantial initiatives by the public, private, and non-profit sectors, there is still a genuine need for a sustainable group effort to address the socio-economic issues facing the country. There is a significant lack of awareness about CSR in Lebanese corporations and their role in the development of the country. Contrary to the fast-growing CSR trend across the global business world, the implementation of CSR strategies in Lebanon and the region is still very limited, and is only undertaken by a few corporations in specific fields. This fact negatively affects companies’ competitiveness, profitability, and sustainable growth. CSR LEBANON plays an essential role in tackling these challenges through the following strategic goals: • Spreading the culture of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in Lebanon and the region. • Empowering the Lebanese private sector to implement CSR. • Helping banks and other corporations meet universal CSR and sustainability standards. • Presenting new CSR programs adapted to the Lebanese communities’ needs. • Developing CSR ties between businesses, civil society, governmental entities, and the media. • Establishing a regional CSR media platform based in Lebanon. CSR LEBANON 11 Our Challenges 1. Lack of funding because of the inexistence of an adequate legal status in Lebanon for operating as a social enterprise, rather than a for-profit company. This resulted in CSR LEBANON’s inability to approach local and international institutional donors. 2. Operating within an economy that is based on family-owned businesses where integrating a new culture inside the organization remains challenging and difficult. 3. Time constraints: Expenditures growing at a faster rate than income is generated. This prevents quick reinvestment into new initiatives and risks losing some of the positive momentum created. 4. Security and economic constraints as well as weak infrastructure and local and regional political instability. 5. The weak back-up from the public sector which keeps the sphere of collaboration small and hinders the proper adoption of CSR since the corporate sector remains free in the way it approaches CSR (although CSR is voluntary in nature) and has the capacity to manipulate public expectations because of the absence of relevant regulations and supervision. 6. As a new trend in the region, many parties, mainly event organizers and some consultants, deal with CSR as a commercial opportunity rather than a business approach. CSR LEBANON is then expected to invest further efforts to adjust the misconceptions created by similar unprofessional practices. 7. Lack of local and regional expertise which obligates CSR LEBANON to partner with international experts thus increasing its costs. COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE CSR LEBANON was established in 2009 with the aim of raising awareness about Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability in Lebanon and the region. The company follows a multi-year strategic program towards enhancing corporate engagement in surrounding communities by integrating responsible practices in their workplaces, marketplaces, environment, and society. With many impressive achievements so far ranging from hosting high caliber events, four international level CSR Forums with global reach, banking workshops, CSR strategies, project consultancies, media campaigns, a specialized magazine, and publications, CSR LEBANON has already succeeded in creating a great momentum and raising the bar in the strategic perception of the concept among corporations and stakeholders. The social enterprise uses a communications mix aimed at reaching all of our stakeholders. CSR LEBANON Website Our website (www.csrlebanon.com) educates businesses, corporations and the public on CSR and provides expert opinions and analysis on the subject. The website also includes a news portal highlighting selective local, regional, and international CSR news and updates. CSR LEBANON 15 CSR LEBANON Social Media CSR LEBANON has increasingly made use of social media for various purposes. This is because social media has become an indispensable element in the communication mix. In the field of CSR and sustainability, social media are regarded as beneficial purveyors of CSR messages and communicating these beyond the traditional channels has shown great potential for discussing sustainability issues and engaging stakeholders. COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE CSR LEBANON Events In 2015, CSR LEBANON organized its Fifth CSR LEBANON FORUMTM on October 26-27 under the patronage of the Governor of Banque du Liban, H.E. Mr. Riad Salamé, and the leading support of the European Union and the Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Environment and garnered recognition from the Government of Sweden. The Forum was held under the title of “How Sustainability Enhances Brand Value and Reputation”. CSR LEBANON 17 A strategic approach to CSR is increasingly important to a company’s competitiveness. It can bring about benefits in terms of innovation, cost savings, brand differentiation, and employee and customer engagement. Most importantly, embedding CSR into the corporate strategy can help save brand reputation. Therefore, CSR is a must for every company that aims at maintaining good market share while making good profits. Interventions made by participants at the 5th Forum showed that companies are becoming increasingly involved in CSR throughout their operations or have CSR constitute an essential commitment on their agenda in the coming years. The Forum took place at a time when Lebanon was witnessing a set of challenges due to the waste management dilemma, shedding light on the role of the private sector in being part of the solution through well-defined social and environmental strategies. The increased CSR awareness revealed by companies and NGOs at the 5th Forum is an excellent indicator that the ongoing and relentless efforts made by CSR LEBANON over the last six years in highlighting the COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE importance of integrating CSR in the DNA of every business are paying off. We applaud CSR LEBANON’s efforts throughout the past The Forum featured a panel of 50 highSix years in building the profile international, regional and local foundations for proper CSR corporate sustainability experts, along adoption in Lebanon. It has with the Governor of Banque du Liban been a pleasure to be a straand the Head of Mission at the Embassy tegic supporter of the CSR of Sweden to Syria and Lebanon. SpeakLEBANON FORUM since its ers and international representatives proestablishment in 2009. This is vided strong business cases for building an excellent regional business responsible business practices and proand social platform for sharing moting transparent sustainability reportinternational knowledge and ing in the region. experience about Sustainability and CSR.” There is no doubt that CSR contributes H.E. Mr. Riad Salamé, not only to the growth of society, but also Governor of Banque Du Liban helps to improve the reputation of businesses. For Central Bank Governor Riad Salamé, he believes that services offered by companies tend to impact their reputation to a great extent, echoing on the Volkswagen emissions scandal, “the loss of billions of shareholder value by VW within just one week indicates to what extent CSR s essential in maintaining a good reputation,” he told participants. The Forum also included two parallel seminars on the Lebanese CSR Experience, which showcased case studies from Lebanon and success stories of corporations who have made this shift from public relations, marketing or a mere philanthropic and casual support for social and environmental activities to a more integrated and innovative approach to CSR. The event was attended by more than 50 leaders from the business community from a wide variety of sectors and business industries, associations, civil society organizations, government entities, international organizations, academia, and the media. Following the Forum, two training courses on sustainability reporting frameworks and integrating sustainability in project management were held, as well as two workshops on amplifying CSR communication efforts through social media, and corporate community engagement mastering materiality in CSR strategies and reporting. CSR LEBANON 19 COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE CSR LEBANON 21 “Congratulations on the very considerable success of the conference. Having organized various events myself, I know just how much hard work has to go into such conferences. You did exceptionally well to get so many speakers from outside Lebanon. CSR LEBANON achieved an international level event in Beirut, one which we only see in annual conferences organized by global sustainability leaders like the UNGC, GRI, and the BITC.” Professor David Grayson Director of the Doughty Centre for Corporate Responsibility, Cranfield University UK, London COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE CSR LEBANON 23 Corporate Community Engagement Companies that partner with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) is one of the most effective ways to “We at DSC are very proud and carry out CSR projects. NGOs can honored to have organized a sucprovide companies with the necescessful blood drive at the event sary expertise to implement ambiof CSR LEBANON. We know this tious projects and pinpoint comcould not have happened withmunity’s needs. Therefore, fostering out your guidance and support, strong ties between the corporate and development sectors is imporand for that we are truly grateful.“ tant to promote CSR, according to experts who participated in the Mr. Abdo Saad, Corporate Community Engagement Operations Manager, DSC Workshop entitled “How to Create Partnerships and Maximize Impact.” The Corporate Community Engagement Workshop provided an opportunity for participants to obtain oneon-one meetings with a multitude of stakeholders and match-make strategic interests, as well as engage participants in a collective discussion on priority social and environmental issues and challenges and proposing long-term solutions. The workshop is an interactive and collaborative dialogue platform on CSR targeting youth, university students, corporations, NGOs, international organizations, and government representatives, discussing experiences, challenges and opportunities, and partnerships in relevance to Microfinance, Healthcare, Road Safety, Education, Environment, Anti-Corruption and Human Rights. It gives NGOs the opportunity to talk about their goals and success stories to try to obtain the sponsorship of one of the participating corporations. Many, in fact, have succeeded in this goal. 10 NGOs participated in the Corporate Community Engagement Workshop in 2015. They included: ALISEP (Association Libanaise contre la Sclerose en Plaques), Balsam (Lebanese Center for Palliative Care), DSC (Donner Sang Compter), Faire Face, LAS (Lebanese Autism Society), LBCF (Lebanese Breast Cancer Foundation), War Child, Association Nusroto Al-Anashid, Heartland Alliance, and ROhCD (RAFI Organization for Helping Children with Defeats). COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE CSR LEBANON 25 Supporting Students and Universities In 2015, more than 150 students and professors from more than 12 leading universities in Lebanon were invited by CSR LEBANON to attend and participate at the CSR LEBANON Forum, training courses and workshops. Students were mainly introduced to the concept of CSR, the role of the academic sector in the field, as well as to social entrepreneurship and offered opportunities. CSR LEBANON is also continuously and voluntarily assisting senior education students from various universities in successfully completing their MBA thesis tackling the topic of CSR, dedicating time and providing advice, contacts, resources, and mentorship. COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE CSR LEBANON 27 NGO Exhibition: Connecting with Potential Funders Civil society organizations, or non-governmental organizations (NGOs), have a critical role to play in the advancement of universal values around human rights, the environment, labour standards and anticorruption. As global market integration has advanced, their role has gained particular importance in aligning economic activities with social and environmental priorities. NGOs participate vitally in the international system. They contribute valuable information and ideas, advocate effectively for positive change, provide essential operational capacity in emergencies and development efforts, and generally increase the accountability and legitimacy of the global governance process. CSR LEBANON organized a large scale not-for-profit exhibition that brought together NGOs, foundations and social enterprises from across Lebanon to share learning and best practices and engage with the private sector notably banks and funders. The exhibition provided great outreach for CSOs and a platform to present innovative initiatives as well as social and environmental models. The exhibition aimed to initiate efficient connections among stakeholders towards making a real difference, and has been translated into several partnerships with and support to many participating NGOs. COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE CSR LEBANON 29 COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE Responsible Business Quarterly ReviewTM Magazine The first and only specialized CSR Magazine in the Middle East Responsible BusinessTM Quarterly Review is a unique media platform covering the latest CSR and sustainability trends, initiatives, stories, case studies, reports and expert viewpoints. The magazine aims to broaden and deepen the understanding of CSR and provide road maps for improved adoption and implementation of the concept within a local and regional cultural context. Responsible BusinessTM magazine is now in its 16th edition and has received positive stakeholder feedback locally and internationally from the CSR, media and corporate sectors. The quarterly magazine provides readers with an overview of CSR developments in the region and internationally as well as in-depth features. It is the first and only publication in the Middle East specialized in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and has fast become one of the top 3 business magazines in Lebanon. Responsible BusinessTM is an authoritative reference on CSR and builds the business case for corporations committed to improving their practices by offering accurate information and guidelines. Its CSR credentials are further boosted by the production process which uses 100% recycled paper. Key Facts Mixed Sources Product Group from well-managed forests, controlled sources Distribution and recycled wood or fiber. 15,000 copies in Lebanon and the Middle East Cer number C015523 © 1996 Forest Stewardship Council (market and free distribution) Ecological Features Readership Printed on Oikos, recycled paper obtained with 50% of recycled FSC certified fibers and 50% pure FSC certified pulp for high qualMore than 50,000 ity recycled, finely mottled papers and boards. Areas of coverage Mainly Lebanon, the UAE, Qatar, KSA, Jordan and the United Kingdom Third Year of Responsible Business Your Ultimate Source for Corporate Social Responsibility Knowledge COMMUNICATING THE CSR MESSAGE CSR LEBANON Consulting Services CSR LEBANON provides leading consultancy services in the CSR field, helping corporations do business in a responsible and sustainable way. Our consultancy services include: Setting CSR frameworks, policies and strategies. Developing innovative CSR projects closely related to the company’s core business In-house training Establishing CSR departments and providing the necessary education and training CSR preliminary assessment Encouraging stakeholder engagement, including stakeholder mapping and dialogue planning Developing and communicating CSR reports and providing quality assurance Consultancy services are still at a very early stage due to the weak market readiness to integrate strategic CSR into businesses especially in Lebanon. Due to the instability of the political and economic environment in the country, businesses mostly operate within a short term spectrum and restrain from investing in long-term strategies and programs. CSR LEBANON expects to be more active in the consultancy area within the next five years. This will be mainly due to the fulfillment of our National Program for raising awareness about CSR which includes intensive conferences and educational workshops in collaboration with business schools and aimed at eliminating misconceptions heavily existing in this field. Philanthropic and marketing perceptions of CSR as well as the disengagement of senior leadership are among the main challenges encountered in driving integrated CSR forward. CSR LEBANON, under the guidance of Mr. Khaled Kassar, is building momentum for sustainable business practices in Lebanon and the region. Mr. Georg Kell, Former Executive Director of the COMMITTING TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNGC COMMITTING TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES The following section outlines our approach to the UNGC and summarizes how we are seeking to support the ten principles. Method CSR LEBANON undertook a self-assessment at the end of the reporting period using the UNGC Self-Assessment Tool to evaluate our progress to date. This was undertaken with input from the editorial and management team. Included in our evaluation was an analysis of our supply chain which is described below. Follow-up actions were identified which will be implemented in 2016 and are listed at the end of this section. Our Supply Chain In assessing our supply chain, we identified the magazine as the main product we produce therefore having the most significant impact. Where other suppliers opt for single purchases such as stationery items, we have long-term extensive relationships with the companies procuring them. Our utility requirements (water, electricity and sewage) are met by the government and/or the management of our building and are largely outside of our control. Production of the magazine is undertaken by Salim Dabbous Printing Company Sarl, a Lebanese printing press. The paper used in the magazine is 100% recycled Oikos (FSC certified) and is sourced by CSR LEBANON directly from Nahhal Paper Co. in Lebanon. Such paper quality is unfortunately not available locally nor through regional suppliers. Following production, distribution is undertaken by Messageries du Moyen-Orient de la Presse et du Livre S.A.L. The magazine is also distributed in other Middle Eastern countries, especially in the United Arab Emirates, again using a distribution agent (Abu Dhabi Media Company – Tawzea, in the UAE). Using distribution agents allows the magazine to be distributed alongside other publications to the same vendors, which reduces the carbon footprint of the magazine as well as the cost. Courier delivery is used for smaller magazine distributions, for example to particular companies, and is undertaken by Aramex (www.aramex.com), a large distribution company in the Middle East with an established track record in CSR and sustainability. COMMITTING TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES THE 10 PRINCIPLES a) Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses • CSR LEBANON supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and seeks to ensure that its principles are embedded in its organizational practices. • CSR LEBANON seeks to provide a safe and healthy workplace environment for its employees. • CSR LEBANON seeks to ensure that wages, hours and leave allowances meet international and national standards. Assessment, Policy and Goals • CSR LEBANON seeks to provide fair treatment for all staff in handling grievances. • An assessment of the company’s environmental and social impact on the local community in terms of negative impacts has concluded that they are negligible. The company has a small office which has not displaced any local inhabitants and it has limited interaction with the local community. • The company does not manufacture any products which may have human rights impacts. • The company remains engaged in human rights issues related to the business community in Lebanon as part of its awareness-raising activities but does not consider the business itself to be at risk of involvement in human rights abuses. • The company’s supply chain is very limited. It includes office stationery equipment providers and the publisher of the magazine. No formal contractual arrangements currently exist with these suppliers to facilitate a contractual agreement to promote international human rights standards. However, CSR LEBANON makes sure that its suppliers have the minimum requirements of accountability and ethical business practices, like having at least a basic knowledge of sustainability issues and having plans or working towards enhancing their business processes and supply chains. • CSR LEBANON actively and consistently promotes international human rights standards in its interactions with partners. CSR LEBANON 37 • CSR LEBANON uses its media products to portray social concerns and human rights malpractices. Through its publication, Responsible Business, it aims to promote support and respect for human rights in Lebanon and the Middle East. Implementation • CSR LEBANON hosts regular events and meetings to bring together individuals from Lebanon’s business community to discuss CSR and sustainability issues, including human rights. • CSR LEBANON has adopted an Ethics Code which supports international human rights frameworks. • CSR LEBANON is in an advanced stage of developing a Health & Safety Policy and Grievance Policy in support of its implementation of the UN Global Compact. • CSR LEBANON assures that no human rights abuses are taking place within its company, or amongst suppliers and business partners. Measurement of Outcomes • CSR LEBANON has published four quarterly magazines entitled ‘Responsible Business’ during 2015. The publication seeks to educate Lebanese and Middle Eastern businesses about CSR and sustainability, including human rights issues. • During the year, CSR LEBANON hosted the fifth CSR LEBANON FORUM on “How Sustainability Enhances Brand Value and Reputation”. Issues related to the workplace, consumer and employee rights were discussed by more than 800 participants who attended the Forum. • CSR LEBANON delivered a training course and workshop on mastering materiality in CSR strategies and reporting, where more than 50 participants attended. “Human Rights” was one of the key pillars of the workshop. COMMITTING TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES b) Labor Principles Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy • The company recognizes the rights of its workers to freedom of association and collective bargaining. • Child labor and forced labor are not considered risks for the company due to the nature of our work and our workforce. and Goals • CSR LEBANON ensures that employment decisions are based on objective criteria. This is enforced by the aim of promoting CSR in a multicultural and multi-religious country like Lebanon through promoting social collaboration and inclusion. • CSR LEBANON actively campaigns against all forms of forced or compulsory labor and child labor. • CSR LEBANON commits to and respects its Ethics Code. This includes reference to the right of emImplementation ployees to form associations and undertake collective bargaining. • The Ethics Code of the company includes a commitment to avoid discriminatory behavior, including recruitment, based on religion, race, ethnicity, or gender. • CSR LEBANON continues to undertake awareness-raising activities to promote greater understanding of labor issues within Lebanon and the Middle East. • CSR LEBANON promotes an open policy inside the organization where employees are free to express their opinions, needs, share their problems, and seek advice. CSR LEBANON 39 • Employees of CSR LEBANON have not engaged in any trade union or collective bargaining activities during 2014 but have not suffered any restrictions in doing so. • There are no children under the age of 19 who have worked or are working for the company or its main suppliers. Measurement • CSR LEBANON has published four quarterly magazines entitled ‘Responsible Business’ during 2015. The publication seeks to educate Lebanese and Middle Eastern businesses about CSR and sustainabilof Outcomes ity, including labor issues. • During the year, CSR LEBANON hosted the fifth CSR LEBANON FORUM on “How Sustainability Enhances Brand Value and Reputation”. It included discussions about investment decision-making and CSR in relation to the workplace and labor rights. • CSR LEBANON undertook a training course and workshop on mastering materiality in CSR strategies and reporting, which featured labor principles as one of its pillars. c) Environmental Principles Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, • CSR LEBANON seeks to lead by example in taking actions to be an environmentally sustainable business. Policy and Goals • CSR LEBANON continues to undertake awareness-raising activities to promote greater understanding of environmental responsibility and uptake of new technologies in the Middle East. COMMITTING TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES • Responsible BusinessTM is the only magazine of its kind in the Middle East printed on 100% ecofriendly Oikos recycled paper obtained with 50% of recycled FSC certified fibers and 50% pure FSC certified pulp for high quality recycled, finely mottled papers and boards. The whole company stationery (letterheads, brochures, business cards, folders, envelopes, notebooks, etc.) is printed on high quality FSC certified paper, the Oikos paper. We always mention paper specifications on our print-puts to Implementation encourage our partners to shift to the same. • The company has taken measures to reduce its energy use by turning off all electrical equipment overnight and using printers which turn off automatically when not in use. Natural light is also used whenever possible within the office. • CSR LEBANON is in continuous communication with its suppliers to discuss environmental issues. • The company has implemented a recycling initiative to recycle paper but this has to be better enforced and monitored. Printing is also being minimized and double sided. It is worth noting that CSR LEBANON, as a small company, does not generate a large amount of waste. Thus, segregated waste cannot be collected by local agents because of cost inefficiency of waste collectors. Accordingly, CSR LEBANON is working on promoting this practice among their neighboring companies and partners to gather waste in one area for more efficient collection. • 100% of magazines and stationery are printed on recycled paper, using environmentally sound ink. Measurement of Outcomes • No environmental incidents or complaints were made against CSR LEBANON during 2015. • CSR LEBANON has published four quarterly magazines entitled ‘Responsible Business’ during 2015. The publication included features on environmental issues such as alternative/renewable energy, case studies on businesses engagement in environmental sustainability, environmental paradigms in the Middle East, and an in-depth review about the financial value of ESG. • During the year, CSR LEBANON hosted the fifth CSR LEBANON FORUM on “How Sustainability Enhances Brand Value and Reputation”. It included discussions about sustainable supply chains and green initiatives, and CSR in relation to the environment. • CSR LEBANON undertook a training course and workshop on mastering materiality in CSR strategies and reporting, which included “environmental principles” as one of its pillars. CSR LEBANON 41 d) Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • CSR Lebanon takes an active stance against corruption in all its forms both within its own Assessment, business and the business community at large. It is committed to ethical behavior, accuracy and transparency. • CSR LEBANON’s employment agreement states that unethical business practice is a reason Policy and Goals for terminating the employment contract. • The company considers that the risk of corruption within its own business relationships is very low. Implementation • CSR LEBANON Ethics Code incorporates anti-corruption commitments. • The company is in an advanced stage of developing a grievance procedure to ensure that employees are able to raise concerns and report non-compliance with the Ethics Code without fearing personal consequences. • CSR LEBANON continues to conduct awareness-raising activities on the subject of corruption. Measurement of • There have not been any reports of corruption within CSR LEBANON’s business during the reporting period. • CSR LEBANON has published four quarterly magazines entitled ‘Responsible Business’ Outcomes during 2015 including articles that promote ethics and best practice. • CSR LEBANON undertook a training course and workshop on mastering materiality in CSR strategies and reporting, which included “anti-corruption principles” among its pillars. COMMITTING TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES Comment: Although this means an opportunity cost in terms of funding, CSR LEBANON’s commitment to transparency led the company to be established as a for-profit company rather than an NGO for two reasons: 1. The generally poor reputation of many national NGOs in the country. 2. Inexistence of a relevant legal status in the Lebanese laws for social enterprises. Follow-Up The action points identified to improve our compliance with the Global Compact for 2016 are as follows: 1. Activate a Health and Safety policy for the workplace 2. Activate a Grievance policy for the workplace 3. Activate a policy on Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 4. Ensure pregnancy and adoption/childcare leave is included in standard employment contract 5. Activate an environmental policy including a strategy to monitor recycling performance in the workplace and advance lobbying among neighboring corporations 6. Develop an arrangement, contractual or otherwise, with major suppliers which will support our compliance with the UNGC ten principles (if applicable in Lebanon) 7. Assess feasibility of monitoring indirect outcomes of awareness-raising activities such as relevant external events and press coverage of CSR /sustainability issues in other news publications 8. Actively promote the adoption of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the Business for Peace Guidance among Lebanese corporations and work closely with public and private sector authorities in line with our mandate to establish a Local Network.
