Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2015 DSM at a glance Nutrition DSM Resins & Functional Materials is a global player in developing, manufacturing and marketing high-quality resins The Nutrition cluster comprises DSM Nutritional Products and solutions for paints, industrial coatings and fiber-optic coatings. DSM Food Specialties.These businesses serve the global Continuous innovation means that customers can meet industries for animal feed, food and beverage, pharmaceutical, regulatory needs and respond better to consumer demands for infant nutrition, dietary supplements and personal care. more sustainable materials. DSM Nutritional Products is one of the world’s leading Innovation Center producers of essential nutrients such as vitamins, carotenoids, nutritional lipids and other ingredients to the feed, food, DSM Innovation Center serves as an enabler and accelerator pharmaceutical and personal care industries. Among its of innovation within DSM as well as providing support to the customers are the world’s largest food and beverage clusters. With its Emerging Business Areas, the Business companies. DSM is uniquely positioned thanks to the Incubator and DSM Venturing & Licensing, the DSM Innovation combination of its broad portfolio of active ingredients, maximum Center has a general business development role, focusing on differentiation through formulation, local presence, a global areas outside the current scope of the business groups. premix network, and a strong focus on innovation. DSM Nutritional Products consists of the following business units: DSM’s Emerging Business Areas provide strong long-term growth platforms based on the company’s core competences Animal Nutrition & Health addresses the nutritional additives in life sciences and materials sciences. The company has three segment of the global feed ingredients market. DSM is active in Emerging Business Areas: vitamins, feed enzymes, carotenoids, minerals and eubiotics. DSM Biomedical supplies innovative biomedical materials that Human Nutrition & Health primarily addresses the nutritional enable medical device manufacturers to make less-invasive ingredients markets, but is also active in coloration and devices. These can speed up recovery, shorten hospital stays preservation in the global food ingredients market. and minimize reoperations, lowering health costs and helping people to lead longer, healthier and more active lives. Personal Care focuses on active and performance ingredients such as vitamins, UV-filters and bio-actives for the skin care, sun DSM Bio-based Products & Services is at the forefront of care and hair care market segments. building a more sustainable, bio-based economy with solutions for clean fuel from agricultural residue and for renewable DSM Food Specialties is a leading global supplier of food chemical building blocks such as bio-based succinic acid. enzymes, cultures, yeast extracts, savory flavors, hydrocolloids and other specialty ingredients for the food and beverage DSM Advanced Surfaces develops and provides solutions to industries. DSM Food Specialties’ advanced ingredients make a increase the yield of solar materials – Same sun. More power™. considerable contribution to the success of the world’s favorite brands for the dairy, baking, beverages and savory segments. Partnerships Performance Materials DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals (DSP), a 50-50 joint venture formed in 2011, is the global market leader in beta-lactam active The Performance Materials cluster consists of DSM pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) such as semi-synthetic Engineering Plastics, DSM Dyneema and DSM Resins & penicillins (SSPs) and semi-synthetic cephalosporins (SSCs), Functional Materials. These business groups are active in which represent the biggest class of APIs in anti-infectives. It is technologically sophisticated high-quality products and offer also a leader in other active ingredients such as nystatin and next specialized value propositions. In future this cluster will be generation statins. referred to as Materials. Patheon (formerly reported as DPx Holdings) is a global leader DSM Engineering Plastics is a global player in developing, in contract development and manufacturing services established manufacturing and marketing specialty plastics used in in 2014 and 49%-owned by DSM, with customers across the components for the electrical and electronics, automotive, pharmaceutical industry. flexible food packaging and consumer goods industries. ChemicaInvest is a joint venture established in 2015 in which DSM Dyneema is the inventor, manufacturer and marketer of DSM has a 35% shareholding and comprises the former DSM Dyneema®, the world’s strongest fiber™. This product, based Fibre Intermediates (caprolactam and acrylonitrile) and DSM on ultra high molecular weight polyethylene, is produced by Composite Resins businesses. means of DSM’s proprietary processes. The Dyneema® brand enjoys very high recognition in the value chains served. Driving Profitable Growth through science-based, sustainable solutions Our purpose is to create brighter lives for people today and generations to come. We use our unique competences in health, nutrition and materials to create solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance. DSM uses its Bright Science to create Brighter Living for people today and generations to come. Based on a deep understanding of key global trends that are driving societies, markets and customers, DSM creates solutions to some of the world’s biggest challenges, thus adding to both its own and its customers’ success. DSM believes that its continued success will be driven by its ability to create shared value for all stakeholders, now and in the future. It creates sustainable shared value by innovating in ways that allow its customers to provide solutions to the challenges facing society, the environment and end-users. In this way, DSM’s customers derive value from being able to offer end-users improved products and services; society and the planet derive value from the impact of more sustainable, longer-lasting, safer, healthier and more nutritious alternatives; and, as a result, DSM and its shareholders derive value from stronger growth and profitability. Finally, DSM’s employees feel engaged and motivated both through the contribution they make to a better world and the success this creates for the company in which they work. More information on how DSM creates value for its stakeholders can be found on page 22. DSM – Bright Science. Brighter Living.™ Royal DSM is a global science-based company active in health, nutrition and materials. By connecting its unique competences in life sciences and materials sciences DSM is driving economic prosperity, environmental progress and social advances to create sustainable value for all stakeholders simultaneously. DSM delivers innovative solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance in global markets such as food and dietary supplements, personal care, feed, medical devices, automotive, paints, electrical and electronics, life protection, alternative energy and bio-based materials. DSM and its associated companies deliver annual net sales of about € 10 billion with approximately 25,000 employees. The company is listed on Euronext Amsterdam. More information can be found at www.dsm.com. © 2016 Royal DSM. All rights reserved. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 www.dsm.com Table of contents 6 Key data 114 Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM 8 Letter from the CEO 116 What still went wrong in 2015 12 Report by the Managing Board 118 Information about the DSM share 12 Strategy 2010-2015, DSM in motion: driving focused growth 122 Sustainability statements 17 Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth 22 How DSM creates value for its stakeholders 124 Consolidated financial statements 24 Stakeholder engagement 124 Summary of significant accounting policies 39 People in 2015 130 Consolidated statements 47 Planet in 2015 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal 55 Profit in 2015 DSM 60 DSM Code of Business Conduct 188 Parent company financial statements 64 Review of business in 2015 189 Notes to the parent company financial statements 66 Nutrition 74 Performance Materials 199 Other information 80 Innovation Center 199 Independent auditor's report 85 Corporate Activities 203 Independent auditor's assurance report 86 Partnerships 204 Profit appropriation 205 Special statutory rights 88 Financial and reporting policy 205 Important dates 88 Financial policy 89 Reporting policy 206 DSM figures: five-year summary 91 Corporate governance and risk management 209 Explanation of some concepts and ratios 91 Introduction 93 Dutch corporate governance code 212 List of abbreviations 93 Governance framework 96 Risk management 101 Statements of the Managing Board 102 Report by the Supervisory Board 102 Supervisory Board report 107 Remuneration policy for the Managing Board Forward-looking statements This document may contain forward-looking statements with respect to DSM's future (financial) performance and position. Such statements are based on current expectations, estimates and projections of DSM and information currently available to the company. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements made or implied about the company’s strategy, estimates of sales growth, financial results, cost savings and future developments in its existing businesses as well as the impact of future acquisitions, and the company’s financial position. These statements can be management estimates based on information provided by specialized agencies or advisors. DSM cautions readers that such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and therefore it should be understood that many factors can cause the company's actual performance and position to differ materially from these statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, macro-economic, market and business trends and conditions, (low-cost) competition, legal claims, the company's ability to protect intellectual property, changes in legislation, changes in exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates, pension costs, raw material and energy prices, employee costs, the implementation of the company’s strategy, the company’s ability to identify and complete acquisitions and to successfully integrate acquired companies, the company’s ability to realize planned divestments, savings, restructuring or benefits, the company’s ability to identify, develop and successfully commercialize new products, markets or technologies, economic and/or political changes and other developments in countries and markets in which DSM operates. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the 'Risk Management' chapter. As a result, DSM’s actual future performance, position and/or financial results may differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set forth in such forwardlooking statements. DSM has no obligation to update the statements contained in this document, unless required by law. The English language version of this document is leading. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 5 www.dsm.com Key data Key data1 20152 2014 People Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 20,750 21,351 Female/male ratio 28/72 27/73 Total employee benefits costs (in € million) 1,778 1,713 Frequency Index of recordable injuries (per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees) 0.41 0.47 Employee engagement favorable score (in %) 69 70 Planet Energy use (in petajoules) 20.9 39.1 Greenhouse-gas emissions in CO2-equivalents (x million tons) 1.1 4.2 Emission of volatile organic compounds (x 1000 tons) 3.1 4.2 COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) discharges (x 1000 tons) 2.1 3.9 Water use (x million m3) 101 118 ECO+ solutions as % of innovation pipeline 91 95 ECO+ solutions as % of running business 57 49 Profit (in € million, unless otherwise indicated) Net sales, continuing operations 7,722 7,051 Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization, continuing operations (EBITDA)3 1,075 1,038 Operating profit, continuing operations (EBIT)3 573 587 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 88 145 Cash provided by operating activities 696 808 Capital expenditure, cash based 536 628 Dividend for DSM shareholders 297 296 Net debt 2,321 2,420 Shareholders' equity 5,541 5,723 Total assets 11,743 12,126 Capital employed, continuing operations 7,553 7,431 Market capitalization at 31 December 4 8,396 9,187 Per ordinary share in € Net earnings 0.45 0.78 Dividend 1.655 1.65 Ratios (%) Sales to high growth economies / net sales 44 42 Innovation sales / net sales 24 18 EBITDA / net sales (continuing operations) 13.9 14.7 Operating working capital / annualized fourth quarter net sales (continuing operations) 23.5 26.3 ROCE (continuing operations) 7.6 8.2 Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) 29.2 29.0 Equity / total assets 48.0 49.0 Cash provided by operating activities / EBITDA 59.5 69.3 1 For definitions see 'Explanation of some concepts and ratios' on page 209 2 Key data presented relate to total DSM (= continuing operations + discontinued operations), unless explicitly stated otherwise 3 Before exceptional items 4 Source: Bloomberg 5 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 6 www.dsm.com People 20,750 108 Workforce Number of nationalities (at year-end 2015) (at year-end 2015) 69 0.41 Employee engagement Frequency Index of favorable score 2015 2014 recordable injuries (in %) (per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees) Planet Pl t 1.1 101 24 57 Greenhouse-gas Water use, Innovation sales as % of ECO+ solutions as % of emissions, total DSM total DSM total sales total sales (in million tons) (in million m3) 20.9 91 Energy use, total DSM ECO+ solutions as % of (in petajoules) innovation pipeline, total DSM P Profit fit € 7,722 € 1,075 € 88 € 468 Net sales, continuing EBITDA, continuing Net profit, total DSM Capital expenditure operations (x million) operations1 (x million) (x million) (cash based), continuing operations (x million) € 696 € 0.45 € 1.65 7.6% Cash provided by Net earnings per Dividend per ordinary ROCE, continuing operating activities, ordinary share, share2 operations total DSM total DSM1 (in %) (x million) 1 Before exceptional items 2 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 7 www.dsm.com Letter from the CEO Dear reader, offers. In August, we announced the adjustment of our Over recent years we saw a multi-speed global economy, with organizational and operating model, with the aim of creating a marked differences in tempo across developing and already more agile, focused and cost-efficient organization, with a developed regions and markets, accompanied by currency stronger business and market focus and globally leveraged volatility. In 2015, this picture shifted slightly; whilst the US support functions. This included the introduction of an Executive economy remained dynamic and some key European Committee to strengthen our management structure and enable economies made some – long anticipated – progress, the pace faster strategic alignment and operational execution in the dayof growth however slowed in a number of emerging economies. to-day running of our company. The sudden and unexpected strengthening of the Swiss franc at the beginning of 2015 impacted cost positions for products Creating a more agile, focused and cost-efficient organization is produced in Switzerland, whereas the weakening of the euro expected to result in structural savings of € 125-150 million against the US dollar improved the Eurozone’s competitive compared to 2014, to be fully achieved by the end of 2017. position. Several other currencies also made significant moves. These initiatives will result in a headcount reduction of 900-1,100 Prices for oil and its derivatives remained under heavy pressure. FTEs, of which approximately half in the Netherlands. Decisions The ongoing crisis in the Middle East led to heightened social affecting personnel are regrettable at all times and are only taken and political tensions. This fractured and uncertain picture in the best interests of the company as a whole. We strive to requires companies to be increasingly agile, with the capability provide all those concerned with an appropriate level of support to identify and act on relevant developments at an early stage. and assistance in finding a new position. Besides this DSM-wide adjustment, a specific program to Last year was the final year of the implementation of our strategy improve operational performance in the Nutrition cluster has also for the 2010-2015 period, DSM in motion: driving focused been announced, focused on productivity, growth and working growth. By consistently focusing on our four growth drivers (High capital reduction, which target a further € 130-150 million in cost Growth Economies, Innovation, Sustainability and Acquisitions savings by 2018 and drive increasing growth in our Human & Partnerships) we have transformed DSM into a more global, Nutrition & Health business. more innovative and more sustainable company with a Whilst the Performance Materials cluster is already benefiting streamlined, simplified and high-value portfolio of businesses. from the results of a similar program carried out in recent years, We have built a uniquely broad, customer-focused and global we will continue to identify and act on opportunities to implement Nutrition business, upgraded our Performance Materials further improvements in this cluster in the coming period. businesses, significantly increased the share of sustainable and innovative solutions as a proportion of our sales and established At our annual Capital Markets Day in November, we presented new growth platforms with our Emerging Business Areas. our company Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth. With this new strategy we aim to capture the full potential of the portfolio With the long-term megatrends that drive our company’s we have created and translate this into improved financial results, business – Global Shifts and Digitization, Climate and Energy, focusing on organic sales growth, reducing costs and strict and Health and Wellness – continuing to increase in significance, capital allocation. DSM is uniquely positioned to create value through sciencebased sustainable solutions in health, nutrition and materials to The Nutrition and Performance Materials businesses offer great help address the challenges our societies are facing. potential for growth through sustainable innovative solutions, benefiting from opportunities the global megatrends offer. They During 2015, we took a further significant step in our strategic have clear business strategies in place to drive sales and outtransformation to a more resilient and focused portfolio with the grow their markets. We are executing cost-reduction and creation of the ChemicaInvest partnership with CVC Capital efficiency programs with targeted overall savings of € 250-300 Partners for the Polymer Intermediates and Composite Resins million in EBITDA by the end of 2018 and we have adjusted our businesses in which DSM holds a 35% share. This follows on top structure, organizational model and way of working to the divestment of the Base Chemicals businesses in 2010 and support the achievement of our newly-set targets. 2011 and the establishment of partnerships for the Pharma activities in 2011 and 2014. Together with the value-contributing We have elected to set financial targets for a shorter strategic acquisitions we have made to strengthen our businesses during period up to 2018, reflecting our discipline and focus. We target the strategy period, we are confident that DSM’s portfolio a high single-digit annual percentage increase in EBITDA and a represents a good platform for profitable growth. high double-digit annual basis point increase in Return on Capital Employed (ROCE). We are focused on translating the potential that has been created into improved financial performance. Much of our work We have furthermore sharpened our sustainability approach and in 2015 was on optimizing our operational performance and set more ambitious targets for our environmental performance. ensuring that in the coming strategic period we are in position to These include further improved greenhouse-gas efficiency (at capture the full business benefits our strengthened portfolio least 45% improvement by 2025 versus 20% achieved so far), Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 8 www.dsm.com increased energy efficiency (over 10% improvement in the next 6% and the EBITDA margin was lower at 16.6%, mainly caused 10 years) and a big step-up in the use of renewable electricity by the appreciation of the Swiss franc and lower vitamin E (50% by 2025), as well as continuing to drive the proportion of pricing. EBITDA for Nutrition amounted to € 822 million in 2015, ECO+ and People+ solutions we provide to our customers. down 3% on the previous year for the same reasons. Moreover, we have key innovation projects in place to drive earnings growth beyond 2018. In Performance Materials, we pursue a differentiated approach to our businesses and their segments, and have created a highWe expect to extract significant value from the Pharma and Bulk quality portfolio with a higher growth and returns profile. We tailor Chemicals partnerships in the coming years, providing further the approach our businesses take depending on the dynamics financial headroom. We do not expect to engage in large and potential of the market and segment in question, focusing acquisitions in the near future as we continue to integrate recent on maximized returns, growth or accelerated growth acquisitions, which have made a strong contribution to earnings. accordingly. During 2015, the cluster continued to upgrade its product portfolio towards innovative, more sustainable and DSM achieved solid financial results in 2015, broadly in line with higher-margin solutions. Whilst organic growth for the cluster our expectations for the year. We delivered net sales of € 7.7 was down as a consequence of lower input prices on steady billion and an EBITDA (before exceptional items) of € 1,075 volumes, there was a step-up in both EBITDA (at € 384 million a million. Whilst currency developments showed a mixed picture, 19% increase) and in the EBITDA margin, which was 15.2%, they had an overall positive effect on our results. Organic sales above the targets we had set. growth for the year was 1%, with 3% growth in volumes and a 2% decline in price-mix as a result of lower raw material prices. Our focus on emerging economies has taken the proportion of total sales generated in these countries to 44% at the end of 2015, up from 32% in 2010. The pace of growth slowed in a number of these economies in the year. The largest, the Chinese economy, continues to grow, if at lower absolute rates than in recent years. The fundamentals driving end-use markets relevant to DSM in China remain unchanged. In 2015, highermargin innovation sales increased to 24% of total sales, fulfilling the strategic aspiration we set in 2010, when they made up 12% of sales. Innovation is also linked with our sustainability efforts. Our ECO+ solutions, which offer customers more value with less environmental impact than mainstream alternatives, now Our Emerging Business Areas are promising platforms for account for 57% of sales, ahead of the targets we set ourselves growth outside the current scope of the business groups. The five years ago, when the proportion was 34%. We apply similar largest, DSM Biomedical, continued its development over the lifecycle assessments to the impact products have on peoples’ year and made a positive contribution to our EBITDA. In DSM lives with the People+ methodology we have developed, and use Bio-based Products & Services, the start-up process for the these insights in steering product innovation. Project LIBERTY facility to produce advanced cellulosic ethanol from crop residues, which we officially opened in the US in 2014 In Nutrition, we have built a unique, global and broad as well as together with our partner POET, is progressing, although there customer-focused portfolio in nutritional ingredients and have are still some hurdles to overcome. DSM Advanced Surfaces increased our capability to offer full nutritional solutions, provides solutions to boost the power solar panels produce and extending DSM’s offering over the value chain. This resilience continued to strengthen its position in this market. When taken proved its worth for the cluster as headwinds that we had together, they already make a positive contribution to EBITDA, previously signaled indeed materialized in 2015, in particular reducing the overall costs of the DSM Innovation Center. price pressure in vitamin E, mainly in our animal nutrition business, and the unfavorable development of the Swiss franc, Although business conditions in Bulk Chemicals remained which considerably reduced the overall positive effect from the tough, steps have been taken to improve the competitiveness of strengthening of the US dollar. Despite these headwinds, Animal the ChemicaInvest businesses together with CVC. Nutrition & Health had a very good year. Human Nutrition & Health, which continued to be confronted with ongoing Following the creation of the Pharma partnerships and therewith weakness in the North American markets for dietary the completion of DSM’s Pharma strategy, Stefan Doboczky left supplements and omega-3, did not perform as well as we would the company at the beginning of June. We would like to thank have liked. We have taken action to get back on the front foot him for his contribution to DSM and wish him every success as and started to see the benefit of this in the second half of the CEO of Lenzing Group. year. In 2015, organic sales growth for the cluster was strong at Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 9 www.dsm.com Safety and Health is of paramount importance to all of us at DSM Foods Ltd. joint venture to improve the nutritional status of the and we have set ourselves the ambition of having an injury and country’s population and help address malnutrition. incident-free working environment. While we made progress in improving occupational safety in 2015, with a reduction in the We are pleased to report that we made further progress in our Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries from 0.47 in 2014 to 0.41 efforts to reduce the company's environmental footprint, among last year, more incidents still occur than we would like, other things by improving our energy efficiency and greenhouseregrettably. Our focus on safety is unwavering and we strive to gas efficiency by around 20%, as well as by reducing our bring this number down further. For more information on these absolute greenhouse-gas emissions (down by 75% versus and other incidents, see ‘What still went wrong’ on page 116. 2008, with a big impact from the (partial) divestment of Polymer Intermediates). The new, sharpened targets we have set for the Successfully assimilating a high-performance culture will be coming period will build on these achievements and continue to crucial to realizing the full potential of our new operating model stretch the organization. We are proud to once again be named and our portfolio and to achieving our targets. During the year, among the leaders in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. we continued to implement the ONE DSM Culture Agenda in We also take pride in the external recognition, including awards, conjunction with our Leadership Model. We look to achieve a that our achievements in our integrated sustainability approach representative balance in gender and also in nationality in DSM’s continue to receive. Our integrated reporting continues to leadership group, in line with the geographical distribution of our develop; besides implementing G4, the fourth generation of business. The number of women in executive positions showed sustainability reporting guidelines from the Global Reporting a pleasing development, up three percentage points to 15% at Initiative, this report also follows the <Integrated Reporting> the end of the year, with a significant increase in representation framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council. We at all top levels across the organization. We did not make the remain committed to aligning our strategy and operations with same level of progress in increasing the proportion of nonthe principles of the United Nations Global Compact, as well as European executives, however, and this has our attention. contributing to the realization of the Global Goals for Sustainable Overall, the company-wide Inclusion Index increased from 70% Development through our businesses and competences. to 72% at the end of the year, reflecting our efforts in this regard. We have many reasons to be confident about our future at DSM We held an Employee Engagement Pulse Survey last year, which thanks above all to the tremendous efforts of many people; our 78% of the employees completed. The overall Employee employees, customers, shareholders, and suppliers and other Engagement Index was 69% in 2015, down very slightly from partners, as well as civil society and the communities we engage 70% a year earlier. This is understandable given that the survey with. We extend our most sincere thanks and appreciation to all was held after the announcement of the organizational those who have contributed to DSM’s success. adjustments and before the presentation of our updated strategy. Our resolve to see this rating improve is undiminished. At the start of an exciting and inspiring new period for DSM, we can be very proud that together we have made DSM a global It was a significant year for the worldwide societal and company with a portfolio of high-quality businesses, wellsustainability agenda. The UN General Assembly agreed upon positioned for growth. We apply our sustainable innovation to 17 Global Goals to be achieved by 2030 (the so-called continually develop and bring to market improved products and Sustainable Development Goals), including eradicating hunger solutions in health, nutrition and materials. Our focus for the and addressing climate change. Leaders from government, civil coming period is on improving financial returns while building for society and business also came together at the COP21 summit further growth in the future. Our ability to leverage unique in Paris. Although there is still much to be gained, the opportunities in our businesses for the benefit of People, Planet agreements and measures to tackle climate change on a global and Profit enables us to deliver on our mission of creating level established there were unprecedented. The sense of brighter lives for people today and for generations to come. urgency to develop and implement newer, more sustainable and impactful solutions at scale has never been more manifest. There Feike Sijbesma is a crucial – and rewarding – contribution for businesses to make CEO/Chairman Managing Board Royal DSM in helping to achieve this, which we at DSM champion. In December, we signed an extension to our strategic partnership with the United Nations’ World Food Programme (WFP) for another three years. It is a humbling and at the same time empowering feeling to realize that through this partnership, DSM now reaches over 25 million WFP beneficiaries annually with improved nutrition. DSM was also invited by the Government of Rwanda to participate in the Africa Improved Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 10 www.dsm.com The Global Agenda Means Business The year 2015 may one day be regarded as a pivotal year in human history. The Sustainable Development Goals and the climate deal struck at COP21 in Paris make clear that humanity really means business with the global agenda. It is also clear that businesses have a crucial role to play in creating the impact needed at scale to tackle these challenges. Companies have unrivalled skills and competences to address the challenges and at the same time open and develop profitable markets for their products and solutions. The key is to collaborate across value chains and with Malnutrition and deficiencies governments, NGOs and civil society to focus these skills on sustainable solutions and thus really drive the development of Worldwide, two billion people are malnourished, half of whom effective, rewarding and intrinsically sustainable markets. Over go to bed hungry every day. While hunger predominantly many years, DSM has consistently made sustainability a real affects people in the South and East, people the world over business driver, developing solutions, building partnerships are affected by micronutrient deficiencies. This is due to factors and increasing its impact in key areas. The global agenda also including the lack of nutrient-rich options available, people’s means business for DSM. inability to access these options or their lack of popular appeal. DSM helps the food industry create products that are not only available and affordable but nutritious as well – and within the Low-carbon economy reach of increasing numbers of people around the globe. An example is the joint venture DSM established with SOBISCO Effectively tackling climate change whilst at the same time in 2015 to produce and market fortified snacks in India. DSM achieving energy security for the world’s population will require furthermore partners with the UN World Food Programme and a global transition to the low-carbon economy; steps need several other development agencies to reach those in direst to be taken urgently to meet the goals agreed at COP21 in need of nutrition interventions, as well as participating in many Paris. This is accelerating the adoption of renewable energy initiatives, including its own, to combat micronutrient deficiency sources and the use of chemicals and materials that are more around the world. sustainable in the transition from the fossil age to the (bio-) renewable age, as well as increasing attention for the circular economy concept. This presents opportunities for companies like DSM who have the ingenuity and ability to develop and deliver innovative solutions. DSM’s businesses include activities in bioplastics, biofuels, light-weight materials and solar coatings as well as ‘circular’ technologies such as those for reusable Niaga® carpets. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 11 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Strategy 2010-2015, DSM in motion: driving Sales in emerging economies amounted to 44% of total sales in focused growth 2015, up from 43% in 2014. Innovation sales, defined as sales from products and solutions introduced within the last five years, Last year was the fifth and final year of the strategy DSM in made up 24% of total sales in 2015 (2014: 18%). motion: driving focused growth, which the company launched in 2010 to become a global leader in health, nutrition and materials. DSM’s Emerging Business Areas (EBAs) DSM Biomedical, DSM This strategy has provided DSM with the framework to drive Bio-based Products & Services and DSM Advanced Surfaces sustainable and profitable growth in the company’s core continued to make steady progress during the year. Collectively activities. they made a positive EBITDA contribution, reducing the overall costs of the DSM Innovation Center. In 2015, DSM’s focus was on improving the operational performance of its Nutrition and Performance Materials Financial targets and aspirations as updated in 2013 businesses, while pursuing strategic actions for Polymer Intermediates and Composite Resins. These were delivered in Realization 2015 March with the establishment of the ChemicaInvest partnership Profitability targets 2015 with CVC Capital Partners. In August, the company announced EBITDA margin 14%-15% 13.9% adjustments to its organizational and operating model to support ROCE 11%-12% 7.6% its growth, creating a more agile, focused and cost-efficient organization. The final major development of the year was Sales targets 2015 announced in November, when DSM presented its Strategy Organic sales growth 2018: Driving Profitable Growth at its Capital Markets Day, 5%-7% annually 1% details of which are given on page 17. China sales towards USD 3 bn1 USD ~1 bn High growth economies sales Results 2015 about 45% of total sales 44% Financial results Innovation sales 20% of total sales 24% DSM delivered solid results in 2015, posting net sales of ECO+ sales towards 50% of total sales 57% € 7,722 million, up 10% on 2014 (€ 7,051 million). Overall organic sales growth for the year amounted to 1%, as a 3% increase in Cluster targets 2015 volumes, with strong growth in Nutrition, was largely off-set by Nutrition 2% lower price/mix, due to lower input prices being partially EBITDA margin 20%-23% 16.6% passed on down the value chain in Performance Materials. Organic sales growth GDP +2% 6% Exchange rate fluctuations had a positive impact of 8%, while Performance Materials other effects such as acquisitions contributed 1%. EBITDA margin 13%-15% 15.2% Organic sales growth at double GDP -4% EBITDA, operating profit from continuing operations before depreciation and amortization (before exceptional items), grew Aspiration regarding Emerging Business by 4% or € 37 million, from € 1,038 million in 2014 Areas for 2020 to € 1,075 million in 2015. Nutrition EBITDA declined by 3% as EBA sales > € 1 bn € 155 m good organic growth and the positive impact of the strengthened US dollar were more than offset by the negative impact of 1 The China sales target was set in 2010 and included the contributions of the Pharma, significantly lower vitamin E prices, the appreciation of the Swiss Base and Bulk Chemicals activities, which have since been (partially) divested franc and the weakening of the Brazilian real. Cost savings and good margin management as well as support from lower input prices and currency effects led to a strong increase in EBITDA for Performance Materials of 19%. DSM's overall EBITDA margin (operating profit before depreciation and amortization as a percentage of net sales) was 13.9% (2014: 14.7%). In 2015, Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) was 7.6% compared to 8.2% in 2014. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 12 www.dsm.com The DSM Managing Board (from left to right): Dimitri de Vreeze, Feike Sijbesma (CEO/Chairman), Geraldine Matchett (CFO) and Stephan Tanda Sustainability results Sustainability aspirations 2011-2015 Sustainability is DSM's core value as well as a business driver and enables the company to provide higher-margin products Realization 2015 and solutions. DSM has successfully implemented its sustainability program and ECO+ solutions now make up 57% Dow Jones Sustainability Index of DSM’s total sales, exceeding the aspiration of towards 50%. Top ranking (RobecoSAM Gold Class) Silver Class1 ECO+ solutions also accounted for 91% of DSM’s innovation ECO+ (innovation) pipeline in 2015, which exceeded the company’s target of 80%. At least 80% of pipeline is ECO+2 91% ECO+ (running business) DSM made further progress with its People+ strategy, which From approximately 34% towards 50% 57% aims to deliver products that have a measurable positive impact Energy efficiency on people's lives. Going forward, DSM will refer to its ECO+ and 20% improvement in 2020, compared 19% People+ solutions collectively as Brighter Living Solutions. DSM to 2008 again featured among the chemical industry leaders in the Dow Greenhouse-gas emissions Jones Sustainability World Index in 2015. DSM improved its 25% reduction (absolute) by 2020, 75% reduction3 ranking and has returned to RobecoSAM Gold Class status for compared to 2008 2016. Employee Engagement Survey Towards High Performance Norm4 69% favorable DSM’s Employee Engagement Survey determines levels of Diversity 5 engagement, measuring how employees score in terms of Women in executive positions 15% commitment, pride, advocacy and satisfaction expressed as an Under-represented nationalities in executive index. It is now carried out on a two-year cycle with a shorter positions 49% Pulse survey held in the intervening year, which is what DSM held People+5 in 2015. This showed an Employee Engagement Index of 69% DSM People LCA Achieved (2014: 70%), which is broadly in line with the global standard of 70%. For further details on the outcome of this survey and other 1 DSM has returned to Gold Class for 2016 people-related aspirations, see chapter 'People' on page 39. 2 See page 210 for a definition of ECO+ 3 Reduction of total emissions (absolute) of 75% was mainly attributable to the deconsolidation of DSM Fibre Intermediates; the GHG efficiency, which accounts for changes in production volume, has improved by 20% in 2015 compared to 2008 4 The High Performance Norm (over 80% favorable) is the composite of the top 25% employee responses of the selected external benchmark organizations 5 See 'People+' and 'Inclusion & Diversity' in the chapter 'People' in 2015 on page 39 and page 210 for a definition of People+ Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 13 www.dsm.com Growth Drivers performance in Animal Nutrition & Health, which also performed well in DSM’s other key markets in the region. Over the last five years, DSM has utilized the strategic growth drivers High Growth Economies, Innovation, Sustainability and With their rapidly expanding urban populations and burgeoning Acquisitions & Partnerships to leverage its unique position and middle classes, it is clear that emerging economies will remain capitalize on the business opportunities created by key global important growth engines for the world economy in the future. megatrends. Moreover, increasing attention for environmental concerns and related legislation to tackle them presents further opportunities. In doing so, DSM has successfully increased its global presence, became more innovative and more sustainable, and built a Over recent years it has become evident that rates of economic streamlined and simplified portfolio of high-value businesses. growth in these economies are both divergent and changeable. In future, DSM will refer to the economies themselves by the High Growth Economies commonly-used term ‘emerging economies’ rather than ‘high One of the key elements of the company strategy has been the growth economies’. The capitalized term High Growth successful expansion of DSM’s global presence to be better Economies relates specifically to DSM’s strategic growth driver. placed to capture opportunities arising from the megatrends in economies such as Brazil, Russia, India and China as well as in Net sales by destination, continuing operations in % more mature economies of the West. The share of sales in these economies as a proportion of DSM’s total sales has increased ■ Netherlands ■ Rest of Western Europe ■ Eastern Europe significantly, giving the company a well-balanced global ■ North America ■ Latin America ■ China ■ India ■ Japan ■ Rest of Asia ■ Rest of the world footprint. In 2015, sales to emerging economies accounted for 3 4 3 4 44% of total sales. In 2010, this was 32%. 9 9 3 3 2 24 2 26 In China, domestic consumption is playing an increasingly 12 12 important role in re-balancing the economy to the so-called 'New 6 Normal'. During the year, there was a change in the pace of 14 13 6 economic growth in the country, in particular in the second half 23 22 of the year. Overcapacity, low global commodity prices and 2015 2014 weak demand impacted industrial production. However, the fundamental drivers resulting from the megatrends remain as valid as ever. In terms of DSM's end-user segments, this could Innovation be seen in a noticeable slowdown in automotive and DSM in motion: driving focused growth targeted an increase in construction-related industries, whilst the service sector and the proportion of sales coming from innovative products and food industry segments developed well. DSM's sales in China solutions from 16% in 2010 to 20% by 2015 (see page 209 for for its continuing operations came to € 937 million in 2015, up the definition of innovation sales). At the end of 2015, these 12% from € 833 million in 2014. During the year DSM finalized products accounted for 24% of total sales. This was up from the acquisition of vitamin C producer Aland and began the 18% in 2014, with the increase driven by both higher sales as expansion of a site in Tongxiang with the aim of establishing a well as by the deconsolidation of DSM Fibre Intermediates and world-class development center for hydrocolloids including DSM Composite Resins and their inherently more traditional gellan gum. portfolio in the year. In Nutrition this was 21% and in Performance Materials 29%. DSM’s business in India showed double-digit growth. DSM focuses in particular on locally made products for markets in the Innovation sales as % of total sales 24 country, for example partnering with SOBISCO in the year to produce and market fortified biscuits and snacks. 20 18 18 18 17 Growth in Latin America was 11% in 2015, despite a very 15 challenging overall economic picture in the region that has impacted consumption in various markets. DSM has established 10 a robust platform in particular for its Animal Nutrition & Health business in the region and will leverage this as it expands the 5 animal health capabilities it acquired with Tortuga outside Brazil. 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Sales in Russia remained on par with 2014, despite the severe recession in the country, supported by particularly strong Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 14 www.dsm.com Innovation sales play an important role in driving both top-line with the vast pool of ideas, know-how and expertise that are and bottom-line growth. Besides providing benefits to available outside the company, DSM is better able to develop customers and end-users in terms of new or improved and discover solutions. functionality, they also deliver margins that are on average higher than in the running business. DSM collaborated in a number of R&D and innovation partnerships in 2015. For further details see 'Stakeholder DSM looks to foster and sustain its innovation practices on an engagement' on page 24 and 'Review of business – Innovation ongoing basis. The DSM Innovation Center supports innovation Center' on page 81. by offering functional excellence to the company’s established Nutrition and Performance Materials businesses, as well as Sustainability through venturing and its business incubator. At the same time In the realization of its 2010-2015 strategy DSM in motion: it focuses on developing and extracting value from new growth driving focused growth, the company continued to fulfill its platforms outside the current scope of DSM’s business groups responsibilities towards society while simultaneously developing with its EBAs, which currently comprise DSM Biomedical, DSM sustainability into a strategic and successful growth driver. For Bio-based Products & Services and DSM Advanced Surfaces. DSM this means pursuing activities that create shared value for all DSM’s stakeholders in the areas of People, Planet and Profit. DSM has established best practices in innovation and manages its major innovation activities at a platform level within selected Sustainability is a key differentiator and a driver of value in DSM's areas, including Food and Nutrition Security, Health, Sustainable markets. Using its strong science competences, the company Manufacturing and Energy Security. This platform-based aims to deliver profitable products and solutions that have a approach to innovation under the direction of the Chief positive impact on society. DSM does this by embedding Technology Officer aims to develop larger initiatives and enables sustainability practices across the company. Sustainability plays the company to increase the focus of its efforts and improve a central role in innovation, new product and business coordination. This structure provides the basis for an effective development, operations and strategic decisions. By management of company-wide competence-building programs continuously developing innovative science-based products and in Research & Development (R&D). solutions that contribute to a brighter future, DSM is also creating a more sustainable and profitable future for itself. R&D is instrumental to the realization of DSM’s innovation strategy, and most of the expenditure in this area is directed ECO+ toward business-focused programs. ECO+ is DSM’s program for the development of sustainable, innovative products and solutions with environmental benefits. R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure), Products qualify as ECO+ when their environmental impact is continuing operations lower than competing mainstream products that fulfill the same function. When considered over their entire life cycle, ECO+ x € million 2015 2014 solutions offer superior performance with a lower eco-footprint. The environmental benefits can be created at any stage of the Nutrition 223 206 product life cycle, from the raw materials through to Performance Materials 143 135 manufacturing and potential re-use and end-of-life disposal. Innovation Center 82 82 DSM uses comparative Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) and/or Corporate Activities 16 28 expert opinions to determine whether a solution should be considered ECO+. For more information about the ECO+ Total 464 451 program, see 'Planet' on page 53. Total as % of net sales 6.0 6.4 Staff employed in R&D activities 2,036 2,089 People+ People+ is DSM’s program to develop solutions that measurably improve the lives of consumers, employees and communities The more than 2,000 internal scientists in DSM’s science across the value chains, better than competing alternatives in the network are spread around the world. They cooperate market. People+, together with ECO+, makes DSM’s ‘Bright extensively with external R&D institutions. Academic Science, Brighter Living™’ mission more tangible. Applying and collaboration efforts are normally specific and bilateral, while road-testing harmonized joint standards for product social DSM is also active in broader public-private partnerships that metrics across all DSM business groups and regions has laid the increase its scientific scope, such as the Bio-based Industries foundations for DSM to also set targets for People+ products Consortium. within its Brighter Living Solutions for the coming period. For more information about the People+ program, see 'People' on A crucial element of DSM’s approach and an important business page 46. enabler is Open innovation. By combining its own capabilities Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 15 www.dsm.com Acquisitions & Partnerships During the 2010-2015 strategy period for DSM in Motion: driving focused growth, acquisitions have been a key vehicle for DSM to add new growth platforms, especially in emerging economies and in North America. The company also established a number of value-enhancing partnerships in this time, most notably for the Pharma activities in 2011 (DSP) and 2014 (Patheon), details of which can found in 'Review of business – Partnerships' on page 86. The four most significant acquisitions during the period, which are all in the Nutrition cluster, have strengthened DSM’s portfolio, boosted growth and already made strong contributions to earnings, with further potential for the future. Collectively, the Martek (2010), Ocean Nutrition Canada (2012), Tortuga (2012) and Fortitech (2012) businesses added € 210 million in EBITDA at the time of acquisition. DSM has since successfully grown this contribution by 11% per year and in 2015 these acquisitions delivered a total of over € 300 million in EBITDA. The profitability of Ocean Nutrition Canada has however declined somewhat over the period, impacted by a sharp increase in the price of fish oil and weakness in the US market for fish oil-based omega-3 dietary supplements. Acquisitions & Partnerships in 2015 In 2015, DSM engaged in partnerships that serve clear strategic and financial objectives. These business partnerships sometimes involve long-term supply agreements and are material to DSM's business performance. The most significant partnership of 2015 was entered into in March, when DSM and CVC Capital Partners announced the establishment of a partnership comprising the DSM Fibre Intermediates and DSM Composite Resins businesses. The formation of ChemicaInvest, in which DSM has a 35% shareholding, was finalized at the end of July. The transaction delivered on the strategic actions DSM said it would pursue for the businesses in order to simplify its portfolio and reduce cyclicality in the Performance Materials cluster, whilst effectively maintaining DSM Engineering Plastics’ backward integration through a long-term purchasing agreement. See also 'Review of business – Partnerships' on page 86. DSM entered into or completed a number of other businessrelated acquisitions and partnerships during the year, details of which can be found in 'Review of business – Nutrition' on page 67, 'Review of business – Performance Materials' on page 75 and 'Review of business – Innovation Center' on page 81. In the summer of 2015, Patheon filed a registration statement (Form S-1) with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), preparing itself for a public offering. To date, neither the timing of such a public offering, nor the number of shares, nor the price have been confirmed. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 16 www.dsm.com Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth Today, DSM is a more global, innovative and sustainable portfolio by improving the company’s financial results through company than at any time in its history, with a portfolio of organic sales growth, reducing costs, increasing productivity businesses that are well positioned to fulfill their growth potential. and strict allocation of capital. DSM aims to step-up its financial results at the same time as pursuing its ambitions in sustainability Over the next three years, DSM’s Strategy 2018: Driving and its beneficial impact on people’s lives, creating value in terms Profitable Growth will focus on capturing the full potential of its of People, Planet and Profit. Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth through science-based, sustainable solutions Global shifts Climate & Health & Improving financial results 2018 Targets & Digitization Energy Wellness Growth Annual EBITDA growth: high single-digit Innovation Sustainabilit Cost & Productivity – y Acq wth Par uisitio Gro es tne Annual ROCE growth: igh omi rsh s n H on ip& Capital Efficiency high double-digit bps Ec s Result-driven Health. Nutrition. Materials. organization & culture Bright sciences A number of fundamental global societal trends are affecting digit basis point annual ROCE growth, while maintaining a longeconomies, people and markets across the world. The major term view on further business growth. driver behind these global trends is demographic change. The world population continues to grow towards an estimated nine DSM is confident that it has the right business strategies in place billion in 2050. People are living longer and in the main becoming to meet the needs of its customers and succeed in its markets, increasingly wealthy and urbanized. These trends will further providing innovative and sustainable solutions that will help increase the pressure on the planet’s resources and on the food address the challenges − and opportunities − arising from the chain, while also stimulating new patterns of consumption and societal megatrends. impacting the environment. While the current significant macro-economic uncertainties are DSM addresses three key societal megatrends through its expected to persist for the foreseeable future, DSM has strategy and solutions, and therefore benefits from the increased developed favorable product offerings for the segments it attention they receive on a global scale. These are categorized operates in and is well positioned to outpace market growth. as: Global Shifts and Digitization; Climate and Energy; and Health and Wellness (see next page). By focusing its unique During the coming three years, DSM is executing cost reduction capabilities in health, nutrition and materials on the opportunities and efficiency improvement programs with targeted overall the megatrends present, DSM is better able to support its savings of € 250-300 million by 2018 (of which € 25 million was customers in developing science-based, sustainable solutions achieved in 2015) and aims to enhance its financial performance that meet current and future needs and profitably grow its through consistent improvements in capital efficiency. DSM business. furthermore aims to bring total working capital structurally below 20% of sales. Capital expenditure will primarily support growth DSM’s Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth builds on the areas, with approximately two-thirds being focused on the achievements of the previous strategic period. It recognizes that, Nutrition cluster. following a period of important portfolio transformation, the company will focus on ensuring that the potential of the current At the same time, DSM is stepping up its sustainability business portfolio translates into improved financial results. aspirations. Sustainability is a key driver for DSM’s business in Consequently, DSM does not expect to engage in large terms of commercial growth opportunities, and a focus area for acquisitions in the near future and this focus is reflected in a reducing operating costs by decreasing the company's shorter, three-year, strategic period with two headline financial environmental footprint. targets: high single-digit annual EBITDA growth and high doubleBright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 17 www.dsm.com Megatrends more relevant than ever Safety remains of paramount importance and DSM aspires to further reduce injuries and incidents over time with the ultimate Global Shifts and Digitization aim of providing an injury and incident-free workplace. Population growth and an accelerating shift of wealth, In support of its targets, DSM is adjusting its organizational and most notably in emerging economies, are creating a more operating model and way of working, fostering a results-driven, urban, prosperous and connected world – as well as high-performance culture. It has furthermore strengthened its huge resource and cultural challenges. These changes top structure with the establishment of an Executive Committee, are influencing global demand, the way people live which enables more rapid strategic alignment and operational and how they interact. Urbanization and prosperity are execution across the company. promoting dietary changes and increased spending on housing, transport, lifestyle and energy. New technology As part of its strategic transformation and its move away from is impacting societies and their behavior, while ‘big data’ more commoditized and cyclical areas, DSM has established presents companies with new challenges as well as partnerships for its Pharma activities (DSM Sinochem opportunities to optimize processes and to tailor solutions. Pharmaceuticals (DSP) for Anti-Infectives in 2011 and Patheon for contract development and manufacturing services in 2014) and for the remaining Bulk Chemical businesses in Polymer Climate and Energy Intermediates and Composite Resins (ChemicaInvest in 2015). These partnerships have been created with a view to ultimately Scientists agree that climate change is influenced by exiting these businesses and DSM expects to extract significant human activity. Coordinated international efforts are value from these partnerships in the coming years. urgently needed to reduce fossil-fuel dependencies and bring down levels of greenhouse-gas emissions in support Nutrition of the COP21 objectives. This is accelerating the adoption of renewable energy and the use of more sustainable DSM is one of the world’s leading producers of specialty chemicals and materials in the transition to the (bio-) nutritional ingredients. DSM’s Nutrition cluster has unrivalled renewable age and the low-carbon economy. This will capabilities, with a global presence and an unparalleled network also increase attention for the circular economy concept. for local solutions as well as a complete portfolio of nutritional Besides the focus on bio-based materials and re-use, ingredients for food and feed and an extended offering over the efficiency remains important as customers look to create value chain. This ranges from the production of active ingredients more sustainable value chains with lower energy use, less through their incorporation into sophisticated forms and tailored waste and pollution and through higher yields. premixes, as well as nutrition end-products such as its i-Health range of dietary supplements. Health and Wellness The Nutrition cluster has clear strategies in place to drive both top and bottom-line growth across its businesses. Taken A growing, aging and increasingly prosperous together, they can be summarized as: population seeks to improve its well-being and increase longevity. At the same time, people in the developing (I) expanding proven and successful core competences, world, especially children below the age of three, bringing them to more of the markets and territories it serves continue to face a daily struggle for adequate nutrition. and maximizing their value; There is a growing need to address core health issues, (II) adding new products and solutions to its offerings, making whether through nutrition, medicines or lifestyle full use of DSM's capabilities in sustainable innovation; improvements, especially in emerging economies. In the (III) growing in underpenetrated categories and regions and West, healthcare costs are rising and access to quality accessing new segments; and nutrition is also growing in importance, with nutrition (IV) developing new business models to complement its deficiencies on the rise. Demand is growing for safer and positions across its value chains. healthier solutions. The Animal Nutrition & Health business will further expand its unique global premix footprint. In addition, the business aims to grow through new solutions in feed enzymes and eubiotics that are tailored to meet the specific local needs of animal protein producers in the territories it serves. It will drive growth in underpenetrated species such as ruminants, aqua and pets as well as enter new customer segments with new channels. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 18 www.dsm.com After the recent slowdown in some of its end-markets, Human DSM Food Specialties aims to leverage its leading cultures and Nutrition & Health aspires to return to more vigorous growth enzymes platform to drive further growth in attractive markets through new initiatives focused on the expansion of its premix and segments, as well as through new products and solutions. activities and new products and solutions, for example in dietary The business aims to further develop the positions it has built in supplements. DSM is paying particular attention to its Human savory ingredients. Nutrition & Health operations in North America, where, following a recent reshuffle, it is resolved to deliver growth with disciplined sales and marketing execution. Nutrition Strategy 2018: global products and local solutions Growth acceleration and Aspirations 2018 sustainable innovations underpinning Group targets 1 Expand the core • Above-market sales growth (at stable prices) 2 Add new products & solutions 2 High single-digit annual 3 Expand in new segments/regions EBITDA growth 4 New business models 1 • EBITDA margins: 18-20% over the period • Reducing costs and increasing 3 4 productivity Annual ROCE growth: • Driving cash generation high double-digit bps increase Excellence in execution • Increasing capital efficiency These growth initiatives will be underpinned by reducing costs leveraging existing assets to maximize returns in PA6 Polymers and increasing productivity across the cluster, driving cash and Powder Coating Resins. generation and increasing capital efficiency. As part of the overall cost savings, a Nutrition-specific performance improvement One of the key trends fuelling the cluster's above-market growth program is being executed aimed at delivering cost savings of ambitions is substitution. Customers are increasingly looking to € 130-150 million by 2018. The program focuses on productivity, replace existing parts and materials with newer, more growth and working capital. Key contributions will come from sustainable alternatives, for example replacing metals with purchasing savings, reduced manufacturing costs and boosting lighter, high-performance plastics to reduce the weight of production efficiencies. The program also includes specific vehicles or replacing solvent-based paints with those made streams aimed at further stimulating sales by creating a more using waterborne resins. Moreover, legislative bodies around the efficient and effective sales organization, especially in Human world are setting increasingly strict standards. These include Nutrition & Health. curbs on the use of hazardous materials and more rigorous norms for vehicle emissions. This sharpening is by no means The Nutrition cluster aspires to a high single-digit EBITDA growth confined to the developed world; emerging economies are in and high double-digit basis point growth in ROCE in line with the some cases raising the bar faster than their western overall targets for DSM, while aiming to achieve sales growth counterparts. The combination of market pull and legislative above market average with EBITDA margins of 18-20% over the push will be a powerful driver for substitution. By continuing to period. focus on developing and delivering innovative and more sustainable solutions, DSM is well positioned to capture aboveMaterials market growth in its Materials cluster. Over recent years, DSM has built an attractive portfolio with highMaterials will complement its top-line growth with further cost quality earnings within its Materials cluster. Its businesses are and capital discipline to ensure that this is also translated into its well positioned to capitalize on the dynamics within their bottom-line results. Besides its contribution to the DSM-wide respective end-use markets. DSM will continue its strategy of savings program in support functions and services, the cluster differentiation and tailored business approaches in the Materials will build upon the successful profit improvement programs it has cluster in the coming period. It will focus resources primarily on carried out and look for further savings and optimizations. well-defined, higher-growth specialty segments, while Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 19 www.dsm.com In aspiring to a high single-digit EBITDA growth and high doubleabove-market average sales growth with EBITDA margins of digit basis point growth in ROCE, the Materials cluster is in line >15% over the period. with the new group targets, while aiming to achieve Materials Strategy 2018 Aspirations 2018 underpinning Group targets High • Annual EBITDA growth: Accelerated growth high single-digit 4 Functional Materials • Annual ROCE growth: High-Performance Plastics high double-digit bps Growth 1 9 Advanced Surfaces 2 10 Biomedical • EBITDA margins: PA6 Compounds Market growth > 15% over the period Maximize returns 7 Dyneema® Fiber Solutions • Above-market sales growth 5 Specialty Coating Resins (at stable prices) 3 PA6 Polymers DSM Engineering Plastics 6 Powder Coating Resins DSM Resins & Functional Materials ® 8 Dyneema Life Protection DSM Dyneema Emerging Business Areas* Low Low DSM’s capabilities to extract value High * Reported in Innovation Center Innovation Advanced Surfaces, which offers yield-boosting solutions for solar energy. Innovation is what turns DSM’s ‘Bright Science’ into ‘Brighter Living’. It is about discovering and integrating the best, the most Taken together, these EBAs were already EBITDA positive in sustainable and commercially viable solutions to meet market 2015 and DSM aspires to further grow the annual contribution needs and to drive profitable growth. Continually providing they make to the company’s profit to € 30-40 million by 2018. innovative and improved products and solutions does not just With the annual cost of innovation support running at around drive top-line sales growth. Innovation sales have also € 15-20 million, DSM’s Innovation Center is expected to show contributed to DSM’s EBITDA growth, providing higher margins EBITDA break-even in 2016. than the average of its running business. Stepping up sustainability aspirations DSM has successfully increased the proportion of innovative products and services it provides to customers. Innovation sales, Sustainability has become a key differentiator and business defined as products and applications that have been introduced driver in DSM’s markets and helps guide the activities of the over the last five years, accounted for 24% of total sales in 2015. business groups as well as the company’s operations, strategic DSM aspires to maintain a level of around 20% going forward. actions and decisions. By continuously developing innovative DSM considers this to be a healthy proportion with a view to the science-based products and solutions that make a real overall balance of its product portfolio and product life cycles. contribution to a brighter future for people around the world, Since this is a rolling target, maintaining this level will by definition DSM is also creating a more sustainable and profitable future for be stretching. itself. Besides supporting innovation in the company’s core DSM has successfully embedded sustainability into its business businesses, the DSM Innovation Center also aims to develop its activities. ECO+ products now account for 57% of sales (see Emerging Business Areas (EBAs) established over the last five page 209 for a full definition of ECO+) and 91% of the innovation years. These are new and promising growth platforms outside pipeline. With People+, the company has established a similar the scope of the company’s business groups. They comprise methodology supported by Life Cycle Assessments to measure DSM Biomedical, focused on innovative materials for medical and quantifiably improve the social impact of its products (see devices; DSM Bio-based Products & Services, which focuses on page 209 for a full definition of People+). From 2016, DSM will clean energy from crop residues as well as bio-chemicals with collectively refer to its ECO+ and People+ products as Brighter enzymes and yeasts for biomass conversion; and DSM Living Solutions. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 20 www.dsm.com For the coming period, DSM is stepping up its aspirations once operational execution on finance, business, innovation, strategy again. DSM will increase the proportion of Brighter Living and people. Solutions to 65% of sales by 2020 (2015: 60%). It will improve its greenhouse-gas efficiency − in other words, reduce its relative emissions − by 45% by 2025, compared to the reference year 2008 (2015: 20%). This will be supported by energy efficiency improvements of >1% per year and by sourcing at least 50% of its electricity from renewable sources by 2025. Increasing greenhouse-gas efficiency will also drive down costs. To support this targeted improvement and foster an appropriate sense of urgency to achieve these changes, DSM will apply an internal carbon price of € 50 per ton CO2-equivalent to large investment decisions. In addition, the company works with suppliers and customers to improve the overall footprint of the value chains in which it operates. Stepping up sustainability aspirations The members of the Executive Committee are the Managing Board members Feike Sijbesma (CEO/Chairman), Geraldine Matchett (CFO), Stephan Tanda (Nutrition) and Dimitri de Vreeze (Materials), as well as Chris Goppelsroeder (Nutritional Sustainability aspirations 2020 Products), Philip Eykerman (Strategy and M&A), Peter Vrijsen (People & Organization) and Rob van Leen (R&D and Innovation) Dow Jones Sustainability Index Gold Class Brighter Living Solutions Furthermore, the company is establishing a new way of working, ECO+/People+ (running business) 65% driving a change in mindset and culture aimed at establishing GHG efficiency improvement 45% (by 2025) DSM as a results-driven, high-performance organization, both in Employee Engagement Survey Towards 75% terms of top-line and bottom-line growth and talent Safety development. 0.25 (Frequency Index Recordables) Diversity DSM began adjusting its organizational and operating model in Female executives 25% 2015 and is optimizing cross-company supporting functions in Executives from under-represented 60% areas including HR, Indirect Sourcing, Communications, nationalities Finance, Legal and ICT, thus freeing up capacity at its business groups to focus on their primary functions: Innovation and R&D, There is a strong link between DSM’s competences and Direct Sourcing, Manufacturing & Operations and Marketing & business plans with key items on the global sustainable Sales. By globally leveraging its support functions and shared development agenda, namely malnutrition, and climate change services organization as well as improving the ability of functional and energy. DSM is in a position to be able to make a excellence departments to support the business groups, DSM contribution to addressing these topics through its businesses. aims to achieve structural cost savings of € 125-150 million By developing innovative business solutions and engaging its versus 2014. These savings are targeted to be achieved by the value chains, networks and partnerships, DSM is driving end of 2017. sustainable markets that can have a beneficial impact at scale for all participants. At the end of 2015, DSM reaffirmed its Building for earnings growth beyond 2018 strategic partnership with the UN World Food Programme, which currently reaches more than 25 million beneficiaries per DSM has set itself strategic targets for the period to 2018. This year with improved nutrition, extending the partnership to 2018. shorter three-year period is intended to channel the organization’s focus and forcefully drive achievement of the Organization and culture step-up in financial performance at which the company aims. At the same time, DSM is also preparing for longer-term growth; its DSM is adjusting its organizational and operating model to business cycles are typically longer than the three-year period to support the company's growth, creating a more agile, focused 2018. The company has a range of key business and innovation and cost-efficient organization, with a stronger business and projects across the clusters that will drive earnings growth market focus and globally leveraged support functions. The beyond 2018 and will continue to develop more initiatives in light organizational adjustments DSM is implementing are intended to of market dynamics. achieve far more than cost savings alone. DSM has strengthened its management structure by establishing an Executive Committee, which enables faster alignment and Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 21 www.dsm.com How DSM creates value for its stakeholders How DSM creates value for its stakeholders CapitalCapital inputsinputs DSM’sDSM’s business business Value outcomes Value outcomes People People Mission Mission People People • Employees • Employees S Su • Safety•&Safety health& health ps ps upport pport • Training • Training & development & development Grou Grou an an dC • Engaged• Engaged workforceworkforce • Stakeholder • Stakeholder engagement engagement & & s s dC • Skills • Skills & & employability employability es es Public-Private Public-Private Partnerships Partnerships Bu • Employee • Employee benefitsbenefits Busin sin functions • Philanthropy • Philanthropy & sponsoring & sponsoring • People+ solutionssolutions • People+ rate orpo • Improved • Improved nutritionnutrition functio ns Organizational Organizational rate and and or po PlanetPlanet Operating Operating model model PlanetPlanet • Raw materials • Raw materials • ECO+•solutions ECO+ solutions (including (including renewables) renewables) Fun Fun • Reduced • Reduced environmental footprintfootprint environmental ns ns cto cto • Energy• (including Energy (including renewables) renewables) gio gio n n • Enabling • Enabling to (bio) to (bio) transition transition • Water• Water Re e e renewable renewable & circular & circular economy economy Re lenc cellenc cel • Safer ingredients • Safer ingredients & materials & materials Ex Ex al al Profit Profit Strategy Strategy Profit Profit equity equity • Shareholder • Shareholder • Financial • Financial performance performance • Borrowings • Borrowings (EBITDA(EBITDA & ROCE&growth) ROCE growth) • Partnerships • Partnerships & Open &innovation Open innovation • Dividend • Dividend • Purchased goods &goods • Purchased & services services • Contribute • Contribute to business to business successsuccess • Manufacturing • Manufacturing asset base asset base for suppliers for suppliers & customers & customers • Contribute • Contribute to civil via to civil society society tax via tax • Patents • Patents & royalties & royalties Societal Societal & & capitalcapital HumanHuman relationship relationship capitalcapital capitalcapital NaturalNatural Financial Financial capitalcapital DSM employs DSM employs many many DSM engages DSM engages with with that thethat the DSM recognizes DSM recognizes Providers Providers of –capital – of capital skilled skilled and and talented talented various various stakeholders stakeholders to to world isworld is an interconnected an interconnected shareholders shareholders and and people people from from diverse diverse ensurealignment ensure close close alignment system system of resources. of resources. bondholders, bondholders, banks and banks and backgrounds. backgrounds. DSM strives DSM strives betweenbetween the company’s the company’s For DSM For DSM this this represents represents the financial the financial marketsmarkets – – to provide to provide employees employees with with aims and aims and societal societal needs. needs. and a and a a responsibility a responsibility supply funds funds supplythat DSM that DSM a safe a safe and and inspiring inspiring value forvalue for DSM generates DSM generates businessbusiness opportunity. opportunity. uses uses in its in its business business to to workplaceworkplace as well as as with outside outside stakeholders well as withstakeholders its its DSM aimsDSM to aims reduce reduce the to the value, driving createdriving create value, the toolsthe and tools and training training they they direct direct value value of chains chains of environmental environmental impact of impact of growth growth and and delivering delivering need toneed to be effective be effective and and employees,employees, suppliers, suppliers, supply chain, its chain, its supply sustainable returns.returns. sustainable to develop to develop their abilities. customers their abilities. customers and end-users; and end-users; operations operations and products and products DSM rewards DSM rewards employeesemployeesthese includethese include employees’employees’ and services, and services, whilst whilst with competitive benefit benefit families,families, with competitive governments, governments, developing developing innovativeinnovative packages.packages. local communities local communities and and solutionssolutions that deliver that deliver civil society. civil society. sustainability sustainability benefitsbenefits to to customers customers and beyond. and beyond. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 22 www.dsm.com DSM’s strategy is aimed at driving profitable growth through science-based, sustainable solutions based on the defining ImpactImpact megatrends of our time. By using its unique competences in health, nutrition and materials, DSM is fostering economic prosperity, environmental progress and social advances to • Better•fed Better fed & healthier & healthier individuals individuals and and create value for all stakeholders simultaneously. communities communities • More prosperous • More prosperous and resilient and resilient The diagram on the left is based on the International Integrated employeesemployees for the company for the company and its and its Reporting Council’s <Integrated Reporting> (<IR>) framework value chain value chain and gives a schematic overview of the value DSM creates over time based on six capitals. These are: human capital; societal & relationship capital; natural capital; financial capital; intellectual • More sustainable • More sustainable use of resources, use of resources, for for capital; and manufactured capital. Descriptions of how these the company the company and in its and in its value value chain chain capitals apply to DSM are given below left. • Products• Products that contribute that contribute to safer,to safer, healthierhealthier workingworking & living environments & living environments DSM employs these capital inputs in its business in the execution of its strategy and in the fulfilment of its mission to create brighter lives for people today and for generations to come. The company’s organizational and operating model is made up of • Driving• Profitable Driving Profitable throughthrough Growth Growth market-facing business groups focused on the primary business science-based science-based sustainablesustainable solutionssolutions functions (Innovation and R&D, Direct Sourcing, Manufacturing • Sustainable • Sustainable returns toreturns to investors investors & Operations and Marketing & Sales), global support and functional excellence departments and regional organizations. It • Positive• Positive contribution contribution to economic to economic uses these to minimize and mitigate risks and take advantage of growth ingrowth in the countries the countries & markets & markets in in which DSMwhich DSM operates operates the opportunities the megatrends provide, thereby transforming the capital inputs into value outcomes aimed at having the most beneficial impact possible. Since 2002, DSM has established a track-record in Triple P reporting, disclosing its performance in terms of People, Planet and Profit. For the purposes of comparability, the six capitals as defined in the <IR> framework continue to be clustered under People (comprising the human and societal & relationship Intellectual Intellectual capitalcapital Manufactured Manufactured capitalcapital capitals), Planet (natural capital) and Profit (financial, intellectual and manufactured capitals). DSM manufactures DSM manufactures and and DSM has DSM has unique unique distributes distributes high-quality competences high-quality competences in life in life products products and services sciencessciences and services and materials and materials Specific performance indicators relating to the capitals are safely, efficiently safely, efficiently and and sciencessciences and connects and connects provided throughout this Integrated Annual Report (hereafter responsibly responsibly andto and strives strives tothese tothese toinnovative deliver deliver innovative developdevelop valuable,valuable, solutionssolutions that nourish, that nourish, referred to as the Report). collaborative collaborative and and protect protect and improve and improve long-termlong-term relationships performance. relationships performance. with customers with customers and and suppliers. suppliers. DSM pursues DSM pursues open innovation, open innovation, connectconnecting and ing and collaborating collaborating with with partnerspartners and investing and investing in in start-ups. start-ups. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 23 www.dsm.com Stakeholder engagement keeping up with societal debates and engaging in dialogue with international business organizations and other relevant Taking part in strategic and proactive dialogue with key stakeholders. DSM conducts media research and peer analyses stakeholders helps DSM to deepen its insights into the drivers of as part of these efforts. its business and the needs of society across the world, and thus be ahead of competition in adjusting to changing demands. In 2015, DSM refreshed its materiality matrix based on a process that included the aforementioned media and peer analysis, and In 2015, DSM reached out to its stakeholders – suppliers, identified external trends and developments relevant to DSM’s customers, investors, employees, companies, governments, external stakeholders and to the business. For the first time, academia and civil society – to further align its strategy with their DSM also aligned its materiality matrix refresh with its risk views. The company's stakeholder groups have been identified management process, and checked that risks identified in its based on the influence they have on the company's operations, Corporate Risk Assessment were reflected in the material topics. as well as whether they are significantly affected by them. The The topics were validated via internal stakeholder interviews, as outcomes from the various stakeholder dialogues inform many well as a formal review process with the Sustainability Leadership aspects of DSM’s strategy such as risk management, business Team – a group of senior managers with the role to champion opportunities, and strategic objectives and ambitions. sustainability within the company. The refreshed materiality matrix was signed off by the members of the Managing Board. The continuous dialogue DSM has with its stakeholders takes place through a variety of channels. A non-exhaustive overview As a result of the materiality refresh in 2015, DSM added three of the ways in which it has engaged with each stakeholder group new topics to its materiality matrix: Sharing economy, is provided on page 29. DSM values engaging with its relevant Responsible business practices and Transparency. The topic stakeholders and maintains open discussions on topics relevant Human rights is now covered under Responsible business to its business activities and its role in society. practices. Social media has been included in the management approach of the topic Advocacy & reputation. The results of the Materiality refreshed matrix highlight the ongoing, emerging and new topics that are most relevant for DSM to report to its stakeholders in For DSM, materiality is about identifying the People, Planet and 2015. Profit topics that are most relevant to the company’s stakeholders, and plotting them against the impact they have on The 19 subjects have been clustered into four categories: its business. Business impact includes social, environmental and Societal Shifts, Eco Limits, Business Enablers and Trust & financial impact. DSM formally introduced its first materiality Accountability. An explanation of all topics and reference to matrix in 2012. Since then, it has continuously assessed whether DSM’s management approach are described on the next pages. major changes to its material topics and matrix are needed by Materiality matrix 2015 Societal Shifts Business Enablers 1 Health & wellness 9 Open innovation High interest 4 Malnutrition & nutrition 15 Careers & employment 1 security 16 Advocacy & reputation 4 8 Emerging economies 18 Trade barriers 11 Product & food safety 5 2 7 19 Sharing economy 6 3 11 Eco Limits Trust & Accountability 8 Societal interest 13 9 12 10 2 Climate change & 5 Responsible business 14 renewable energy practices 15 19 3 Sustainable & circular 6 Transparency 17 16 value chains 12 Tax 18 7 Water security 17 Bioethics 10 Sustainable animal protein Interest 13 Bio-based economy 14 Biodiversity Priority Business impact Top Priority Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 24 www.dsm.com Societal Shifts Product & food safety As a company that produces ingredients and solutions in health, Health & wellness nutrition and materials, Product & food safety ranks high in As a global societal megatrend, Health & wellness is consistently relevance for DSM and its stakeholders. Consumer trends show confirmed by DSM's stakeholders as an important topic for the that a substantial majority of people are becoming more aware world's growing population, and as an area of opportunity for the of and concerned about the source of what they are buying and company. DSM is uniquely positioned to offer products and eating, as well as aspects such as safe packaging and accurate solutions which contribute to individual health and well-being, labeling. including the prevention and/or reduction of diseases and increasing quality of life through its solutions to improve health Management approach. For DSM, Product & food safety means and healthy lifestyles. having practices in place to ensure ingredient and substance quality, including the production, handling, preparation, storage Management approach. The topic Health & wellness underlies and use of DSM solutions in ways that prevent risks to health DSM's strategy. DSM manages its opportunities in this topic and wellness. DSM manages the subject Product & food safety through its Nutrition cluster and the Emerging Business Area for its value chains through its People+ program and its Product (EBA) DSM Biomedical. In the Performance Materials cluster the Stewardship strategy. See 'People+ program' on page 46, topic of health plays a role in marketing solvent-free products in and 'Product Stewardship' on page 54. close collaboration with its value chain partners. See 'Strategy 2018' on page 18 and 'Review of business' from page 67. Sharing economy As opposed to the ownership economy, in a sharing economy Malnutrition & nutrition security physical assets are shared as services. For instance, a car owner Malnutrition & nutrition security continues to be a material topic may allow someone else to rent their vehicle during a period that affects DSM’s stakeholders and the business. The effects when they are not using it. In doing so, the owner prevents the of undernutrition on health and development (typically as a result car from being underutilized while simultaneously generating of poverty) are pertinent to both the developing and developed income. The Sharing economy was recognized by DSM’s world. DSM offers solutions to address this issue, which include stakeholders as a new and emerging topic that may impact the increasing affordable access to sufficient, safe, and nutritious demand for DSM’s high-performance materials. food to maintain a healthy and active life. Management approach. The Sharing economy is being Management approach. DSM manages the topic of Malnutrition monitored by DSM as an emerging topic for its Performance & nutrition security for the developing world through its crossMaterials businesses. It is also of consideration in how DSM will sector partnerships in nutrition; and for the developed world look at new business models within the circular economy, as through its strategies within the business groups DSM Nutritional sharing capital goods allows joint ownership of products such Products and DSM Food Specialties. See 'Cross-sector nutrition as cars, which will lead to a reduced demand for such products partnerships' on page 36 and 'Review of business – DSM in the future. The demand for higher-quality, longer-lasting Nutritional Products' and 'DSM Food Specialties' on page solutions that support the sharing economy will likely increase. 69 and page 72 respectively. DSM needs to prepare its Performance Materials businesses to provide solutions that allow for greater durability, reusability and Emerging economies recyclability. See 'Review of business Performance Materials' Emerging economies remain a material topic for DSM and its on page 75. stakeholders. The shifts in power and influence from developed to emerging economies in terms of political, social and economic Eco Limits considerations means that DSM monitors developments and manages its activities and operations in emerging economies Climate change & renewable energy such as China, India, Brazil and those in Africa. Climate change & renewable energy ranks high in importance for both DSM and its stakeholders. This topic refers to the long-term Management approach. DSM manages Emerging economies shifts in weather patterns and extreme weather events due to through its strategic growth driver High Growth Economies. See human-induced alterations. It includes the composition of 'High Growth Economies' on page 14. In addition, the company energy supply and emissions resulting from direct and indirect strategically partakes in acquisitions and partnerships in energy use. emerging economies that meet DSM's criteria. For example, in 2015 DSM participated in a joint venture with the Africa Improved Management approach. DSM’s approach to addressing climate Foods Ltd. consortium to address malnutrition in Rwanda. See change involves quantifying and tracking greenhouse-gas (GHG) 'Acquisitions & Partnerships' on page 16 and 'Review of emissions, as well as monitoring its energy consumption so as business − DSM Nutritional Products' on page 69. to be able to initiate projects to improve efficiency and reduce its footprint. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 25 www.dsm.com Open innovation is the future Where feasible, projects are initiated that benefit the environment, and also have other positive consequences, such The Chemelot Institute for Science & as internal cost savings. DSM discloses its impact through the Carbon Disclosure Project. Technology (InSciTe) is a public-private institute for biomedical materials and Climate change is also an area of opportunity for DSM to offer products and solutions to help enable the transition to a lowbio-based materials founded by DSM, carbon economy. DSM furthermore advocates climate action in Maastricht University and University support of this transition. For a detailed description of DSM’s Medical Center, Eindhoven University of management approach for Climate change & renewable energy, and 2015 performance, see 'Planet' on page 49 and Technology and the Provincie Limburg. 'Sustainability statements' on page 123, as well as 'Review of Managing Director Emiel Staring explains business' from page 67. how InSciTe uses open innovation to Sustainable & circular value chains help DSM – among others – bring new Sustainable & circular value chains remains a material topic for DSM's stakeholders as it is becoming ever clearer that real ideas to market faster and with a greater sustainability can only be achieved when all parts of the value chance of commercial success. chain work together. DSM's suppliers, customers and peers are also becoming increasingly aware of the importance of the “Our mission at InSciTe is to make materials smarter circular economy as a concept which can improve the by enabling top scientists and ambitious entrepreneurs environmental impact of the value chain. For DSM, Sustainable to address the societal challenges and economic & circular value chains mean low environmental and positive opportunities of sustainable healthcare and sustainable societal impact value chains for its product and system design, bio-based production. which emphasizes use and re-use of materials enabled by the circular economy. The circular economy helps DSM to overcome InSciTe is a unique institute. We have our own facilities, its impact in relation to resource constraints and move to lowerwhere people from different organizations and fields of impact business models, and is most relevant for seeking expertise come together and collaborate at the workbench. opportunities within DSM’s Performance Materials businesses. They aren’t in their own labs and then having project meetings to exchange updates, they are working side-byManagement approach. DSM’s approach to Sustainable & side. This really is new. It allows us to increase the level of circular value chains is through environmental and social Life interaction and exchange, thereby accelerating the pace at Cycle Assessments (LCA) of its products and solutions, and which innovations can be brought to market. collaborating with its partners in the value chain. See 'People+' and 'ECO+' on page 46 and page 53 and 'Planet' on page We are here to ‘de-risk’ R&D and innovation efforts; 52. pooling resources and linking competences in our unique setting enables participants to lower their financial Water security outlay and risks while at the same time increasing the Water security is defined as the capacity of a population to probability of success. It’s about more than the science, safeguard sustainable access to adequate quantities of it’s also about ensuring that the science can make an acceptable quality water for sustaining livelihoods, human wellimpact on the market. being, and socio-economic development. Due to its effect on ecosystems services and political stability, it is a material topic Open innovation is the future. I strongly believe that for both DSM and its stakeholders around the world. DSM sharing know-how and knowledge has a multiplier effect commits to the responsible use of water resources in light of the and I encourage DSM – and all our other participants – to long-term decline in water supply as compared to water demand open up further. Trust is the basis of open innovation, and around the world. it goes without saying that we have very clear protocols and assurances on who owns project outcomes and Management approach. DSM has been a signatory to the UN intellectual property.” CEO Water Mandate since 2009. In addition, it has voluntarily reported its water policy and performance via the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2011. For DSM’s performance in 2015 and its target on water for the period 2016-2020 see 'Planet' on page 47, and 'Sustainability statements' on page 123. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 26 www.dsm.com Sustainable animal protein Management approach. DSM supports the ambitions of the The topic Sustainable animal protein is an emerging topic of Convention on Biological Diversity and actively contributes to the importance for DSM's stakeholders. With the world population preservation of biodiversity wherever possible. The company set to reach nine billion by 2050, one of the biggest concerns for does this by building awareness about natural capital, governments worldwide is food security at an affordable price. biodiversity and ecosystems; assessing and monitoring DSM’s The demand for high-quality protein from diverse sources impact on protected areas within its vicinity; developing impact including meat, fish, eggs and dairy is also increasing. Added to assessments with stakeholders; and developing measures that that, the adverse effects of climate change on natural resources help mitigate this impact. In 2015, DSM published a position means that sustainable animal protein production is becoming paper on Biodiversity on its website. For further detailed an increasingly important subject for the world to feed a larger, information on DSM's approach to Biodiversity, see 'Planet' on more urban and richer population in the future without page 52. endangering fragile ecosystems. DSM is uniquely positioned to respond to this topic by making more efficient use of feed, Business Enablers providing alternatives to antibiotic growth promoters, improving animal health and welfare with the aid of micronutrients and Open innovation reducing the environmental impact of animal farming in terms of, Open innovation is an important element of DSM's approach to for example, GHG emissions, air quality in stables and land use. innovation and a business enabler. By combining its own capabilities with the vast pool of ideas, know-how and expertise Management approach. DSM manages its opportunities in that are available outside the company, DSM is better able to Sustainable animal protein through its largest business group discover and develop solutions. Open innovation is of particular DSM Nutritional Products, contributing to reducing the importance to DSM's suppliers, customers and partners, as it environmental footprint of animal husbandry. See 'Review of helps to contribute to their and the company's profitable growth. business – DSM Nutritional Products' on page 69. See also DSM's position paper on Sustainable animal protein production Management approach. DSM actively manages an Open on its website. innovation policy and collaborates with suppliers, customers and academic institutions in the name of innovation. See 'Review of Bio-based economy business − Innovation Center' on page 81 and 'Stakeholders' A Bio-based economy remains an important topic to DSM's on page 29. stakeholders as the world moves toward a low-carbon economy and away from a fossil-based economy. In a Bio-based Careers & employment economy, production will rely on the use of natural inputs as is The topic of Careers & employment is important to DSM and its the case with renewable energy, biofuels and bio-based stakeholders − both within and outside of the company. DSM chemicals. By ensuring the renewability of raw materials, a bioaims to provide rewarding career opportunities, engaged staff, based economy makes a circular economy possible. The EBA a healthy work-life balance and a diverse workforce where DSM Bio-based Products & Services focuses on pioneering individual differences are respected. advances in biomass conversion and seeks to demonstrate the commercial viability of renewable technologies in collaboration Management approach. DSM’s approach to addressing careers with strategic partners in the value chain. & employment, includes managing the topics Safety and Health, ONE DSM Culture Agenda, Talent Development & Attraction, Management approach. DSM manages the topic of Bio-based Mentoring, Organizational Learning and compliance with the economy through the strategy and activities of its EBA DSM BioInternational Labour Standards of the International Labour based Products & Services. See 'Review of business – DSM BioOrganization (ILO). See 'People' on page 46. based Products & Services' on page 82. Advocacy & reputation Biodiversity For DSM, Advocacy & reputation means supporting the Biodiversity and healthy ecosystems are among the conditions company's sustainable business interests and core values. DSM necessary for a sustainable world. Biodiversity is the term given interacts with government, policymakers, industry associations to the variety of life on earth and the natural patterns it forms. and societal interest groups on areas of mutual interest to create Changes can influence the supply of ecosystem services − the a receptive environment for its solutions. It encourages benefits people obtain from ecosystems. These include services legislators to promote competitiveness, sustainability and such as food, water, and clean air; regulating services such as innovation. DSM’s reputation underpins its license to operate flood and disease control; cultural services such as spiritual, with stakeholders both within and outside its direct value chains. recreational and cultural benefits; and supporting services, such as nutrient cycles, that maintain the conditions for life on earth. Management approach. DSM considers dialogues with government authorities a constructive part of the legislative decision-making process. It manages its relationship with Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 27 www.dsm.com government authorities through a global network of regional competition law, trade controls and anti-bribery & corruption public affairs professionals. DSM is committed to acting measures. responsibly and transparently when it comes to sharing its expertise with policymakers and government authorities in all Management approach. See 'Corporate governance' on page markets and is registered in the EU Transparency register. In 91 and 'DSM Code of Business Conduct' on page 60. addition, the company works with progressive business coalitions, societal interest groups and international institutions Transparency on various topics including nutrition, innovation, climate and The topic of Transparency is a new topic identified as being energy. It also supports public-private collaboration as an material for DSM in 2015 by its stakeholders. For DSM, this essential part of its engagement. The company adopts a means functional transparency of information to meet the needs structured approach to issue management in which crossof different types of stakeholders including (but not limited to) disciplinary teams identify, monitor and where necessary employees, customers, investors, governments, civil society and instigate actions on key issues for the company and its local communities. Examples of topics include tax payments, businesses. Alongside daily business practices, DSM's disclosures on the environmental and social impacts of DSM’s reputation is bolstered by its stakeholder outreach and solutions and remuneration of the Managing Board. engagement as well as by social media and campaigns such as 'Science can change the world' to promote science with a Management approach. DSM has published an Integrated societal impact. For more information on how DSM engages with Annual Report since 2010, with the objective to link its financial these groups, see 'Stakeholders' on page 29. performance with its sustainability performance. Through integrated reporting and application of compulsory and voluntary Trade barriers reporting frameworks and guidelines, DSM aspires to report Compliance with trade controls remains a material topic for transparently to its relevant stakeholders about how it creates DSM. Within this topic the company has to deal with legislation value on the dimensions People, Planet and Profit. In China, on strategic goods, sanctions and embargoes, sanctioned DSM has published a Corporate Social Responsibility report on parties, restricted chemicals and technology controls. DSM an annual basis since 2007. In 2015, DSM China was recognized actively follows the international geopolitical developments and by the Shanghai Municipal Commission of Commerce and the the consequences for the trade barriers it has to cope with. Shanghai Association of Foreign Investment for its continued During 2015, legitimate trade with embargoed countries was transparency of information. For DSM’s performance, see severely affected by the financial restrictions on facilitating the 'Consolidated financial statements' on page 124 and receipt of payments by financial institutions. 'Sustainability statements' on page 122. Management approach. Compliance with trade controls Tax legislation is embedded in the DSM Code of Business Conduct. In recent years, fair share tax contribution has become a DSM has standard business processes in place to guarantee prominent societal issue. DSM believes that a responsible compliance with these subjects. Corporate Requirements on approach to tax is an integral aspect of sustainable business. Trade Controls Compliance came into force per 1 January 2015 DSM views the fulfilment of its tax obligations as part of the and have been implemented. Trade Controls Compliance process of creating long-term value for all stakeholders. Managers have been appointed within the company to ensure compliance in the businesses. Reporting, training and risk Management approach. DSM’s tax position is consistent with assessment guidance are in place. See also 'Code of Business the normal course of its business operations and reflects the Conduct' on page 60. corporate strategy as well as the geographic spread of its activities. It strives to be compliant with the letter and spirit of Trust & Accountability national and international rules, regulations and best-practice guidelines (such as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Responsible business practices Enterprises) and is in line with the arm’s length principle. Responsible business practices is important for both DSM and its stakeholders and provides DSM with a license to operate in DSM supports the idea of a global solution for fair tax policies its dynamic and international environment. A company that and systems. Thus, DSM closely monitors and provides input on abides by ethical codes of behavior is able to draw more the OECD initiative on Base Erosion & Profit Shifting. The customers, attract and retain employees, and engage investors. company is transparent towards tax authorities in all the For DSM, Responsible business practices includes a wide countries in which it operates and works closely together with category of subjects related to doing responsible business as them to determine the amount of tax due. mentioned in DSM’s Code of Business Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct; topics include: human rights, Safety, Health DSM’s contribution to society includes the provision of and Environment (SHE) practices, governance & compliance, employment to more than 20,000 people around the world. In addition to corporate income taxes, the company pays many Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 28 www.dsm.com other taxes including payroll taxes and social security Management approach. DSM manages the topic of Bioethics by contributions on the wages of its employees, value added taxes, continuously engaging in an open dialogue on the benefits and customs duties, property taxes, etc. All these taxes are a risks with its stakeholders, including the scientific community, significant source of funding of public services by governmental industry, NGOs, governments and the general public. The institutions at several levels worldwide. DSM sees it as its company adheres to applicable regulations and legislation and responsibility to contribute to this. applies the highest standards. It is transparent about its practices and uses science-based safety assessments, thus DSM’s Managing Board is responsible for establishing the enabling the competent authorities to assess and approve its approach to taxation under the supervision of the Audit use of innovative strain development technologies and the Committee of the Supervisory Board. Proper organization, resulting GMMs, which are for contained use in its production procedures and processes are in place at DSM between Group processes. DSM believes biotechnology can offer unique Taxation, the business, and other support functions and solutions to global challenges related to a growing and aging functional excellence departments. The aim is to create a strong population and the depletion of fossil resources. See DSM's interconnection in order to keep everyone aware of relevant tax position paper on biotechnology on the company's website. legislation and to ensure compliance. Compliance with both direct and indirect tax matters is monitored through a Tax Stakeholders Control Framework in order to achieve an effective, efficient and transparent tax function. The Tax Control Framework is a tax risk DSM engages in an ongoing dialogue with its key stakeholders management and control system, which ensures that Group to share thoughts and views, and to deepen the company’s Taxation is aware of the worldwide tax risks for the company. insights in order to respond to their needs and create shared Group Taxation possesses sufficient insights to adequately value. More information on how DSM engages with its manage these risks. The key stakeholders in the Tax Control employees on topics such as safety and health, talent Framework are well-established and include the Supervisory development and labor rights can be found in 'People' on page Board, Managing Board, Executive Committee, Group Taxation, 39. For more information on how DSM engages with civil business, external auditors, as well as the tax authorities in society on topics such as human rights, see page 46. DSM’s countries where DSM is operating. For further detailed engagement with customers and suppliers is described in the information see ‘Taxation at DSM' on the company's website. following section 'Partners in the value chain'. A model of how DSM creates value for its stakeholders through its capital inputs Bioethics and value outcomes can be found on page 22. Bioethics relates to responsible practice concerning the environmental, ethical and moral implications of new genetically Stakeholders modified organisms, biological discoveries and biomedical advances, as in the fields of genetic engineering and drug research. Biotechnology is a field of applied biology that involves Science the use of cells and proteins derived from these cells in institutions bioprocesses for a broad range of applications such as pharmaceuticals, food, agricultural products, bio-based Governments NGOs & Civil society chemicals and materials, as well as fuels. Genetically Modified DSM Value Chain Micro-organisms (GMMs) are organisms with genetic material that has been altered via biotechnological means that are Suppliers DSM Customers End users industrially used by definition in contained use (closed steel vessels). DSM’s latest consultations with stakeholders show that the debate now focuses on the role GMMs can play in nourishing the world's population by 2050. New or unfamiliar technologies like genetic modification often raise concerns in society about their possible implications for public health or the environment, and may trigger ethical discussions. DSM is aware that Employees Communities consumer acceptance of new technologies cannot be taken for granted, and so makes addressing safety and other concerns a Investors top priority. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 29 www.dsm.com Stakeholders Stakeholder group How DSM engages Examples 2015 Employees − create value for Surveys, engagement events, In October, DSM employees answered the Employee DSM's stakeholders by intranet, internal campaigns Engagement Pulse Survey with a response rate of 78% and helping them provide solutions an engagement score of 69%. Local management teams will to some of the world’s work with employees to improve on focus areas, such as greatest challenges valuing employees’ diverse perspectives more. DSM's young professionals network, DSM NEXT is committed to share knowledge and gain insight into DSM’s businesses through many activities. In 2015, this included site visits, workshops, and webinars. Investors DSM aims to Annual General Meeting, In November, DSM organized a Capital Markets Day for provide an attractive financial Capital Markets Day, financial analysts to discuss strategic progress and the return to its shareholders conference calls, road shows, improvement of financial performance. investor indices (e.g. DJSI), DSM defined a renewable energy strategy for its operations surveys in the next strategic period taking into account concerns from Eumedion and VBDO. DSM also participates annually in socially responsible investment indices such as DJSI, FTSE4Good and Sustainalytics. Science research institutes Financial support, knowledge Led by the Circularity Center, DSM, together with Lankhorst DSM openly cooperates with & research, sharing facilities, Ropes, Van Gansewinkel and the Port of Rotterdam, renowned universities and lectures investigated end-of-life solutions for maritime ropes, fishing science institutes nets and gloves made with Dyneema®. Founded by DSM with Dutch universities and Provincie Limburg, the Chemelot Institute for Science & Technology (InSciTe) opened a biomedical facility at Brightlands Chemelot Campus in September. This collaborative workspace will advance proven biomedical concepts to clinical applications through open innovation. NGOs and civil society DSM Meetings, discussion panels, DSM’s involvement in Climate Week NYC included an event works together with other philanthropic events on nutrition and the Sustainable Development Goals hosted organizations to jointly find by GAIN, SUN Business Network and Devex. DSM CEO/ solutions to societal Chairman of the Managing Board Feike Sijbesma took part challenges in a panel discussion on ways to create successful multistakeholder partnerships. Through its co-chair advisory role in the SUN Business Network, DSM’s advocacy helped lead to 186 companies making public commitments to improving nutrition and tracking progress annually. Communities a good Open days, news bulletins, DSM Food Specialties in Delft (Netherlands) publishes a relationship with parties that social media, education, twice-yearly news bulletin which keeps the community up to are geographically close to support through local date on developments at the site. DSM's operations is important initiatives In India, DSM partners with a local community radio station to maintain the company's to raise awareness of health issues among adolescents and license to operate couples in Gurgaon. The region also provides educational support to girls living close to DSM facilities. Governments DSM engages Meetings with officials, DSM led an initiative in which 78 companies formed a with governments individually, publications, position papers coalition and signed a joint letter urging the world’s leaders as part of a coalition or through on DSM website, case to reach an ambitious climate deal at COP21 in Paris. its memberships in relevant studies, letters, reviewing DSM formed an ad hoc coalition with industry peers on the trade associations proposed legislation, topic of the circular economy. A position paper was sent to engagements in trade a wide range of stakeholders in Brussels (Belgium) to associations encourage the European Commission to design an ambitious circular economy legislative package. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 30 www.dsm.com Partners in the value chain sustainable solutions that fulfill the needs of the market. DSM's Customers brand value as assessed by Brand Finance has grown DSM embraces customer centricity in its focus on excellence in consistently over the last five years and in 2015 increased by marketing and sales. The company is committed to becoming a 20% to € 729 million (2014: € 607 million). part of the top quartile of customer-centric companies and has developed a roadmap to continuously improve its marketing and Customer loyalty sales capabilities. This roadmap includes how DSM engages DSM uses the Net Promoter Score® (NPS), a customer with its customers, taking into consideration digitization and new interaction cycle that has become the lead performance ways of connecting; measuring and tracking performance in indicator for loyalty and advocacy tracking to measure its customer loyalty and complaints; and business development performance with customers. NPS equips the company with the projects with new and existing customers. processes to drive customer centricity across the business. DSM is a frontrunner in using the NPS methodology in its sector. Engaging with customers The essence of the NPS methodology is to create a closed loop The digital world plays an increasingly important role for DSM in to continuously improve the customer experience. DSM has engaging with its customers and other relevant stakeholders. developed a tailored NPS program that is used by all its business With over 90% of business-to-business decision makers groups. In 2015, DSM finalized the implementation of NPS as orientating themselves online before making a purchase the lead performance indicator of customer centricity in the decision, DSM aims to provide its customers with good online organization, and maintained a high overall score for DSM of 35, experiences. By improving search engines with relevant remaining amongst the leading companies in its sector. keywords, for example, DSM has been able to bring additional traffic to specific market and product websites. A further Business development projects example is a new online health benefit platform ‘Improve your DSM’s business development approach is to work with partners digestion’ launched by DSM Nutritional Products in 2015, which within and across its value chains to focus on solutions that provides a unique range of solutions for customers to create address societal challenges collectively, leading to shared value customized products to support different requirements for creation for all parties involved. Collaboration is an effective way digestive health. DSM also engages with its customers through to drive DSM’s sustainability agenda and to come up with more traditional means. In 2015 this included participation in 360 innovative solutions that benefit business and society. An technical seminars and congresses to discuss industry example of this are lines made with Dyneema® to replace steel challenges and possible solutions with customers and thought wire rope for use in heavy lifting and towing. Developed in close leaders, and a presence at more than 400 tradeshows and partnership with its customer Samson, the new solution leads to exhibitions to showcase DSM’s solutions for its markets. faster, more efficient rigging and the reduction of health, safety, security and environment issues. DSM Brand Value* x € million In 2015, DSM further developed its approach with existing customers through its customer executive sponsorship 800 729 program, which was launched in 2014. This program, which links 700 senior executives to key DSM accounts, invites customers to 607 have open discussions with DSM’s top management in order to 600 maintain strong relationships and enable the fulfilment of both 500 companies' business and social responsibility visions. An example of how this program resulted in a strategic project with 400 a customer is DSM’s partnership with MedDay to produce 320 300 275 pharmaceutical grade D-Biotin for use in the treatment of 213 progressive multiple sclerosis. The partnership covers the 200 manufacturing and exclusive supply by DSM for MedDay’s lead 100 product, which is currently being investigated in a series of clinical trials. 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Close collaboration with customers allows DSM to tackle *As measured by the Brand Finance brand valuation methodology societal issues, such as climate change. Making carbon footprint declarations available to customers, as well as their customers A growing number of companies connect their brand to their in turn, provides transparency with respect to emissions and aids bottom line, as evidence shows a compelling link between strong in efforts by DSM’s customers to reduce carbon emissions brands and market performance. DSM considers its brand an across their own value chain. For example, DSM Engineering important business asset and aspires to be a company with a Plastics makes the carbon footprint of a number of main strong brand and reputation for providing innovative and compounds available in a database that customers can access. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 31 www.dsm.com DSM also engages with customers and organizations across based economy, Responsible business practices and Climate multiple sectors to combat malnutrition and to find solutions to change & renewable energy. treat diseases. As a strategic partner in the supply of micronutrient powders and supplements, DSM not only DSM Supplier Sustainability Program distributes these products through its partnerships (such as the UN World Food Programme), but also through other commercial Supplier Relationship Management channels. For example, the South African Department of Health distributes DSM’s Mi-Vitamin™ and i-care™ ranges for use by Solutions Better patients in its national health system. In Asia, DSM focused its Business ECO+ product and business development on consumers to develop fortified rice kernels with the look and taste of normal rice. DSM People+ can now bring this concept to a wider market and contribute to addressing micronutrient deficiencies with this solution. Supplier Code Requirements to do business with DSM of Conduct Customer complaints High Risk – Mandatory Corrective Compliance In 2015, DSM continued its integrated complaint management Action Plan / Opportunity process, which stimulates relevant continuous improvements in TfS Medium Risk – Recommended products, processes and services for the benefit of customers. Assessments Corrective Action Plan /Opportunity As a learning and customer centric organization, DSM sees & Audits every customer complaint as an opportunity to further improve Low Risk – Opportunity for value creation on the solutions it provides, as well as the corresponding processes. For this, DSM recognizes the importance of an effective customer dialogue. Supplier Sustainability Program (SSP) strategy In 2015, DSM assessed the maturity level of its SSP along four An example of DSM’s open handling of complaints is by DSM dimensions: Strategy/Plan; Supply Risk & Opportunity; People, Food Specialties, concerning the specifications of one of DSM's Infrastructure & Measurements; and Processes. The maturity preservation ingredients for a large beverage producing assessment was used to indicate areas of improvement to meet company. DSM’s efforts to solve the issues through open the ambition level for 2020. The SSP was also benchmarked communication and the optimization of quality test methods led against the practices of other leading sustainable companies. to nomination by this beverage producer as a top-10 preferred The results of the benchmark and the maturity assessment were supplier in 2015. The customer team was awarded a 'Hall of incorporated in the Sustainable Purchasing Roadmap Fame' award and valued by the customer for their open and 2016-2020, which aims to anchor sustainability even more firmly positive attitude and support. in DSM’s daily sourcing activities. More information about the maturity assessment of DSM's SSP can be found on the Another example is at DSM Nutritional Products, which has company's website. found that its average investigation response time for productrelated complaints can be reduced by 38%. This business has Internal skills and capabilities set targets for its operational teams to drive swifter responses Good progress was made in 2015 in internal capability building. and these are followed up on a weekly basis. Complaint By the end of 2015, more than 300 employees in the sourcing investigators give incoming complaints their highest priority, and community had participated in sustainability trainings. These start immediate actions together with customer service agents trainings underpin the importance of sustainability, and provide and account managers. Close and active communication with practical tools to make it an integral part of daily work in sourcing. customers enables DSM to better understand the issues and DSM once again organized an internal Strategic Sourcing Award their impact for the customer, as well as to come up with and Key Supplier Management Award in 2015, in which satisfactory solutions. sustainability was a key criterion for selecting the winners in both categories. Suppliers DSM needs to be smart in how it engages with its 40,000 Collaboration suppliers. DSM does this through a Supplier Sustainability DSM works with external partners to enhance collaboration in Program (SSP), which is implemented through annual Supplier the supply chain. These include the Roundtable for Sustainable Sustainability Plans and Sustainability Roadmaps. Progress Palm Oil (RSPO), Together for Sustainability (TfS) and towards targets is shared on a monthly basis within Sourcing Solidaridad. DSM joined RSPO as it is conscious of potential and on a quarterly basis with the Managing Board. The Supplier risks to the environment, human rights and labor practices in the Sustainability Plan 2015 addressed a number of relevant topics palm oil supply chain, and palm oil is an ingredient that is used, for the materiality matrix: Sustainable & circular value chains, Bioalbeit on a very limited scale, in DSM’s human nutrition activities. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 32 www.dsm.com DSM has been sourcing sustainable palm oil derivatives for the DSM focuses on approximately 1,000 critical suppliers. Critical DSM Nutritional Products Human Nutrition & Health business suppliers include those that are providing critical components, since 2014. Two key production sites were awarded RSPO are located in potentially high-risk countries, supply a high Mass Balance Certification in 2015 and the ambition is for all volume of products or services, are non-substitutable, or have remaining sites to achieve the same certification by 2017. DSM the potential to create shared value in areas of innovation and also anticipated and reacted to questions from the World Wide sustainability. Fund for Nature (WWF) and SOMO on the use of palm oil and mica respectively in DSM processes or products, sharing In 2015, DSM began actively collaborating with TfS. The purpose information openly and transparently. of this initiative is to develop and implement a global assessment and audit program to screen and improve sustainability practices Compliance within chemical industry supply chains. DSM benefits from DSM uses its Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) and carries out access to the higher standard and the larger number of assessments and audits to check suppliers' compliance with the assessments and audits which are executed by other TfS norms and values for doing business with DSM. In cases where members and shared on the TfS platform. Since the start of the risks or breaches are identified, DSM engages with the supplier initiative, the collective (potential) supply base of the TfS to set up and execute an improvement plan. Should the breach members has been rated by 4,600 EcoVadis assessments and or non-conformity persist, DSM will take measures to mitigate 446 TfS audits. In 2015, a total of 2,580 sustainability the risks or ultimately terminate the relationship with the supplier assessments were shared among TfS members and 179 new in question. The proportion of DSM's spend covered by its SCoC TfS audit reports were received by the initiative. remained at a high level of 95% in 2015. Supplier Sustainability Program results 2015 2014 2013 Leverage Target Achieved TfS pool1 Target Achieved Target Achieved Spend coverage SCoC 91% 95% 91% 94% 91% 95% Sustainability assessments 200 252 690 59 41 3 Sustainability audits2 20 10 27 40 42 40 40 Quality audits 251 294 299 Solutions 30 46 30 30 30 31 1 Total number of DSM suppliers assessed by TfS members 2 The lower target set for Sustainability audits in 2015 resulted from DSM’s membership of TfS Using this collaborative approach in 2015, DSM was able to Better business screen more than 3,300 suppliers from its total base in 2015, of As part of its drive to foster better business through its supplier which 2% were identified as ‘risk suppliers’ with regard to solution projects, Sourcing engages in proactive dialogue with environment, impact on society, human rights and labor suppliers in order to drive the business agenda on topics such conditions. In line with internal follow-up guidelines, as climate change, food & nutrition security, health and the investigations were initiated with these suppliers. In one case this circular economy. In this context, Sourcing pursues initiatives to resulted in an audit in 2015. The assessments that were create joint value, awareness and engagement in areas related performed by other TfS members will be followed up in due to ECO+ and People+. course. DSM was able to screen 6% of new suppliers with regard to their environmental performance, impact on society, human China Triple P Project rights and labor practices. DSM has run the ‘China Triple P Supplier Engagement and Capability Building’ project since 2013. The project, which aims In 2015, sustainability compliance was also integrated into the to engage suppliers to jointly create a more sustainable supply standard supply risk management approach and the new chain in China, is run in partnership with Solidaridad, a global supplier onboarding process. While compliance remains the non-governmental organization specialized in sustainability cornerstone for DSM to achieve a sustainable supply base, audits. Participating Chinese suppliers are provided with the procurement activities will increasingly focus on so-called ‘better knowledge, experience and tools to set up their own supplier business’. sustainability programs. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 33 www.dsm.com Phase 2 of the project was successfully executed from July 2014 People+ to August 2015. Sustainability, productivity and human rights Suppliers play an important role in achieving DSM's People+ experts organized workshops and offered in-house technical ambitions. DSM actively engages with its suppliers to build their support to factories interested in making genuine improvements. capabilities, enhance working conditions and make safety The project supported DSM’s suppliers with their own SHE improvements, an example of which is the China Triple P project programs, energy efficiency improvements and footprint described above. DSM is also keen to improve the working reductions, as well as communications between employees and conditions of its own employees and the surrounding management. In this phase, approximately each € 1,000 community. In North America, DSM Nutritional Products invested by DSM triggered initiatives that resulted in an collaborated with one of its suppliers on Safety, Health, estimated € 60,000 in efficiency improvements at the Environment and Quality to improve working conditions for its participating suppliers. The five participating suppliers employees. completed 38 improvement projects. In China, DSM and catering service supplier Sodexo worked together on several programs to improve the provision of healthy We are very honored to be part of the China Triple P meals and waste management, which was welcomed by DSM Project. With the help of DSM, we have improved a lot in employees. In the Netherlands, DSM and an energy supplier safety, environment, and health. We will keep up the good provided the Ronald McDonald House for the families of work and continue to work with DSM on sustainability. – seriously ill children in Maastricht with solar electricity. These Song Xiang Zhe, General Manager Hebei Chengxin Co., savings on the energy bill mean that more can be spent on Ltd. providing care and support to families with hospitalized children. Collaboration in the value chain ECO+ As part of its ECO+ approach, DSM continued to engage in joint DSM’s ECO+ and People+ programs are instrumental for initiatives with suppliers that led to environmental benefits in the identifying and marketing DSM’s sustainable solutions, and also value chain, such as projects in packaging, logistics, and support engagement with key external stakeholders, such as reduction in raw materials and carbon emissions. Via the CO2 suppliers, customers, NGOs and sector associations. Emission Reduction Initiative, the physical distribution team Discussing today’s environmental and societal challenges and investigates suppliers’ footprints in road transportation, marine possible solutions brings in new perspectives and opportunities and packaging to explore opportunities for improvement. This is to the existing dialogues with business partners. Collaboration in a continuation of the Green Tender Initiative that began in 2012 the value chain has contributed to new innovations, value with the aim of achieving a 20% reduction in emissions proposition development, advancement of sustainability metrics associated with logistics and packaging. Since 2012, over 25% and to DSM being given preferred business partner status. of global spend on physical distribution has been covered by the Green Tender Initiative. The cumulative CO2 emission reduction In 2015, DSM and Nestlé joined forces to measure the per unit of measure compared to 2010 reached 14% at the end environmental, social and health impacts of a fortified milk of 2015. product in the Asian market. The project resulted in insights and recommendations for the development of products with a better DSM considers GHG impact in its global sourcing selection sustainability impact and for integrating sustainability into process. Based on the insights of an LCA for supply of nitrogen, innovation and communication. DSM understands the impact of scope 2 and 3 GHG emissions for each supply option. This has enabled a sourcing process that includes supply guarantee, quality and cost, as well as GHG The collaboration supports a mutual cross-fertilization of impact. For example, the DSM Dyneema plant in Heerlen ways of working in the area of sustainability and innovation, (Netherlands) will annually reduce 42% of its GHG emissions beneficial for the early identification of new opportunities as associated with nitrogen supply. well as mitigation of areas of risk. – Anne Roulin, Global R&D Sustainability Manager Nestlé In another initiative, DSM scientists and suppliers facilitated by Sourcing delivered a process improvement for the production of vitamin E. This resulted in the use of fewer raw materials, which In another collaboration to tackle health issues, reducing salt enabled DSM to annually reduce 800 tons of CO2-equivalent intake has been identified as an important and cost-effective emissions and improved the commercial agreement with the measure to improve public health outcomes. Unilever and DSM supplier, demonstrating that sustainability can be a real business collaborated on a modeling case study to assess the public driver for DSM. In 2015, Sourcing also helped shape DSM's health benefit from salt reduction in soup. The study Renewable energy strategy. See 'Planet' on page 49. demonstrated that small actions, such as reducing salt in soup, can make a difference to human health. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 34 www.dsm.com A further example is a cooperation between DSM and Praxis. Profit so that practical guidance can be provided for the finance Praxis is one of the biggest DIY chains in the Netherlands. In and accounting community. Building on its 2014 contribution to October 2015, DSM and Praxis together launched a new highthe A4S guides 'CAPEX: a practical guide to embedding performance paint for which DSM provided Decovery®, a biosustainability into capital investment appraisal' and 'Enhancing based component, which has no toxic emissions. This investor engagement', DSM participated in the project collaboration and joint marketing effort are new means to 'Integrated Management reporting' in 2015. This project focuses support DSM’s market development. on embedding environmental and social considerations into management reporting to enhance business decision making. Collaborative platforms and networks Learnings from the Network's activities have led to further integration of sustainability considerations into DSM's business DSM collaborates with like-minded peers from other sectors to processes. For example, as a result of participation in the CAPEX create social and environmental measurement and performance project, DSM is starting to address specific criteria related to the standards. Together with cross-sector companies and business environment and people for large capital investment projects. organizations, DSM has been an advocate on urgent themes like climate change, nutrition and the pricing of externalities. World Economic Forum (WEF) DSM is a strategic partner of the WEF and is involved in initiatives including the New Vision on Agriculture platform and the Global Agenda Council on Food & Nutrition Security. At the Annual Meeting of the WEF in Davos (Switzerland) in 2015, DSM sponsored the UN World Food Programme (WFP) tent as in previous years, and organized events and discussions on hunger, malnutrition and climate change. The company was also represented at various regional meetings, including the Annual Meeting of the New Champions in Dalian (China). World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) DSM is a member of the WBCSD, a business platform aiming to DSM's CFO Geraldine Matchett and HRH The Prince of Wales develop solutions that contribute to environmental and social challenges. DSM takes a leading role in various projects. The Valuing natural and social capital company co-chairs the ‘Reaching Full Potential’ project to DSM supports the movement towards greater transparency develop guidance on assessing the social impact of chemical through valuing environmental and social impacts. In 2014, DSM projects in the value chain. This working group builds on signed a Green Deal with the Dutch Government, which is a experiences from DSM’s People+ program and the Roundtable collaboration on transparency of natural and social capital. An for Product Social Metrics. It is also active in the chemical sector initiative of the nature conservation organization IUCN working groups on the Low Carbon Technology Partnerships Netherlands, MVO Nederland and True Price, its purpose is to Initiative Framework and Low Carbon Transport Fuels. In share and develop knowledge on the topic. In line with this November DSM announced, alongside AkzoNobel, Evonik, commitment, DSM has been exploring the valuation of positive Solvay, and Mitsubishi Chemicals, a commitment to reduce and negative environmental impacts at a product level. Over emissions within the chemical industry by an additional 1.4 2014 and 2015, DSM extended its study to valuing social gigatons of CO2-equivalents by 2030 through advanced impacts, with the product OatWell® from DSM Nutritional innovation and faster deployment of solutions at scale. DSM is Products. DSM will use this case study to officially pilot test the closely involved in setting new standards for valuation Natural Capital Protocol in 2016. See also methodologies in the multi-industry working groups ‘Natural 'Review of business – DSM Nutritional Products' on page 69. Capital’ and ‘Social Capital’, bringing in its experiences with ECO+, People+ and internal valuation pilots. Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition (DSGC) The DSGC brings together a group of large Dutch multinational Accounting for Sustainability (A4S) enterprises: AkzoNobel, DSM, Friesland Campina, Heineken, DSM's CFO Geraldine Matchett takes an active role in the A4S KLM, Philips, Shell and Unilever. They are recognized for their Chief Financial Officer Leadership Network, launched by HRH leading role in sustainable business development and seek to The Prince of Wales in December 2013. The Network brings develop innovative strategies, business models and products together leading CFOs from large businesses seeking to embed that overcome societal challenges. In December 2015, the the management of environmental and social issues into DSGC published its fourth report, which focused on the circular business processes and strategy. DSM shares its own economy. DSM contributed product cases including its joint ® experiences and case studies on integrating People, Planet and venture on the Niaga technology, an innovation that enables Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 35 www.dsm.com the industry to close the carpet materials loop through repeated Cross-sector nutrition partnerships recycling and re-use of materials. As a leading micronutrient provider, DSM develops innovative solutions for improved nutrition. In order for these solutions to Global Goals Charter have the broadest reach, DSM works with partner organizations In the Netherlands, DSM partnered with Worldconnectors, True that have direct access to beneficiaries. DSM’s nutrition Price and others to found the Global Goals Charter, a platform partnerships focus on the following objectives: wider base of with over 70 signatories representing business, public sector scientific evidence and endorsement; increased market for and civil society including, among others, UNICEF NL and Oxfam nutrition products; and improved employee engagement. NL. In September 2014, DSM kicked off the 'Charter on the role Besides financial contributions, DSM also commits to of business, civil society and cross-sector partnerships in the contributing its time, technical assistance, products and post-2015 development agenda'. The charter describes what volunteers. DSM’s main partners are described below. For a signatories can do to contribute and commits them to take joint more extensive list and description of DSM’s other nutrition action by creating partnerships. DSM will continue to play a platforms and partnerships, see the company's website. leading role in the platform while evaluating the various new methods being introduced to demonstrate impact on the Global Goals for Sustainable Development. Cross-sector nutrition partnerships Partner Partnership benefits Impact Product development The DSM-WFP partnership ‘Improving Nutrition, Improving Lives’ aims to Value chains for enhanced nutrition improve the nutritional value of the food that WFP distributes through product Advocacy innovations such as fortified rice and a product aimed at people living with Employee engagement and development HIV/AIDS. The partnership now reaches over 25.1 million people per year Corporate reputation with improved nutrition through the creation and reformulation of products. Additionally, DSM and WFP collaborate on training and development initiatives and on employee fundraising campaigns, including over € 145,000 raised by DSM and its employees for Nepal earthquake relief efforts in 2015. Value chains for enhanced nutrition DSM and UNICEF collaborate to support micronutrient programs in Market-based solutions for improved Nigeria and Madagascar. The partnership helped build capacity by nutrition supporting the African Nutrition Leadership program, examined the supply Advocacy chain of micronutrient powder sachets and advocated for the importance Corporate reputation of nutrition-related indicators in the new Sustainable Development Goals. Value chains for enhanced nutrition DSM and World Vision International collaborate on a flagship project in Market-based solutions for improved Tanzania called Miller’s Pride, which creates shared value through nutrition fortifying hammer-mill produced maize flour with essential micronutrients, Advocacy reaching a largely under-served population. In addition to fortification, the Corporate reputation partners work with the millers to build business expertise, improve food safety and increase markets and profits for the millers. Market-based solutions for improved Partners in Food Solutions is a multi-sector partnership between the nutrition companies DSM, General Mills, Cargill, The Hershey Company and Bühler Employee engagement and development working in partnership with USAID, TechnoServe and Root Capital to serve Corporate reputation more than 600 small and growing food companies throughout Africa. Employee volunteers dedicate their technical and business expertise to improving the performance of food processors and millers in Africa with the goal of improving food security, nutrition and economic development. Market-based solutions for improved The SUN Business Network represents the private sector in the Scaling Up nutrition Nutrition Movement. The Network recruits and supports companies who Advocacy pledge to contribute to the improvement of global nutrition. DSM advocates Employee engagement and development for business to take a leading role on this important issue, with CEO/ Corporate reputation Chairman of the Managing Board Feike Sijbesma co-chairing the Advisory Group of the Network. DSM assists in the recruitment and management of this 186-company strong network of national and multinational companies by supporting workshops and seconding employee volunteers. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 36 www.dsm.com Philanthropy and sponsorships Europe Fundraising in support of the Nepal earthquake relief effort raised DSM supports causes and initiatives that relate to its mission of over € 145,000 from DSM employees (of which € 50,000 was using Bright Science to create Brighter Living. It does so by matched by DSM) for nutrition programming by WFP. In addition, providing products, expertise and funding. In 2015, DSM DSM donated € 50,000 for emergency assistance by the Dutch donated more than € 3.5 million to a range of initiatives. DSM Red Cross in Nepal. In December, DSM also supported the makes no political donations, as outlined in its Code of Business Dutch Red Cross in the national annual fundraising campaign Conduct. See the company's website. Serious Request 2015. Together with its employees, the company raised over € 125,000 for the campaign in support of China education for children from conflict areas. As a global partner of the WFP, DSM in China has been taking part in the Walk the World fundraising event since 2007. With a Sight & Life theme of “Hunger is Solvable: Bright Experience”, this year’s Through its continued support of the now independent (since event in September attracted 2,000 DSM employees and their 2015), non-profit humanitarian nutrition foundation Sight & Life families, as well as partners at 13 sites in 12 cities. Employees (which became independent in 2015), DSM contributes to the from DSM joined with WFP and China Foundation for Poverty body of knowledge and awareness of malnutrition & nutrition Alleviation (CFPA) staff to raise funds. security. Sight & Life’s main research topics are in the field of implementation science and leadership capacity development in Donations were given to WFP’s School Feeding Programmes nutrition. worldwide and the CFPA’s school meal program in impoverished areas of China. In all, DSM and its partners were able to provide more than 50,000 nutritious meals with milk and eggs to children in poor areas of Yunnan and Sichuan provinces. In China, people in less-developed areas still need help; hunger and malnutrition remain key issues. As one of the global leaders in health and nutrition, we at DSM are responsible for leveraging our unique scientific expertise to develop micronutrient innovations to help address the issue.” – Weiming Jiang, Regional President DSM China Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 37 www.dsm.com External recognition received from non-governmental and trade organizations, customers, suppliers and the academic world in 2015 can be People at DSM are proud when DSM's sustainability and found in the table below. Other awards and external recognition innovation efforts, either as a company or individual products for the business groups can be found in 'Review of business' and solutions, are recognized by the outside world. A selection from page 67. of some of the awards and other forms of recognition that DSM Organization Recognition Islamic Food & Nutrition In March, IFANCA named DSM ‘Company of the Year’ for its outstanding Council of America (IFANCA) compliance with Halal policies. Association of International In June, DSM received AICM's Responsible Care Award with nine peers. Chemical Manufacturers (AICM) AICM is an initiative with an aspiration to stimulate sustainability in China's chemical industry, as well as to support communities affected by the sector's operations. Carbon Disclosure Project In August, CDP reviewed 18 chemical corporations with a combined market (CDP) capitalization of over USD 500 billion in seven categories with regards to environmental protection policies. With an A grade in three of the seven categories, DSM ranked second following DuPont. DSM also received the highest obtainable grade for carbon regulation readiness. RobecoSAM In September, DSM was once again named among the worldwide sustainability leaders in the Materials industry group in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI) and has returned to Gold Class in 2016. Cannes Film Festival In October, DSM was awarded two Silver Dolphin Awards at the Cannes Corporate Media & TV Awards. Unsung Heroes of Science, produced by DSM as part of its 'Science Can Change The World' campaign, is dedicated to all scientists and the impact they have on daily life, was awarded in the Corporate Films category. Hidden Hunger, produced by DSM Nutritional Products as part of its work raising awareness for global micronutrient deficiency, received an award in the Informational Films category. European Chemical Industrial In October, DSM won the environmental category at this year’s European Council (CEFIC) Responsible Care Awards in recognition of DSM’s success in implementing a sustainability program at its Dalry facility in Scotland (UK). The plant is the last European manufacturer of vitamin C supplements, and received the award for safety, use of innovative technology, and mitigation of negative externalities. Het Financieele Dagblad (FD) In late October, DSM was awarded the FD-Henri Sijthoff prize for the best annual report by a company listed on the AEX stock exchange in the Netherlands for its 2014 Integrated Annual Report. Global Initiatives In November, DSM was recognized as Overall Winner of the Singapore Sustainable Business Awards. DSM received the award for its commitment to sustainability and for creating value for People, Planet and Profit throughout its supply chain. DSM also won awards in Supply Chain Management and Climate Change. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 38 www.dsm.com People in 2015 DSM aims to provide a healthy and safe working environment for How DSM creates value its employees, and encourages its people to develop and build their careers by broadening their skills and knowledge. The People People company seeks to attract and retain people who can add value to the organization − original thinkers and doers who can stretch and move the company forward, in line with the organizational needs. With 108 nationalities and more than 200 sites and offices in 48 countries, DSM’s international profile allows it to bring its business closer to key markets and customers in order to achieve sustainable and focused business growth. Thus, it is f 28% / m 72% important to create a shared culture that embraces differences. To this end, DSM seeks to stimulate inclusion, diversity and Ratio female/male inspirational leadership through its human resources strategy. employees This is governed through a regional infrastructure with clear Managing Board-level accountability for performance. 69% 72% This chapter outlines the general internal elements of DSM's approach to its own employees, which is embodied in the company's safety and health and human resources policies. Employee Inclusion DSM’s approach to people affected by the operations in its value Engagement index chain and civil society is reflected in the People+ program and favorable score the company’s policies on human rights. The performance (EEI) elements of this strategy are included in the 'Sustainability statements' on page 122. See also 'Stakeholder engagement' on page 24. A model of how DSM creates value for its stakeholders through the human and societal & relationship 29 0.41 capitals is shown on page 22. Average training Frequency index of hours per recordable injuries Safety and health employee (per 100 DSM employees Occupational safety annually and contractors) DSM has been fatality-free for the last four years. Rigorous application of DSM’s Life Saving Rules has been an important factor in this. Nevertheless, the incidents that did occur and the 25 million severity of their consequences remain a cause for concern for the company. It is DSM's ambition to have an injury and incidentBeneficiaries free working environment. The company has set itself the target DSM-WFP annually of reducing the Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries by 50% or more by the year 2020 compared to 2010. DSM aims for an index score that is less than or equal to 0.25 by 2020, compared to the 0.57 achieved in 2010. Over the years, DSM has made steady progress in improving occupational safety. Whilst there had been a rise in 2014, the company was once again able to resume the downward trend in 2015. The Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries for 2015 was 0.41 (2014: 0.47). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 39 www.dsm.com The Frequency Index measures Lost Workday Cases, Restricted further sharpened with the introduction of the Serious Injury and Workday Cases, Medical Treatment Cases and fatalities. For a Fatalities (SIF) concept in 2014, which was rolled out in 2015. full description of the Index see 'Explanation of some concepts This concept uses a decision tree approach to identify all and ratios' on page 209. The Frequency Index of Lost Workday incidents and near-misses with the potential for severe injury, so Cases for DSM employees was 0.13 (2014: 0.15). that improvement efforts can be concentrated on the prevention of such incidents. Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries 12-month moving average After the successful introduction of the mandatory LOTOTO (Lock-out, Tag-out, Try-out) and 'Confined Space Entry' REC-rate DSM all Rate for Lost Workday Cases (LWC), DSM-own procedures in 2014, a new company-wide ‘permit-to-work’ 1.20 standard was implemented in 2015, as a result of audits done by the DSM Corporate Operational Audit department. This new 1.00 practice focuses on improving the existing work permit requirements within DSM by fostering better cooperation and 0.80 communication between DSM and contractors in the execution of work. The ‘permit-to-work’ standard allows flexibility on details REC-rate DSM ALL 0.60 depending on the local situation. 0.41 0.40 Furthermore, DSM will prioritize improvements to its behavioral LWC-rate DSM Own DSM Target FI REC All 2020: 0.25 systems, supported by the Safety, Health and Environment 0.20 (SHE) leadership team and SHE competence trainings. 0.13 0.00 With regards to occupational health, the new plan comprises 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 objectives and targets in the areas of ensuring healthy working conditions (foundation) and driving healthy business (growth driver): In 2015, DSM’s change in portfolio again influenced its resulting Safety and Health performance. DSM Fibre Intermediates and In terms of healthy working conditions, actions have been DSM Composite Resins were (partially) divested and their defined to keep exposure to chemical, physical and biological contribution will be phased out from the safety and health factors below limit values, to ensure the availability and use of statistics. Most recently acquired units showed significant industrial hygiene competence, and to have an industrial improvement in their safety records and DSM is confident that hygiene control strategy in place on all sites. A key they will achieve the high level of safety at those sites that have performance indicator measuring the quality and belonged to DSM for a longer time. completeness of sites’ Health Risk Assessments will be used to monitor progress. Recently acquired units accounted for 32% of the total of 109 As regards driving healthy business, actions have been recordable injuries in 2015 (2014: 40%). These units account for defined to deploy a vitality policy, to assess vitality and work 18.5% of the workforce. performance, and to implement a mental resilience program. The key performance indicators used to measure progress will See also 'What Still Went Wrong in 2015' on page 116. include the participation rate in the Vitality@DSM program as well as the Employee Engagement Index score. DSM Responsible Care Plan 2016 2020 In 2015, a new five-year plan was approved to guide DSM's Contractor safety Responsible Care® priorities and to define indicators and internal Contractors that work at DSM are about two times more likely targets. With regards to safety (occupational safety and process to suffer a work-related accident than DSM employees. Almost safety), the overall ambition remained unchanged: DSM's half the fatalities that have occurred at DSM over the past 14 ambition is to have an injury and incident-free workplace. The years have involved contractors. This can partly be explained by targets in support of this ambition also remain valid. These are: the fact that contractors sometimes carry out more hazardous a Total Recordable Injury rate (TRI rate) of 0.25 by 2020 and a activities. 75% reduction in the Process Safety Incident rate in 2020 compared to 2010 (2015: 0.41). For this reason, DSM pays special attention to contractor safety. The company strives for long-term partnerships with its DSM's focus on preventing serious accidents and potential contractors as it sees this as the foundation for good safety and fatalities was strengthened with the introduction of the Life health performance. Contractors must be well informed about Saving Rules in 2011, which has resulted in a significant the applicable rules and adequately trained, which is only improvement in safety performance in recent years. This was Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 40 www.dsm.com possible when contractors and DSM employees work closely SHE leadership development together over a long period. DSM works to continuously improve leadership skills in SHE. In 2015, a new leadership program, Mindful Collaboration, was The number of contractor incidents remained at the level of the added to the SHE leadership training portfolio. The Mindful past few years. One highlight in 2015 was the building of a new Collaboration training provides participants insights to improve vitamin B6 plant in Xinghuo (China), which was completed progress towards common team and company goals. ‘Mindful’ without any recordable contractor safety incidents. stands for being constantly alert and aware, being vigilant towards everything related to SHE and quality, and always SHE integration of new sites striving for operational excellence and continuous improvement. In 2015, DSM completed the acquisition of Aland, a producer of This ultimately leads to a safer and healthier workplace, better vitamin C located in Jingjiang (China). The SHE integration performance, more efficiency and less stress. program started immediately after the acquisition and will continue in 2016. The other new sites acquired from 2012 have Employee health management finalized or are in the finalization stage of the SHE integration DSM recognizes that healthy working conditions make a process. significant contribution to employee health and well-being and also have a significant positive impact on employee engagement Process safety and productivity. Both employees and the company benefit from Until now, DSM has followed the European Chemical Industry healthy working conditions in today's increasingly fast-paced, Council (CEFIC) guidance to define which incidents qualify as challenging and competitive world. DSM has implemented Process Safety Incidents (PSI). The total number of PSIs policies and initiatives to safeguard employee health by reported in 2015 was 109 (2014: 118). controlling workplace risks (prevention) and to promote and support employee health and well-being. Translated into a Frequency Index, PSIs totaled 0.41 in the year (2014: 0.40). The target is to reduce the index to 0.34 by 2015 With a view to prevention, in 2015, DSM reviewed its health risk and 0.17 by 2020. These targets represent improvements of assessment practices. This included a focus on creating more 50% and 75% respectively compared to 2010, when the PSI transparency and consistency on the rating of workplace health Frequency Index was 0.68. Whilst performance up to 2015 has risks and emphasis on the implementation of control measures shown improvement, the targeted intermediate reduction of around occupational hygiene. Dedicated regional health risk 50% by 2015 was not met. DSM will step-up its efforts in order assessment training programs were also organized; these were to reach its 2020 goal of a 75% reduction. aimed at ensuring adequate competence in industrial hygiene and ergonomics. Industrial hygiene was further specifically addressed in training programs for managers and engineers. Frequency Index of Process Safety Incidents Potential health-related consequences of social and demographic trends (e.g. an aging workforce) were specifically PSI rate 0.8 0.7 addressed in the health module of DSM's SHE leadership 0.6 programs. 0.5 0.41 DSM aims to foster a true culture of health among its employees. 0.4 Vitality@DSM is a global health management program that 0.3 provides employees with insights into their own lifestyle profile PSI Target 2015: 0.34 and explains the consequences of unhealthy lifestyle habits. It 0.2 also stimulates them to take responsibility for changing their 0.1 habits. To maximize engagement, cultural and regional 0 differences are taken into account. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Over the last eight years, more than 15,000 employees worldwide have participated in the Vitality@DSM program, in line DSM participated in efforts from the International Council of with the target the company had set. Vitality@DSM is based on Chemical Associations (ICCA) to define a harmonized global the HealthyRoads (designed to be used in alignment with the standard for process safety performance reporting. A proposal health care system in the US) and Vitality Checkpoint (rest of the defining a process safety event rate metric was approved by the world) health programs. ICCA Responsible Care Leadership Group and by the ICCA Board in 2015. Chemical Associations and companies will Participating Vitality@DSM employees receive a general health transition to the ICCA standard for performance data in the check-up and fill in a self-assessment questionnaire to evaluate coming years. For DSM this will be implemented starting in 2016, their profile across the dimensions of Nutrition, Recovery, thus replacing the current CEFIC guidance. Exercise and Mental health. A personal risk score and action plan Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 41 www.dsm.com is provided so that employees benefit from awareness of their Globally leveraging support functions is allowing DSM to capture own health-related risks. Results from the self-assessments scale-benefits and deliver high-quality professional support at employees have completed since the start of the program show lower costs, among others via further standardization of that 54% have moderate to very high stress risk; 38% have processes, delayering, and elimination of duplications, resulting moderate to very high risk of poor eating habits; 27% seldom or in a more efficient pooling of resources with clearer never exercise; and 27% are overweight or obese. accountability for performance. This is leading to a reduction in size of the support functions, also in view of the transfer into Knowing the health risks its employees face allows DSM to better partnerships of the Pharma, Polymer Intermediates and support them with targeted health programs. For example, for Composite Resins businesses. the period 2013-2015, DSM has been able to lower the overall stress risk of participants in the US to below 30%, which is These initiatives will result in a reduction in headcount of significantly lower than in other regions due to 92% of the 900-1,100 FTEs, of which approximately half in the Netherlands, participants having participated in stress coaching during this with the remainder spread proportionally across the other period. countries where DSM operates, to be fully implemented by the end of 2017. In 2015, the Vitality@DSM tool was upgraded to enable improved tracking of changes over time for groups of In implementing the adjustments, DSM is actively applying its participants. Because this improved functionality directly ‘work-to-work’ philosophy by supporting redundant employees impacts the calculation of productivity gain, the 2015 data for in finding new employment. This happens differently in each the total rise in productivity cannot be directly compared with the country, according to local legislation and proven practices. data published by DSM in previous years. Recalculating the Examples are outplacement services by an external partner or 2014 figure with the current method shows a productivity gain active support through an internally managed mobility center. of approximately € 102,500. In 2015, this came to approximately DSM provides employees with a fair severance compensation € 172,500. This is based on self-reported changes in lifestyle allowing them to bridge the period until their next employment. health-risk factors (alcohol consumption, eating habits, lack of In this process, DSM honors the good relationship with exercise, smoking, stress and obesity) for participating employee representation bodies and actively seeks the employees in Europe, North America and Asia. endorsement of works councils in those countries where an FTE reduction applies. Occupational health cases A total of five occupational health cases were reported in DSM is implementing a culture and change program alongside 2015. DSM continued to increase employee awareness of the ONE DSM Culture Agenda to give managers and employees occupational health issues and to further improve the reporting specific support in making the transition to the new operating of all occupational health cases the company encounters model and new way of working. DSM recognizes that the period (2014: 11). of reorganization that the company is undergoing puts employees under stress, which continues to be an area of New organizational and operating model attention. As described on page 21, in 2015, DSM began implementing ONE DSM Culture Agenda adjustments to its organizational and operating model to support its growth ambitions and create a more agile, focused and costThe ONE DSM Culture Agenda was designed in 2012 in efficient organization, with a stronger business and market focus conjunction with DSM’s Leadership Model and aims to support and globally leveraged support functions. By becoming more the company’s strategic alignment with the needs of an everagile and focused, the company will be better able to respond changing world by focusing on four themes: External Orientation; to market dynamics, capture opportunities and deliver on its Accountability for Performance (and learning); Collaboration with aspirations. Furthermore, the company is establishing a new way Speed and Trust; and Inclusion & Diversity. This focus seeks to of working in support of its strategic targets, driving a change in create a common language across the organization, and mindset and culture aimed at establishing DSM as a resultsenhance ONE DSM. Through its implementation, DSM aims to driven, high-performance organization, both in terms of top-line become a high-performance organization. and bottom-line growth and talent development. Building on the progress made since its introduction, in 2015, Cross-company supporting functions in areas including HR, the emphasis was on the need for line managers to visibly role Indirect Sourcing, Communications, Finance, Legal and ICT are model and champion behaviors in support of the four themes. being optimized, thus freeing up capacity at DSM's business This is particularly important with a view to DSM's new operating groups to focus on their primary functions: Innovation and R&D, model. Successful implementation and adoption of these Direct Sourcing, Manufacturing & Operations and Marketing & themes and behaviors will be instrumental to achieving the Sales. company's strategic goals. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 42 www.dsm.com ONE DSM Culture Agenda themes In 2015, a total of 14,452 employees, including 222 contractor External Orientation employees, completed the questionnaire, which was distributed DSM recognizes that in order to execute its growth online and on paper in 21 languages to all DSM employees. This strategy and adapt to changing customer and represents a very high response rate of 78%. The main element industry requirements, its employees must be in the survey is the measurement of DSM’s Employee aligned with the realities of a rapidly changing Engagement Index, which is the percentage of employees world. External Orientation also helps to broaden DSM’s scoring favorably on a combination of four attributes: networks and engage with stakeholder groups. commitment, pride, advocacy and satisfaction. The Employee Engagement Index measured in 2015 was 69% (2014: 70%). Accountability for Performance (and learning) This is broadly in line with the overall global norm of 70%. For the DSM expects its employees to set themselves highest-performing companies around the globe, the ambitious targets and to deliver on these. benchmark number is 81%. This is the league DSM aspires to Accountability for Performance (and learning) is be part of. about people taking responsibility for their actions and for the performance of their teams. It also means recognizing Talent management and celebrating successes, while viewing problems and DSM Leadership Model mistakes as individual and collective learning opportunities. DSM has clear ambitions for the future supported by its new organizational and operating model. To meet these future Collaboration with Speed and Trust ambitions, the organization needs a strong ONE DSM Culture In an ever more connected world, collaboration has and excellent leaders to shape this culture, develop talents, and become an important competitive advantage. DSM create an environment of collaboration and high performance. encourages employees to actively (co-)create, and Talent management is consequently one of DSM's key focuses to share and build on the ideas, information, in support of its strategic targets for 2018. knowledge and expertise of their colleagues and the outside world. The DSM Leadership Model specifies the characteristics expected from leaders now and in the future in a simple, Inclusion & Diversity understandable and compelling way. It provides a common Fostering an inclusive culture that embraces vision and language regarding the leadership that DSM requires differences is consistent with DSM’s corporate to succeed. The model sets out the expectation for leaders to values and helps it create the high-performance be role models and developers of a sustainable and successful organization it requires as a truly global company. organization for the future. It is the basis for DSM’s processes to hire, grow and develop talent and build high-performing teams. DSM Employee Engagement Survey DSM Leadership Model: capabilities and expectations An engaged workforce is critical for DSM to achieve its ambitions. The DSM Employee Engagement Survey, which the company has conducted since 2007, is an effective tool for Deliver understanding what employees need to feel engaged. The goal Shape is to create a company in which employees feel proud to work, and where they feel they can excel. Its use is instrumental to Develop becoming a high-performing company. Since 2015, DSM has moved this survey into a two-year cycle with a full survey in one year and a shorter pulse survey the next, in order to have more time to follow up on results and actions and achieve meaningful Insight change. The next full survey will take place in 2016. Connect © 2012 Royal DSM The Employee Engagement Pulse Survey 2015 was a short, focused survey that gave the company essential information about safety, engagement, inclusion and other key topics, such The further roll-out of the model to all employees in senior as 'Purpose and Inspiration in the Job' and 'Part of a Winning management roles commenced at the end of 2014 and Team'. The data from the pulse survey are crucial to measuring continued throughout 2015. The goal is to train 50% of the target progress on DSM’s strategic priorities. In business units and group by end of 2015 and to finalize the roll-out by mid-2016. teams, the results of the pulse survey can be used to check progress on Employee Engagement Survey action plans. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 43 www.dsm.com Improving nutrition for vulnerable communities DSM uses the Leadership Model behaviors in its recruitment DSM employee Grace Kuo talks about processes while attracting new talents for the company. In her voluntary assignment with the World performance management, the company assesses what and Food Programme. how employees perform in terms of the behaviors. Elements of the model are already integrated in the Performance Development Review (PDR) of executives; as of 2016 this will be rolled out further within DSM's management population. Individual development starts with awareness workshops and continues with 360 degree feedback. In addition, the Leadership Model intranet site has been renewed so that leaders can refresh their understanding of the model, watch inspiring leadership videos, learn from the most frequently asked questions and develop themselves and others by using an online toolkit. In team development, DSM uses the Leadership Model to review the strengths and weaknesses of its management teams as it looks to build high-performance teams. “On my assignment, I was given the Using the Leadership Model for career management helps to drive the organization forward and ensure that DSM finds and opportunity to help improve the nutrition of develops the right people for the organization. In September, vulnerable communities. My task was to DSM’s top management was given an update on how DSM has support the establishment of the Scaling Up been rolling out the model and how it is embedded in talent development processes. Their feedback is being used to Nutrition (SUN) Business Network in Zambia. improve the implementation of the Leadership Model going In addition to setting up a multi-stakeholder forward into 2016. event to kick-off the Network, I also helped to Talent attraction build up the local Network’s knowledge and DSM adopted a new recruitment model in 2015 to outsource the market intelligence around food in the country. recruitment of all permanent hires below executive level across the globe. This process better serves DSM’s businesses through As part of this, I conducted a worldwide review of food increased professionalism in recruitment, reduced ‘time to fill’, fortification practices and the lessons learned. This will better market information and delivery of the best talent. be further used in advice and advocacy material to help Improved assessment and selection is necessary to attract the Zambian government design and implement policy. tomorrow’s leaders. In addition to state-of-the-art recruitment I also executed a market study of food consumption tools and technology, an enhanced employer brand experience and purchasing behavior among the urban population and improved transparency of the recruiting process, the new in Zambia. Together with a small team, we visited recruitment model is anticipated to deliver annual savings of 600 households and 50 small-scale retailers to better € 6 million through improved processes and reduced headcount. understand consumers in the Zambian food market, to provide better consumer understanding to producers Inclusion & Diversity about nutritious food products. In order to better reflect the company's global presence, DSM It has been very motivating to see how our work at DSM continues to engage in a targeted Inclusion & Diversity has an impact on improving nutrition and changing lives. strategy. For Diversity, the immediate focus is to increase the I came to appreciate even more than before that what we number of women and under-represented nationalities in do as an organization – and together in our partnership DSM's executive positions. The number of female executives with the WFP – helps people to live brighter lives.” has been increasing steadily, and reached 15% in 2015, up from 12% in 2014. The current composition of the Supervisory Board is well balanced and in line with Dutch legislation. More than one third of the members are women (of the seven members, three are female and four are male). The current composition of the Managing Board with one female and three male members comes very close to the aspired composition of the Managing Board in terms of gender balance. Furthermore, in the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 44 www.dsm.com Supervisory Board of DSM Nederland B.V., a subsidiary of globe. DSM is currently reviewing these mentoring programs to Koninklijke DSM N.V., one of the three members is female. capture the best practices from each individual program to combine with external best practices in an open global Gender balance will continue to require attention going forward. mentoring platform. This online platform will allow all DSM DSM's CEO/Chairman of the Managing Board Feike Sijbesma employees to become either a mentor or mentee (or both) and has signed the CEO Statement of Support for the United Nations will be launched in 2016. Women's Empowerment Principles, signaling the company's support for gender equality and the guidance provided by the Organizational learning principles. The company is taking concrete steps to realize these principles through its Inclusion & Diversity strategy. In addition to DSM fosters a culture of continuous learning, discovery and recruiting female executives from external talent pools, DSM also improvement. The organization strongly believes in the need to focuses on developing female executives from its internal pool invest in the knowledge, skills and experience of its employees of candidates, and engages in various activities that foster new to ensure their long-term employability and to achieve its ways of working and changes in mindsets. strategic objectives. It is vital for strengthening the talent pipeline and for developing inspiring and collaborative leaders. The expansion of the executive population from emerging economies equally demands continued attention. There was a At DSM learning goes far beyond the classroom. The most decline in the proportion of BRIC+ nationals (from 12% in 2014 valuable lessons are often learned by employees on the job, from to 10% in 2015) and North Americans (from 13% in 2014 to 10% other co-workers or from mentors and coaches. Learning in 2015) in executive positions as a percentage of the total together allows DSM to create communities across the breadth number of executives. This development is being addressed. of the organization, foster collaboration and promote an inclusive The number of 'other nationals' in the executive population working environment. increased to 29% in 2015, and the number of Dutch executives went from 50% to 51% of the executive population. See also The DSM learning architecture consists of four program clusters: 'Sustainability statements' on page 122. executive programs, management programs, functional programs and e-learning programs. These are designed and DSM's inclusion efforts are reflected in an improving delivered in close cooperation with leading international business Inclusion Index, which has continued to increase year on year, schools and global training providers including the Wharton reaching 72% in 2015 (2014: 70%). The consistent improvement School of Business of the University of Pennsylvania (USA), of this index suggests that sustained progress is being made in Babson College (Massachusetts, USA) and Erasmus University creating and maintaining inclusive environments across the (Netherlands), and are supported by a diverse internal faculty, company. Going forward, DSM continues to address the primarily consisting of DSM’s top management. geographical distribution of executives and other key functions, with a keen eye on gender and nationality balance, as these Program portfolio remain, at this stage, the key diversity aspects to foster. Available in Available in At the end of 2014, new diversity targets were set for 2015 2015 2014 and 2016 to accelerate progress. DSM aspires to reach an incremental growth of 2% for both gender and underExecutive programs 8 11 represented nationalities for the executive population. The DSM Management programs 90 66 Inclusion & Diversity Council, chaired as of 2015 by Managing Functional programs 40 60 Board member Stephan Tanda, plays a leading role in driving the e-Learning programs 16 14 achievement of the Inclusion & Diversity targets at DSM, and in supporting all DSM businesses in creating an inclusive Total 154 151 environment in which diversity is embraced. Mentoring In 2015, the company organized DSM Leadership Model workshops and rolled out the Bright Talent Program. In order to Mentoring forms an integral part of DSM’s learning and better serve regional learning and development needs, a Global development programs. In 2015 a number of successful Learning and Development Portal was launched in the year. mentoring programs continued to run in different regions, DSM employees can now access all programs from a single businesses and functions. All programs provide trainings for point. The Global Learning and Development center of expertise mentors and mentees, have a matching procedure and an provides consistent content for all the regions where DSM offers evaluation that takes place at the end of the mentoring learning and development programs. relationship. In 2015, 183 mentees and 159 mentors participated in various mentoring programs around the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 45 www.dsm.com International Labour Standards DSM supports the work-related rights defined by the emplo yee International Labour Organization (ILO) and recognizes and s applies the International Labour Standards. In countries or End of life Raw material businesses where employees have third-party representation via extraction a works council or collective bargaining, DSM respects these empl oye ees relationships and works constructively together with these third es ploy parties. In the event of an organizational restructuring that results em in the loss of a significant number of jobs such as the adjustment People to its organizational and operating model currently ongoing, Life Cycle Assessment DSM develops and implements either a social program (aimed Product use Manufacturing at assisting employees to continue in employment, whether inside or outside the company) or a severance program. DSM es promotes employee empowerment and human rights protection ye s em s em ee iti e and therefore seeks dialogue with its employees and their pl o Assembly pl oy un m representatives (works councils, labor unions). co m People in DSM's value chain and civil society People+ DSM is committed to improving peoples’ lives and strives to have Human rights a positive social impact. The company measures its impact on Respecting human rights is essential in all of DSM’s activities. the lives of consumers, employees and communities to develop The company has a longstanding commitment to the UN solutions that have a better societal impact than competing Universal Declaration of Human Rights, is a signatory to the UN alternatives in the market with its people LCA methodology. In Global Compact and recognizes the OECD Guidelines for 2014, DSM, together with a group of 12 European industry Multinational Enterprises. Furthermore, DSM supports the UN leaders, launched the 'Handbook for Product Social Impact Framework and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Assessment'. The Handbook provides a clear framework Rights (the Ruggie Framework), and the ILO International Labour through which companies can analyze life-cycle data and Standards. calculate the impact products have on the health and well-being of people across its value chains. In 2015, the company further Respecting human rights is already an integral part of the DSM harmonized with its industry peers through co-chairing the World Code of Business Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct, and Business Council for Sustainable Development's ‘Reaching Full DSM's sourcing policy. In addition, DSM’s risk assessment on Potential’ project to develop guidance on assessing social human rights has shown that the category of human rights most impacts of chemical projects in the value chain. This working relevant and applicable to DSM relate to employees' working group built on experiences from DSM’s People+ program and conditions, such as the right to social security. These rights are the Roundtable for Product Social Metrics. addressed through the ongoing update of the company's HR policies and procedures. In addition, DSM addresses the People+ enables DSM to identify new levers for innovation, to universal right to food and freedom from hunger by taking a develop value propositions and engage with partners in the value leading role in the private sector to tackle the problem of chain. By concentrating on the impact that its products have on malnutrition and nutrition security in both the developed and the the lives of people involved in making and using the product, the developing world through its cross-sector nutrition partnerships People+ program is an incentive for innovation and R&D across and solutions. the company. An example of a People+ product is Maxarome® from DSM Food Specialties. This natural yeast-based food In 2015, to continue underlining the company’s commitment to ingredient enables food producers to reduce the salt used in human rights, DSM published a human rights position paper and foods whilst maintaining authentic taste. A study published in developed a Human Rights Policy for further implementation September showed that using this in soups and bouillon can within the business groups and regions. The policy will form the have an impact on public health and healthcare costs. Reducing basis to further embed the responsibility to respect human rights salt intake is proven to be a good way to reduce high blood in all business functions. In 2016, DSM will use its Human Rights pressure, and is also linked to lower risks of stroke, Risk Assessment to set priorities and start implementing the cardiovascular and kidney diseases. policy, with a focus on monitoring human rights within the company and its value chain. See DSM's position paper on human rights on the company's website. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 46 www.dsm.com Planet in 2015 How DSM DSMcreates valuethe environmental impact of its business recognizes How DSM creates value operations and is committed to taking measures to protect the planet for future generations. Within the People Planet dimension of its People Triple P (People, Planet and Profit) approach, DSM delivers activities, solutions and innovations that improve the environmental footprint of its business and its value chains. This Planet Planet chapter describes the material environmental issues that have been identified through DSM's stakeholder consultation in the DSM materiality matrix: Climate change & renewable energy, Water security, Biodiversity, and Sustainable & circular value chains; as well as other topics DSM considers to be relevant and f 28% / m 72% important to the company’s operations. The topics Bio-based 19% 101 economy and Sustainable animal protein are described in Ratio 'Stakeholder engagement' on page 27. A model of how DSM Energy efficiency Water use, female/male improvement, total DSM creates value for its stakeholders through its natural capital is employees total DSM (in million m3) shown on page 22. Targets 2010-2015 69% Within the framework of 72% its corporate strategy, DSM defines 1.1 12.9 long-term sustainability aspirations, which include targets to Employee Inclusion Greenhouse-gas Waste to landfill improve the eco-efficiency Engagement of its operations. These targets are index emissions, total DSM (in thousand translated favorable score into plans and activities within a corporate multi-year (in million tons) tons) (EEI) plan. The plan provides the necessary guidance to each of the business groups. 29 0.41 The eco-efficiency targets for the period 2010-2015 were based on the ambition that by the end of 2015, all DSM sites in the 57% world Average should meet minimum training standards Frequency index applied of within the EU or ECO+ hours the per US, via the use of Best recordable Availableinjuries Techniques. All new plants solutions* employee and major plant modifications (per 100 DSM must meetemployees these requirements annually from the start. and contractors) All of DSM's 2010-2015 environmental targets, except for 25 million greenhouse-gas (GHG) emissions, were efficiency targets in which performance is related to production volumes. The target Beneficiaries for GHG emissions was an absolute reduction of DSM’s direct DSM-WFP CO2 and N2O emissions and other gases, as well as of indirect annually CO2 emissions. The base year for this target, and for the energy efficiency target, was 2008. The divested units DSM Agro, DSM Melamine, DSM Elastomers, Citrique Belge and DSM Special Products were excluded from this 2008 base year, but the impact of all other acquisitions and divestments is reflected in the total GHG emissions (scopes 1 and 2). Energy and GHG have a target period of 2008-2020 and are on track to be met by 2020 or have already been met (the GHG absolute reduction target was achieved after the (partial) divestment of DSM Fibre Intermediates). The other six environmental indicators have a target period of 2010-2015 and, except for water and Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), the targets for these other indicators (volatile organic compounds * As % of total sales (VOC), SO2, NOx and waste) have been met. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 47 www.dsm.com The COD target was not met mainly due to a planned target. Both the performance and the target are expressed as improvement project at DSM Fibre Intermediates in North percentage of efficiency improvement, except for GHG which is America having not been implemented. An explanation of why an absolute reduction. See also 'Sustainability statements' on DSM did not reach its water targets as well as the associated page 123. learnings can be found in the section 'Water security' on page 52 and in 'What still went wrong in 2015' on page 116. DSM publishes detailed information and supporting calculations on the environmental performance of all its production sites on The table below shows the 2015 performance against the base the company's website. year of the key environmental indicators and the corresponding Progress made in 2015 towards environmental reduction targets % Reduction realized Targets compared to reference year 2015 2010-2015 2008-2020 Climate change Energy efficiency 19% 20% Greenhouse gases 75%1 25% Emissions to air VOC 50% 40% SO2 91% 70% NOx 31% 30% Discharges to water COD 17% 20% Water availability and use Total water consumption 0% 15% Landfilling non-hazardous Waste waste 67% 15% 1 The GHG efficiency, which accounts for changes in production volume, has improved by 20% in 2015 compared to 2008 DSM follows the GHG-protocol of the World Business Council which was approved by DSM’s Managing Board and is for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) for reporting GHG considered an integral part of the company’s Strategy 2018: emissions, except for the fact that emissions related to on-site Driving Profitable Growth. generated electricity and steam that is sold on a very limited number of sites are excluded from the total GHG-emissions. The In the field of resource efficiency, the main corporate target is a overall impact of this deviation in 2015 is in the order of 3% of further reduction of the GHG emissions per unit of product: GHG DSM’s total GHG-emissions. This relative impact is significantly efficiency improvement of 45% by 2025 compared with 2008. larger than in previous years, due to the (partial) divestment of This target is an update of the previous GHG reduction target, DSM Fibre Intermediates and DSM Composite Resins and the which ran until 2020 and was an absolute reduction target. divestment of Synres in 2015. In order to ensure objective Updating the target was necessary, as the (partial) divestment of comparison with DSM performance in previous years, the 2011 DSM Fibre Intermediates meant the company immediately International Energy Agency conversion factors have been used achieved its absolute reduction target. DSM believes that true as in previous years. climate commitment should not be dependent on divestments or partnering and has thus set a new, equally ambitious, GHG DSM Responsible Care Plan 2016-2020 efficiency improvement target for 2025. DSM has developed a new Responsible Care Plan for the period In addition, DSM has defined a renewable energy strategy for its 2016-2020. This plan comprises ambitions, targets and actions operations and set a target to source 50% of its electricity needs in the field of safety and health, resource efficiency (environment), from renewable sources by 2025, with the aim of becoming sustainable value chains (Product Stewardship and sustainable 100% renewable thereafter. products) and security. New targets have also been defined on several other supportive The development of the new plan started in 2014 and continued indicators. The table on the next page gives an overview of the into 2015. Many people, with different backgrounds and targets on all environmental indicators. responsibilities, were involved in the development of the plan, Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 48 www.dsm.com Indicators New targets GHG efficiency improvement 45% by 2025 (reference 2008) Energy efficiency improvement >1% annually (>10% from 2015-2025) Renewable electricity 50% by 2025 Reduction of emissions to air per unit of product 40% in 2020 (reference 2015) (VOC, NOx, SO2) Waste 80-90% recycled by 2020 Water Water risk assessments completed on 90% of selected sites by 2020 The target for the reduction of emissions to air will focus on a and adaption. In the run-up to COP21, DSM initiated and joined limited number of sites which make the largest contribution to several initiatives to reassure governments that key global DSM’s total emissions to air, or on those sites which are yet to business leaders would be highly supportive of a strong apply Best Available Techniques (and thus have relatively high agreement: emissions to air). DSM’s CEO/Chairman of the Managing Board Feike Sijbesma The target for waste aims to reduce the amount of waste that is led the development of an open letter to the world's landfilled or incinerated without heat recovery, either through the governments facilitated by the World Economic Forum, which reduction of the generation of waste or through a shift to an outlet was signed by 78 CEOs from around the world (representing with higher added value, such as recycling or recovery. USD 2.1 trillion in revenue) stressing that business was ready to partner on climate action. The target for water acknowledges that water issues (scarcity, Mr. Sijbesma supported the World Bank as 'private sector pollution) are usually local or regional. Going forward, DSM will ambassador' of the Carbon Pricing Panel, which includes focus on sites in scarcity regions and sites that have a relatively heads of Government of, amongst others, Germany, France, high groundwater consumption or waste water discharge. Ethiopia and Mexico. This group, convened by the heads of Appropriate measures will be taken at site level in order to the International Monetary Fund, World Bank Group and mitigate any risks identified in water risk assessments. DSM is OECD, urges countries and companies to put a price on convinced that this local approach fits better with the specific carbon. characteristics of water security than a company-wide, global DSM North America was invited by President Barack Obama target on reduction of water consumption or discharge to water. to join 80 companies (with a combined market capitalization of over USD 5 trillion) in the American Business Act on Climate DSM completed the acquisition of vitamin C-producer Aland in Change, to demonstrate business support for climate action. 2015. As a result, the facility at Jiangjing (China) will also be incorporated in DSM's environmental performance as of 2016 The outcome of COP21 was a legal agreement signed by nearly and it is expected that this will significantly impact some of the 200 countries, which set ambitious goals to limit average global absolute numbers of the environmental indicators. temperature rises to well below 2 degrees and reach net zero emissions in the second half of the century. Governments agreed Climate change & renewable energy to periodically review and improve national climate action plans. It is now widely accepted that human activity is responsible for DSM acknowledges that the world must urgently shift its energy global warming, resulting in climate change. Without an urgent mix from fossil-based fuels towards renewable energy, while change in mindset and behavior to break with fossil-fuel continuing to secure its energy supply. DSM has undertaken an dependencies, the planet is set to exceed the so-called advocacy role to cooperate with energy suppliers, co-leaders in ‘1.5 to 2 degree ceiling’: the global average increase in industry and regulatory bodies to enable the necessary shift temperature defined by the UN as the upper threshold to avoid towards more renewable energy. In 2015, DSM became a a potentially devastating impact on people. signatory to the Climate Group’s Renewable Energy 100 (RE100), an initiative that brings together leading companies DSM aims to be a front-runner in climate action. Next to reducing worldwide that commit to powering 100% of their electricity its own carbon footprint, the company enables a low-carbon, needs from renewable sources. DSM has set a target of sourcing bio-renewable economy through its innovative solutions and 50% of its electricity needs from renewable sources by 2025. In advocates climate action. addition to defining its own renewable electricity use, DSM provides solutions for the renewable energy industry, such as At COP21 in Paris, national governments adopted an technologies to produce cellulosic bio-ethanol from agricultural unprecedented global agreement on climate change prevention residual developed together with POET, and anti-reflective coatings for solar panels. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 49 www.dsm.com Energy-efﬁcient chillers DSM’s approach to addressing climate change involves quantifying and tracking GHG emissions, as well as monitoring Energy conservation has become a key its energy consumption. Where feasible, projects are initiated that benefit both the environment and financial performance. business focus for many companies across the globe including DSM. Reducing In 2015, DSM joined the UN ‘Caring for Climate’ initiative and became a so-called Carbon Pricing Champion. To identify the energy usage not only helps the environment risks and opportunities emerging from increased carbon pricing but helps the bottom line as well. in many countries, DSM has set an internal carbon price of € 50 per ton CO2 for reviewing large investment decisions. Last year, The DSM Nutritional Products facility at Belvidere (New DSM was amongst the highest scoring companies in the Carbon Jersey, USA) produces, among other things, arachidonic Disclosure Project Leadership Index, which demonstrates the acid, natural beta-carotene and trienol for customers company’s leading approach with respect to climate change in North America and other markets. The fermentation disclosure practices. processes involved in production require a continuous supply of chilled water in order to maintain them at Energy design temperatures. In determining energy efficiency, DSM measures its energy consumption in relation to the production volume of each One of the projects at the site to reduce energy production site. In 2015, DSM’s energy efficiency performance consumption and associated costs analyzed the chiller improvement reached 19%, which was 2% above the 2014 level, systems used in this process. The evaluation showed that and well on track to meet the 20% target in 2020. The main considerable gains could be made by switching to new energy efficiency improvements were realized at the DSM higher-efficiency units. Nutritional Products sites in Belvidere (New Jersey, USA) and in Sisseln (Switzerland). In Belvidere the installation of a new chiller In an initial deployment in 2015, one new chiller unit was (see description on the left) and the full utilization of a combined installed, which assumed part of the loads of four existing heat and power unit (cogen) were the main contributors for the units. The new chiller provides a 25% reduction in energy efficiency improvements. In Sisseln the change in product mix consumption as compared to the existing units. The towards less energy-intensive products, as well as several resulting energy cost savings allow for pay-back in roughly technical improvements in the infrastructure, contributed to the four years and will reduce CO2 emissions by over 850 tons energy efficiency improvements. per year as well as provide a more reliable operation. In 2015, DSM executed a variety of investment projects with the A second new unit is being installed to complete the aim of increasing energy efficiency in its own operations. These upgrade and will bring similar benefits, thereby doubling projects included the replacement of an air compressor at DSM the CO2 reduction, improving reliability and further Resins & Functional Materials in Parets (Spain), improved heat reducing operating costs. recovery and several other measures at DSM Nutritional Products in Dalry (UK), the new chiller in Belvidere and lighting replacement on several sites. These projects with 2015 investments totaling € 2.4 million will not just improve the company's energy efficiency but also lead to annual cost savings of approximately € 1.7 million. DSM’s total annual energy consumption decreased from 39.1 to 20.9 petajoules. The main reason for the sharp decrease is the (partial) divestment of DSM Fibre Intermediates and, to a lesser extent, of DSM Composite Resins and the divestment of Synres. Greenhouse-gas (GHG) emissions There is scientific consensus that certain gases (e.g. carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide) have contributed significantly to human-induced climate change. These gases, which are emitted during the course of a wide range of human activities, magnify the planet's natural greenhouse effect and cause the atmosphere to retain more heat than it otherwise would. This in turn results in a series of wide-ranging and inter-linked changes Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 50 www.dsm.com to the earth's climate, with negative consequences for human forward, which will focus on the material areas where the biggest health and well-being. improvements are possible. The main difference between the scope 3 emissions of DSM in Greenhouse-gas emissions in DSM’s value chain 2014 and 2015 is the effect of the (partial) divestment of DSM ≈ 9 million tons, CO2 eq Fibre Intermediates and DSM Composite Resins. As other CO2 changes are assumed to be relatively minor and within the limits of scope 3 reporting accuracy, the scope 3 emissions for 2015 have been derived from the 2014 Report, correcting for the ≈ 5.9 million tons, CO2 eq deconsolidation of these two businesses. The purchased goods and services category accounted for DSM’s highest scope 3 emissions in 2015, but declined by approximately 18% compared to 2014 due to the (partial) divestment. On the other 0.5 million tons 0.6 million tons End-of-lifehand, scope 3 emissions in the investments category were more CO2 eq CO2 eq treatment of sold products than 16 times higher due to DSM’s 35% shareholding in ChemicaInvest, which now comprises these businesses. Purchased Purchased goods and electricity services and steam Investments scope scope scope scope DSM’s greenhouse-gas emissions (scope 3) 12,000 indirect indirect direct indirect 11,112 Upstream activities Royal DSM Downstream activities 10,000 9,090 © 2016 Royal DSM CO2 eq, kilotons 8,000 Since 2008, DSM has applied the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s 6,049 standards for reporting GHG emissions (scopes 1, 2 and 3). 6,000 DSM does not yet follow the latest (2015) GHG Protocol scope 2 guidance, an amendment to the GHG Protocol's corporate 4,000 3,491 standard. DSM’s target was to achieve a 25% reduction in scope 2,450 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2020, compared to its 2008 emission 2,000 levels. 141 0 2015 2014 GHG emissions scope 1 & 2 Purchased goods and services In 2015, DSM emitted a total of 1.1 million tons of CO2equivalents, which is a reduction of 75% compared to its End-of-life-treatment of sold products emissions in 2008 (the total reduction target was 25% in 2020), Investments which is almost fully attributable to the (partial) divestment of DSM Fibre Intermediates. DSM strives to achieve a sustained reduction of its carbon GHG emissions scope 3 footprint across the value chain, for example through the DSM The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain Supplier Sustainability Program. See also 'Stakeholder Standard defines scope 3 emissions as ‘all other indirect engagement − Suppliers' on page 32. emissions that occur in a company’s value chain’. DSM has reported on its scope 3 emissions since 2012. Scope 3 reporting Avoided emissions can be considered as complementary to reporting on scope 1 With a strong contribution from DSM, in 2013 the WBCSD and and 2 emissions. Taken together, they reflect all the GHG International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) published emissions associated with DSM’s business activities. Inevitably, guidelines on reporting of avoided emissions for companies in the calculation of scope 3 emissions is largely based on the chemicals sector. According to these guidelines, avoided estimates, extrapolations and assumptions. In 2015, in keeping emissions are defined as the difference between the life cycle with the WBCSD 'Guidance for Accounting & Reporting GHG emissions from the solution of the reporting company, and Corporate GHG emissions in the Chemical Sector Value Chain', the comparable solution (i.e. a conventional product or market DSM prioritized reporting on three scope 3 categories that are average). most relevant and applicable to DSM's business, and for which data are available. In 2016, DSM will focus on designing a DSM supports the guidelines and is starting to apply them relevant and useful scope 3 reporting process for DSM going through its ECO+ program in order to credibly capture the effects Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 51 www.dsm.com of its products in the value chain. Applicable DSM products and Consequently, DSM did not meet its targeted 20% improvement solutions for which avoided GHG emissions may be evaluated in COD discharge by 2015, ending the year on a 17% overall include advanced surfaces for solar panels, cellulosic bioimprovement. ethanol and enzymes. An example where DSM helps its customers avoid emissions are in jeans blended with Waste Dyneema®, which can result in 50% added strength and a 30% DSM had set itself a target of 15% efficiency improvement in lifetime decrease in carbon (and ecological) footprint. terms of waste to landfill. In 2014, it had already made a relative improvement of 54%; in 2015, this was further increased to 67%. Water security The main improvements came from the DSM Nutritional Water and waste water Products sites at Dalry, where two main waste streams were DSM had previously set a company-wide target to reduce its recycled for use in land restoration and agriculture, and at water usage by 15% between 2010 and 2015. DSM has come Kingstree (South Carolina, USA), where the shift to alternative to the conclusion that it would be more effective to concentrate waste outlets was completed. DSM has set a new target for its improvement efforts on businesses that operate in regions waste and aims to recycle 80-90% by 2020, which reflects the where water is scarce. ambitions in the field of the circular economy. The aim is to reduce the amount of waste that is landfilled or incinerated DSM implemented a number of water-saving projects during the without heat recovery, either by reducing the amount of waste period. These had relatively little effect on the overall watergenerated or through a shift to an outlet with a higher added efficiency performance, as the improvements were largely value, such as recycling or recovery. realized at sites that contribute very little to the total water consumption. That notwithstanding, a small improvement was Other emissions to air achieved in 2015. The main contribution came from the DSM DSM was again able to improve its efficiency in terms of VOC in Nutritional Products site in Sisseln where, besides operational 2015. The company had achieved an improvement of 50% improvements, a collaboration with two external partners on versus 2008 by year-end, up from 35% in 2014 and clearly acidic waste water treatment resulted in a reduction in water ahead of its 40% target. The further improvement in 2015 was consumption of about 300,000 m3 per year and a net saving of largely due to the fact that an abatement system to reduce the € 90,000. At the DSM Nutritional Products site in Lalden emissions of dichloromethane (DCM) at the Laiwu (China) site (Switzerland), water consumption went up due to increased became operational. once-through cooling; this did however contribute to a reduction in energy consumption. For NOx, the efficiency improvement at year-end 2015 was 31%, meaning that the target of 30% was achieved. This figure did however come down during the year (2014: 42%), mainly as a DSM supports UN CEO Water Mandate consequence of a change in the law in Germany, which affected the way in which emissions from on-site energy generation are Water availability is a worldwide concern. Many areas in accounted for. This was relevant to the DSM Nutritional Products the world are increasingly facing water scarcity, water site in Grenzach (Germany) as there is a power station on its pollution and water damages by natural disasters. A more property, which is operated on behalf of a consortium with other sustainable management of water is therefore a must in our partners. At the Dalry site, an increase in the amount of electricity society. Individual and collective actions are necessary to produced on site using gas led to a reduction in NOx efficiency. mitigate adverse effects on water quality and availability in The 70% target for SO2 reduction had already been realized in the regions and businesses where we operate. DSM truly 2012 and since then, the performance improvement was at or values initiatives like the United Nations Global Compact above 90%, without significant changes at the DSM sites. CEO Water Mandate and its principles. The topic of water and sustainable water management has our continued full Biodiversity attention. In its bid to protect biodiversity − the variety of life on earth − DSM identifies and monitors protected areas in the vicinity of its Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Managing Board sites and the impact that it has on them. Some 58% of sites have been identified as being located in or adjacent to high biodiversity value areas. In all cases, production sites are operating within DSM’s water pollution reduction programs aim to reduce total applicable limits, as defined by local authorities. DSM's water pollution, mainly through reductions in COD. Performance Biodiversity position paper can be found on the company's on this measure decreased during 2015, mainly as a result of website. product mix changes and extremely high summer temperatures at the DSM Nutritional Products site in Sisseln. In addition, a Sustainable & circular value chains planned improvement project at the DSM Fibre Intermediates True sustainability can only occur when all parts of the value site in Augusta (Georgia, USA) was not implemented. chain work together towards the same goals. To this end, DSM Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 52 www.dsm.com seeks to develop and promote products and solutions that help 52% of ECO+ innovation launches were supported by reduce GHG emissions and energy usage across its value chains comparative LCAs as was 30% of the ECO+ running business. through its ECO+ program. DSM requires its suppliers to meet its sustainability standards and minimize their own environmentalAn example of an ECO+ solution is Maxiren®, an enzyme-based footprints so that all downstream players, from customers to coagulant ingredient for cheese making. By using this product, end-users, can improve their environmental footprints as well. less of this type of ingredient is needed, and the cheese has a See also 'Stakeholder engagement − Suppliers' on page 32. longer textural shelf life. Another ECO+ example is DSM’s antireflective coating for solar panels. Whenever glass meets air, a ECO+ portion of light hitting the glass is reflected; wasted sunlight ECO+ is DSM’s program for the development of sustainable, means wasted energy. The innovative coating applied on solar innovative products and solutions with environmental benefits. panels minimizes reflection and enables a power gain of up to Products qualify as ECO+ when their environmental impact is 4% over uncoated modules. Its smooth closed structure and lower than competing mainstream products that fulfill the same surface enable solar panels to withstand most extreme weather function. When considered over their entire life cycle, ECO+ conditions, contributing to longer durability. solutions offer superior performance with a lower eco-footprint. The ecological benefits can be created at any stage of the Circular economy product life cycle, from the raw materials through to A circular economy is a system in which resources in the value manufacturing and potential re-use and end-of-life disposal. cycle can be used and re-used again and again. This requires a DSM uses comparative Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) and/or different way of thinking compared to linear value chains. For expert opinions to determine whether a solution should be example, resource use, production and end-of-life waste considered ECO+. management would all be taken into account in the ingredient and material design stage. DSM is strategically positioned and committed to increase durability of products, and to enable the Raw material extraction recovery of valuable materials after use. By using safer and biobased ingredients in the design phase, DSM can positively tran sp influence the circular economy of its customers and consumers. ort ati on Circular economy End of life Material processing Produce & assemble products transportation portation trans Renewable energy Environmental Life Cycle Assessment Product use on tr Manufacturing Technosphere Biosphere Assembly n (recycle & re-use) (decomposition tran atio spo ort & enrichment) rta sp ti an Collect & disassemble products To this end, the company is chairing the work of the WBCSD Chemical Sector working group. In 2015, DSM and a number of In addition, DSM is a member of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation other players in the chemical sector began consistently applying CE100, a group of companies working together to create the harmonized LCA methodology set out in the guidance ‘Life solutions for the circular economy. DSM's CEO/Chairman of the Cycle Metrics for Chemical Products’, which DSM published Managing Board Feike Sijbesma is a member of the steering together with nine industry peers in 2014. This is setting a new committee of Project Mainstream, an initiative of the Ellen standard and creating additional transparency to the benefit of MacArthur Foundation and the World Economic Forum (WEF) the chemical sector, its business partners and consumers. aimed at accelerating cross-sector engagement for a circular economy. ECO+ solutions can be found across all of DSM's business groups with many more under development. They now account The company adopts a multi-faceted approach to sustainable for 57% of total sales, exceeding the company's ECO+ sales and circular value chains. In 2015, DSM developed a circular target of towards 50% of the running business by 2015. In 2015, economy roadmap, detailing the role of all business groups and Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 53 www.dsm.com identifying relevant key products that can facilitate DSM's anticipating upcoming regulation and societal needs. customers in pursuing their ambitions as regards the circular economy. DSM's major complementary initiatives, in addition to The progress of the multi-year plan is monitored by DSM's the ECO+ program and its contribution to the bio-based ‘Product Safety Network’, which is being transformed into a economy through its activities in its Emerging Business Area ‘Product Stewardship Network’ by expanding its scope and DSM Bio-based Products & Services, are discussed below. members to properly drive Product Stewardship competence. Renewable raw materials In the control of SVHCs, DSM has started to assess, before the To maintain continuity of DSM’s operations, company-wide end of 2020, all substances of which more than 1 ton per year aspirations are in place to secure future availability of resources. is used in its processes to identify and monitor long-term human This not only reduces DSM’s exposure to supply chain risks, it and environmental hazards. Identified SVHCs need to be also contributes to the preservation of biodiversity on the planet. reported in a DSM Priority Substance List and their use Securing future availability of resources can partly be achieved challenged by an internal justification process by a by relying on renewable energy rather than fossil fuels. DSM is multidisciplinary team. The final goal is the phase-out of toxic exploring ways to gain access to renewable raw materials with substances, not only from DSM’s own portfolio but from the full a lower carbon footprint than the fossil equivalents they replace. life cycle of its products, in line with the company's commitment Membership of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation CE100 provides to bringing more sustainable alternatives to the market. Where DSM with valuable insights into ways to incorporate renewable substitution is not currently possible, a risk assessment is raw material usage in the company’s operations. performed following industry standard procedures. If safe use cannot be shown, the SVHC is prohibited from further use or DSM is also carefully selecting renewable raw materials suppliers production within DSM. as a technology provider to support the establishment of new value chains based on biomass feedstocks. These include waste DSM is committed to delivering high-quality products to the coming from operations in the agricultural industry, and are key market while complying with global and local product safety ingredients for fuels such as bio-ethanol. Bio-based fuels emit regulations (e.g. ARECS, K-REACH and Turkey REACH), in line significantly less carbon dioxide, supporting DSM’s efforts in with the Responsible Care® principles. DSM supports the UN reducing climate change. In 2015, approximately 16% of DSM’s initiative to implement a Globally Harmonized System of total spend on raw materials related to renewable raw materials. classification and labeling of chemicals (GHS), for which an This represents an increase compared to 2014 (11%), which is internal e-learning has been developed. DSM closely follows mainly due to the deconsolidation of DSM Fibre Intermediates developments on health exposure scenarios for mixtures that and DSM Composite Resins. See also DSM's position paper on need to be implemented in the industry’s product safety sustainable biomass on the company's website. systems. Product Stewardship In 2015, regulatory changes meant that DSM had to adjust its DSM recognizes both the impact and the benefit of a Product automated systems to ensure that all products are accompanied Stewardship strategy as part of its own responsibility in the full by mandatory information in the form of compliant Safety Data value chain, in line with the principles of Responsible Care®. This Sheets and Labels. These were successfully implemented. The strategy is embedded in the company’s Safety, Health and most significant changes related to the implementation of GHS Environment (SHE) requirements, sustainability programs in Brazil and in the US and the implementation of the new (ECO+ and People+), and is closely linked to LCA activities to European directive on the Classification, Labeling and Packaging evaluate toxicological profiles throughout the value chain. This (CLP) for mixtures. strategy provides for the longer-term management of risks and opportunities in the area of chemicals management. DSM is working to meet the 2018 deadline of the EU regulation on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and In 2015, DSM sharpened its own ambitions in Product Restriction of Chemical substances (REACH), by registering all Stewardship to address societal requirements and expectations. substances of which between 1 and 100 metric tons per year is The overall ambition for the period 2016-2020 is detailed in a produced. At the same time, DSM continuously updates existing five-year plan which defines DSM’s vision and major objectives, dossiers and supports authorities in EU member states in drawing together existing programs and initiatives: evaluating an increasing number of substances. DSM is in continuous dialogue with its raw materials suppliers to guarantee implementing a continuous improvement program to control sustainable business through REACH compliance along the Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) in DSM products value chain. and the supply chain; promoting active connections between Product Stewardship and Direct Sourcing, Innovation and Marketing & Sales in the business groups; and Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 54 www.dsm.com Profit in 2015 How DSM createsresults Financial value How DSM creates value Within the Profit dimension of DSM’s Triple P approach, DSM delivers a sustainable financial return. This ensures business continuity and allows the company to grow, while at the same time providing a good financial return to its shareholders. This Planet chapter reports DSM’s financial performance Planet and provides an overview of the key financial metrics of the company. A model of how DSM creates value for its stakeholders through the financial, Profit Profit intellectual and manufactured capitals is shown on page 22. Income statement 19% 101 1% 24% x € million 2015 20141 Energy efficiency Water use, Organic sales Higher-margin improvement, total DSM growth innovation sales* Net sales, continuing operations 7,722 7,051 total DSM (in million m3) Operating profit before depreciation and amortization 1.1 12.9 € 468 € 696 (EBITDA)2 1,075 1,038 Operating profit before Greenhouse-gas Waste to landfill Capital expenditure Cash from exceptional items2 573 587 emissions, total DSM (in thousand (cash based), operating (in millionNet finance costs tons) tons) (149) (102) continuing activities Income tax expense (97) (84) operations (x million) (x million) Share of the profit of associates 54 8 Profit attributable to noncontrolling interests 57% 2 5 4% 7.6% Net profit continuing operations ECO+ EBITDA ROCE, continuing before exceptional items solutions* 383 414 growth operations Net profit from discontinued operations before exceptional items 33 12 € 1.65 Net result from exceptional items, continuing operations (199) (122) Dividend Net result from exceptional items, per ordinary discontinued operations (129) (159) share Total net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 88 145 ROCE, continuing operations (in %) 7.6 8.2 EBITDA / net sales, continuing operations (in %) 13.9 14.7 1 Restated due to the disposal of the caprolactam, acrylonitrile and composite resins business 2 From continuing operations * As % of total sales * As % of total sales Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 55 www.dsm.com Net sales and EBITDA At € 7,722 million, net sales from continuing operations in 2015 were 10% higher than in 2014 (€ 7,051 million). Volume development accounted for a 3% improvement, with strong growth in Nutrition, while price/mix was on average 2% down on 2014, due to lower input prices being partially passed on down the value chain in Performance Materials. Exchange rate fluctuations had a positive impact of 8%, while other effects such as acquisitions contributed 1%. Net sales EBITDA x € million 2015 2014 % change 2015 2014 % change DSM, continuing operations 7,722 7,051 10% 1,075 1,038 4% Nutrition 4,963 4,335 14% 822 850 (3%) Performance Materials 2,528 2,460 3% 384 323 19% Innovation Center 155 154 1% (9) (18) Corporate Activities 76 102 (122) (117) Net sales bridge 2015 EBITDA / net sales, continuing operations x € million in % ■ 2014 ■ 2015 7,722 1% 20 19.6 16.6 15.2 14.7 8% 15 13.9 13.1 3% -2% 7,051 10 5 0 Nutrition Performance Total continuing 2014 Volume Price/mix FX Other 2015 Materials operations EBITDA, operating profit from continuing operations before depreciation and amortization (before exceptional items), grew by 4% or € 37 million, from € 1,038 million in 2014 to € 1,075 million in 2015. Nutrition EBITDA declined by 3% as good organic growth and the positive impact of the strengthened US dollar were more than offset by the negative impact of significantly lower vitamin E prices, the appreciation of the Swiss franc and the weakening of the Brazilian real. Cost savings and good margin management as well as support from lower input prices and currency effects led to a strong increase in EBITDA for Performance Materials of 19%. DSM's overall EBITDA margin (operating profit before depreciation and amortization as a percentage of net sales) was 13.9% (2014: 14.7%). Operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items went from € 587 million in 2014 to € 573 million in 2015, down 2%. Net sales by origin, continuing operations Net sales by destination, continuing operations in % in % ■ Netherlands ■ Rest of Western Europe ■ Eastern Europe ■ Netherlands ■ Rest of Western Europe ■ Eastern Europe ■ North America ■ Latin America ■ China ■ India ■ Japan ■ North America ■ Latin America ■ China ■ India ■ Japan ■ Rest of Asia ■ Rest of the world ■ Rest of Asia ■ Rest of the world 1 1 3 4 3 4 11 4 11 4 9 9 11 25 9 28 3 3 2 24 2 26 9 9 12 12 6 16 6 19 14 13 27 2 29 2 23 22 2015 2014 2015 2014 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 56 www.dsm.com Net sales by business segment, continuing operations Net sales by end-use market, continuing operations in % in % ■ Nutrition ■ Performance Materials ■ Innovation Center ■ Corporate Activities ■ Health and nutrition ■ Metal/building and construction ■ Automotive/transport ■ Textiles ■ Electrical & electronics ■ Packaging ■ Other 21 21 8 10 7 7 5 33 35 1 5 1 7 7 64 62 6 64 66 6 2015 2014 2015 2014 Net profit Net profit from continuing operations attributable to shareholders DSM (before exceptional items) decreased by € 31 million to € 383 million. Expressed per ordinary share, net earnings from continuing operations before exceptional items amounted to € 2.14 in 2015 (2014: € 2.34). Net finance costs rose by € 47 million compared to the previous year to € 149 million. This was mainly the consequence of unfavorable hedge results and higher interest expenses. The effective tax rate (before exceptional items) for 2015 was 23% (2014: 17%), with a limited cash outflow impact. The increase was due amongst others to a one-time tax settlement related to the internal transfer of a business and a somewhat less favorable geographical mix. Total net profit for the full year came to € 88 million compared to € 145 million in 2014. This decrease was mainly caused by € 47 million higher net finance costs and € 47 million higher exceptional items, partly offset by a € 46 million higher share of the profit of associates. Exceptional items Total exceptional items from consolidated companies for the full year amounted to a loss of € 361 million (€ 304 million after tax) consisting of a € 130 million book result on the deconsolidation of the caprolactam, acrylonitrile and composite resins business, € 102 million restructuring costs related to the cost-reduction programs announced in the year, € 92 million impairments and € 37 million acquisition-related and other costs. Cash flow statement x € million 2015 2014 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 669 770 Cash flow provided by operating activities 696 808 of which provided by continuing operations 800 660 Cash from / used in investing activities (275) (515) Cash used in financing activities (440) (419) Effect of exchange differences 15 25 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 665 669 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 57 www.dsm.com Cash flow provided by operating activities is driven by the Capital employed per business segment at EBITDA over the year (€ 1,170 million) and offset by various cash31 December 2015, continuing operations x € billion out items including the settlement of derivatives of -€ 218 million. 5.3 5 The focus on cash flow and total working capital resulted in a strong full-year operating cash flow from continuing operations 4 of approximately € 800 million. 3 The cash used in investing activities includes capital 2 1.7 expenditures (-€ 543 million) and the settlement of the net 1 0.6 investment hedge (-€ 136 million), partly offset by the proceeds 0.0 from disposals (€ 297 million) and the dividend received from 0 Nutrition Performance Materials Innovation Corporate associated companies (€ 144 million). Center Activities The cash used in financing activities consists mainly of dividend paid (-€ 174 million), interest paid (-€ 303 million) and repayment Equity at 31 December as a % of balance sheet total of commercial paper (-€ 250 million), partly offset by the increase in loans (€ 351 million). For the full cash flow statement, see 60 54 'Consolidated financial statements' on page 135. 50 51 49 50 48 Balance sheet 40 The balance sheet total (total assets) reached € 11.7 billion at 30 year-end (2014: € 12.1 billion). Equity decreased by 20 € 305 million compared to the position at the end of 2014. This 10 decrease was due to the fact that the net profit for the year and 0 the proceeds from reissued shares were more than offset by the 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 dividend, the repurchase of shares, the impact from deconsolidation and the net actuarial losses on defined benefit obligations. Equity as a percentage of total assets went from 49% at the end of 2014 to 48% at the end of 2015. Compared to year-end 2014, net debt went down by € 99 million to € 2,321 million. The gearing was 29% at year-end, the same as in the prior year. Capital expenditure on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment amounted to € 570 million in 2015 and was above the level of amortization and depreciation. Total working capital amounted to € 1,343 million compared to € 1,587 million at year-end 2014, which represents 17.4% as a percentage of annualized sales 2015. Total working capital at year-end 2015 included cash-related liabilities of joint ventures and associates of € 137 million. Excluding these liabilities, total working capital as a percentage of annualized sales amounted to 19.2%. The operating working capital (continuing operations before reclassification to 'held for sale') was € 91 million lower than in the previous year and came to 24% of annualized net sales (2014: 26%). Cash and cash equivalents came to € 665 million at the end of the year; including current investments this came to € 674 million (2014: € 675 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 58 www.dsm.com Balance sheet profile 2015 2014 x € million in % x € million in % Intangible assets 3,228 27 2,867 24 Property, plant and equipment 3,171 27 3,673 30 Other non-current assets 1,429 12 1,319 11 Cash and cash equivalents 665 6 669 6 Other current assets 3,250 28 3,598 29 Total assets 11,743 100 12,126 100 Equity 5,631 48 5,936 49 Provisions 139 1 147 1 Other non-current liabilities 3,600 31 2,562 21 Other current liabilities 2,373 20 3,481 29 Total liabilities 11,743 100 12,126 100 Outlook DSM expects to make further progress with its growth initiatives in 2016 both in Nutrition and Materials, although the macroeconomic context remains challenging. These will be underpinned by the group-wide cost and productivity improvement programs as well as the company’s disciplined focus on capital allocation and working capital. DSM aims to deliver increased full-year EBITDA and ROCE in line with the targets set out in its Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 59 www.dsm.com DSM Code of Business Conduct Business principles The DSM Code of Business Conduct ('the Code'), as introduced are expected to act in accordance with the Code, and the and rolled out from 2010, contains the company’s business Managing Board holds DSM’s unit management accountable for principles across the three dimensions of People (11 principles), compliance with the Code. The Code is now available to Planet (5 principles), and Profit (15 principles). These principles employees in 19 languages and the full text of the Code can be translate DSM’s mission and core value − sustainability − into found on the company's website. daily practice across its business operations. All DSM employees DSM Code of Business Conduct Mission Core Value: Sustainability (3P) Code of Business Conduct: 31 principles along 3P-dimensions Certification via e-learning for: All employees Code of Business Life Saving Key Security Basic Course Conduct Rules Behaviors Responsible Care Specific target Competition Global Trade Anti-Bribery Unlawful Harassment Privacy audiences Law Controls & Corruption Prevention To come ‘alive’ via Dilemma Workshops dilemma discussions (e.g. using UN Global Compact Dilemma Game) Umbrella function published on the company's website. For more information, see 'Human Rights' on page 46. The Code serves as an umbrella for several other DSM regulations and together form the basis for the company's ethical The Unlawful Harassment Prevention e-learning emphasizes the business behavior. These regulations are often supported by importance of the cultural, diversity and non-discrimination e-learning programs to train relevant people within the company. aspects of the Code and focuses on effective employee Integration and compliance plans, comprising amongst others relations, communications, and non-discriminatory practices in risk management and training on values, are being rolled-out for the workplace. DSM's new acquisitions in Latin America and China. Depending on the subject, this concerns all employees or selected The DSM Privacy Code for Employee Data and the DSM Privacy employees with a specific role in the organization. DSM Code for Customer, Supplier and Business Partner Data came regulations cover the three dimensions of People, Planet and into force during 2014. These codes prescribe a mandatory Profit, of which the most important are listed below: training for Privacy Officers, human resources employees, legal counsels and employees who work with personal data on a People: To support DSM’s ambition to create an incident-free regular basis. DSM began to roll out the related Privacy and injury-free workplace, the Life Saving Rules specify the 12 e-learning in 2015. most important rules that must be followed by all employees to prevent serious or fatal incidents. In 2015, the Human Rights Planet: The Basic Course Responsible Care® addresses the project further elaborated the business principles on diversity elements of the Responsible Care® Program: Safety, Health and and non-discrimination, forced labor and child labor, fair Environment, Product Stewardship, Security and Sustainability. remuneration and standards of business partners. An Because of the importance of the Responsible Care® principles overarching Human Rights position paper bringing together for all functions and roles within the company, this course is existing human rights-related policies and procedures has been Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 60 www.dsm.com mandatory for all DSM employees, as well as for selected number of acquisitions (e.g. Latin America) for the first time in contractor employees. 2015, meaning that all regions are now covered. At year-end well over 90% of all DSM employees had completed (or refreshed) Profit: DSM uses the e-learning trainings Global Competition their training, excluding employees of some businesses acquired Law Principles and Practices and Global Trade Controls. recently. The training program is also offered by the business Compliance with these subjects is structurally embedded in units to selected contractor employees as well as to employees DSM’s systems and processes. As part of the global trade in DSM's joint ventures. A Code Review Team, chaired by the controls compliance process, DSM master data is screened to Vice President Risk Management, monitors implementation of check customers and suppliers against embargoes and lists of the values training program as well as internal and external sanctioned parties. developments concerning corporate ethics to promote and safeguard the Company’s values and reputation. In 2015, the The DSM Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy and Code Review Team initiated a project to apply global monitoring Compliance Manual has been communicated to targeted and reporting − already in place for the Code training since employees in commercial and business roles since 2014. 2014 − to all of the values trainings in DSM’s learning Supporting classroom training and an ABC e-learning was management system. further rolled out in 2015. Special attention has been given to DSM’s employees and businesses in China, including the People: At the end of 2015, well over 90% of all DSM employees provision of a Chinese translation of the DSM ABC Policy and had completed the Life Saving Rules training, underlining the Compliance Manual, an easy-to-use ABC checklist for business importance of safety within DSM. people, and ABC classroom trainings in addition to the Competition Law classroom program. Planet: The Basic Course Responsible Care® has now been successfully followed by over 90% of the employee population. The Security e-learning covers all key security topics relevant to DSM’s business, including DSM’s seven Key Security Behaviors. Profit: Further implementation of the ABC program also To complete the e-learning, participants are required to read and progressed well in 2015. Employees within the ABC target group sign-off on the DSM Code of Conduct for Information Security. have been identified and invited to complete the ABC e-learning; A classroom version of the training is available for locations over 90% had already done so by year-end. The training for without access to e-learning facilities. Global Trade Controls and Security has been in place for longer and implementation levels remain good at 90% and 93% DSM also has rules in place on the holding of and execution of respectively. Additional training on Trade Controls Compliance transactions in DSM financial instruments and certain other has been given to zoom-in on various business specific aspects financial instruments related to trading in DSM shares, and if of this topic. applicable, shares and related financial instruments in other companies, which apply to all relevant DSM employees, Those employees for whom competition laws are most relevant including the members of the Managing Board and the must complete an annual statement to confirm their compliance Supervisory Board. with the rules set forth in the DSM Competition Law Compliance Manual. In this statement they confirm that they are not aware Value chain of any violation of competition laws by DSM. Sign-off levels are excellent. Alleged breaches are reported to and discussed with The business principles most relevant for the supply chain are Group Legal Affairs. In 2015, no breaches were reported and brought together in the Supplier Code of Conduct and also DSM was not subject to any investigation by competition structured along the three sustainability dimensions of People, authorities related to potential anti-competitive behavior. Planet, and Profit. The Supplier Code of Conduct (available on the Company’s website in eight languages) is signed-off by Dilemmas suppliers in framework contracts, whereby they confirm their commitment to sustainability amongst other things. For Living the Code can sometimes result in dilemmas that do not distributors' and agents' contracts, the ABC Policy is being have a quick or clear answer. Dilemma workshops are held to translated into terms and conditions to ensure ethical business prepare for these cases using the UN Global Compact Dilemma conduct when these third parties are acting on behalf of DSM or Game as a tool. The workshops build on DSM’s company dealing with DSM’s products further down the value chain. culture, which is based on openness, fairness and trust. The aim is to create an open-minded atmosphere in which dilemmas can Training and awareness be discussed. These discussions are used to calibrate 'what is right' and 'what is wrong' in order to continuously improve DSM employees must refresh their training on the Code every business integrity in daily operations. two years. The implementation of this training program continues to progress well. The Code training was rolled-out within a Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 61 www.dsm.com Letter of Representation The table on the next page gives an overview of all reported Code violations, with a breakdown per Triple P dimension and per At the end of each year, the management of all 33 operational region. Proven serious violations of the Code can result in units directly reporting to the Managing Board (business groups, dismissal or other forms of consequence management. In line regions, others) sign-off on a Letter of Representation. With this with this policy, 38 employees were dismissed in 2015 as a result they confirm the compliance of the unit and its employees with of breaches of the Code or other legal or local company applicable laws and regulations, the Code and related values regulations. In addition, 51 cases were reported that have led to training as well as corporate policies and requirements. other kinds of consequence management (official warning or suspension). Overall this is a decrease compared to 2014, to Consequence management which portfolio changes have also contributed. DSM applies zero-tolerance consequence management to People: Most of the cases in the People dimension are related violations of the Code. Most Code incidents are reported to, and to violations of the Life Saving Rules or inappropriate behavior. dealt with by, local line management. If reporting to line Safety and health in the workplace has a priority for the company management is not considered possible, the whistleblower and incident-reporting channels are well-known. procedure (DSM Alert) is used. Complaints received by DSM Alert are dealt with via the DSM Alert Officer. In all cases, Planet: There were no violations of the Code reported in the consequence management practices are in place (e.g. official Planet dimension. Investigations of serious environmental warning, temporary suspension, dismissal) to support incidents have shown that none of these occurred due to compliance with the Code. The DSM Alert Officer reports to the seriously negligent or irresponsible behavior by employees. More Managing Board and is invited to report independently to the details on serious environmental incidents are provided in the Supervisory Board at least once a year. As of 2014, people who chapter 'What still went wrong in 2015' on page 116. are not DSM employees but wish to raise a concern regarding a violation of the Code can also contact the DSM Alert Officer via Profit: There were fewer violations of the Code reported in the the company's website. In 2015, one external report of a Profit dimension in 2015 compared to 2014. The cases that were potential violation was received. reported related to matters including a number of fraud and falsification of time records cases. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 62 www.dsm.com Code of Business Conduct 2015 2014 Training and awareness e-learning: % of targeted employees trained General Code of Business Conduct 96% 91% People Life Saving Rules 96% -1 Planet Basic Course Responsible Care® 93% -1 Profit Global Trade Controls 90% -1 Anti-Bribery and Corruption (introduced 2014) 94% 71% Security 93% -1 DSM Competition Law: % of targeted employees signed-off DSM Competition Law compliance annual statement 100% 100% Violations of the Code: Number of dismissals/other consequence management Triple P breakdown People 26/45 32/64 Planet 0/0 3/2 Profit 12/6 27/10 Regional breakdown Europe & Africa 5/19 10/38 Americas 27/30 30/26 Asia-Pacific 6/2 22/12 Total 38/51 62/76 Alert cases (whistleblower procedure): Number substantiated/not substantiated/under investigation Triple P breakdown People 3/9/1 6/12/0 Planet 0/0/0 0/0/0 Profit 2/0/1 0/5/0 Regional breakdown Europe & Africa 2/1/0 2/6/0 Americas 3/5/2 2/7/0 Asia-Pacific 0/3/0 2/4/0 Total 5/9/2 6/17/0 1 No overall global data available for this period Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 63 www.dsm.com Review of business in 2015 In 2015, DSM's activities were grouped into three clusters: Nutrition, Performance Materials and Innovation Center. In addition, DSM reports separately on Corporate Activities. Results presented in this section (and elsewhere in the management report) are before exceptional items, and are relating to consolidated activities only (therefore non-consolidated Partnerships are excluded). Net sales Operating profit (EBIT) x € million 2015 2014 x € million 2015 2014 Nutrition 4,963 4,335 Nutrition 535 596 Performance Materials 2,528 2,460 Performance Materials 250 204 Innovation Center 155 154 Innovation Center (43) (45) Corporate Activities 76 102 Corporate Activities (169) (168) Total continuing operations 7,722 7,051 Total continuing operations 573 587 Discontinued operations 1,213 2,232 Discontinued operations 77 30 Total DSM 8,935 9,283 Total DSM 650 617 EBITDA Capital employed at 31 December x € million 2015 2014 x € million 2015 2014 Nutrition 822 850 Nutrition 5,309 5,034 Performance Materials 384 323 Performance Materials 1,723 1,744 Innovation Center (9) (18) Innovation Center 560 523 Corporate Activities (122) (117) Corporate Activities (39) 130 Total continuing operations 1,075 1,038 Total continuing operations 7,553 7,431 Discontinued operations 95 128 Discontinued operations 674 Total DSM 1,170 1,166 Total DSM 7,553 8,105 EBITDA / net sales ROCE in % 2015 2014 in % 2015 2014 Nutrition 16.6 19.6 Nutrition 10.3 12.5 Performance Materials 15.2 13.1 Performance Materials 14.4 11.9 Total continuing operations 13.9 14.7 Total continuing operations 7.6 8.2 Discontinued operations 7.8 5.7 Discontinued operations 19.0 3.8 Total DSM 13.1 12.6 Total DSM 8.2 7.8 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 64 www.dsm.com Capital expenditure x € million 2015 2014 Nutrition 322 330 Performance Materials 98 71 Innovation Center 34 27 Corporate Activities 24 49 Total continuing operations 478 477 Discontinued operations 92 139 Total, accounting based 570 616 Non-cash items (27) 37 Customer funding (7) (25) Total, cash based 536 628 R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure) x € million as % of net sales 2015 2014 2015 2014 Nutrition 223 206 4.5 4.8 Performance Materials 143 135 5.7 5.5 Innovation Center 82 82 52.9 53.2 Corporate Activities 16 28 21.1 27.5 Total continuing operations 464 451 6.0 6.4 Workforce at 31 December headcount 2015 2014 Nutrition 12,930 10,857 Performance Materials 4,477 4,496 Innovation Center 556 675 Corporate Activities 2,787 2,999 Total continuing operations 20,750 19,027 Discontinued operations 2,324 Total DSM 20,750 21,351 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 65 www.dsm.com NutritionNutrition Solutions Closer Bringing to the Mouths that Need Them Based on a deep understanding of customer and market needs, DSM has built up a unique position in its Nutrition businesses. With the broadest portfolio of specialty nutritional ingredients, a global presence and an unparalleled local network, DSM is developing forward solutions throughout its Nutrition value chains, bringing tailored products and services closer to the mouths that need them and capturing a greater share of value. Unique global premix network New channels and segments DSM is also developing and opening new channels and segments in Human Nutrition & Health. i-Health is DSM’s fast-growing business-to-consumer unit, which over recent years has established market-leading brands in North America in probiotics, urinary health, menopause symptom relief and vegetarian omega-3. The company is also broadening its reach with additional forward solutions to support customers in providing high-quality solutions tailored to local consumer preferences. These include retail-ready solutions for both brands and white-label products and complete premix product solutions with microand macronutrients, flavors, textures, sweeteners and colors in a variety of packaging options. One of DSM’s key strengths in Animal Nutrition & Health is its unique global premix network, which enable the company to locally produce precisely-tailored formulations of its products and deliver solutions to customers – ranging from feed-mills to farmers – exactly when they need them. DSM will further expand this core network of 44 plants to tap into increasing demand for specialty products, in particular in Asia, North America, Russia and also Africa. Bringing these advanced capabilities closer to customers will also open new channels and new segments; DSM is currently developing a dedicated new brand of premix for mid-sized pig farms in China, a segment which it has previously not directly served. It will provide farmers with solutions for animal productivity and health, including support and service, under a dedicated brand. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 66 www.dsm.com Nutrition DSM's Nutrition cluster achieved total sales of € 4,963 million in x € million 2015 2014 2015, up 14% from € 4,335 million in the previous year. Organic sales growth was 6%, driven by higher volumes. Sales Net sales: furthermore benefited from currency effects. Animal Nutrition & DSM Nutritional Products: Health delivered strong growth throughout 2015. Human Animal Nutrition & Health 2,359 2,084 Nutrition & Health started 2015 weak but stabilized during the Human Nutrition & Health 1,845 1,626 course of the year, showing progress in the second half and Personal Care 172 152 posting a solid fourth quarter. Aland 63 4,439 3,862 EBITDA declined by 3% to € 822 million in 2015, as good organic DSM Food Specialties 524 473 growth and the positive impact of the strengthened US dollar were more than offset by the negative impact of significantly Total 4,963 4,335 lower vitamin E prices, the appreciation of the Swiss franc and the weakening of the Brazilian real. Organic sales growth (in %) 6 2 Operating profit plus depreciation Trends and amortization (EBITDA) 822 850 Operating profit 535 596 The fundamental growth drivers in nutrition and health remained Capital expenditure 322 330 as relevant as ever in 2015, despite challenging and varied Capital employed at 31 December 5,309 5,034 macro-economic conditions. The population continues to grow ROCE (in %) 10.3 12.5 and the majority of people around the globe now live in urban EBITDA as % of net sales 16.6 19.6 environments. Consequently, there is a growing need for R&D expenditure 223 206 convenience and processed food. This matches DSM’s ability to deliver tailor-made local applications solutions and blends to Workforce at 31 December its customers the world over. (headcount) 12,930 10,857 Rising standards of living especially in emerging economies are driving growth in the consumption of fish, meat, poultry and dairy Business products, which requires improved efficiency and more sustainable systems and value chains for animal proteins. The Nutrition cluster is made up of DSM Nutritional Products and DSM Food Specialties. These businesses serve the global People are on average living longer and are better informed industries for animal feed, food and beverage, pharmaceutical, about matters concerning health and well-being throughout life, infant nutrition, dietary supplements and personal care. DSM has which is fuelling demand for infant nutrition products, dietary a unique position across the feed and food value chains, with a supplements and healthier choices in food and beverages. There global and highly diversified portfolio of products, services and is also a trend towards increasing popularity for natural and end-markets and provides solutions to the benefit of customers organic products in Western food and beverage markets, which and other stakeholders. presents a challenge for many of DSM’s traditional customers. Nutrition cluster performance The need to address malnutrition, both in terms of hunger as well as micronutrient deficiencies, in the developing and the Nutrition net sales bridge 2015 developed world, is evident. This is increasingly being translated x € million into regulatory as well as market-driven actions to encourage healthy, nutritious and balanced diets, where necessary 4,963 bolstered by fortified foods and supplements. 1% Public concerns around food safety, quality and sustainability are 7% leading to a stricter regulatory climate. Health authorities prefer 0% producers to work with suppliers such as DSM, who are rigorous 6% in their application of science and have state-of-the-art quality 4,335 assurance systems. Environmental sustainability is also a key factor, particularly in countries with low-cost producers. 2014 Volume Price/mix FX Other 2015 In the coming period, DSM expects customers across the globe to intensify their demand for deeper insights and customized Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 67 www.dsm.com solutions, increasingly tailored to local consumer preferences renewed for a further three years in December 2015, DSM and market and channel structures. reaches more than 25 million people per year with improved nutrition. See 'Cross-sector nutrition partnerships' on page 36. Sustainability Strategy Sustainability is one of the key business drivers in DSM’s nutrition markets, with demand continuing to increase for solutions that The Nutrition cluster’s unique business model aims to capture are more efficient and have distinct environmental advantages. opportunities arising from global megatrends by combining Appreciation is also beginning to grow for products that offer global production capabilities with customized local benefits to individual people or communities. DSM’s Nutrition formulations. DSM delivers the broadest portfolio of high quality cluster contributes to the development of ECO+ and People+ and competitive active ingredients and formulations at a global solutions, helping to drive the uptake of these Brighter Living scale while offering maximum differentiation through industry Solutions. and segment-specific formulations. As a local solutions provider with strong market intimacy, its focus is on customer-driven DSM is convinced that good nutrition is fundamental to the solutions. realization of the full physical, mental and economic potential of everyone on the planet. It views the elimination of malnutrition as DSM has grown into one of the strongest players in the industry a key societal priority and a shared global responsibility. DSM by addressing growth opportunities through expanding and wholeheartedly supports the fact that ‘zero hunger’ is the extending its offering across the value chain. The Nutrition cluster second of the United Nations’ 17 Global Goals for Sustainable has operations in over 60 countries, with unparalleled customer Development between now and 2030. The company uses its access, a complete product portfolio and advanced skills and leading position to help address malnutrition, both in terms of capabilities. It has significantly expanded its premix footprint, in advancing understanding of the intrinsic relationship between particular in emerging economies, and will continue to do so. nutrition and health as well as by helping customers improve the nutritional content of their products. Over recent years, the cluster has further built-out its product portfolio, adding capabilities in cultures, textures, trace minerals, Since 2007, DSM has been proud to be a strategic partner of marine and microbial polyunsaturated fatty acids on top of its the UN World Food Programme, the largest provider of food aid unrivalled position in vitamins, carotenoids, eubiotics, enzymes to the world’s hungry. Through the partnership, which was and yeasts. Established a unique business in Nutrition Pure Actives Formulations Premixes & Solutions Access & Insights + Global products Local solutions Broad portfolio providing resilience Broadest portfolio of ingredients Sales, split over value chain steps ■ Fat soluble vitamins (e.g. A,D,E) ■ Active ingredients ■ Water soluble vitamins (e.g. B,C) ■ Forms ■ Carotenoids ■ Premixes ■ Marine PUFAs ■ i-Health/B2C ■ Microbial PUFAs ■ Enzymes & Cultures ■ Minerals & DCP ■ Savory / yeast extracts ■ Nutraceutical ingredients 2015 ■ Aroma intermediates 2015 ■ Other blend ingredients ■ Other The combination of its strong global position and integrated Whilst successful acquisitions have been the main vehicle for business model has enabled DSM to become a leader in quality adding new growth platforms over recent years, going forward and innovation, with deep regulatory, technical and sustainability the cluster aims to drive profitable growth by leveraging the expertise and a clear understanding of customer and consumer position that has been created. It will expand its core capabilities, needs as well as regular investment in quality management. bringing them to more of the markets and territories it serves. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 68 www.dsm.com DSM will continue to add new products and solutions to its DSM continued to see demand for its tailored nutritional portfolio, making full use of the company's expertise in solutions increase, as the market sought to further improve the sustainable innovation. The Nutrition cluster will also expand in efficiency of animal production as well as to bolster producer segments and markets in which it is currently under-represented profitability. This led to strong growth, particularly in the specialty such as in ruminants. It aims to continue to develop and further portfolio. Moreover, there was an increased focus on alternatives implement new business models to complement its positions to antibiotic growth promoters. This has created new business across its value chains. opportunities that DSM, with its broad portfolio and application knowledge, is well positioned to capture. The Nutrition cluster’s business strategy to accelerate organic sales growth will be supported by cost savings and operational DSM’s strong focus on customer-led innovation continued to excellence measures which will boost efficiency and productivity bear fruit during the year and its enzyme and lipid alliances and drive cash generation. The cluster has started implementing strengthened this. In July, DSM entered into a joint development a performance improvement program with the aim of delivering agreement with Evonik for algae-based omega-3 fatty acid cost savings versus 2015 of € 130-150 million by 2018. It will products for animal nutrition, in particular for use in aquaculture also benefit from the DSM-wide adjustment of the organizational and pet food applications. and operating model, allowing it to focus more on serving its customers and markets. Together with increased capital The Tortuga business continued to perform well. New nutritional efficiency, the cluster will deliver improved financial returns. programs and product launches enabled DSM to continue delivering greater value to its Brazilian beef and dairy customers. DSM Nutritional Products DSM is expanding these capabilities beyond Brazil into other markets in Latin America. DSM Nutritional Products has three market-facing entities: Animal Nutrition & Health, Human Nutrition & Health and During the year, DSM was able to benefit from the world-class Personal Care. DSM Nutritional Products achieved total sales of capabilities of its new R&D center in China. Further investments € 4,439 million in 2015; in 2014 this was € 3,862 million. were also made in the premix business in Asia, including in India and Indonesia. Animal Nutrition & Health In 2015, DSM successfully developed and launched the first feed enzyme for the ruminant segment. RONOZYME® RumiStar™ is Highlights 2015 an amylase that increases the utilization of the starch in cow feed, leading to increased milk efficacy (the volume of milk produced Strong organic sales growth, despite adverse impact of for a given amount of feed) in dairy cows. vitamin E Good progress in specialty portfolio DSM has made a breakthrough discovery in developing an Entered development partnership with Evonik for innovative product that persistently decreases methane innovative algae-based omega-3 fatty acids emission in cows Clean Cow. Since methane is the second most important human-induced greenhouse gas after carbon dioxide, this innovation has the potential to help reduce the impact of methane emissions to the environment, as well as The Animal Nutrition & Health business achieved sales of € 2,359 benefiting the animals themselves. In 2015, an international team million in 2015 compared to € 2,084 million in 2014. of researchers led by academics from Pennsylvania State University, published a successful study together with DSM This business addresses the global feed ingredients markets for describing the effect of the Clean Cow compound on the poultry, swine, aquaculture, ruminants and pets. In all these reduction of methane emissions from enteric fermentation in species, DSM is a full value chain player, providing active dairy cows in the Proceedings of the National Academy of ingredients, delivery systems, and nutritional and premix Sciences of the United States. It was the largest and longest trial solutions globally and at a local level. Its focus is on the nutritional of its type in lactating cows. ingredients and additives segments of these markets. Animal Nutrition & Health was able to deliver strong growth in 2015, despite lower prices in vitamin E; the effects of headwinds in certain currencies, which to an extent off-set the benefit of the strengthened US dollar; and challenging macro-economic conditions in a number of markets. Nevertheless, the societal megatrends including population growth and rising standards of living continued to drive this business in the year. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 69 www.dsm.com Exploring the natural and social capital of OatWell® Human Nutrition & Health DSM carries out pilot studies to assess its Highlights 2015 impact upon natural and social capital, assigning an economic value to the environmental and Progressive improvement of organic growth social impacts across the value chain for specific Strong performance of i-Health dietary supplements business product and market applications. Acquisition of Aland, further strengthening position in vitamin C In this pilot, DSM teamed up with True Price to quantify the environmental costs and benefits associated with OatWell®, including the effect on the occurrence of cardiovascular diseases. OatWell® is an active ingredient derived from Human Nutrition & Health reported 2015 sales of € 1,845 million oatmeal that helps lower cholesterol levels and control compared to € 1,626 million in 2014. blood glucose. A complimentary social capital study linked with DSM’s People+ program was also carried out. This business provides nutritional solutions for the food and beverage, dietary supplements and early-life nutrition markets, Results show that the positive environmental and social with an additional focus on pharmaceutical and aroma effects are substantially higher than the environmental costs ingredients. The business also strives to help eliminate associated with OatWell®’s value chain. Producing OatWell® micronutrient deficiencies amongst the four billion people at the incurs environmental costs, mainly in water, energy and land Base of the Pyramid. Its fundamental drivers are the link between use. A part of that cost is compensated because OatWell® nutrition and health, supported by a number of global replaces wheat that no longer has to be produced. Further megatrends. significant environmental benefits are expected as a result of reduced food production, since research suggests that DSM continued to encounter headwinds that had a negative people eat considerably less when OatWell® is part of a impact on performance in the year, with North and Latin America healthy diet. The final effect is the expected social and in particular providing challenging market environments in some economic benefit of reduced cardiovascular diseases, segments, whilst the Asia-Pacific and EMEA regions performed a specific health benefit of OatWell®. robustly, as did the i-Health and aroma ingredients businesses. Additional positive economic values were calculated in The US market for fish oil-based omega-3 dietary supplements the People+ areas of Better Health (reduction in other contracted further, although as the year progressed, DSM was diseases); Working Conditions (safety and health, as well able to increase its market share somewhat. Outside the US, the as remuneration); and Community Development (local segment performed well in 2015, particularly in Europe and Asia. employment, local sourcing, and education). Multivitamin consumption in the US showed some growth during the year with consumers increasingly favoring new delivery This comprehensible presentation of combined formats such as gummies. environmental and social impacts allow comparison with economic costs, and encourages thinking about Food and beverage markets remained relatively weak in the US business models that capture societal value. and elsewhere in the Americas, with the economic downturn in Latin America being felt in low consumer spending and a consequent prioritizing of more basic products and formulations True value creation of OatWell® by both customers and consumers. DSM has launched a multiTrue value creation of 1 kg OatWell® replacing wheat flour in cereal stakeholder engagement initiative in the region to reinforce the Environmental Social Economic value of fortification. True value (€/kg OatWell®) DSM’s i-Health dietary supplements consumer business again performed strongly, recording double-digit growth during the year. This is being supported by the high aspirations held by increasing numbers of consumers around topics such as immunity and gut-health. The i-Health business is predominantly based in the US where its now highly-regarded consumer brands such as Culturelle®, AZO™ and Estroven® were first OatWell® production Avoided wheat production Avoided food Effects decreased production cholesterol levels Sum launched. Its strong performance was driven by expanded Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 70 www.dsm.com distribution and new innovations, as well as by international Personal Care expansion to China, South Korea, Malaysia and the UK. Sales in Personal Care came to € 172 million in 2015, up from € 152 million in 2014. DSM has seen a positive trend toward higher dosage vitamins for pharma applications alongside the already significant Personal Care provides ingredients and innovative solutions for omega-3 active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) market. DSM some of the world’s best-selling beauty products. DSM’s has targeted the Pharma segment as one the priorities for the extensive portfolio of key ingredients includes peptides, natural Human Nutrition & Health business; this will be supported bio-actives, UV filters, hair polymers and vitamins; this is amongst other things by a new facility in Mulgrave (Canada) complemented by a range of services. The business is driven by offering advanced omega-3 refinement capabilities from both global megatrends, local consumer beauty regime insights and fish and algal sources, which is scheduled to come on stream in tapping growth opportunities in emerging economies. the first half of 2016. In 2015, DSM took a number of measures to boost its position Also planned to begin operations in the first half of 2016, is a new in the UV sun-filters category, focusing in particular on higher vitamin B6 facility in Xinghuo (China), which was mechanically value specialty filters. As a result, there was a steady completed at the end of 2015. This will complement DSM's improvement in performance in this segment, despite some global manufacturing footprint and support growth in the region. price pressure in the market for non-specialty filters. DSM furthermore opened a state-of-the-art Nutrition Innovation DSM’s ability to deliver regional innovations based on local Center in Singapore in March. The month also saw the consumer insights fuelled significant growth in the skin care finalization of DSM's acquisition of Aland, a producer of vitamin category, in particular in emerging economies, with tailored C in China; this business has subsequently been renamed DSM products such as SYN®-COLL for the Chinese market Jiangshan. performing very well. Increased demand for locally-tailored solutions was also noticeable in hair care. The Human Nutrition & Health business engaged in a number of innovations during the year, both in terms of the development of Overall, market conditions in Europe were challenging, whilst new products as well as in establishing and growing new consumer demand in North America recovered in the year, business models. In June, DSM entered into a partnership and fuelling improved performance. Growth continued to be strong co-investment with MedDay, a bio-technology company in many emerging economies, especially China, although the focused on the treatment of nervous system disorders, for the fragile economic environment in various countries in Latin manufacture of pharmaceutical grade D-biotin for use in the America hampered growth in that region. treatment of multiple sclerosis. The company also made further progress with its retail-ready solutions. This is an example of an During the year, Personal Care moved the production of area in which DSM is leveraging its full value chain presence to synthetic peptides from a site in Switzerland to a larger facility in provide a one-stop shop for ready to sell products for use by Village-Neuf (France) to make it possible to scale up production both established brands and private labels. of new and existing peptides while maintaining high quality and service to customers around the globe. In October, the government of Rwanda announced that it had invited DSM to participate with the Africa Improved Foods Ltd. consortium in a joint venture to improve the nutritional status of the Rwandan population and help address malnutrition. The joint venture partners are investing in a factory to be built in the capital Kigali to produce fortified foods for pregnant and breastfeeding women and for older infants and young children. The Africa Improved Foods Ltd. business will create 230 direct jobs while offering 9,000 local farmers a stable, sustainable income for a proportion of their harvest. By 2017, Africa Improved Foods Ltd. aims to reach more than one million people annually with effective nutrition interventions through its products. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 71 www.dsm.com DSM Food Specialties appealing to customers. Producers are also looking to improve processes and reduce costs. Specialty food ingredients can have a significant, direct impact on the efficiency of the Highlights 2015 production process and the end-product itself. Solid organic sales growth The enzymes business focuses on the food and beverage Strong performance in enzymes and cultures industry, where DSM enables customers to innovate products New hydrocolloids product platform performed well and production processes. Sales in enzyme solutions were supported by surging global demand for reduced-sugar products in dairy such as DSM's Maxilact®. This growth was further supported by continued take-up of DSM’s beer In 2015, sales for DSM Food Specialties amounted to € 524 stabilization solution as well as by the introduction of a new million, compared to € 473 million in 2014. baking enzyme. DSM Food Specialties is a leading global supplier of food Cultures provides the dairy industry with a unique toolkit to enzymes, cultures, yeast extracts, flavors and other specialties create the desired texture, surface and flavor for their products for many of the leading global and local dairy, baking, beverages while increasing yields from the milk used. The segment is driven and savory food brands. It aims to enable the production of by new product developments including advanced cultures for better foods, helping to make diets healthier and more thick, indulgent and high-protein yoghurts as global demand for sustainable. Its advanced ingredients and applied knowledge fermented milk products increased. help to make better food available and affordable to more people across the world. In Savoury Ingredients, DSM offers a range of yeast extracts and process flavors that allow for authentic, intense, natural-tasting The food industry increasingly requires sustainable, higher valuesavory foods with the possibility of reduced salt. A key driver in added products that are healthier, better tasting and more this segment is demand for healthier alternative ingredients. The video 'DSM in 3 minutes' introduces DSM and its portfolio of science-based, sustainable solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 72 www.dsm.com DSM has established a new growth platform in hydrocolloids following the acquisition of a stake in Andre Pectin and its grouping with DSM’s gellan gum assets. Based in China, the unit, which provides DSM with new texturing capabilities, progressed very well during the year. In October, work began on a significant expansion of its facility in Tongxiang (China), with the aim of establishing a world-class development center for hydrocolloids including gellan gum. All regions contributed to DSM Food Specialties' growth, with Latin America in particular performing well, posting double-digit growth for the fourth year in succession. DSM Food Specialties focuses its innovation efforts with marketled innovation projects driven by sound market, customer and consumer insights. Healthier options are an important driver in the food industry and sugar reduction is one of the key elements in this respect. This is an area in which DSM Food Specialties is uniquely positioned to leverage the breadth of its portfolio to offer solutions for taste and texture as well as salt and sugar reduction. In addition, DSM Food Specialties continued to make progress with the development of its fermentative stevia platform in 2015 and with several other innovative concepts to enhance product appeal or quality. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 73 www.dsm.com Performance The Substitution MaterialsEffect One of the key trends that will continue to fuel growth in the Performance Materials cluster is substitution. Customers are increasingly looking to replace existing parts and materials with newer, more sustainable alternatives, for example replacing metals with lighter, high-performance plastics to reduce the weight of vehicles; replacing heavy and high-maintenance steel cables with Dyneema®; or using waterborne resins instead of those based on solvents. With its strong focus on sustainable innovation and collaborative development, DSM is using the substitution effect to drive the uptake of new applications that offer advantages for all, helping to power growth in the cluster. Decovery®: a new standard in Stanyl® Diablo – high performance sustainable decorative paints at 250°C Praxis, one of the leading chains of DIY stores in the Netherlands, was looking for a sustainable solution for its premium range of private-label decorative paints. In close cooperation with DSM, Praxis was able to further improve quality and sustainability using Decovery®. Decovery® plantbased resins are based on a novel process of converting renewable materials into a durable polymer. It is free of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) and has an extremely low odor, as well as offering additional benefits for end-products. The BMW i8 is a plug-in hybrid with the appearance and the breathtaking performance of a sports car, which at the same time exhibits the consumption and emissions of a compact car. The performance of the i8 required a high-heat thermoplastic solution for its air intake manifold with integrated liquidcooled charged air cooler (AIM/CAC). DSM’s Stanyl® Diablo offered superior performance as well as thermal stability and stiffness, leading to the world’s first high-heat plastic AIM/CAC combination. Stanyl® Diablo enabled BMW to come up with a revolutionary lightweight design without the use of metals. With a weight reduction of up to 40% compared to aluminum, it helped BMW create a higher-performing engine while still meeting new emission limits. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 74 www.dsm.com Performance Materials Performance Materials net sales bridge 2015 x € million 2015 2014 x € million Net sales: 2,528 – DSM Engineering Plastics 1,378 1,324 DSM Dyneema 284 264 2,460 0% DSM Resins & Functional 7% Materials 866 872 -4% Total 2,528 2,460 Organic sales growth (in %) (4) 3 2014 Volume Price/mix FX Other 2015 Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) 384 323 Operating profit 250 204 Trends Capital expenditure 98 71 Capital employed at 31 December 1,723 1,744 Resource scarcity and climate change have become key drivers ROCE (in %) 14.4 11.9 in the materials industry. In nearly every market, customers EBITDA as % of net sales 15.2 13.1 demand products and solutions that help to reduce energy R&D expenditure 143 135 consumption and harmful emissions, both within their operations and across the value chain. Legislators are increasingly driving Workforce at 31 December this agenda with more stringent regulatory requirements. DSM (headcount) 4,477 4,496 addresses these needs through innovative materials that offer the same or better functionalities whilst being lighter and more versatile with a lower environmental footprint than metals and Business other conventional materials. These include high-performance plastics; waterborne resins; and bio-based and renewable The Performance Materials cluster is made up of DSM plastics and resins. Engineering Plastics, DSM Dyneema and DSM Resins & Functional Materials. DSM Engineering Plastics is a global player The use of hazardous substances is a further topic of concern in specialty plastics. These materials are used in components for for consumers and regulators, which is driving demand for safer the electrical and electronics, automotive, flexible food alternatives. In response, DSM Engineering Plastics and DSM packaging and consumer goods industries. DSM Dyneema is Resins & Functional Materials offer products and solutions that the inventor, manufacturer and marketer of Dyneema®, the eliminate or reduce the use of substances including halogens world’s strongest fiber™. DSM Resins & Functional Materials is and volatile organic compounds (VOC). a global player in innovative, sustainable resins solutions for paints and industrial and optical fiber coatings. Substitution of existing materials through better performing alternatives is therefore a major growth driver in the Performance In 2015, total sales for the Performance Materials cluster were Materials cluster’s businesses, alongside the overall up by 3% from € 2,460 million to € 2,528 million. This was driven development of their respective markets and segments. by a positive 7% currency effect on overall flat volumes, while lower input costs led to a 4% decrease in prices. Sustainability Total EBITDA for the full year 2015 increased by 19% to € 384 DSM delivers innovative solutions that make a positive difference million from € 323 million in 2014. The cluster benefitted from the to people’s lives and reduce the environmental footprint. efficiency and cost-saving programs that have successfully been Sustainability is a significant driver of new business and implemented over recent years, as well as good margin innovations in Performance Materials. management. This positive development was further supported by lower input costs and currency developments. Sustainable innovation is consequently one of the cluster’s cornerstones and leads to the development of new applications that address key challenges. DSM has shifted its materials portfolio to a higher added-value mix by introducing innovative and more sustainable solutions, some examples of which are described elsewhere in this chapter and the Report. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 75 www.dsm.com Strategy In 2015, the company completed the strategic actions it was pursuing for Composite Resins, which became part of the DSM applies a differentiated strategy in its Performance ChemicaInvest partnership with CVC Capital Partners alongside Materials portfolio based on its positions in various market the Polymer Intermediates businesses, thereby finalizing the segments. In the period 2010-2015, this strategy aimed to restructuring aspect of its strategy for the period. restructure, strengthen or accelerate its businesses. This approach has enabled the cluster to successfully upgrade its Whilst not part of the cluster, the Emerging Business Areas of portfolio and DSM will continue to differentiate its Performance DSM Biomedical and DSM Advanced Surfaces are also related Materials business strategies in the coming years, focusing on to Performance Materials and represent promising growth well-defined, higher-growth specialty segments, while platforms for the longer term. maximizing returns in PA6 Polymers and Powder Coating Resins. See 'Strategy 2018' on page 17. Materials Strategy 2010-2015 High Accelerated growth DSM Engineering Plastics DSM Resins & Functional Materials 4 1 High-performance plastics 4 Functional materials Growth 2 PA6 compounds 5 Specialty coating resins 1 9 3 PA6 polymers 6 Powder coating resins 2 10 Market growth Maximize returns 7 5 DSM Dyneema Emerging Business Areas* 3 7 Dyneema® Fiber Solutions 9 Advanced Surfaces 6 8 Dyneema® Life Protection 10 Biomedical 8 Low Low DSM’s capabilities to extract value High * Reported in Innovation Center DSM Engineering Plastics concern, use recycled content or offer improved recyclability, and use content that is entirely or partly bio-based. Highlights 2015 DSM Engineering Plastics targets three key industries: automotive; electrical and electronics; and flexible food Specialty portfolio upgraded with PPS and PA66 packaging. It has a focused portfolio with global leadership compounds positions in many of its products in the areas of highStanyl®ForTii™ selected for new USB-Type C performance plastics such as Stanyl®, Arnite® and Akulon®. connectors DSM seeks to continually shift its portfolio towards higher-value, New office on US West Coast to support growth in specialty materials, introducing more advanced grades to its consumer electronics offering. In automotive, vehicle and parts manufacturers seek to lower fuel consumption and emissions by reducing weight and friction as DSM Engineering Plastics booked full-year sales of well as through the use of alternative energy systems such as € 1,378 million in 2015 compared to € 1,324 million in 2014. electric and hybrid technologies. They also look to fulfill regulations on end-of-life vehicles and reduce vehicle footprints The markets for engineering plastics increasingly require with the use of bio-based or recycled materials, while improving sustainable, innovative solutions that make people’s lives safer, safety and comfort. Furthermore, vehicles are becoming more convenient and healthier, while addressing climate change increasingly 'connected', enhancing the use of electronics. and food waste. DSM aims to create shared value by providing DSM’s expertise and broad portfolio of advanced and high-performance materials and solutions to help lower carbon sustainable solutions enable customers to meet these footprints over the life cycle, eliminate the use of substances of requirements, reduce vehicle footprints and drive downstream innovation. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 76 www.dsm.com DSM’s high-performance plastics are being used in an complement DSM Engineering Plastics' existing range of increasing number of innovative applications by vehicle materials, particularly for use in the automotive and electrical and manufacturers. DSM’s Diablo range of high-temperature electronics segments. resistant Stanyl® and Akulon® polyamides are aimed at applications in automotive engine compartments. Diablo has DSM Dyneema been used in the world’s first high-heat plastic air-intake manifold on BMW’s electric i8 vehicle. Together with its partner ZKW Group, DSM also developed a new lightweight LED lighting Highlights 2015 module for the Audi Q7 using DSM’s Arnite® XL-T, which is able to withstand the intense heat the prisms used in these modules Strong growth Force Multiplier Technology can generate. Strong growth in Dyneema® Diamond Technology Acquisition of Cubic Tech expanded portfolio in The electronics industry is particularly dynamic and continually Performance Apparel demands improvements in terms of functionality, miniaturization and process efficiency, for example for use in smartphones, tablets and ultrabooks, as well as looking for ways to address the issue of e-waste, which is also relevant for producers of DSM Dyneema reported total sales of € 284 million in 2015 electrical goods. DSM offers a unique portfolio of materials and compared to € 264 million in 2014. technical expertise and assistance to support these developments. At the end of 2015, DSM opened an office on the Dyneema® is the world’s strongest and lightest fiber. It is US West Coast to be able to give closer support to major 15 times stronger than steel on a weight-for-weight basis and consumer electronics customers and brands in and around 40 times stronger than aramid. Yet it can float on water. This Silicon Valley. combination of extreme strength and low weight makes it suitable for a wide and expanding range of applications such as Introduced in 2014, DSM’s Stanyl®ForTii™ has been selected commercial fishing and aquaculture nets; ropes, slings and for use by customers in key applications such as in the new synthetic chains; vehicle and personal multi-threat protection; generation of USB connectors; USB Type-C will become the radomes; high-performance fabrics in apparel; cut-resistant universal standard connector in consumer electronics. gloves; as well as medical sutures. Applications with Stanyl ForTii™ offers an unparalleled combination of strength, Dyneema® push the boundaries of light-weight strength, offer ® durability and aesthetics in miniature applications and during the comfort and safety and are inherently more sustainable than the year it was selected by Xiaomi, the world’s fastest growing materials they substitute. Products with Dyneema® weigh less, manufacturer of mobile handsets, for the antenna splitters used use less material, need less energy to process and deploy in their in its Mi4 device. final application, and have longer lifetimes. In November, DSM announced a capacity expansion for DSM Dyneema has a well-established Fiber Solutions business production of the Akulon® XS polyamide at its facility in Emmen serving the high-protection textiles and commercial marine & (Netherlands) to meet strong-growing market demand for this sports segments. It has also started entering and forward material, which has been specifically developed for blown films integrating into new segments in performance apparel, synthetic used in flexible food packaging. Demand is rising in response to chains and radomes. The Fiber Solutions business is driven by the growing need to reduce food waste and longer shelf-life. customers’ needs for light-weight, sustainable solutions offering Akulon® XS was also introduced in the Chinese market during extreme durability coupled with improved safety and the year. ergonomics. DSM is well positioned to address these demands. It has global product leadership with the lightest, strongest fiber DSM’s 70% bio-based engineering plastic EcoPaXX found a ® available; unique, IP-protected technology platforms; and an novel application in 2015 in a range of innovative mountaineering increasing range of end-use applications for its segments, often footwear. The material’s properties give climbers more stability developed in collaboration with industry partners. on smaller stances coupled with improved comfort when walking. The Dyneema® Diamond Technology platform, which offers maximum protection with no loss of comfort in applications like DSM formed partnerships during the year to strengthen its cut-resistant gloves, showed strong sales growth in the year. position in polymer compounds. It entered a global strategic Good progress was also made with developing solutions based alliance with Ascend for the supply of compounds based on on Dyneema® Max Technology; this technology has for example polyamide 66 and announced the formation of a joint venture been applied in the offshore market to provide best-in-class with NHU in China for the development and manufacture of high permanent subsea anchoring for a major floating production performance plastic compounds based on polyphenylene storage and offloading vessel. sulfide (PPS compounds). These additional capabilities Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 77 www.dsm.com A helping hand for safety and business In 2015, Black Dyneema® was introduced to the market. The Fiber Solutions portfolio was further boosted during the year with the acquisition of Cubic Tech, a company specialized in the custom design, development and production of innovative highperformance ultra-lightweight flexible fabrics. This acquisition accelerates DSM Dyneema’s entry into the performance apparel market and is also expected to enable additional developments and revenue streams in existing markets. In 2015, there were also initial sales in the new markets for radomes and synthetic chains. The Life Protection business provides personal and vehicle protection solutions to the law-enforcement, peace-keeping and Protective Industrial Products Inc. is defense sectors. One of the key drivers in personal protection is wearability. DSM’s Force Multiplier Technology offers the lightest a leading supplier of Hand Protection and most flexible solution on the market, without compromising and Personal Protective Equipment in protection for the user. This technology platform delivered strong North America, and aims to provide the sales growth during 2015. The company furthermore expanded its portfolio in the year by bringing the innovative Dyneema® Anti highest value safety products available Stab technology to market. to workers in the Industrial, Construction DSM Dyneema increased its cooperation with key value chain and Electrical industry. Amy Taft is the partners in sustainability-related programs, an example being Hand Protection Product Manager at PIP. the Circular Ropes project, addressing end-of-life solutions for mooring ropes. DSM Dyneema was also granted membership “PIP is the first licensing partner to offer cut-resistant of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition during 2015. products with Dyneema® Diamond Technology in the North American market. Using the Dyneema® Diamond During the year, brand licensing partnerships expanded Technology fiber in our 3GX line gives us the ability to significantly in both existing as well as new markets. offer superior cut-resistant products that also provide excellent fit, feel and function, without adding bulk, DSM Resins & Functional Materials which is a major plus over competitive materials. Statistics from the US Occupational Safety and Health Highlights 2015 Administration on hand injuries in the workplace show that 70% of injured workers report not wearing gloves at Growth in China in sustainable coatings, both waterborne the time of the incident. Injuries to the other 30% often and powder involve gloves that are inadequate, damaged, or the Capacity expansion for waterborne urethane resins at wrong type for the hazard present. Wilmington (Massachusetts, USA) facility DSM and Dutch DIY-retailer Praxis launch high-quality It is essential that all personal protection products provide paint with plant-based resins the wearer with all day comfort. This is especially true for hand protection products that are typically used in a wide variety of environmental conditions. If the product fits well and is comfortable, the user will continue to wear it. DSM Resins & Functional Materials reported sales of By offering products made with Dyneema® Diamond € 866 million in 2015 compared to € 872 million in 2014. Technology, we provide our customers with hand protection that is 40% lighter than traditional aramid The key trend in coatings markets worldwide is the shift away products with greatly improved cut performance. from traditional solvent-based coatings that contain hazardous materials to the use of more sustainable coating technologies. We wish to be the number 1 supplier of hand protection Besides end-user preference, legislation on the reduction of to the industrial market in North America. We now offer substances such as VOC will continue to be an important driver the widest selection of cut-resistant products made with for this substitution world-wide. Dyneema® materials in the market and we will continue to enhance our cut-resistant product line with new offerings DSM is a global leader in the coatings industry in the made with Dyneema® and Dyneema® Diamond Technology.” development and production of waterborne coating resins and Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 78 www.dsm.com powder coating resins with clear sustainability advantages. In technologies, the venture will enable carpets to be created and functional materials, DSM is the global leader in fiber-optic re-created from waste to close the carpet materials loop. coatings. In additive manufacturing, DSM offers highly efficient and effective prototyping technologies, and supports the In October, DSM and the Dutch retail organization Praxis industry in accelerating the pace at which new products are introduced a quality paint with DSM’s Decovery® plant-based designed and brought to market. resins. This unique paint, a combination of high performance and sustainability, is available at all Praxis DIY stores in the DSM finalized the divestments of Euroresins and the solventNetherlands. based coatings business Synres during the year, whilst the Composite Resins business became part of the ChemicaInvest The Taiwan-based DSM-AGI business for certain UV-curing partnership. resins continued to face very challenging market conditions throughout the year. DSM Coating Resins DSM Coating Resins focuses on products for three types of DSM Functional Materials sustainable coatings: waterborne coatings, powder coatings DSM’s UV-curable materials for optical fiber are recognized and UV-curable coatings. These resins are used in a wide range worldwide as the standard-bearer for fiber protection and of applications, such as architectural, industrial wood, flooring, identification. They help to ensure greater signal reliability and graphic arts, can, coil and powder coating applications. field performance within fiber-optic networks, which remains highly relevant as global bandwidth demand continues to surge. In China, the trend towards increased attention for reduction of the environmental impact of paint and coatings manufacturing DSM offers telecommunications network owners a broad has accelerated, supported by the introduction of new standards portfolio of DeSolite® Supercoatings. It added a new class of and legislation in this area. Having anticipated these changes, products to the portfolio in 2015, known as High Efficiency DSM was able to capture growth in all segments. DeSolite® Coatings, which provide enhanced processing robustness with excellent on-fiber performance and durability. In the US, vigorous commercial efforts resulted in above-average market growth. The business is well-positioned to capture DSM is also actively developing, protecting and where needed further growth with its innovation portfolio, which has been defending its intellectual property position to support the developed together with customers. significant research and development investment for its telecommunications portfolio. The European market for building and construction remained relatively weak in 2015. A capacity expansion to increase production of Somos® 3D printing materials at the Hoek van Holland (Netherlands) site was DSM Coating Resins measures the carbon footprint of its announced in the year. innovations and conducts multiple Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs), using the data generated to stimulate cooperation DSM Functional Materials furthermore announced a across the value chain. One example in 2015 was an LCA study collaboration between DSM Somos and EnvisionTEC, a world for Uralac® Ultra, a powder coating technology that enables fast leader in 3D printing equipment, for the development of high curing at low temperatures. This technology has a significantly performance materials to enable the production of industrial lower environmental footprint by reducing processing steps, parts at much faster speeds. avoiding waste by regaining overspray and using less energy for curing. In February, driven by its commitment to grow the sustainable coatings market, DSM announced an investment in its manufacturing facility in Wilmington (Massachusetts, USA), allowing for production of an extensive portfolio of state-of-theart waterborne resins for ink and coatings. These resins are used in a wide range of applications, from packaging, textiles and flooring to automotive, adhesive and general industry segments. DSM’s joint venture with Niaga entered a new phase in the development of sustainable carpet technology in the year. Successful tests were held at scale with leading industry partners and the Niaga® technology is now ready for full-scale implementation. Based on proprietary and complementary Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 79 www.dsm.com Innovation Healthy Value Center Chains, Healthy Populations DSM Biomedical supplies innovative materials that enable medical device manufacturers to make more minimally invasive devices. These can speed up recovery, shorten hospital stays and minimize reoperations, lowering health costs and helping people to lead longer, healthier and more active lives. The company’s solutions also help medical device manufacturers to enhance their own operational processes and efficiency, improving business outcomes and contributing to the further development of sustainable value chains for high-quality healthcare. Clearly visible benefits to contact An evolution in bioresorbable drug lens production coating technology When coronary arteries (arteries that feed the heart muscle) become narrowed by a build-up of fatty deposits called plaque, this can reduce blood flow, which can lead to chest pains and potentially to heart attacks. One means to address this and help prevent complications is through the insertion of a stent, a tube that can be placed in a passageway such as an artery to keep it open. Stents can have their effectiveness increased by including a special coating to release medicines that support arterial functioning. DSM Biomedical supplied Svelte Medical Systems with an innovative proprietary bioresorbable carrier technology made of naturally occurring amino acids, which Svelte has Sometimes, re-thinking processes can be just as impactful as used in its DISCREET™ drug coating. With DISCREET™ coming up with completely new materials. One example of bioresorable, carrier and drug are mixed together and applied a process innovation is DSM Biomedical’s ‘Project Emerald’. to the stent in a single application. It is designed to provide DSM re-engineered the process used in producing a critical high mechanical integrity and optimize healing while delivering ingredient for a customer to be used in the manufacture of desired drug dose to the local tissue in controlled fashion. contact lenses. The new process improves yields, meaning The special characteristics of DSM’s carrier ensure relatively that fewer raw material inputs need to be used to produce constant delivery over time, without the sudden changes that the same amount of product. This enables DSM not only to are often the case with other technologies. become more lean in its manufacturing but also to deliver products to its customer ‘just in time’. Furthermore, the new process eliminates the use of solvents, improving its environmental footprint. Moreover, supporting the customer’s competitive position by enabling improved efficiencies for device manufacture will help make contact lenses more affordable for the wearer. Project Emerald was qualified by the customer for commercialization towards the end of 2015. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 80 www.dsm.com Innovation Center DSM Biomedical; x € million 2015 2014 DSM Bio-based Products & Services; and DSM Advanced Surfaces. Net sales 155 154 Combined, the EBAs are already EBITDA positive, and DSM Organic sales growth (in %) (11) 3 expects this contribution to continue to grow, bringing the Operating profit plus depreciation Innovation Center to break-even overall in 2016. and amortization (EBITDA) (9) (18) Operating profit (43) (45) DSM Biomedical Capital expenditure 34 27 Capital employed at 31 December 560 523 DSM Biomedical is a leading development partner, trusted by R&D expenditure 82 82 the medical industry to shape the future of biomaterials and regenerative medical devices that improve and brighten patients’ Workforce at 31 December lives throughout the world. From its facilities in the US and the (headcount) 556 675 Netherlands, it provides medical device materials development and manufacturing to medical device companies. These products address key trends in medicine, from treating an aging DSM Innovation Center population to caring for more active lifestyles − meeting the need for safer, less invasive procedures that are also more costThe DSM Innovation Center has two main functions. In the first effective. place, it serves as an enabler and accelerator of innovation power and speed in DSM’s core businesses as a center of By using its wide range of state-of-the-art capabilities, DSM is excellence. In this role it also focuses on adjacent technologies able to develop and produce innovative materials, as well as for growth through its Corporate Research Program, which is components, sub-assemblies and full medical devices for its steered by the Chief Technology Officer through the DSM customers. Its broad portfolio of biomedical materials, Science & Technology Department, as well as through the DSM technologies and capabilities includes biomedical polyurethanes Venturing & Licensing activities. In its second function, DSM and polyethylenes, resorbable polymers, ceramics, collagens, Innovation Center has a clear business development role, extracellular matrices, silicone hydrogels, device coatings, and focusing on areas outside the current scope of the business drug delivery platforms. These products are used in applications groups. It identifies and invests in new and innovative growth in some of the most attractive high-growth markets, including options, initially through the DSM Business Incubator. Moreover, orthopedics, sports medicine, ophthalmology, general surgery DSM Innovation Center is responsible for developing and and cardiology. extracting value from the company’s Emerging Business Areas (EBAs). Whilst the global market for medical devices continues to grow, the healthcare sector as a whole is undergoing a period of In 2015, strong sales development at DSM Advanced Surfaces unprecedented change. Spiraling healthcare costs are and positive currency effects were offset by lower volumes at pressuring healthcare providers, who are consolidating and DSM Biomedical as a consequence of weak biomedical device maturing their supply chains in response. Their key drivers when markets driven by the health care reforms in the US. EBITDA purchasing medical devices are clinical outcomes, healthcare showed an improvement driven by focused innovation activities, economic outcomes and patient satisfaction. Traditional medical cost savings, currencies and license income from bio-succinic device companies are developing into overall solutions providers acid technology. to hospitals and are focusing less on internal R&D, preferring to acquire novel innovations. These players are also further DSM filed more than 400 patents in 2015, in line with 2014. The maturing their supply chains, choosing to work with a smaller company also continued its Excellence in Innovation program in number of stronger suppliers. order to maintain its leading position as an innovator and to improve its capabilities. These dynamics present medical device suppliers, such as DSM Biomedical, with new prospects but also new uncertainties. Emerging Business Areas These companies have an opportunity to capture the R&D gap that is becoming available in the market. However, pricing DSM’s EBAs provide strong long-term growth platforms in pressure is increasing and supply chains becoming more promising end-markets that are based on the company’s core exclusive. Medical device suppliers need to forge stronger, longcompetences in health, nutrition and materials. DSM has term partnerships to continue to prosper. three EBAs: Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 81 www.dsm.com Winning Together During the year, DSM Biomedical initiated the first commercial activities in its in-house medical coating service plant following At the start of 2015, DSM and professional its launch in 2014. It also had an advanced new material qualify to be clinically tested by a market-leading customer in cycling Team Giant-Alpecin entered into an nephrology, expanding its business. innovation partnership aimed at giving the team and its athletes an edge in one of the Progress was made in partnerships in new devices and clinical trials, as well as in the development of DSM Biomedical’s own toughest and most competitive team sports proprietary medical device product concepts, such as an around – as well as ultimately benefiting implantable drug delivery device for treatment of glaucoma. cyclists of all levels the world over. Team The DSM-DuPont joint venture, Actamax, took further steps in Giant-Alpecin manager Iwan Spekenbrink: bringing its novel sprayable adhesion barrier device to the US market for clinical testing. “In the first year of our partnership, a number of innovations have already had a positive The Dyneema Purity® portfolio of medical fibers was expanded with the introduction of colored variants; this can greatly aid impact on the Team’s performance. recognition during complex surgical procedures. Dyneema Purity® Radiopaque fibers were featured on a leading Dutch One is the protective cycling clothing we have developed business TV series about impactful innovations with incorporating Dyneema® fibers. Crashes are unfortunately considerable potential. a fact of life in professional cycling. The key is to minimize the impact that they have, which is important not just in DSM Bio-based Products & Services1 terms of the severity of the immediate injury but also in terms of recovery time. When the body needs energy to As the world moves increasingly towards alternatives for its repair itself, that’s energy you can’t use to ride your race. dependencies on fossil resources and towards a more sustainable, bio-renewable economy, there are significant The new shorts are comfortable, breathable and have an opportunities in advanced biofuels and in renewable building aerodynamic fit – and at the same time provide unrivalled blocks such as bio-based succinic acid. DSM Bio-based protection. They have given the riders extra confidence, Products & Services is pioneering advances in biomass a competitive advantage for us. We are very proud that conversion and seeks to demonstrate the commercial viability of this innovative clothing won an award at Eurobike, sustainable, renewable technologies in collaboration with the world’s most prestigious cycling trade show. strategic partners in the value chain. The development and supply of high-value knowledge, ingredients and expertise in the A further area of innovation revolves around nutrition, field of bio-conversion technology are critical success factors. in other words the fuel our athletes take on board. DSM’s strategy is to license its technology and expertise to bioWe have integrated DSM’s Culturelle® and PeptoPro® based entrepreneurs, enabling them to convert biomass in a products into the Team’s diet to aid the digestion and commercially viable and sustainable way. provision of energy from food and to support the riders’ immune systems during training, racing and recovery. Cellulosic bio-ethanol (POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels) The POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels joint venture inaugurated a Our motto at Team Giant-Alpecin is ‘keep challenging’. commercial-scale production facility for cellulosic bio-ethanol, Everyone in the team is committed to a constant process Project LIBERTY, in Emmetsburg (Iowa, USA) in 2014. It of improvement and development to achieve our processes corn-crop residues through a bioconversion process collective goals, winning together. using enzymatic hydrolysis followed by fermentation. The startup There is a clear natural fit between process for the plant is facing challenges, mainly in the our culture and way of working and pretreatment section of the plant, similar to other players in the DSM. DSM is all about innovation. industry. Small quantities of cellulosic ethanol have been They understand, like we do, that produced to date. Up until year-end 2015, the joint venture there is no single finish line, but partners had invested a total of € 287 million (capital employed) that you always need to keep in the project. improving.” The US regulatory environment around advanced biofuels remains dynamic. California’s Low Carbon Fuel Standard provides an attractive market for cellulosic ethanol, and the 1 DSM's interest in the net result is reported as part of Associates in 2015 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 82 www.dsm.com Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has increased the final geographical and climate zones covered by its validation renewable volume obligations for 2014-2016, although the levels facilities. are still below those called for by the original Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) legislation. In 2015, DSM Advanced Surfaces also took steps in preparation for further innovative solar solutions. Its light trapping technology Global support for and interest in cellulosic ethanol continues to has been made ready for validation under outdoor conditions develop as climate change targets are driving attention for the and is expected to be brought to market during the course of advantages it offers in terms of greenhouse-gas emissions. 2016. As DSM looks to increase the proportion of renewable Climate change targets also provide an important framework for energy in its own mix of sources, it will investigate options to host growth of the POET-DSM licensing business in emerging solar parks utilizing the company’s yield-boosting technologies economies. on its locations, like those already in operation in Pune, SittardGeleen and Belvidere (New Jersey, USA). Bio-succinic acid (Reverdia) The Reverdia joint venture between DSM and Roquette operates DSM Business Incubator its Biosuccinium™ plant in Cassano (Italy), where it has been producing high-quality bio-succinic acid since 2012. Reverdia is The DSM Business Incubator explores business opportunities in recognized as the technology leader in this field and there is adjacent areas and future markets for DSM with a strong link to growing interest in licensing the Biosuccinium™ technology, DSM’s technologies and competence base. Platforms are with Bio-Amber signed as the first licensee in December 2015. created within the scope of securing food, health and energy Market traction increased during the year and both sales requirements of society, in close collaboration with industry volumes and order sizes went up. In October, Reverdia partners and existing and potential customers. DSM’s Business announced a collaboration with Covestro (formerly Bayer Incubator has been instrumental in feeding the pipeline with MaterialScience), to develop thermoplastic polyurethanes based opportunities that address customer needs. on Biosuccinium™ for use in multiple applications, notably footwear and consumer electronics. This combination of a value In 2015, the DSM Business Incubator worked on a range of chain approach with in-house application development appears projects including plant-based proteins, energy storage and to be succeeding in engendering market pull for the category. additive manufacture. Towards the end of the year, DSM and The same approach is used in the polybutylene succinate (PBS, Syngenta established an R&D partnership to develop microbiala bio-degradable polyester) segment, which predominantly based agricultural solutions to protect crops from pests and focuses on renewable and bio-degradable packaging. diseases, combat resistance and enhance plant productivity and fertility. DSM Advanced Surfaces DSM Venturing & Licensing DSM Advanced Surfaces aims to accelerate the uptake and effectiveness of solar energy by focusing on the development DSM Venturing invests in early to late stage innovative and commercialization of technologies and materials solutions companies in areas strategically relevant to DSM’s current and that increase the efficiency of solar modules, reducing the cost future businesses. The portfolio consists of 25 investment of the energy produced. companies and each year DSM Venturing reviews well over 500 new candidates. In 2015, DSM Venturing added promising new During 2015, the EBA posted double-digit growth in sales and investments in several Nutrition start-ups including Blue Prairie EBITDA as DSM continued to strengthen its position in antiBrands, Natreon and NutriLeads as well as in NovoPolymers, a reflective coatings for the Solar PV (photovoltaic) panel market. promising start-up company with an innovative encapsulent It launched an engaging marketing strategy to support this with concept for solar. the promise ‘Same Sun. More Power™’. DSM Advanced Surfaces is known for its leading technological position and DSM Licensing consists of a group of Certified Licensing expertise, which has put the business in the position to develop Professionals and offers professional licensing expertise across specific, exclusive products for top-tier players in the market. all DSM businesses for intellectual property-intensive deals, such as joint development agreements, technology acquisitions and Validation is a crucial aspect of bringing advanced technology to sales as well as in-, outand cross-licensing deals. DSM market. The solar technology demonstration center in Pune Licensing was involved in setting up several strategic (India) that opened in 2014 received many visitors during the partnerships for DSM, including the partnership with Syngenta year; DSM followed this up by signing a strategic partnership to develop and commercialize biological solutions for agriculture. with the Chinese state testing organization CPVT and with the establishment of an outdoor test facility in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands) in collaboration with Fraunhofer TechBridge. The company is evaluating possibilities in China to broaden the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 83 www.dsm.com Innovation Partnerships 'Science can change the world' Among DSM's many innovation partnerships in various domains, In 2015, DSM launched a campaign to highlight the key role that two in particular achieved notable successes during 2015. These science can and must play in tackling the challenges societies innovation partnerships and others like them provide direct and face. Titled 'Science can change the world', it highlights the indirect business opportunities as well as support DSM in efforts and perseverance of a number of independent scientists building its corporate brand as well as individual product brands. to develop innovative solutions. The campaign underlines the value of science with a societal purpose and aims to inspire and The first is a partnership with engineering students from the Nuon engage both scientists and the wider community. For more Solar Team, which has been on-going for a number of years. information and to join the discussion, visit the campaign website Last year, the team again won the World Solar Challenge, a long(www.sciencecanchangetheworld.org). In 2016, the second distance race for solar powered cars. The winning 2015 vehicle phase of the campaign will put Open innovation into practice and featured resins from DSM as well as Dyneema® fabrics for use the campaign platform community to identify promising structure and additional protection. initiatives with the potential to benefit from support from DSM in being scaled up. The second is a new innovation partnership formed in 2015 with professional cycling Team Giant-Alpecin. The team was supported with DSM’s Culturelle® Probiotics to support the riders’ immune system and general health. Moreover, the partners also collaborated closely in the development of special protective cycling shorts incorporating Dyneema® fibers. The shorts were introduced at the start of the Tour de France and proved to be very effective in reducing road rash during some of the crashes that occurred in this and later races. The innovation was recognized with a prestigious Eurobike Award. Dr. Bart Knols has dedicated his life to eradicating malaria. He heads a team of more than 40 researchers who have developed a number of life-saving innovations, helping people in Tanzania and other malaria-affected areas live healthier lives − and sleep more peacefully. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 84 www.dsm.com Corporate Activities Sitech Services Any consolidated activities and businesses that are outside the Sitech Services provides manufacturing services, park services three reporting clusters are reported as Corporate Activities. and Safety, Health & Environment services for the Chemelot These comprise operating and service activities, as well as a industrial site in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands). number of costs that cannot be allocated to the clusters. While this segment reports net sales from its service units to third Sitech Services was reported under Corporate Activities until the parties, it normally has a negative operating result. end of July 2015, when the 65% stake in Sitech Services which DSM held via its caprolactam and acrylonitrile businesses was Corporate Activities includes various holding companies and transferred to ChemicaInvest following the establishment of the corporate overheads. The most significant cost elements are partnership. DSM retains a 5% shareholding in Sitech Services corporate departments and the share-based compensation for via DSM Engineering Plastics. the company. Corporate Activities x € million 2015 2014 Net sales 76 102 Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) (122) (117) Operating profit (169) (168) Capital expenditure 24 49 R&D operating expenditure 16 28 Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 2,787 2,999 DSM Insurances The company retains a limited part of its material damage and business interruption and product liability risks via DSM’s captive insurance company. In 2015, the total retained damages were € 24 million. Corporate Research The Corporate Research Program (CRP) is aimed at developing key Science & Technology competences. As compared to business group-funded Science & Technology activities, the CRP, which falls under the responsibility of the Chief Technology Officer, typically funds competence development programs with a longer time horizon and with focus on competences that have a broad relevance for DSM. The CRP also supports Science & Technology programs that are carried out with external parties and programs covering relevant new trends. Share-based payments Under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, performance-based and non-performance-based stock options are granted to senior management. The costs of these share-based payments are reported under Corporate Activities. For detailed information see note 28 of the 'Consolidated financial statements' on page 184. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 85 www.dsm.com Partnerships As part of its 2010-2015 strategy DSM in motion: driving focused pharmaceutical industry. DSM has a 49% shareholding in growth, the company has established a number of partnerships Patheon. for its Pharma and Bulk Chemicals activities over recent years in order to streamline and simplify its core portfolio around its more Patheon’s strategy is built upon the collective reputations of resilient, higher-value activities in Nutrition and Performance quality, innovation, customer service and operational excellence. Materials, whilst at the same time maximizing the value of these The same core commitments are at the center of each of the businesses for its shareholders. business units. DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals Patheon has continued to transform itself. Following various acquisitions in 2014, it acquired Irix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals (DSP) is a global leader in Agere Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 2015. It has also divested its DPx generic anti-infective molecules formed in 2011 as a 50/50 joint Fine Chemicals division as well as operations in Capua (Italy) and venture between DSM and Sinochem. DSP develops, produces Mexico City (Mexico). The Banner Life Sciences business was and sells intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients spun off to Patheon's investors during the year and is now (APIs) as well as finished dosage. It is at the forefront of positioned as a specialty pharma player. technological and process developments for anti-infectives and cholesterol-lowering molecules, using environmentally-friendly In the summer of 2015, Patheon filed a registration statement production technologies based on biotechnology. (Form S-1) with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), preparing itself for a public offering. To date, neither the DSP is a market leader in enzymatic beta-lactam APIs, with timing of such a public offering, nor the number of shares nor nearly 300 patented innovations in this field. It is also a B2B price have been confirmed. provider of generic drug products. Full backward integration and control of its supply chain with the advantage of using its own Patheon1 high-quality APIs delivers unique quality and performance in the finished dosage formulation and sets DSP apart from its x € million (100%) 2015 2014 competition. Net sales 1,621 984 Sustainability is a key driver in DSP's antibiotics business. Nearly all of DSP’s high-quality APIs are manufactured using enzymatic Operating profit plus depreciation processes, which allow the production of APIs with a much lower and amortization (EBITDA) 366 177 CO2 footprint versus comparable chemically manufactured Operating profit 191 92 products. DSP actively promotes the sustainable and Capital employed at 31 December 2,391 2,500 responsible use of antibiotics throughout the value chain. 1 Book year 1 November until 31 October DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals x € million (100%) 2015 2014 ChemicaInvest Net sales 418 399 DSM completed its strategic actions for Polymer Intermediates and Composite Resins with the establishment of a new venture, Operating profit plus depreciation ChemicaInvest, together with CVC Capital Partners. and amortization (EBITDA) 57 23 ChemicaInvest is a global leader in the production and supply of Operating profit 28 9 caprolactam and the leading European supplier of acrylonitrile Capital employed at 31 December 313 322 and composite resins. DSM has a 35% shareholding in the company. As from 31 July, DSM reports ChemicaInvest as an associate in accordance with the equity method. Patheon Caprolactam Patheon (formerly reported as DPx Holdings) was formed in Caprolactam is the raw material for polyamide 6 (PA6), also 2014 as part of a USD 2.6 billion transaction between JLL known as nylon 6. PA6 is used in diverse applications, ranging Partners and DSM, which combined the businesses of DSM from carpets and textiles to car parts, electrical devices and Pharmaceutical Products and Patheon, Inc. The company is packaging film. ChemicaInvest will continue to supply at least positioned to add scale, new value chain capabilities and 80% of DSM Engineering Plastics' caprolactam needs in Europe technologies, as well as to expand its end-to-end service and North America until 2030 via a drawing rights contract and offerings as a comprehensive solution provider to the in China via a continued supply agreement. This secures an Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 86 www.dsm.com ongoing strategic and competitive position for the PA6 business in which DSM is a global leader. The caprolactam business has been renamed Fibrant. Acrylonitrile ChemicaInvest is also the leading supplier in the European merchant acrylonitrile market. Acrylonitrile is a raw material for acrylic fibers, plastics, rubber, water treatment chemicals and a wide range of specialty products. This business now operates under the name AnQore. Composite Resins Composite Resins is a leading supplier in the European market and provides resins solutions for lightweight composites used in trucks and trains, bridges, building facades, wind-turbine blades and trenchless pipe renovation. The Composite Resins business is branded Aliancys. ChemicaInvest x € million (100%) 20151 2014 Net sales 756 Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) (3) Operating profit (32) Capital employed at 31 December 566 1 Started 31 July 2015 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 87 www.dsm.com Financial and reporting policy Financial policy companies are in principle required to contribute to DSM's cash earnings per share from the very beginning and to earnings per As a basis for and contribution to effective risk management and share from the second year. In addition, they are required to to ensure that the company is able to pursue its strategies, even meet the company's profitability, sustainability and growth during periods of economic downturn, DSM retains a strong requirements. There are, however, exceptions to this rule. For balance sheet and limits its financial risks. instance, such requirements may not be appropriate in the case of small innovative growth acquisitions, although the DSM's Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth has ambitious sustainability requirement will be upheld at all times. strategic and financial targets that are outlined on page 17. DSM aims to maintain a strong investment grade long-term credit DSM's policy in the various sub-disciplines of the finance rating. function is strongly oriented toward solidity, reliability and protection of cash flows. The finance function plays an important Most of DSM's external funding needs are financed through role in business steering. long-term debt. Debt covenants are not included in the terms and conditions of outstanding bonds and financing For detailed information on DSM’s tax policy see ‘Taxation at arrangements. DSM aims to spread the maturity profile of DSM’ on the company's website. outstanding bonds in order to have adequate financial flexibility. DSM has a commercial paper program of € 1,500 million that is available and two committed credit facilities totaling € 1,000 million, consisting of € 500 million until September 2018 and € 500 million until March 2020. For more details see note 24 to the 'Consolidated financial statements' on page 172. An important element of DSM’s financial policy is the allocation of cash flow. DSM primarily allocates cash flow to investments aimed at strengthening its business positions and to dividend payments to its shareholders. The cash flow is further used for Acquisitions & Partnerships that strengthen DSM's competences and market positions in health, nutrition and materials. Should the occasion arise, the company may choose to return cash to shareholders if excess cash is available over a longer period to such an extent that the above-mentioned cash flow priorities can be satisfied without affecting the credit rating. DSM aims to provide a stable, and preferably rising, dividend. In order to cover its commitments under management and employee option plans, DSM buys back shares insofar as this is necessary and feasible. 2,300,000 shares were repurchased in 2015 (3,733,055 shares were repurchased in 2014). It is DSM’s policy to hedge 100% of the currency risks resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition of trade receivables and payables. Additionally, operating companies may – under strict conditions – opt for hedging currency risks from firm commitments and forecasted transactions. The currencies giving rise to these risks are primarily USD, CHF, JPY and GBP. The risks arising from currency exposures are regularly reviewed and hedged when appropriate. The most important acquisition criteria are strategic fit and financial condition. A business or partner should add value to DSM in terms of technological or market competences. Acquired Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 88 www.dsm.com Reporting policy UN Global Compact DSM has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2007 Reporting policy and justification of choices made and commits to annually report on progress in implementing the In this Report, DSM reports for the calendar year of 2015. The UN Global Compact’s 10 Principles in the areas of human rights, company reports on its People, Planet and Profit information in labor, the environment and anti-corruption. This Report is DSM’s such a Report on an annual basis. The previous DSM Integrated Communication on Progress 2015 submitted to the UN Global Annual Report was published on 3 March 2015. Compact Office. DSM’s Code of Business Conduct, its sustainability and Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) policies, In the Report by the Managing Board, DSM explains its vision and its Supplier Sustainability Program are the foundations on and policy with respect to sustainability practices and reports on which DSM applies the standards of the Global Compact. its activities in this field during 2015. In addition to disclosing data and developments in the categories of People, Planet and Profit, Following on from the United Nations’ Millennium Development DSM also reports on its sustainability strategy, material topics, Goals introduced in 2000, 17 Sustainable Development Goals stakeholder engagement activities, and its sustainability (SDGs) were presented in New York late September 2015 during governance framework. Furthermore, DSM discusses the global the Sustainable Development Summit to define global priorities trends that drive its strategy. It is DSM’s policy to proactively and aspirations for 2030. DSM is assessing how it can best canvas the views of its key stakeholders on issues of material measure and manage its contribution to the realization of the importance to the company. SDGs and expects to report more extensively about commitment and progress in 2016. Principles of the UN Global Compact1 DSM Code of Business Conduct and relevant page(s) in the Integrated Annual Report 2015 Principle 1 Support of human rights page 28, page 32, page 46, page 60 Principle 2 Exclusion of human rights violation page 28, page 32, page 46, page 60 Principle 3 Observance of the right to freedom of association page 46, page 60 Principle 4 Abolition of all forms of forced labor page 46, page 60 Principle 5 Abolition of child labor page 46, page 60 Principle 6 Elimination of discrimination page 43, page 44, page 60, page 62 Principle 7 Precautionary environmental protection page 47 to page 54 Principle 8 Specific commitment to environmental protection page 25 to page 27, page 47 to page 54 Principle 9 Diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies page 29, page 47 to page 54, page 67 to page 84 Principle 10 Measures to fight corruption page 28, page 60 to page 63, page 97 to page 100 1 In 2015, DSM once again renewed its commitment to the UN Global Compact's CEO Water Mandate; see Planet in 2015 on page 52 Global Reporting Initiative guiding principles and content elements for an integrated report. DSM bases its sustainability reporting on best practice Aligning with the framework allows DSM to better identify how it standards and international guidelines. Most important are the creates value for DSM’s stakeholders in People, Planet, and guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). For this Report, Profit, as well as the connection between these three the company used the GRI G4 guidelines. DSM is constantly (re-) dimensions. assessing to what extent sustainability aspects become material to DSM and its stakeholders. In case specific indicators become Selection of topics relevant to the company’s sustainability performance, The topics covered in this Report were selected on the basis of appropriate actions are taken that allow the necessary data to input from stakeholders and the materiality analysis, the GRI G4 be collected to disclose progress in the future. A detailed guidelines and DSM’s own management systems and their overview of how DSM reports according to the G4 relevance and impact for DSM and its various stakeholders. On comprehensive indicators, including a reference to relevant the basis of the principle of materiality, DSM distinguishes sections in this Report, is provided on the company's website. between topics whose importance warrants publication in this Report (relevant to both DSM and its stakeholders), and topics International Integrated Reporting Framework whose importance warrants publication on the company website DSM aligns with the recommendations of the International only (topics important to either DSM or its stakeholders). DSM Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Framework where possible. reports on a selection of its external recognition in the chapters The intention of the IIRC Framework is to provide additional Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 89 www.dsm.com 'Stakeholder engagement' on page 38 and 'Review of business' Directors of the business groups and the Innovation Center. All from page 64. assessments of ECO+ involve internal Life Cycle Assessment experts. The data are internally validated with the Corporate Scope Sustainability department and consolidated in DSM ECO+ key The People, Planet and ECO+ data in this Report cover all performance indicators. In addition, the Corporate Operational entities that belong to the scope of the consolidated financial Audit department is involved with evaluating the robustness of statements, provided that DSM also has operational control. the ECO+ assessments and reporting process. Planet reporting covers all operational sites of DSM. Acquisitions and divestments The HR data (People) for newly acquired companies are reported from the first full month after the acquisition date. The Safety, Health (People), Environment (Planet) and ECO+ data for newly acquired companies are reported at the latest in the year following the first full year after acquisition, because these companies’ reporting procedures first have to be aligned with those of DSM. In the case of divestments, safety data are consolidated until the moment of divestment and planet data are reported to the last full year at DSM. In this respect, for 2015, the safety data relating to DSM Fibre Intermediates and DSM Composite Resins have been included up until the moment of deconsolidation, while the Planet data of these units are no longer included in 2015. Planet methodology The progress on the key environmental performance indicators is evaluated and established on a yearly basis. Data on these indicators are collected on a bi-annual basis. The data for the DSM sites are based on these sites’ own measurements and calculations, which are based on definitions, methods and procedures established at corporate level. The site managers of reporting units are responsible for the quality of the data. Data are collected based on measurements and calculations in the production processes, information from external parties (e.g. on waste and external energy) and estimates based on expert knowledge. Reporting units have direct insight into their performance compared to previous years and are required to provide justifications for deviations above the threshold. For most parameters the threshold is set at 10%. The year-on-year comparability of the data can be affected by changes in the portfolio as well as by improvements made in the measurement and recording systems at the various sites. Whenever impact is relevant, it is stated in the Report. Details for the individual sites as well as the methodology and calculations are published on the company's website, together with an explanation of the definitions used. People methodology People and HR data are collected per business group and consolidated at corporate level. ECO+ All financial ECO+ data are collected from the relevant financial and innovation systems by the controllers and Sustainability Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 90 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Managing Board. The clusters are the main organizational entities for external strategic and financial reporting. This Koninklijke DSM N.V. (Royal DSM) is a company limited by structure ensures a flexible, efficient and fast response to market shares listed on Euronext Amsterdam, with a Managing Board changes. Intra-company product supplies are contracted by the and an independent Supervisory Board. Members of the business groups on an arm's length basis. Managing Board and the Supervisory Board are appointed (and, if necessary, dismissed) by the General Meeting of Shareholders. DSM’s business groups receive services from global support functions and functional excellence departments and are The Managing Board is responsible for the company's strategy, supported by the regional organizations. This set up enables its portfolio policy, the deployment of human and capital DSM to create a global high-performing organization focused on resources, the company’s risk management system, the meeting its targets and ambitions. The support functions and company's financial performance and its performance in the functional excellence departments are paid for the services they area of sustainability. supply by the users, which are for the largest part the business groups and to a lesser extent other DSM units. Corporate The Supervisory Board supervises the policy pursued by the departments are paid from a corporate budget. Managing Board, the Managing Board's performance of its managerial duties and the company's general course of affairs, Executive Committee taking the interests of all the company's stakeholders into Part of the organizational adjustments announced on 25 August account. The annual financial statements are approved by the 2015 was a strengthening of the management structure with the Supervisory Board and then submitted for adoption to the establishment of an Executive Committee. The Executive Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, accompanied by an Committee enables faster strategic alignment and operational explanation by the Supervisory Board of how it carried out its execution by increasing focus on the development of the supervisory duties during the year concerned. business, innovation and people. The members of the Executive Committee are the Managing Board members as well as four The company is governed by Dutch law and by its Articles of senior managers appointed by the Chairman of the Managing Association, which can be consulted on the DSM website. The Board after consultation with the Supervisory Board. The General Meeting of Shareholders decides on an amendment to Executive Committee focuses on topics such as the overall the Articles of Association by an absolute majority of the votes strategy and direction, review of business results, functional and cast. A decision to amend the Articles of Association may only regional strategies, budget setting and people & organization. be taken at the proposal of the Managing Board, subject to The statutory responsibilities of the Managing Board remain approval of the Supervisory Board. unchanged. DSM fully informs its stakeholders about its corporate objectives, Managing Board the way the company is managed and the company's The Managing Board consists of three or more members, to be performance. Its aim in doing so is to pursue an open dialogue determined by the Supervisory Board. The current composition with its shareholders and other stakeholders. of the Managing Board can be found in the chapter 'Supervisory Board and Managing Board' on page 115. Since 2005, DSM has a decentralized organizational structure built around members of the Managing Board have been appointed for a business groups that are empowered to carry out all short-term period of four years. and long-term business functions. On 25 August 2015, DSM announced a number of adjustments to its organizational The members of the Managing Board are collectively responsible structure related in particular to its support and corporate for the management of the company. Notwithstanding their functions as well as its regional organizations. The new collective responsibility within the Managing Board, certain tasks organizational and operating model aims to create more clarity and responsibilities for business clusters and functional areas as between businesses, regions and support and corporate well as regional responsibilities have been assigned to individual functions. At the operational level, the business groups remain members. This distribution of tasks is published on the DSM the cornerstones of the organization. As the primary website. organizational and entrepreneurial building blocks they focus on four primary business functions: Innovation and R&D, Direct The remuneration of the members of the Managing Board is Sourcing, Manufacturing & Operations and Marketing & Sales. determined by the Supervisory Board based on the The business groups are grouped into clusters. Business groups remuneration policy approved by the General Meeting of within a cluster report to one and the same member of the Shareholders. The remuneration policy for the Managing Board Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 91 www.dsm.com can be found in the 'Supervisory Board report' on page 107 third of the members are women (of the seven members, three under 'Remuneration policy'. are female and four are male). Given the relatively small number of Managing Board members, the current composition of the The functioning of and decision making within the Managing Managing Board with one female and three male members Board are governed by the Regulations of the Managing Board, comes very close to the aspired composition of the Managing which are in accordance with the Dutch corporate governance Board in terms of gender balance. code and can be found on the DSM website. General Meeting of Shareholders In 2015, the Managing Board had 39 formal meetings and 12 The main powers of the General Meeting of Shareholders relate Executive Committee meetings. On four occasions, one of its to: members was excused from the Managing Board meeting due to another commitment. In one Executive Committee meeting, the appointment, suspension and dismissal of members of the one of the other members was excused due to another Managing Board and the Supervisory Board; appointment. In all cases, members who were unable to attend approval of the remuneration policy of the Managing Board; provided any input to the meeting in advance in writing or via approval of the remuneration of the Supervisory Board; other members. the adoption of the annual financial statements and declaration of dividends; Supervisory Board release from liability of the members of the Managing Board The Supervisory Board consists of at least five members. The and the Supervisory Board; current composition of the Supervisory Board can be found in issuance of shares or rights to shares, restriction or exclusion the chapter 'Supervisory Board and Managing Board' on page of pre-emptive rights of shareholders and repurchase or 114. Members of the Supervisory Board are appointed for a cancellation of shares; period of four years with a maximum of three four-year terms. amendments to the Articles of Association; and decisions of the Managing Board that would entail a significant All current members of the Supervisory Board are independent change in the identity or character of DSM or its business. in accordance with the Dutch corporate governance code. The remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board is The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is held within six determined by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The months of the end of the financial year in order to discuss and, functioning of and decision making within the Supervisory Board if applicable, approve the annual report, the annual accounts, are governed by the Regulations of the Supervisory Board, which any appointments of members of the Managing Board and the are in accordance with the Dutch corporate governance code Supervisory Board and any of the other topics mentioned above. and can be found on the DSM website. The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and, if necessary, In line with the Dutch corporate governance code the other General Meetings of Shareholders are called by the Supervisory Board has established from among its members an Managing Board or the Supervisory Board. The agenda and Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee, a Remuneration explanatory notes are published on the DSM website. Committee, besides which there is also a Sustainability Committee. According to the Articles of Association, shareholders who, individually or jointly, represent at least 1% of the issued capital The task of these committees is to prepare the decision making have the right to request to the Managing Board or the of the Supervisory Board. The functioning and tasks of these Supervisory Board that items be placed on the agenda. Such committees are governed by charters that have been drawn up requests need to be received in writing by the chairman of the in line with the Dutch corporate governance code and can be Managing Board or the Supervisory Board at least 60 days found on the DSM website. before the date of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Diversity The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders was held on 30 Since 1 January 2013, Dutch legislation requires that a large April 2015. The agenda was to a large extent similar to that of company, when nominating or appointing members of the previous years. Additional topics were the re-appointment of Managing Board or Supervisory Board, should strive to achieve Stephan Tanda as member of the Managing Board and the rea balanced composition of these Boards in terms of gender, to appointment of Pauline van der Meer Mohr as member of the the effect that at least 30% of the positions are held by women Supervisory Board. Further details can be found on the DSM and at least 30% by men. website. DSM strongly values diversity and endeavors to reflect this in its Board memberships. The current composition of the Supervisory Board is in line with this legislation. More than one Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 92 www.dsm.com Dutch corporate governance code Shareholders DSM supports the Dutch corporate governance code adopted Articles of Association in 2003 and amended in 2008, which can be found on www.commissiecorporategovernance.nl. • Regulations of the Supervisory Board • Charter of the Audit Committee DSM confirms that it applies all of the code’s 113 Best Practices. Supervisory • Charter of the Nomination Committee Board • Charter of the Remuneration Committee • Charter of the Sustainability Committee With respect to the appointment of members of the Managing Board for a period of at most four years (Best Practice II.1.1) it should be noted that DSM has adhered to this Best Practice Managing • Regulations of the Managing Board since the introduction of the corporate governance code in 2004. Board / • Management Framework for the corporate level Corporate • DSM Code of Business Conduct Since DSM respects agreements made before the introduction of said code, the current chairman of the Managing Board will Operational remain appointed for an indefinite period. units Management Framework for operational units With respect to the Dutch corporate governance code it should be noted that any substantial change in the corporate For the sake of clarity, a short summary of the main aspects of governance structure of the company and in the company's the framework at Managing Board/corporate level and compliance with the code shall be submitted to the General operational level is given here: Meeting of Shareholders for discussion under a separate agenda item. The Managing Board and Executive Committee adhere to the Regulations of the Managing Board. All documents related to the implementation at DSM of the Dutch The Managing Board and Executive Committee work corporate governance code can be found in the Governance according to the Management Framework for the corporate section of the company's website. level. This implies among other things that they adhere to the DSM Code of Business Conduct and applicable corporate Governance framework policies and requirements. The Management Framework for the corporate level further Business groups are the main building blocks of DSM’s provides a description of the most important (decision making) organization; they have integral long-term and short-term processes, responsibilities and 'rules of the game' at the business responsibility and have at their disposal all functions Managing Board and Executive Committee, functional and that are crucial to their business success. The business groups regional levels and includes the governance relations with the within a specific cluster report to one and the same member of next-higher levels (Supervisory Board and shareholders) and the Managing Board. This Board member manages the the operational units. In particular, the framework defines the coherence of operations and the leveraging of resources within roles of support functions (including corporate staff the cluster and is accountable for the overall performance of the departments), functional excellence departments and the cluster within limits defined by the collective responsibility of the regions as follows: total Managing Board for the management of the company. The Support functions have the responsibility for providing clusters are the main entities for external strategic and financial those services that can be provided more efficiently (in terms reporting. In order to ensure sufficient independence with regard of total cost of ownership for DSM) by leveraging them to financial management, the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) has across the company, capturing scale-benefits and no business groups reporting to her. delivering high quality at lower cost, rather than having them arranged in each business group separately. Within support The following figure depicts DSM's overall governance functions, centers of expertise will provide specialist framework and the most important governance elements and support. Shared service centers will provide standard regulations at each level. transactional support. Business partnering is the concept that will act as the interface between the business groups and the support functions. Each support function reports to a Managing Board member. Support functions exist in the areas of Finance, People & Organization, Legal, Indirect Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 93 www.dsm.com Sourcing, Communications and IT. In the new operating In the Fraud Committee, relevant corporate functions participate model corporate functions (small, high-level groups) under the chairmanship of the CFO. The objective of the supporting the Managing Board, are also seen as support committee is to ensure structural follow-up of fraud cases with functions. Corporate departments are Corporate Strategy & the aim of reducing fraud risks. Acquisitions, Corporate Operational Audit, Corporate Risk Management, Corporate Sustainability, Corporate Investor Sustainability Governance Framework Relations and Corporate Affairs. Managing Board Functional excellence departments are mandated by the Being both a core value and a business driver for the company, Managing Board to help the businesses to achieve sustainability falls under the responsibility of the Managing excellence. Functional excellence departments support Board. CEO/Chairman of the Managing Board Feike Sijbesma is businesses in improving their performance and provide the primary point of contact, overseeing the topics of guidance in setting aspiration levels and targets for R&D and sustainability as business growth driver, as well as climate Innovation, Direct Sourcing, Manufacturing & Operations change, while also managing DSM’s engagement with the and Marketing & Sales; the primary business functions. United Nations and the strategic partnership with the World Economic Forum. Mr. Sijbesma furthermore heads the ONE The company’s strategic direction and objectives are set in a DSM Culture Agenda. Other members of the Managing Board Corporate Strategy Dialogue. The outcome of the most recent also chair sustainability topics and initiatives. Managing Board Corporate Strategy Dialogue was presented in November 2015 member Stephan Tanda is responsible for Safety, Health and and is described in more detail from page 17. Environment, and is also the primary contact for DSM’s partnership with the World Food Programme and other issues in The operational units conduct their business within the relation to nutrition. In the new organizational model, Mr. Tanda parameters of the Management Framework for operational units. also chairs the Inclusion & Diversity Council (previously chaired This implies among other things that they: by Mr. Sijbesma). CFO Geraldine Matchett takes care of integrating sustainability into the finance discipline and comply with the DSM Code of Business Conduct, Corporate represents DSM in the Accounting for Sustainability (A4S) CFO Requirements and Directives; Leadership Network. establish the strategy, objectives and operational targets of their business according to the Business Strategy Dialogue, Supervisory Board aligned with the Corporate Strategy Dialogue and in which DSM’s Supervisory Board recognizes sustainability as a various scenarios and related risk profiles are investigated, and strategic value driver for the company and has appointed its own report on the achievement thereof; Sustainability Committee (previously called the Corporate Social implement risk management actions according to an Annual Responsibility Committee) to oversee progress against targets Risk Management Plan and in line with corporate policies; and report on the embedment of sustainability across the execute DSM-wide standards for support functions (systems, organization. For more details see 'Supervisory Board report' on processes, vendors, etc.); and page 102. execute the annual functional improvement plans, and monitor the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control External Sustainability Advisory Board system and regularly discuss the findings with the Managing DSM’s Sustainability Advisory Board has been set up as a Board. sparring partner for the Managing Board and senior executives in the company. It supports DSM in sharpening its focus on On average once every three years, the operational units are strategic issues, deepening its understanding of external audited by Corporate Operational Audit (COA). The director of stakeholder needs, conducting advocacy efforts and handling COA reports to the CFO and has access to the Chairman of the dilemmas. The board comprises a diverse international group of Managing Board, the external auditor and the Chairman of the thought leaders on key sustainability topics (see table next page). Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. Furthermore, the The company's external Sustainability Advisory Board met once director of COA acts as the compliance officer with regard to in 2015 together with the Managing Board in the Netherlands. inside information and is the secretary of the Disclosure Subjects such as DSM's corporate sustainability strategy Committee, as well as being chairman of the DSM Alert update, sustainable animal protein, biofuels, climate change Committee, which is responsible for the DSM whistleblower (with focus on COP21) and the circular economy were policy, systems and processes. Chaired by the CFO, the discussed. During the year, two members have left the board Disclosure Committee ensures the timely and accurate after their contracts expired. They will be replaced in 2016. disclosure of share price sensitive information related to the Company and is responsible among other things for the Global network implementation of the DSM rules on the holding and execution At a corporate level, sustainability is organized across a network of transactions in DSM financial instruments. of senior executives and employees. They are supported by the Corporate Sustainability department, which is under the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 94 www.dsm.com responsibility of the Vice President Sustainability, who reports sustainability networks in China, India, Latin America, and North directly to Feike Sijbesma. The aim of the corporate sustainability America. network is to support the business in achieving its sustainability aspirations. DSM also has a dedicated DSM Operations & Responsible Care department, which, among other areas, is responsible for all The Vice President Sustainability chairs the Sustainability corporate issues related to Safety, Health and Environment Leadership Team which includes the corporate sustainability (SHE). The Vice President of DSM Operations & Responsible network, as well as business managers dedicated to Care reports directly to Managing Board member Stephan sustainability, known as Sustainability Champions. This Tanda. SHE managers provide support on a business group leadership team supports line management in all business and level. The DSM SHE Council, which includes all business group functional groups and the DSM Innovation Center, and meets SHE managers, is instrumental in sharing experiences and quarterly to monitor the progress of sustainability across the developing practices and communications on SHE issues. company. In addition, DSM has set up internal regional Sustainability Advisory Board Member Background Paul Gilding (m) Independent writer and corporate advisor on sustainability. Fellow at University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership (UK). In 2011 he published his book “The Great Disruption”. In the 1990s, he was executive director of Greenpeace International. Nationality: Australian. Pamela Hartigan (f) Director of the Skoll Centre for Social Entrepreneurship at Saïd Business School in Oxford (UK), Associate Professor at Columbia Business School (New York, USA) and founding partner of Volans Ventures. Nationality: American. David King (m) Special representative for climate change of the UK government since 2013. From 2008 to 2012, he served as the founding director of the Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment at the University of Oxford (UK). Chief Scientific Advisor to the UK government 2000-2007. Nationality: British. Ye Qi (m) Cheung Kong professor of Environmental Policy and director of Brooking-Tsinghua Center for Public Policy at Tsinghua University in Beijing (China). Before he joined Tsinghua, he taught at Beijing Normal University, and the University of California at Berkeley (California, USA). Nationality: American. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 95 www.dsm.com Risk management as depicted in the figure below, and this section is structured accordingly. The Managing Board is responsible for risk management within DSM. With the support of the Corporate Risk Management A full description of DSM’s risk management system and department, which reports directly to the CFO, the Managing process together with a description of the identified risks is Board has designed and implemented a well-embedded risk available on the company’s website. These descriptions are to management system and organization in all company units. Risk be considered an integral part of this Report. management at DSM is based upon the COSO-ERM framework, Core Value Sustainability, CoBC + other training, CSD, BSD, Corporate Requirements Risk appetite Mission / Strategy / Information and Internal environment Objective setting Communication Enterprise Risk Management Monitoring & Risk Assessment Control activities & Response Annual Report Letter of Representation CRA, BRA, PRA, others RM system / plan / Internal Control Audits / Mitigating actions website / training Audit Committee Emerging risks Mission / Internal environment effectiveness. At the same time new requirements have also been developed in order to add People+ to DSM’s Brighter Values and business principles are a key element of the internal Living Solutions alongside ECO+. environment for risk management and form the starting point for the risk management cycle. DSM’s core value is Strategy / Objective setting sustainability, which is directly related to its mission to create brighter lives for people today and generations to come. All During 2015, DSM completed its Corporate Strategy Dialogue DSM employees receive regular training in risk management, (CSD) process and established the company’s Strategy 2018: covering generic and specific elements as required. This starts Driving Profitable Growth, which has set a number of with an overarching training in the DSM Code of Business corporate targets for the 2016-2018 period and thereafter. A Conduct (see the company's website) and is then further corresponding corporate risk management plan has been developed along the Triple P principles, whereby either all or developed to ensure in so far as possible the delivery of these selected target groups of DSM employees are required to strategic objectives. This plan also forms the basis for the follow mandatory e-courses for risks related to People, Planet individual units to define their risk management year plans at and Profit. See 'Code of Business Conduct' on page 60. either business group, (support) function or regional level. This DSM has appointed risk managers in its organizational units was also incorporated in the incentive system applicable to (business groups, support functions, functional excellence certain (senior) managers in 2015. and regions) to execute the risk management cycle, for An important precursor to risk assessments is the company’s example via risk management committees. overall risk appetite, which is defined by the Managing Board. DSM's ability to be a reliable business partner is further Within the boundaries of that overall risk appetite, anchored in compliance with all applicable laws and organizational units are encouraged to discuss their individual regulations as well as the corporate requirements, which the risk appetite depending on their specific situation. company is currently simplifying to increase their In 2015, the Managing Board determined the following overall risk appetite: Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 96 www.dsm.com DSM Risk Appetite 2015 Averse Minimalist Cautious Open Hungry Generic/strategic (e.g.: Innovation, People/organization/culture, Intellectual property, Raw material/energy price/availability, Sustainability, Joint Ventures/Alliances) Operational (e.g.: Reputation, Customer, Project management, Production process, Information Security, Business Continuity, Product Liability, Safety Health and Environment) Financial and reporting (e.g.: Liquidity and market, Reporting integrity, Pension, Financial risks (e.g. credit, tax)) Legal and compliance (e.g.: Legal non-compliance, non-compliance with DSM Requirements) Risk Assessment and Response DSM requires all units to sign a Letter of Representation (LoR) at the end of each book year, confirming their compliance with Risk assessments and responses are carried out at various local laws, regulations and with corporate requirements. The levels: LoR also confirms their reporting integrity and provides an additional platform to report material risks and incidents A Corporate Risk Assessment (CRA) is performed by the including possible reputational risks. In order to better monitor Managing Board, including the definition of and follow-up on the company’s risk pulse and to have more time to follow up mitigating actions. Besides the input from the Managing Board on mitigating actions, a shorter and more qualitative version of members themselves, input for the CRA also comes from the LoR was introduced mid-year. other members of the Executive Committee, corporate staff Besides numerous external audits, DSM’s risk managers take and shared service departments, regions, internal risks and the lead in instigating internal audits to check the effectiveness incident reports and external sources. All these elements are of the internal controls and risk and incident mitigations. consolidated by the Corporate Risk Management department. Independent audits, including unannounced audits, were This is followed by a final session in which the Managing Board executed by the Corporate Operational Audit department in a reaches consensus about the top risks DSM is facing and how program that was agreed with the Audit Committee of the to mitigate these, as well as how to respond to other important Supervisory Board. risks. They also define monitoring actions for certain emerging The consolidated overview of all aforementioned risks, risks which DSM might face in the longer term (see details incidents, audits and mitigating actions is the basis for this risk below). Potential risk correlations were also discussed to section and the statements of the Managing Board in prevent − as far as possible − a scenario with a potential accordance with the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act ‘domino effect’ of risks. at the end of this section as well as provided in the risk Business Risk Assessments (BRA) and their equivalents for management section of the half-year figures. (support) functions and regions are carried out in cross functional teams. Challengers are invited to join these and Control activities improve the quality of these risk assessments. Process Risk Assessments (PRA) are intended to make the Control activities are carried out by the appointed risk managers DSM processes as robust, business-specific and fraudand related risk committees who regularly review: resistant as possible. Project risk assessments are performed on an on-going basis compliance aspects such as the implementation of training on to secure successful delivery and value creation. This also values, segregation of duties, and follow-up of audits from forms part of the integration plan for new acquisitions, which various stakeholders; includes a compliance program. the execution, follow up and quality of the relevant set of risk assessments; and Monitoring and reporting best practices from internal and external sources to further strengthen DSM’s risk management cycle as well as to ensure Various means of monitoring and reporting are in place, including appropriate risk management training for all employees at the risk committees and ICT tools. These provide a robust and DSM. continuous overview of the functioning of the common controls and the mitigation of common risks. The following points should In 2015, new advanced ICT tools such as SAP-GRC covering also be noted: access control, user provisioning and privileged user management have been implemented for the majority of DSM’s Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 97 www.dsm.com units. The Financial Shared Service Center is working on The company’s top and emerging risks finalizing a pilot for financial process controls. The preliminary outcome of the CRA as performed by the Information and Communication Managing Board was reported to and discussed with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board in the meeting of Continuous efforts are made to inform employees about the 7 December 2015. This ‘top-down’ outcome was compared DSM risk management system and train them in its use. with the ‘bottom-up’ risks and incidents as reported by all the Initiatives in 2015 included: individual units in their LoR, as well as with the findings from the internal and external audits. This final risk profile was reported to improvements to the learning management system and its and discussed with the Audit Committee on 15 February 2016 implementation cycle for the DSM Code of Business Conduct and forms the basis for the main risks and responses as reported training, bringing the number of employees who are fully on the next page. trained above 90%; the roll-out of updates to the DSM risk video and the basic Top risks (available for all employees) and advanced risk management The table on the next page shows the four most important risks courses, as well as the development of a new training for the for DSM not achieving its targets as defined in Strategy 2018: risk management community on co-creating risk solutions in Driving Profitable Growth and the remedial actions to mitigate support of their role as a trusted advisor for the relevant units; them. Top risks have a potential impact on DSM's EBITDA of the introduction of a more user-friendly risk management approximately € 25 million and over. intranet site; the preparation of a short five-page summary of the DSM corporate requirements to improve their use in managing risks and preventing risks from materializing at DSM sites around the world; the provision of risk management webinars and other communications tools to address specific (new) risk topics, fraud cases, etc. DSM also facilitated dilemma discussions to improve general risk awareness within the company; and the start of an initiative to simplify the DSM policies and requirements in order to improve the effectiveness of the risk management cycle by making the information and communication more concise and risk-based. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 98 www.dsm.com Top risks and related mitigating actions Description of risks Mitigating actions Market environment In 2015, DSM finalized important transformation steps, DSM leverages its innovation power to differentiate in the value completing the creation of a streamlined and simplified chain and secure growth. Furthermore, DSM is broadening its business portfolio and a good platform for growth. offering in terms of products, applications and customer base. Nonetheless the risk of facing increased competition for some Improved marketing and pricing management programs product-market combinations remains. should contribute to enable DSM to increase the value it captures. People, organization and culture DSM's capabilities in certain disciplines and the way it DSM is adjusting its operating model and strengthened its top manages talent may not be fully at the desired level to execute leadership structure to manage performance and drive the its plans for above-market growth or its cost and productivity achievement of its objectives. A culture change program is onimprovement programs. going focused on a results-driven trust/support/can-do mindset. Moreover, DSM will implement a new talent management approach developed in 2015. DSM will improve its existing capabilities by training and attracting additional competences if required. Global financial and economic developments DSM's Strategy 2018 assumed no major economic downturn The same mitigating actions apply to macro-economic with a global GDP growth-rate of 3.2%, although economic developments as for risks related to the market environment. headwinds might occur. Furthermore, DSM continues to match cost and revenue DSM assumed exchange rates versus the euro of USD 1.10 currencies wherever possible, while the exchange rate risk is and CHF 1.08, while future currency volatilities could have a also reduced by DSM's acquisitions in China (Aland) and Latin significant detrimental impact on the achievement of DSM's America (Tortuga) which provide a measure of natural hedge targets; USD 0.01 volatility in the exchange rate has almost with 'local for local' production. € 10 million EBITDA impact (before hedging). The appropriateness of the DSM hedging policy will be reviewed. Program and project management Besides achieving above-market growth in the period DSM's new way of working with its focus on Accountability 2016-2018, EBITDA improvements have to be generated via (delivering the results) and Collaboration (increase speed) in cost savings to be derived from globally leveraging DSM's combination with a new operating model and a new support functions and a Nutrition-specific cost and productivity strengthened top structure should enable faster and better improvement program. Although DSM has well-identified execution of the strategic cost and productivity improvement initiatives with targeted overall savings of € 250-300 million in programs. Moreover, DSM continues to invest in change EBITDA by the end of 2018, the final delivery of the program management, strict project management and ongoing will require strong program and project management. monitoring which includes taking corrective actions where needed. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 99 www.dsm.com In terms of possible risk correlations, the potential economic adequate R&D and innovation budgets and customer headwinds mentioned in the top risk 'Global financial and alliances. economic developments' might also impact the top risk of DSM's Nutrition and Performance Materials markets may be 'Market environment', for which the same mitigating actions as disrupted by longer-term changes in food preferences/food mentioned apply. systems and/or by innovations (such as 3D printing, new systems replacing fossil by renewable energy, new mobility DSM’s portfolio was strengthened, streamlined and made more and transport options, the circular and sharing economy). At resilient in 2015. Consequently a number of the top risks the same time these changes might also offer new identified in 2014 no longer qualify: opportunities in the value chains DSM serves. Especially the Animal Nutrition & Health business may be The Market environment risk of increased competition/ affected by the global or regional spread of infectious reduced prices for vitamin E has materialized and stabilized, diseases. However, DSM has a well-balanced portfolio while the markets for a number of products from Human delivering solutions to different species (including swine, Nutrition & Health have shown signs of picking up again, driven poultry, aquatic and ruminants) and has a good regional by both industry campaigns and strengthening of the DSM spread, which intrinsically reduces this risk. Human Nutrition & Health organization. The new DSM operating model, the implementation of which Enhancement of the risk management system began, addresses the organization's regional and functional effectiveness in the category People, organization and culture. A number of improvements to the risk management system were DSM successfully concluded its pursuit of strategic actions for developed and implemented during the year, some of which Polymer Intermediates and Composite Resins in July 2015 have been mentioned above. The key improvements were: with the establishment of the ChemicaInvest partnership. In its new operating model, DSM has made the role of Compliance: DSM made significant progress in improving the functional excellence departments more explicit and improved training of its employees, especially for the Code of Business their ability to support the business groups in order to ensure Conduct training (>90%) and related e-learnings such as Antithat top quartile performance will be met. Bribery and Corruption. For a full overview, see 'Code of Business Conduct' on page 60. Other important risks Risk assessments: the quality of the assessments has been Besides the top strategic risks reported above, the CRA has stepped up by involving internal and/or external challengers; identified a number of other important (sometimes more awareness on reputational risks has been raised by operational) risks with a potential EBITDA impact of introducing a new tool for the identification and ranking of approximately € 5 million and over; these include business these risks; and creating more focus by paying more attention continuity, product liability, cyber security, ICT complexity, to the top risks. DSM introduced a new and simple intellectual property and raw material prices. Some of these methodology for bringing emerging risks to light and also risks, such as tax risks, are managed at corporate level, whilst improved the monitoring of these risks to ensure timely action. others are managed at unit level through rigorous application of Potential risk correlations were also discussed to prevent − as the DSM risk management cycle and its risk management far as possible − a scenario with a potential ‘domino effect’ of practices as explained above. Some risks with the potential to risks. emerge in the mid and longer-term have been identified and Risk solutions: DSM updated its full suite of risk management discussed by the Managing Board and are reported in the trainings, including a behavioral training to become a more following paragraph. The company’s risk management and effective trusted advisor able to co-create risk solutions internal control system has been designed to monitor and together with the relevant management teams. The inclusion respond to these developments in a timely manner, however of more outside-in views and sharing internal and external best 100% assurance can never be achieved. practices also contributed. Finally, an in-depth presentation of the evolution of the DSM Emerging & mid-term risks risk management system was shared with the Audit The following emerging and mid-term risks have been reported Committee of the Supervisory Board. This ensured that they by the Managing Board and are being carefully monitored so as are fully involved and aware of the developments in enterprise to be able to mitigate them or use them as new opportunities in risk management and how they contribute to the achievement a timely manner: of DSM’s strategic objectives. Slower development pace of some longer-term DSM Innovation projects such as Clean Cow, new natural sweeteners, etc. To secure these key projects as early as possible, DSM must ensure strict project governance, staffing, Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 100 www.dsm.com Statements of the Managing Board On the basis of the above and in accordance with best practice II.1.5 of the Dutch corporate governance code of December 2008, and Article 5:25c of the Financial Markets Supervision Act, the Managing Board confirms that internal controls over financial reporting provide a reasonable level of assurance that the financial reporting does not contain any material inaccuracies, and confirms that these controls functioned properly in the year under review and that there are no indications that they will not continue to do so. The financial statements fairly represent the company's financial condition and the results of the company’s operations and provide the required disclosures. It should be noted that the above does not imply that these systems and procedures provide absolute assurance as to the realization of operational and strategic business objectives, or that they can prevent all misstatements, inaccuracies, errors, fraud and non-compliances with legislation, rules and regulations. In view of all of the above, the Managing Board confirms that, to the best of its knowledge, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company, and the management report includes a fair review of the position at the balance sheet date and the development and performance of the business during the financial year together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the company faces. Heerlen, 29 February 2016 The Managing Board Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Managing Board Geraldine Matchett, CFO Stephan Tanda Dimitri de Vreeze Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 101 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report experience. The Board's current members are Rob Routs (chair), Ewald Kist (deputy chair), Pierre Hochuli, Tom de Swaan, Pauline Introduction by the Chairman van der Meer Mohr, Victoria Haynes and Eileen Kennedy. For Looking back at the Supervisory Board meetings in 2015, two detailed information on their background, see 'Corporate topics in particular stand out amidst a range of subjects and Governance' on the DSM website and page 114 of this Report. activities. The first relates to the role of the Supervisory Board in The targeted profile of the Supervisory Board is reflected in its the design of the divestment of the DSM Fibre Intermediates and regulations, which are published on DSM's website under DSM Composite Resins businesses. The second was the Corporate Governance. The Supervisory Board has four Supervisory Board’s intensive involvement in the development committees to cover key areas in greater detail: auditing, during the year of DSM’s Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable nominations (of the Supervisory Board and Managing Board), Growth, including the company objectives for the coming period. remuneration (of the Supervisory Board and Managing Board) This new strategy takes DSM from a period of optimizing and and sustainability. Information on these committees is given simplifying its portfolio into a phase in which it can fully focus on elsewhere in this chapter. The charters of the committees are driving the profitable growth for which it is very well positioned. published on the DSM website under Corporate Governance. The presentation of the new strategy during the Capital Markets Day in November was one of the highlights of the year. The Information Supervisory Board can also reflect on an inspiring site visit to the The Managing Board is the most important source of information South of Limburg (Netherlands), during which the Supervisory for the Supervisory Board. Information is mainly submitted for Board was provided with in-depth insights into the worlds of Supervisory Board meetings but also provided around those Innovation, Emerging Business Areas (EBAs), DSM Dyneema meetings and in bilateral contacts between Supervisory Board and DSM Engineering Plastics, as well as into the performance and Managing Board members. Whenever the Supervisory improvement program in the Nutrition cluster. Board or a member feels the need to be informed on a specific topic, this is requested; follow-up is provided by the Managing Aside from the shocking and contemptible terrorist attacks in Board. In 2015, for example, the Supervisory Board asked for Paris, one of the low-points of last year was without doubt the an overview of and update on the supply situation of omega-3 earthquake that caused such devastation to the Nepalese oils. At the start of each Supervisory Board meeting, the region. The Supervisory Board is proud of the way DSM and its Managing Board shares news as well as highlights and lowlights employees immediately took action to organize fundraising and since the previous meeting. This not only keeps the Supervisory donated a large amount of money. On a positive note, the climate Board informed, but also enables them to indicate any topics on agreement reached in Paris will help conserve the planet for which they would like to receive more information or have a future generations and give vital support to the countries most discussion. vulnerable to the effects of climate change. Business leaders played a substantial role in advocating for and supporting the The Supervisory Board furthermore regularly receives COP21 agreement, and the Supervisory Board is pleased that information on relevant topics from senior leaders and experts Feike Sijbesma is one of those leaders. The Supervisory Board within DSM during committee meetings, full Supervisory Board also supports DSM's partnership with the UN World Food meetings and as part of their ongoing professional education. In Programme (WFP), for which the contract was renewed at the 2015, this was the case with respect to Intellectual Property, end of 2015. This makes DSM the WFP's longest-running Communications, Innovation, Talent Development, Taxation and partner. Pensions. During its annual site visit, the Supervisory Board has and actively takes the opportunity to interact with employees at This Report provides further information on the way the different levels within the company, from the shop-, laband Supervisory Board performed its duties in 2015. These concern work-floor to senior leadership, thus collecting information from supervising the policy pursued by the Managing Board, the different sources within DSM. Managing Board's performance of its managerial duties and the general course of affairs within DSM and its businesses, as well Relationship and stakeholder management as in assisting the Managing Board with advice, either upon In performing its duties, the Supervisory Board acts in request or proactively. Finally, these duties also include fulfilling accordance with the interests of the company and the business the role of supervisor towards the Managing Board, assessing connected with it, taking into consideration the interests of the their performance and ensuring that their remuneration is both company's stakeholders. The Chairman of the Supervisory in line with that performance and provides the appropriate Board is in close contact with the CEO/Chairman of the incentives. Managing Board, as is the Chairman of the Audit Committee with the CFO. The Supervisory Board interacts with DSM employees Composition of the Supervisory Board on various occasions and in various settings. In general, bilateral The composition of the DSM Supervisory Board is diverse in contacts between Supervisory Board members and Managing gender (four men, three women), nationality (four Dutch, one Board members follow naturally from topics discussed in the Swiss and two American), background, knowledge and Supervisory Board meetings and match the respective fields of Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 102 www.dsm.com expertise. In view of that expertise, Managing Board members performance, potential and composition of the current portfolio. also seek the advice of Supervisory Board members on specific For the Nutrition cluster, discussions were focused on organic matters. The same goes for bilateral contacts with other growth and improving performance, among other things against employees. In 2015, for example, one Supervisory Board the backdrop of a slowdown in some human nutrition endmember was, at her request, extensively briefed on the weighting markets and pricing pressure in several product segments factors applied in DSM’s Life Cycle Assessments; another Board (notably in vitamin E). These also included the Nutrition-specific member offered expertise in addressing a particular question on performance improvement program. In their discussions on the the subject of intellectual property; and the Chairman of the Performance Materials cluster, the Supervisory Board focused Supervisory Board shared his views on leadership with a group on efficiencies, ongoing cost control and improving the of senior DSM managers taking part in DSM’s executive performance of the cluster’s portfolio. Two of the work streams leadership program. The Supervisory Board is informed of the focused on the DSM operating model and on people, culture and position of other DSM stakeholders by the Managing Board. In organization respectively and were ultimately considered addition, the Supervisory Board collects such information together. This led to the adjustments to DSM’s organizational through its own network. The Supervisory Board has an active and operating model as announced on 25 August 2015, with the interest in maintaining a good understanding of shareholder's aim of creating a more agile, focused and cost-efficient perceptions. organization, with a stronger business and market focus and globally leveraged support functions. This will result in structural Supervision and advice savings of € 125-150 million, to be fully achieved by the end of The Supervisory Board performs its duties of supervising and 2017, and a headcount reduction of 900-1,100 FTEs, of which advising the Managing Board both with respect to recurring approximately half in the Netherlands. During discussions on this standard agenda items for Supervisory Board meetings as well topic, the Supervisory Board challenged the Managing Board on as to specific topics that become relevant at a given point in time. the projected savings and on the clarity and sustainability of the The most prominent regular agenda item is an update on chosen operating model, and stressed the need to give sufficient Business, Financials and Treasury topics. As part of this topic, attention to change management. the Supervisory Board tracks the financial performance of the company and approves the annual Finance Plan, as well as The final outcome of the Corporate Strategy Dialogue, DSM’s deliberating on any additional treasury topics as applicable. The Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth, has the full support of Supervisory Board thus discussed and approved the share buythe Supervisory Board, and the targets set for the coming three back program to cover existing option plans for management, years bear the Supervisory Board’s clear imprint. the issue of bonds and the hedging policy. Besides this regular item, most of the Supervisory Board’s meeting time in 2015 was Site visit to the South of the Netherlands spent on the Corporate Strategy Dialogue. Each year the Supervisory Board takes a number of days to visit DSM sites in a particular region. This year’s visit was to DSM’s Corporate Strategy Dialogue sites in the South of the Netherlands. Consequently, the main The Corporate Strategy Dialogue is the process within DSM that focus was on: the DSM Innovation Center including the EBAs; ultimately leads to the most appropriate strategy for a particular DSM Engineering Plastics; and DSM Dyneema. The site visits period. The development of DSM’s Strategy 2018: Driving offer an opportunity to interact with employees across the Profitable Growth during the 2015 Corporate Strategy Dialogue company as well as providing the Supervisory Board members was carried out in a number of work streams. These work continuing education opportunities. The visit deepened the streams focused on specific strategic aspects, ranging from Supervisory Board’s understanding of DSM’s activities in the portfolio questions to sustainability and innovation aspirations. material sciences and innovation space, with the Board The Supervisory Board’s involvement in the development of members gaining additional insights into the technologies used, Strategy 2018 went beyond supervision and approval. Part of DSM’s positioning in the value chains and into the business the Supervisory Board meetings were used by the Managing models applied. Board for working sessions to ensure that the Supervisory Board’s expertise could be utilized to the full. At various stages While visiting the Innovation Center, the Supervisory Board of the strategy’s progression, the Supervisory Board and received extensive information about the way in which the Managing Board held break-out sessions to discuss and Innovation Center operates within DSM as well as about the develop the new strategy. current state of development of the EBAs. While there, the Supervisory Board went to the DSM Advanced Surfaces Discussions on operational performance, the progress of the demonstration lab and was also given presentations on five execution of the 2010-2015 strategy DSM in motion: driving innovations that DSM expects to bring to market in the coming focused growth, the competitive landscape and M&A years. The visit included a tour of the Ahead R&D building (a opportunities were incorporated into the Corporate Strategy shared research unit primarily serving the Performance Materials Dialogue work streams. This resulted in in-depth discussions business groups, as well as the EBAs and some other business between Managing Board and Supervisory Board on the groups), RESOLVE (a competence center offering R&D support Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 103 www.dsm.com for products and processes servicing both DSM and third Both the Nomination and the Remuneration Committee prepare parties), a research and manufacturing unit for high-performance the Supervisory Board's duties in its role as the Managing polymers, and the DSM Dyneema manufacturing site in Heerlen. Board's employer. The Supervisory Board was presented with a full review of both Board nominations the DSM Engineering Plastics as well as the DSM Dyneema Members of the Nomination Committee are Rob Routs (chair), business. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board was informed Ewald Kist and Pauline van der Meer Mohr. Feike Sijbesma and about the Dutch regional organization and the changes this is Peter Vrijsen, Executive Vice President Group People & undergoing following the introduction of the new operating Organization, were also involved in these discussions. The model. In addition and at their request, the Supervisory Board Committee met three times in 2015; on a single occasion, a was informed about the pension situation in the various countries member had to excuse himself due to a scheduling clash. The in which DSM is active. Finally, the Supervisory Board took the recommendations and minutes of all Nomination Committee opportunity to meet with 'talents' working at the business groups meetings were shared with the entire Supervisory Board. This and regional organization they visited. Each day of the site visit feedback included advice and recommendations regarding was concluded with a reflection meeting in which the topics to be approved by the full Supervisory Board. Supervisory Board shared its impressions with the Managing Board. During these meetings, the Supervisory Board members In 2015, nomination discussions were focused on succession shared any specific advice they had pertaining to the business planning for both the Managing Board and the Supervisory models applied and technologies used, as well as to talent Board, also with a view to the desire to broaden the expertise of development. the Supervisory Board with a member experienced in doing business in Asia. The Nomination Committee discussed the Supervisory Board meetings and performance evaluation proposed nomination for reappointment of Stephan Tanda, In 2015 the Supervisory Board had seven meetings and three whose term as Managing Board member ended in 2015. conference calls in the presence of the Managing Board. On Discussions also covered the arrangements around the three occasions, a member was excused on health grounds and departure of Stefan Doboczky. Furthermore, it was agreed in once a member was excused due to a conflicting commitment. 2015, being one of the outcomes of the 2014 evaluation, that The Supervisory Board also convenes in the absence of the succession planning would be a standard agenda item at each Managing Board, which happens either before or after each meeting of the Nomination Committee in order to assess and meeting. review the succession potential for Managing Board positions. The Supervisory Board assessed the composition of the As in previous years, a Board evaluation was carried out on the Managing Board following Mr. Doboczky's departure. It basis of written questionnaires and interviews with each of the concluded that the Managing Board is diverse in nationality (two Supervisory Board members. The review assessed the collective Dutch, one Austrian and one member being a Swiss, British and performance of the Board and its Committees and the French citizen), gender (three men, one woman), background, performance of the Chairman. The overall feedback from the knowledge and experience, and provides a good foundation to self-evaluation was that the Board is operating well and that support all clusters and business groups in achieving their discussions are very open and constructive. targets and thus contributing to the company strategy aimed at driving profitable growth. For detailed background information Key areas of strategy, business performance and risk on all Managing Board members see the DSM website under management are well covered; in the coming year more attention 'Corporate Governance' and page 115 of this Report. will be paid to talent management and currency hedging. Steps will be taken to ensure that the level of discussion within DSM’s Taking into account the Supervisory Board profile as laid down Sustainability Committee continues to develop, among others by in the Supervisory Board regulations, the Nomination Committee looking at best practices from comparable committees in this continued discussions on the overall composition of the relatively young discipline. This outcome was presented and Supervisory Board and discussed the succession planning for discussed in the December meeting of the Supervisory Board. the entire Managing and Supervisory Board. Given the The Board established that all of its members are committed to Supervisory Board’s current composition, the Nomination allocating sufficient time and attention to the Board's duties of Committee spent a reasonable amount of time in recruiting an supervising and advising the Managing Board. Once every three Asian Board member. As a result of these efforts the Supervisory years the evaluation is performed by an external advisor, which Board will nominate Pradeep Pant for appointment as will be the case in 2016. Supervisory Board member at the 2016 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Following his appointment Pradeep Pant will Committees become a member of both the Audit Committee and The Supervisory Board has four committees to cover key areas Sustainability Committee. in greater detail: nominations, remunerations, sustainability and auditing, which are described in more detail below. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 104 www.dsm.com Furthermore the Nomination Committee and, at its A proposal will be put before the Annual General Meeting of recommendation, the Supervisory Board, addressed the reShareholders to be held on 29 April 2016. appointments of Victoria Haynes and Eileen Kennedy, whose terms as Supervisory Board members will expire in 2016 and Sustainability who will both be proposed for re-appointment at the 2016 The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, which prepares Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. As Ewald Kist’s third the Supervisory Board’s discussions on sustainability topics, term as Supervisory Board member comes to an end in 2016, was renamed the Sustainability Committee during the year. The the Nomination Committee and subsequently the full Sustainability Committee met three times in 2015 and will Supervisory Board discussed the future composition of the continue to do so in the future (meetings were previously held Committees and the fulfilment of the role of vice-chair. As of the twice annually). All members participated in these meetings. The 2016 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, Tom de Swaan members of this Committee are Pauline van der Meer Mohr will act as vice-chair of the Supervisory Board, Pauline van der (chair), Pierre Hochuli and Eileen Kennedy. The Chair of the Meer Mohr will chair the Remuneration Committee and, Supervisory Board has a standing invitation and participated in assuming the 2016 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders all meetings. The recommendations and minutes of these reappoints her, Eileen Kennedy will chair the Sustainability meetings were shared and discussed with the entire Supervisory Committee. Board during its meetings with the Managing Board. This feedback included advice and recommendations regarding Board remuneration topics to be approved by the full Supervisory Board, in particular The Remuneration Committee had four meetings and one the sustainability reporting in the Report. With the 'Independent conference call in 2015. The chair was excused on two assurance report on the sustainability information' by KPMG on occasions, once on health grounds and once because of a page 203 of this Report taken into consideration, the full conflicting commitment. Ewald Kist (chair), Rob Routs and Tom Supervisory Board approved the reporting in these sections in de Swaan are members of this committee. Recommendations its meeting of 29 February 2016. The Sustainability Information and minutes of the Remuneration Committee meetings were is in compliance with the G4 sustainability reporting guidelines of shared with the full Supervisory Board and used to determine the Global Reporting Initiative and the internal reporting criteria the final remuneration of the members of the Managing Board. of DSM, which are included in this Report, and is aligned with the International Integrated Reporting Council Framework where Discussions were focused on the performance and the related possible. remuneration of the members of the Managing Board, both in respect of company and individual performance in 2015, as well During the year, a recurring topic has been DSM’s performance as the way the current remuneration policy should be applied on its People and Planet targets with a focus on ECO+, given the targets set as part of Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable People+, Responsible Care® and Inclusion & Diversity. Through Growth. Feike Sijbesma and Peter Vrijsen were also partly these discussions, the Sustainability Committee followed-up on involved in these discussions. the implementation of the corporate strategy and the progress made with the implementation of the sustainability and safety At the request of the Managing Board, the Supervisory Board aspirations set by the company as part of its strategy. A number decided to refrain from an increase in the base salary of members of business cases were discussed in 2015, which gave the of the Managing Board in 2015 in light of the various cost Sustainability Committee the opportunity to see how DSM reduction programs being set up within the company at that applies Life Cycle Assessments and develops products to help time. Following a benchmark, the Remuneration Committee enable the circular economy. Furthermore the Committee was discussed the desirability of increasing the base salary of the updated on DSM’s performance in the Dow Jones Sustainability Managing Board in 2016 in order to keep their remuneration at World Index and on DSM’s advocacy at the World Economic par. The same holds for the compensation received by the Forum. The Committee's view that DSM is doing well when it Supervisory Board. Advised by the Remuneration Committee, comes to sustainability is supported by the fact that the company the Supervisory Board decided to raise the base salary of the has been named among the leaders in the Dow Jones members of the Managing Board by 3.5% as of 1 January 2016. Sustainability World Index for several years in a row and has At the end of 2015, the Remuneration Committee decided to returned to the so-called Gold Class in 2016. benchmark the Supervisory Board fees in view of signals that the current fees may be lagging behind the market. The benchmark Financials and auditing confirmed that the current fees (both general and some The activities of the Supervisory Board in the area of financials committee fees as well as the international travel allowance) are and auditing are prepared by the Audit Committee. The Audit relatively low compared to peers. An increase of the fees in order Committee met six times in 2015, of which four via conference for DSM to be able to continue to retain and attract highly call. The Audit Committee held one additional conference call to qualified international Supervisory Board members was assess the subsequent event procedure performed between the discussed and proposed to the full Supervisory Board. publication of DSM’s full year results 2014 and the publication of its 2014 financial statements. Tom de Swaan (chair), Pierre Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 105 www.dsm.com Hochuli and Victoria Haynes are members of the Audit statements' on page 199). The Supervisory Board established Committee. All Supervisory Board members have a standing that the external auditor was independent of DSM. invitation to attend Audit Committee meetings; they do so most often for the regular conference calls in which financial The Supervisory Board will submit the 2015 financial statements developments and interim results are discussed. The Chair of the to the 2016 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, and will Supervisory Board has a standing invitation and participated in propose that the shareholders adopt them and release the all meetings and calls. Whenever relevant, managers responsible Managing Board from all liability in respect of its managerial for corporate control, internal audit, risk management, and activities and release the Supervisory Board from all liability in operational audit and compliance were invited to explain respect of its supervision of the Managing Board. The profit developments in their areas to the Audit Committee. The external appropriation as proposed by the Managing Board and auditor, the CFO and occasionally the CEO also participated in approved by the Supervisory Board is presented in the Profit the Audit Committee’s meetings and calls. At least once a year, section of the 2015 Integrated Annual Report. The Supervisory the Audit Committee meets with the external auditor without the Board wishes to express its sincere appreciation for the results Managing Board being present. One such meeting took place in achieved and would like to thank everyone associated with DSM, 2015. The highlights and the minutes of all Audit Committee most especially the employees and the Managing Board, for their meetings were shared with the full Supervisory Board. This efforts. feedback included advice and recommendations regarding topics to be approved by the full Supervisory Board. The Committee had in-depth discussions on the company’s financials, financing and guarantee plan, capital expenditure plan, dividend proposals, financial statements, accounting policy changes, internal risk management and control systems, potential risks (including Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) and security risks), compliance with recommendations and observations made by internal and external auditors, and on the role and functioning of the Operational Audit department, including the endorsement of its proposed audit plan. As part of the Corporate Risk Assessment, the company’s main risks and their mitigation were discussed. Furthermore the Committee was updated on DSM’s risk assessment methodology. The Committee also discussed and evaluated cases submitted under DSM’s whistleblower policy (DSM Alert), and mitigating actions to prevent recurrence. In accordance with new Dutch and European legislation with regard to the independence of auditors (mandatory audit firm rotation), at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, KPMG was appointed as the new external auditor for DSM as of 2015 for an initial period of three years. Discussions were held with KPMG about the financial statements for 2015. As part of the planning process, key audit matters dealing with, among others, goodwill impairment triggers, the potential impairment of the DSM-AGI business, on-going litigation and the accounting of the results of ChemicaInvest were explained and shared with the Audit Committee. Financial statements 2015 The Report by the Managing Board and the financial statements for 2015 were submitted by the Managing Board to the Supervisory Board, in accordance with the provisions of Article 30 of the Articles of Association, and subsequently approved by the Supervisory Board on 29 February 2016. The financial statements were audited by KPMG, who issued an unqualified opinion (see the 'Independent auditor's report on the financial Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 106 www.dsm.com Remuneration policy for the Managing aligning the remuneration policy even more with long-term Board stakeholder interests, in line with DSM's stated philosophy of creating long-term value for all stakeholders; This chapter outlines the remuneration policy as approved by the updating the policy in line with the most recent prevalent Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Details of the actual market practices and benchmarks for executive and board remuneration in 2015 as approved by the Remuneration compensation; and Committee can be found in note 9 of the 'Parent company further strengthening pay for multi-dimensional, Peoplefinancial statements' on page 192. Planet-Profit driven performance within DSM. Remuneration policy The approved adjustments did not change the overall The objective of DSM’s remuneration policy is to attract, reward, remuneration model for the Managing Board. This model is motivate, incentivize and retain qualified and expert individuals based on providing fair compensation approaching the median, that the company needs in order to achieve its strategic and and consists of a base salary and a well-balanced mix of Shortoperational objectives, whilst acknowledging the societal Term and Long-Term Incentives. Both the Short-Term Incentive context around remuneration and recognizing the interests of (STI) and the Long-Term Incentive (LTI) consist of two equal DSM's stakeholders. The following elements are taken into parts, one of which is linked to financial targets and the other to consideration: sustainability and in addition – for STI only – individual targets. The remuneration policy reflects a balance between the Labor-market peer group interests of DSM’s main stakeholders as well as a balance In order to be able to recruit the right caliber of people for the between the company’s short-term and long-term strategy. Managing Board and to secure long-term retention of the current As a result, the structure of the remuneration package for the Board members, DSM will take external reference data into Managing Board is designed to balance short-term account in determining adequate remuneration levels. For this operational performance with the medium and long-term purpose, a specific labor-market peer group has been defined objective of creating sustainable value within the company, which consists of a number of Dutch and European companies while taking into account the interests of its stakeholders. DSM that are more or less comparable to DSM in terms of size, strives for a high performance in the field of sustainability and international scope and complexity in business portfolio. The aims to maintain a good balance between economic gain, Supervisory Board regularly reviews the peer group to ensure respect for people and concern for the environment in line with that its composition is still appropriate. the DSM values and business principles as reflected in the DSM Code of Business Conduct. The labor-market peer group for 2015 consisted of the following To ensure that highly skilled and qualified senior executives 11 companies: can be attracted, motivated and retained, DSM aims for a total remuneration level that is comparable to levels provided by other (Dutch and European) multinational companies that are Aegon Nutreco similar to DSM in terms of size and complexity. AkzoNobel Solvay The remuneration policies for the members of the Managing Clariant Syngenta Board and for other Executive Committee members as well as Heineken TNT Express other senior executives of DSM are aligned. KPN Wolters Kluwer In designing and setting the levels of remuneration for the LANXESS Managing Board, the Supervisory Board also takes into account the relevant statutory provisions and provisions of the Dutch corporate governance code, societal and market trends Recent mergers and takeovers have meant that this laborand the interests of stakeholders. market peer group has decreased in number, to below the DSM’s policy is to offer the Managing Board a total direct desired number of at least 12 companies. Moreover, changes in compensation approaching the median of the labor-market the regulatory context mean that some of these companies have peer group. become less relevant as a benchmark for DSM. Therefore during the Remuneration Committee meetings of 7 December 2015 No adjustments to the remuneration policy for the Managing and 15 February 2016 it was decided that as of 1 January 2016 Board in 2015 the labor-market peer group will consist of the following 16 companies: There were no adjustments to DSM’s remuneration policy in 2015. The policy was last adjusted in 2013, when the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of 3 May 2013 approved a number of changes which were aimed at: Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 107 www.dsm.com three-year remuneration benchmark. In addition, the company AkzoNobel KPN will, when appropriate, apply a yearly increase to the base salary ASML LANXESS based on the ‘general increase’ (market movement) for DSM Clariant Lonza executives in the Netherlands, taking into account the general Covestro Philips (Health Tech) movements of the labor-market peer group as well. Adjustment Evonik Randstad of the base salary is at the discretion of the Supervisory Board. Givaudan Relx (Reed Elsevier) During the Remuneration Committee meeting of 7 December Heineken Solvay 2015 it was decided to adjust the annual base salary of the Johnson Matthey Wolters Kluwer members of the Managing Board by 3.5% as of 1 January 2016. Given that, at the Managing Board’s request in light of the various cost-reduction programs being set up at the company at the As part of its remuneration policy DSM will benchmark its time, the Supervisory Board decided to refrain from an increase remuneration package against the packages offered by the in 2015, this is the first increase in base salary since that applied labor-market peer group once every three years, potentially in 2014. Moreover, the next moment at which an increase will be leading to adjustments. In addition, the company may apply a considered will concern 2017, meaning that this 3.5% increase yearly increase to the base salary based on the ‘general effectively covers the two-year period 2015-2016. increase’ (market movement) for DSM executives in the Netherlands. The remuneration policy was last benchmarked Variable income against the peer group in Q4 2014. DSM aims to offer the The variable income part of remuneration consists of the ShortManaging Board members a total direct compensation Term and Long-Term Incentives. The distribution between approaching the median of the labor-market peer group. The Short-Term and Long-Term Incentives for (on target) Supervisory Board recognizes that especially the CEO’s performance aims to achieve a proper balance between shortcompensation is in the lowest quartile of this group, however, term result and long-term value creation. The parameters relating the Supervisory Board acknowledges the conservative position to the various elements of the variable income part of the taken by the CEO regarding his own remuneration. remuneration are established and where necessary adjusted by and at the discretion of the Supervisory Board, taking into Total Direct Compensation (TDC) account the general rules and principles of the remuneration The total direct compensation of the Managing Board consists policy itself. of the following components: Distribution of variable income (on target): (I) Base salary (II) Variable income Performance-related STI (Deferral and Share Matching A: Short-Term Incentive (STI) Plan) (50% base salary) 50% Performance-related LTI (Restricted Share Plan) B: Long-Term Incentive (LTI) (50% base salary)1 50% In addition to this total direct compensation, the members of the Managing Board participate in the Dutch pension scheme for Total variable income as % of base salary 100% DSM employees in the Netherlands and are entitled to other benefits, such as a company car and representation allowance. 1 LTI at discounted fair value Value as percentage of Total Direct Compensation (on target): Short-Term Incentive (STI) Managing Board members are eligible to participate in a ShortA: Base Salary 50% Term Incentive (STI) scheme. The scheme is designed to reward B: Variable income (STI + LTI)1 50% short-term operational performance with the long-term objective of creating sustainable value, taking into account the interests of Total Direct Compensation (TDC) 100% all stakeholders. 1 LTI at discounted fair value The Short-Term Incentive opportunity amounts to 50% of the annual base salary for on-target performance (100% in the case of excellent over-performance). Half of the STI opportunity (i.e. Base salary 25% of base salary at on-target performance) is related to On joining the Board, the Managing Board members receive a financial targets, the other half to sustainability and individual base salary that is comparable with the median of the labortargets. market peer group. Base salary levels are reviewed based on a Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 108 www.dsm.com As from 2013, the following shared measures linked to Target areas Total Shared Individual sustainability are applicable for the STI: Financial 25% 25% 0% ECO+: percentage of successful product launches that meet Sustainability and ECO+ criteria individual 25% 15% 10% Employee Engagement Index: related to the High Performance Norm in industry Total 50% 40% 10% Safety Performance The STI measures on sustainability are defined as follows: Short-Term Incentive (STI) linked to financial targets The part of the STI that is linked to shared financial targets (25% ECO+ solutions of base salary at on-target) consists of elements related to the ECO+ solutions are products and services that, when company's operational performance, being EBITDA before considered over their whole life cycle, offer a clearly lower exceptional items, gross free cash flow and (organic) net sales environmental footprint compared to the mainstream solutions growth, reflecting short-term financial results. Up until the end of they compete with. These environmental benefits can be 2015, the weighting given to the separate financial elements in created at any stage of the product life cycle − from raw the STI has been as follows: EBITDA 10%, gross free cash flow material through manufacturing and use to potential re-use 7.5% and organic net sales growth 7.5% of annual base salary and end-of-life disposal. ECO+ solutions, in short, create more for on-target performance. The STI target-setting for the period value with less environmental impact. In line with DSM’s as of 2016 has been aligned with DSM’s updated strategic updated sustainability aspirations, ECO+ will be replaced by objectives. The weighting of these elements has been adjusted Brighter Living Solutions (ECO+ and People+ solutions) across to reflect the company’s rigorous focus on delivering the financial the company as of performance year 2016. targets of its Strategy 2018: Driving Profitable Growth, namely Employee Engagement Index EBITDA and ROCE growth. EBITDA represents an opportunity An Employee Engagement Survey is conducted annually at target performance of 12.5%, gross free cash flow 10% and either in the form of a full Survey or a shorter Pulse Survey, and organic net sales growth 2.5%. focuses on a combination of perceptions that have a consistent impact on behavior and create a sense of ownership. Research has consistently shown that the four key Target areas On-target On-target elements (satisfaction, commitment, pride and advocacy) pay-out pay-out define engagement and link engagement to business (% of base (% of base performance metrics. salary) salary) Safety Performance Financial targets 2015 2016 Defined as Frequency Index (FI) for recordable injuries. EBITDA before exceptional items 10.0 12.5 In addition to shared sustainability targets (15%), a limited Gross free cash flow 7.5 10 number of individual non-financial targets (10%) will apply. Organic net sales growth1 7.5 2.5 Total 25.0 25.0 Target areas On-target pay-out (% of base salary) 1 Excluding currency fluctuations, divestments and acquisitions Non-financial targets Sustainability (3 targets with an equal weight of 5% each, ECO+, Employee The three financial-target-related Short-Term Incentive elements Engagement and Safety) 15 can be derived from the 'Parent company financial statements' Individual 10 on page 192. Total 25 Short-Term Incentive (STI) linked to sustainability and individual targets The part of the STI that is linked to non-financial targets (25% of The targets are determined each year by the Supervisory Board, base salary at on-target) relates to shared sustainability as well based on historical performance, the operational and strategic as to individual targets. On a regular basis, following proper outlook of the company in the short term and expectations of evaluation, further refinement/adaptations of performance the company’s management and stakeholders, among other measures in the area of sustainability and their weight take place. things. The targets contribute to the realization of the objective of long-term value creation. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 109 www.dsm.com The company does not disclose the actual targets, as they strategic targets, as of 2016 the LTI target on ROCE will relate qualify as commercially sensitive information. However, full to ROCE growth as opposed to the absolute ROCE transparency will be given on target areas and definitions. Target percentage used up until the end of the 2015 performance setting and realization are audited by external auditors. For period. detailed information see note 9 of 'Parent company financial Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) statements' on page 192. This is the reduction of the amount of energy that is used per unit of product (known as energy efficiency) on a three-year Mandatory and voluntary deferral of STI rolling average basis. A mandatory (25%) and a voluntary proportion (up to a total Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE) reduction maximum of 50% of the total gross STI) of the STI amount earned The definition of greenhouse-gases (GHG) according to the in a year is deferred into DSM shares with a three-year vesting Kyoto Protocol includes carbon dioxide (CO2), methane, period. This is linked to a one-for-one matching award on the nitrous oxide (N2O), sulfur hexafluoride, hydrofluorocarbons total deferred amount under the condition that predefined and perfluorocarbons. The scope for calculation of GHGE performance targets and measures are met at the end of the reduction is as follows: three-year vesting period. The performance measures are (I) DSM’s direct emissions (on site or from DSM assets) equivalent to the measures under the Long-Term Incentive (LTI) mainly comprise CO2 and N2O (scope 1). Plan. The Deferral and Share Matching Plan thus provides an (II) DSM’s indirect emissions (emissions created on behalf of additional link between Managing Board remuneration and longDSM in the generation of electricity or the delivery of term sustainable value creation. energy via hot water or steam) relate to electricity from the grid. DSM relies on local suppliers (scope 2). Long-Term Incentives (LTI) The Managing Board members will be eligible to receive In determining the number of shares to be conditionally granted, performance-related shares. Under the performance share plan, the Supervisory Board takes into account the face value of the shares will conditionally be granted to Managing Board DSM share instead of the discounted fair value. This is in line with members. Vesting of these shares is conditional on the best practice and provides total transparency to shareholders. achievement of certain predetermined performance targets at The policy for the value of the Long-Term Incentive is set as from the end of a three-year period. 2014 at 100% of base salary when on target and 150% in the case of excellent performance (face value). The number of The following four performance measures are applicable in equal conditionally granted shares is set by dividing the policy level at measure for the calculation of the vesting of LTI performance maximum (150% of base salary as from 2014) by a share price shares: at the beginning of the year of the conditional grant. The annual grant level will fluctuate as a consequence of this mechanism. Comparable Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance With the introduction of the face value method, the actual versus a peer group number of shares granted has been kept at a similar level as Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) when calculated on the basis of the discounted fair value Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) method. Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE) reduction over volumerelated revenue Granting date The grant date of the conditional performance shares will be the Up to and including the 2012 grant, only TSR performance and last trading day of March. GHGE were applicable, which will remain the case for the 2015 realization of the 2012 grant. TSR as a performance measure TSR counts for the vesting of 25% of the performance shares. The LTI performance targets can be defined as follows: DSM’s TSR performance is compared to the average TSR performance of a set of predefined peer companies. Total Shareholder Return (TSR) This is used to compare the performance of different companies’ stocks and shares over time. It combines share price appreciation and dividends paid to show the total return to shareholders. The relative TSR position reflects the market perception of overall performance relative to a reference group. Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) This is the operating profit as a percentage of weighted average capital employed. In line with DSM’s updated Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 110 www.dsm.com The TSR peer group for the 2015 performance period TSR vesting scheme GHGE vesting scheme consisted of the following 12 companies:1 Rank % of DSM GHGE efficiency % of shares that gain in % points (3 year shares AkzoNobel DuPont vest improvement) that vest Arkema Kerry BASF LANXESS 1 100 ≥ 8.25 100 Christian Hansen Lonza Group 2 97 7.75 < 8.25 83 Clariant Novozymes 3 93 7.25 < 7.75 67 Croda International Solvay 4 87 6.75 < 7.25 50 5 80 6.25 < 6.75 33 1 The review in 2014 resulted in EMS Chemie Holding being replaced by Croda 6 67 5.75 < 6.25 17 International as of 2015. The 2015 review has led to the addition of Givaudan and 7 50 < 5.75 0 Evonik as of 2016. 8 33 9-13 0 The TSR peer group reflects the relevant market in which DSM competes for shareholder preference. It includes sector-specific competitors that the Supervisory Board considers to be suitable Up to and including the 2014 grant (i.e. shares vesting up to and benchmarks for DSM. including 2017 depending on the fulfilment of performance criteria), the vesting scheme for the part of the grant related to The peer group is verified and updated by the Supervisory Board GHGE performance was based on DSM’s reduction of GHGE each year based on market circumstances (such as mergers and over volume-related revenue as set out in the tables in the DSM acquisitions) that determine the appropriateness of the Integrated Annual Report over 2013 and 2014. composition of the performance peer group. Taking into account the imminent (partial) divestment of DSM ROCE as a performance measure Fibre Intermediates and DSM Composite Resins, a similar ROCE (as of 2016 ROCE growth) counts for the vesting of 25% scheme was due to be applied for the 2015 grant, the final year of the performance shares. of the previous strategy period. EEI as a performance measure In hindsight, the Supervisory Board has concluded that this EEI counts for the vesting of 25% of the performance shares. scheme was insufficiently stretching for 2015 (and the subsequent years of the performance period). The Supervisory GHGE reduction as a performance measure Board has consequently decided to apply the above, more GHGE reduction over volume-related revenues (as of 2016 challenging, scheme retroactively also to the 2015 grant (shares GHGE efficiency gain) in percentage points (over a three-year vesting in 2018 depending on fulfilment of performance criteria). period) is used as a basis for the vesting of 25% of the performance shares. ROCE and EEI targets and vesting schemes are not being disclosed given their business-sensitive nature. Performance incentive zones Up to and including the 2012 LTI grant, the number of shares The retention period for performance shares expires five years that become unconditional after three years ('vesting') is after the three-year vesting period or at termination of determined on the basis of two equally-weighted factors: DSM's employment if this occurs earlier. The final TSR performance of performance relative to the average TSR performance of the DSM versus its peers will be determined and validated by a bank peer group and DSM's GHGE reduction over volume-related and audited by the external auditor at the end of the vesting revenue. As from the 2013 grant (vesting in 2016) the vesting will period. be based on four measures as outlined above. Pensions In light of the company’s updated targets for the strategy period The members of the Managing Board participate in the Dutch 2016-2018, a new vesting scheme has been established to pension fund Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland (PDN). reflect DSM’s sharpened, challenging targets for the coming The pension scheme for the Managing Board is equal to the years, as set out in the following table. pension scheme for the employees of DSM Executive Services B.V. and DSM employees in the Netherlands. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 111 www.dsm.com Contractual arrangements members of Dutch listed companies as of January 2014. Part of Term of employment this legislation was already covered in comparable rules of the Managing Board members appointed prior to 1 January 2013 Dutch corporate governance code and consequently already are engaged on the basis of an individual employment included in the employment contracts of the members of the agreement for an indefinite period of time. Managing Board Managing Board. This regards in particular the possibility (1) to members appointed after 1 January 2013 are engaged on the revise an incentive prior to payment, if unaltered payment of the basis of a Management Services Agreement with a four-year bonus/incentive would be unreasonable and unfair, and (2) to term, to be renewed at reappointment. claw back an incentive, if payment took place on the basis of incorrect information on the fulfilment of the incentive targets or Term of appointment the conditions for payment of the incentive. In addition, it is Members of the Managing Board appointed before 1 January enacted that in the case of a change-of-control event a related 2005 are appointed for an indefinite period of time. Managing increase in value of the securities that have been granted to a Board members appointed after 1 January 2005 are appointed board member as part of his/her remuneration will be deducted for a period of four years, after which they are eligible for from the remuneration to be paid to the board member at the reappointment by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. time of selling these securities or when his/her board membership ends. Notice period Resignation by a member of the Managing Board is subject to Share ownership three months’ notice (six months in case of a Management The Supervisory Board encourages the Managing Board to hold Services Agreement). A notice period of six months applies in shares in the company to emphasize their confidence in the the event of termination by the company. strategy and performance of the company. Severance arrangement As of 2013, minimum shareholding guidelines for the members There are no specific contractual exit arrangements for members of the Managing Board are applicable, equivalent to three times of the Managing Board appointed before 1 January 2005. the base salary in the case of the CEO and one time the base Should a situation arise in which a severance payment is salary for the other MB members. These shareholdings can be appropriate for such a Board member, the Remuneration built up over five years. Committee will recommend the terms and conditions. The Supervisory Board will decide upon this, taking into account Loans usual practices for these types of situations, as well as applicable DSM does not provide any loans to members of the Managing laws and corporate governance requirements. Board. Members of the Managing Board appointed after 1 January Scenario analysis 2005 are covered by a severance provision in accordance with The amended Dutch corporate governance code requires that the Dutch corporate governance code, which is set at a the Supervisory Board ‘shall analyze possible outcomes of the maximum of one annual base salary. variable income components and the effect on Managing Board remuneration’. Within DSM this analysis is conducted at least Claw-back / change-of-control every three years. Legislation entered into force regarding the revision and clawback of bonuses and profit sharing arrangements of board Heerlen, 29 February 2016 The Supervisory Board Rob Routs, Chairman Ewald Kist, Deputy Chairman Victoria Haynes Pierre Hochuli Eileen Kennedy Pauline van der Meer Mohr Tom de Swaan Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 112 www.dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 113 www.dsm.com Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM Supervisory Board Rob Routs (1946, m), Chairman Ewald Kist (1944, m), deputy First appointed: 2010. End of current term: 2018. Chairman Position: retired; last position held: executive First appointed: 2004. End of current term: 2016. director Downstream and member Board of Position: retired; last position held: chairman Royal Dutch Shell plc. Nationality: Dutch. Managing Board of the ING Group. Nationality: Supervisory directorships/other positions held: Dutch. Supervisory directorships/other positions chairman Supervisory Board of Aegon N.V., held: member Supervisory Boards of Royal member Board of Directors of AECOM, ATCO Philips Electronics N.V. and Moody’s Investor Group Ltd. and A.P. Moeller-Maersk Group. Services. Victoria Haynes (1947, f) Pierre Hochuli (1947, m) First appointed: 2012. End of current term: 2016. First appointed: 2005. End of current term: 2017. Position: retired; last position held: President and Position: retired; last position held: chairman CEO Research Triangle Institute International. Board of Directors of Devgen N.V. Nationality: Nationality: American. Supervisory directorships/ Swiss. Supervisory directorships/other positions other positions held: member Board of Directors held: none. of PPG, Nucor and Axiall. Eileen Kennedy (1947, f) Pauline van der Meer Mohr (1960, f) First appointed: 2012. End of current term: 2016. First appointed: 2011. End of current term: 2019. Position: Professor Nutrition Friedman School of Position: President Executive Board of Erasmus Nutrition Science and Policy at Tufts University in University Rotterdam (until 1 December 2015). Boston (USA); Nationality: American. Supervisory Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships/ directorships/other positions held: High Level other positions held: independent non-executive Panel of Experts on Food Security and Nutrition Director HSBC (as of 1 September 2015), of the UN Committee on World Food Security (as member Supervisory Board of ASML N.V., chair of October 2015). Supervisory Board of EY Netherlands (from 1 July 2015), chair Board of the Fulbright Center, director Hollandsche Maatschappij van Wetenschappen, member Economic Development Board of Rotterdam, member Board Concertgebouw Fonds and chair Supervisory Board Nederlands Danstheater. Tom de Swaan (1946, m) First appointed: 2006. End of current term: 2018. Position: retired; last position held: member Managing Board and Chief Financial Officer / Chief Risk Officer ABN AMRO. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships/other positions held: non-executive Director Board of GlaxoSmithKline plc (until 6 May 2015), chairman and as of 1 December 2015 Chief Executive Officer a.i. of Zurich Insurance Group, member Supervisory Board of Van Lanschot Bankiers (chairman until 21 December 2015), chairman Board of Trustees of Netherlands Cancer Institute-Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Hospital and chairman Advisory Board Rotterdam School of Management. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 114 www.dsm.com Managing Board Feike Sijbesma (1959, m), CEO/ Geraldine Matchett (1972, f), CFO Chairman Position: member Managing Board since August Position: CEO/Chairman Managing Board since 2014 and CFO since December 2014. End of May 2007; member Managing Board since July current term: 2018. 2000. Nationality: British, French, Swiss. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships/other positions held: Supervisory directorships/other positions held: none. member Supervisory Board De Nederlandsche e-mail: geraldine.matchett@dsm.com Bank N.V. (Dutch Central Bank), member Supervisory Board (Non-Executive Director) Unilever N.V. and PLC., board member CEFIC (European Chemical Industry Council), member CEO Council Chinese Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries. e-mail: feike.sijbesma@dsm.com Stephan Tanda (1965, m) Dimitri de Vreeze (1967, m) Position: member Managing Board since May Position: member Managing Board since 2007. End of current term: 2019. September 2013. End of current term: 2017. Nationality: Austrian. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships/other positions held: Supervisory directorships/other positions held: board member and chairman Industrial Biotech board member “Fonds voor de Section, EuropaBio (European Biotechnology topsport” (NOC*NSF; Dutch Olympic Committee Industry Association), board member BIO (US Fund for top sport) and member Advisory Board Biotechnology Innovation Organization), board ECP (Electronic Commerce Platform member FoodDrinkEurope (European Food and Netherlands) and board member Young Captain Drink Industry Association). Foundation. e-mail: stephan.tanda@dsm.com e-mail: dimitri.vreeze-de@dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 115 www.dsm.com What still went wrong in 2015 Although DSM strives to improve its performance in all areas of overview. These are incidents that did not result in injury, illness its operations, sometimes things can still go wrong. or damage, but had the potential to do so, and are therefore used as a learning opportunity. DSM furthermore recognizes that This chapter summarizes the most important incidents in 2015, the period of reorganization that the company is undergoing puts across the three dimensions of People, Planet and Profit. DSM people under stress; this is an area of attention. endeavors to remedy the outcome of incidents and prevent these from recurring, as well as to identify and learn from People business developments that have not progressed as planned. To this end, DSM investigates the root cause of any serious Besides striving to provide as safe a working environment as occurrence and takes steps to close the loop to eliminate the possible, DSM also aims to foster sustainable health among cause and start the improvement cycle. DSM subsequently its employees and a voluntary Wellness Checkpoint Program communicates measures as appropriate, including applying has been running since 2008. In 2015, 64% of the 1,836 stricter requirements or operating procedures if called for. participants indicated experiencing moderate to very high levels of stress. Consequently, the occupational health An example relates to hand injuries. Hand injuries are among the sections of the new DSM Responsible Care Plan 2016 – 2020 most common industrial injuries and regrettably there were three include a specific focus on the implementation of a mental such incidents involving DSM employees during the year (details resilience program as an integral part of Vitality@DSM and its below). The company took specific action to raise awareness various initiatives: nutrition, exercise, recovery and mental about the importance of hand protection in the workplace and health. With this renewed focus DSM seeks to strengthen and the importance of applying the company's Life Saving Rules in foster a real culture of health among its employees. this respect. At DSM Fibre Intermediates in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands) an employee was de-icing a company car when a colleague inside the vehicle closed the electric window without noticing that one of the victim’s fingers would be trapped. The employee lost a portion of a fingertip as a result. DSM took steps to raise awareness about the potential for this type of accident with electric windows. At DSM Nutritional Products in São Paulo (Brazil) an employee trapped a finger between a piston rod and a valve leading arm, leading to the loss of a fingertip. The background to this incident was insufficient attention for the LOTOTO (Lock-out, Tag-out, Try-out) procedure. DSM subsequently reinforced the implementation of this aspect of its Life Saving Rules and the importance of performing a job safety analysis. At DSM Engineering Plastics in Emmen (Netherlands) a clamp fell onto an employee's hand during maintenance of a gear wheel. The hand injury meant that the employee was unable to work for a long period. At DSM Nutritional Products in Deinze (Belgium) two electric pallet trucks collided, trapping an operator’s foot. Fortunately no permanent injury resulted. At DSM Nutritional Products in Belvidere (New Jersey, USA) an employee got hot condensate and steam on his legs. After a period of absence the employee made a full recovery. Consequently DSM has raised awareness around working with hot steam or liquids, as many operations involve sterilization at high temperature. At DSM Fibre Intermediates in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands) a small emission of hydrogen cyanide occurred from the sewer Where necessary, DSM applies consequence management to during turn-around activities. Seven people who were working individual employees based on its Code of Business Conduct, in the direct vicinity were sent to the Chemelot medical care see page 60. DSM does not disclose any personal details in center and then to the hospital. All were found to be ok. DSM cases involving individuals. has reviewed and improved its procedures for shutdown planning as a result. In line with its reporting policy on Safety, Health and Environment and security, DSM includes some serious near misses within this Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 116 www.dsm.com At DSM Food Specialties in Seclin (France) an incident with On two occasions, online fraudsters pretending to be DSM’s fatal potential occurred. While removing a pallet on the third CEO sent email instructions to an employee in the finance level of a rack, a damaged rail caused two pallets to fall from department to transfer funds with respect to a so-called an upper level. No one was injured. confidential and sensitive transaction. In both cases, the At DSM Nutritional products in São Paulo (Brazil) an employee finance employees involved verified the unusual request with was returning from a business trip when he was robbed at management, with the result that the fraud attempt was gunpoint at the airport and had all his belongings including car, discovered before any harm could be done. laptop etc. stolen from him. Fortunately, he was unharmed. Of the four major acquisitions in the Nutrition cluster between At DSM Nutritional Products, Kingstree (South Carolina, USA), 2011 and 2015, Ocean Nutrition Canada (ONC) did not deliver a serious near miss occurred when miscommunication led an fully on its projected targets. Post-acquisition, consumer employee to remove a plate from a fermenter on the mistaken demand for ONC’s products, namely fish oil-based omega-3 assumption that the vessel was de-pressurized. The dietary supplements, declined significantly in its key North consequence was luckily limited to a minor injury, but could American market due to a change in consumer preference. have been much more severe. A flyer was produced to raise The market as a whole remains very interesting and DSM has awareness and prevent this from happening again. taken various initiatives both to bolster the broader market and At DSM Dyneema in Heerlen (Netherlands) a near miss to strengthen its own position, including investing in a new occurred when an employee was performing maintenance facility to produce higher-grade and higher-value omega-3 inspections involving a hot air blower and a spray container. concentrations. While the employee was on a break and fortunately not in the DSM has impaired equipment that was built for the room, the spray container exploded. This could have caused manufacture of new materials for the Dyneema® Life serious injury had anyone been in the room. DSM reinforced Protection market. Cancellation of multiple large Vehicle awareness when working with heat sources and spray Protection tenders has meant that actual production volumes containers. were significantly below the capacity of the plant. As the full capacity is not being used, it has been impaired. Planet DSM has impaired its investment in DSM-AGI Taiwan having revised the estimated future earnings potential of the company At DSM Composite Resins in Schaffhausen (Switzerland) an downwards. Production at one of the company’s main sites in off-site transport incident occurred with dangerous goods. Taiwan was severely limited for more than a year following a When the truck was opened for unloading, operators noticed fire shortly after DSM acquired its stake, resulting in a loss of leakage from a drum with corrosive material. market share in a market which has subsequently become DSM set a company-wide target to reduce its water usage by highly competitive and shorter-term and remained difficult in 15% between 2010 and 2015. This is now seen to be an 2015. inefficient approach to improving its performance in this A number of innovation projects at DSM Nutritional Products regard. DSM has come to the conclusion that it would be more were closed down because of insufficient business traction. effective to concentrate its efforts on businesses that operate The related R&D spend was impaired as a consequence. in regions where water is scarce. Profit In the port of Santos (Brazil) a serious third-party fire disrupted delivery of raw materials to DSM, hampering production and delivery of DSM Nutritional Products to customers. DSM is pursuing liability claims with the relevant service providers. At the Chemelot site in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands) a fire in a logistic warehouse operated by an external party destroyed inventory and samples for several DSM units. In some cases this led to business interruption or delays in delivery. DSM is pursuing liability claims with the relevant service providers. At DSM Engineering Plastics in Evansville (Indiana, USA) an internal explosion started a fire. This resulted in the plant losing power for several hours. 38 people in various regions were dismissed due to unauthorized absences from work, inappropriate behavior and fraud or theft. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 117 www.dsm.com Information about the DSM share Shares and listings merger or acquisition within the scope of DSM's strategy as Ordinary shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V. are listed on the published on the DSM website. The issue price will be Euronext stock exchange in Amsterdam, (Netherlands) (Stock determined by the Managing Board and shall as much as code 00982, ISIN code NL0000009827). Options on ordinary possible be calculated on the basis of the trading prices of DSM shares are traded on the European Option Exchange in ordinary shares on the Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange. Amsterdam (Euronext.liffe). In the US a sponsored unlisted American Depositary Receipts (ADR) program is offered by Distribution of shares Deutsche Bank Trust Co. Americas (Cusip 780249108), with Under the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act four ADRs representing the value of one ordinary DSM share. shareholdings of 3% or more in any Dutch company must be disclosed to the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets Besides the ordinary shares, 44.04 million cumulative preference (AFM). According to the register kept by the AFM the following shares A (cumprefs A) are in issue, which are not listed on the shareholders had disclosed that they have a direct or indirect stock exchange; these have been placed with institutional (potential) interest between 3% and 10% in DSM’s total share investors. The cumprefs A have the same voting rights as capital on 31 December 2015: ordinary shares, as their nominal value of € 1.50 per share is equal to the nominal value of the ordinary shares. Transfer of the ASR Nederland B.V. cumprefs A requires the approval of the Managing Board, unless Rabobank Nederland Participatie B.V. the shareholder is obliged to transfer his shares to a previous Delta Lloyd N.V. shareholder by virtue of the law. Capital Research and Management Company and Capital Group International The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2015 was Blackrock, Inc. 174,357,139. All shares in issue are fully paid. On 31 December Third Point LLC (indirect interest) 2015 the company had 174,923,027 ordinary shares outstanding. Repurchase of own shares The company may acquire paid-up own shares by virtue of a Issue of shares decision of the Managing Board, provided that the par value of The issue of shares takes place by a decision of the Managing the acquired shares in its capital amounts to no more than one Board. The decision is subject to the approval of the Supervisory tenth of the issued capital. Such a decision is subject to the Board. The scope of this power of the Managing Board shall be approval of the Supervisory Board. In the Annual General determined by a resolution of the General Meeting of Meeting of Shareholders of 30 April 2015 the Managing Board Shareholders and shall relate to at most all unissued shares of was authorized to acquire own shares for a period of 18 months the authorized capital, as applicable now or at any time in the from said date. On 14 May 2015 DSM announced its intention future. In the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of 30 April to repurchase 2,300,000 ordinary shares for the purpose of 2015 this power was extended up to and including 30 October covering the company’s commitments under existing 2016, on the understanding that this authorization of the management and employee option plans. Under this program a Managing Board is limited to a number of ordinary shares with a total of 2,300,000 shares were repurchased for a combined nominal value amounting to 10% of the issued capital at the time consideration of € 122.5 million. The program was successfully of issue, and to an additional 10% of the issued capital at the finalized on 28 July 2015. time of issue if the issue takes place within the context of a Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 118 www.dsm.com Development of the number of ordinary DSM shares 2015 2014 Issued Repurchased Outstanding Outstanding Balance at 1 January 181,425,000 7,888,185 173,536,815 173,963,412 Changes: Reissue of shares in connection with exercise of option rights (1,056,880) 1,056,880 725,210 Repurchase of shares 2,300,000 (2,300,000) (3,733,055) Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (2,629,332) 2,629,332 2,581,248 Balance at 31 December 181,425,000 6,501,973 174,923,027 173,536,815 DSM share prices on Euronext Amsterdam (€ per ordinary share): Highest closing price 55.11 57.97 Lowest closing price 39.62 44.44 At 31 December 46.28 50.64 Market capitalization at 31 December (€ million)1 8,396 9,187 1 Source: Bloomberg Geographical spread of DSM shares outstanding DSM share price development versus AEX and Dow Jones Euro StoXX Chemical Index, 2015 x € million in % (excl. cumprefs A) 2015 2014 DSM AEX Index Dow Jones Euro StoXX Chemical Index North America 34 32 65 Netherlands 17 20 United Kingdom 14 12 60 France 7 8 Switzerland 6 7 55 Germany 5 5 Asia-Pacific 5 4 50 Other countries 12 12 45 40 35 01/15 02/15 03/15 04/15 05/15 06/15 07/15 08/15 09/15 10/15 11/15 12/15 Trading volume DSM shares 2015 x million shares as reported by Euronext Amsterdam 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 January February March April May June July August September October November December Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 119 www.dsm.com Article 10 of Directive 2004/25 Dividend With regard to the information referred to in the Resolution of DSM’s dividend policy is to provide a stable and preferably rising article 10 of the EC Directive pertaining to a takeover bid which dividend. DSM proposes to maintain the dividend at € 1.65 per is required to be provided according to Dutch law, the following ordinary share for 2015. This will be proposed to the Annual can be reported: General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 29 April 2016. An interim dividend of € 0.55 per ordinary share having been paid Information on major shareholdings can be found above in August 2015, the final dividend would then amount to € 1.10 (Distribution of shares). per ordinary share. Dividend in cash will be paid after deduction There are no special statutory rights attached to the shares of of 15% Dutch dividend withholding tax. The ex-dividend date is the company. 3 May 2016. There are no restrictions on the voting rights of the company’s shares. When convening a General Meeting of Shareholders, Dividend per ordinary share in € 2015 dividend subject to approval by Annual General Meeting of Shareholders the Managing Board is entitled to determine a registration date in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Dutch Civil 2 Code. 1.65 1.65 1.65 The applicable provisions regarding the appointment and 1.45 1.50 dismissal of members of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board and amendments to the Articles of 1 Association can be found in the chapter 'Corporate Governance' on page 91. The powers of the Managing Board regarding the issue and repurchase of shares in the company can be found in the 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 sections Issue of shares and Repurchase of own shares above. Other information can be found in the 'Notes to the consolidated financial statements' (16 Equity, 20 Borrowings, 28 Share-based compensation). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 120 www.dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 121 www.dsm.com Sustainability statements Sustainability statements People 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Total workforce 20,750 21,351 23,485 23,498 22,224 % by age category <26 years 5 6 6 6 6 26-35 years 26 25 24 24 24 36-45 years 30 29 30 30 31 46-55 years 27 28 28 28 28 >55 12 12 12 12 11 % non-Dutch Executives 49 51 50 47 42 Management 68 64 65 63 58 Other 82 77 78 76 75 % female Executives 15 12 11 10 10 Management 27 24 23 23 21 Other 29 28 27 27 27 % executive hires Non-Dutch 79 88 75 58 70 Female 38 25 23 8 20 % new hires by region Netherlands 11 11 10 12 20 Rest of Europe 22 19 23 21 21 North America 16 26 26 23 18 China 18 18 16 22 23 Rest of Asia-Pacific 13 18 19 18 10 Rest of the world 22 8 6 4 8 Total number new hires (excluding acquisitions) 2,171 1,997 1,834 2,073 2,341 Outflow of employees Voluntary resignations 1,153 1,011 1,043 1,094 849 Dismissed 647 411 224 507 438 Reorganization 230 221 408 323 134 Retirements 170 167 259 225 303 Deceased 12 11 34 22 6 Total outflow (excluding divestments) 2,212 1,821 1,968 2,171 1,730 Divestments 2,324 2,479 78 18 1,763 Voluntary resignations (% total workforce) 5 4.7 4.4 4.7 3.8 Total resignations (% total workforce) 10.6 8.5 8.4 9.2 7.8 Training in hours per employee 29 25 25 24 28 Net sales per employee (x € 1,000) 367 409 401 399 410 Safety Frequency Index of recordable injuries (per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees) 0.41 0.47 0.38 0.44 0.53 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 122 www.dsm.com Sustainability statements − Planet 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 ECO+ sales Innovation pipeline (in %) 91 95 95 80 94 Running business (in %) 57 49 45 43 41 Energy and greenhouse gases Energy use (in petajoules) 20.9 39.1 41.1 40.6 44.6 Energy efficiency improvement (in %) 19 17 16 15 13 Greenhouse-gas emissions (in CO2-equivalents x million tons) 1.1 4.2 4.2 4.3 4.6 Emissions to air Volatile Organic Compounds (x 1000 tons) 3.1 4.2 4.3 3.5 4.3 Nitrogen oxide (NOx) (x 1000 tons) 0.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 2.2 Sulfur dioxide (SO2) (x 1000 tons) 0.04 0.08 0.07 0.13 0.48 Discharges to water and landfill Chemical Oxygen Demand discharges to surface waters (x 1000 tons) 2.1 3.9 4.8 5.5 7.0 (Landfilling) Non-hazardous waste (x 1000 tons) 12.9 18.2 22.7 29.9 23.9 Water use Water use (x million m3) 101 118 150 149 154 Raw materials Renewable raw materials (in %) 16 10.8 9.9 8.7 8 Biodiversity Sites in or adjacent to protected areas (in %) 58 52 40 40 N/A Fines (in € ) 35,600 62,500 62,300 45,100 70,500 Non-monetary sanctions 5 4 4 6 12 Environmental incidents 257 297 261 316 300 Environmental complaints 31 56 42 34 23 DSM bases its sustainability reporting on best practice standards and international guidelines. Most important are the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). For this report, the company used the GRI G4 guidelines, launched in 2013. A detailed overview of how DSM reports according to the G4 comprehensive indicators, including a reference to relevant sections in this report, is provided on the company's website. DSM aligns with the recommendations of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Framework where possible. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 123 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net policies assets. Any contingent consideration payable is measured at fair value at the acquisition date. Basis of preparation DSM’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Segmentation accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Segment information is presented in respect to the group’s (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. The accounting operating segments about which separate financial information policies applied by DSM comply with IFRS and the is available that is regularly evaluated by the chief operating pronouncements of the International Financial Reporting decision maker. DSM has determined that Nutrition, Interpretation Committee (IFRIC) effective at 31 December 2015. Performance Materials and the Innovation Center represent reportable segments in addition to Corporate Activities. The Consolidation Managing Board decides how to allocate resources and The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial assesses the performance of the clusters. Cluster performance statements of Royal DSM and its subsidiaries (together ‘DSM’ is reported and reviewed down to the level of EBITDA before or ‘group’). As a parent DSM is exposed, or has right to, the exceptional items. The clusters are organized in accordance with variable returns from its involvement with its subsidiaries and has the type of products produced and the nature of the markets the ability to affect the returns through its power over the served. The same accounting policies that are applied for the subsidiary. The financial data of subsidiaries are fully consolidated financial statements of DSM are also applied for the consolidated. Non-controlling interests in the group’s equity and operating segments. Prices for transactions between segments profit and loss are stated separately. A joint arrangement is an are determined on an arm’s length basis except for supplies of entity in which DSM holds an interest and which is jointly caprolactam from DSM Fibre Intermediates to DSM Engineering controlled by DSM and one or more other venturers under a Plastics against cash costs until deconsolidation. Segment contractual arrangement. A joint arrangement can either be a results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to joint venture where DSM and the other partner(s) have rights to a segment as well as those that can reasonably and consistently the net assets of the arrangement or a joint operation where DSM be allocated. Selected information on a country and regional and the partner(s) have rights to the assets, and obligations for basis is provided in addition to the information about operating the liabilities to the arrangement. For joint ventures the segments. investment in the net assets is recognized and accounted for in accordance with the equity method. For a joint operation, assets, Foreign currency translation liabilities, revenues and expenses are recognized in the financial The presentation currency of the group is the euro. statements of DSM in accordance with the contractual entitlement or obligations of DSM. Each entity of the group records transactions and balance sheet items in its functional currency. Transactions denominated in a Subsidiaries are consolidated from the acquisition date until the currency other than the functional currency are recorded at the date on which DSM ceases to have control. From the acquisition spot exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions. date onwards, all intra-group balances and transactions and Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other unrealized profits or losses from intra-group transactions are than the functional currency of the entity are translated at the eliminated, with one exception: unrealized losses are not closing rates. Exchange differences resulting from the settlement eliminated if there is evidence of an impairment of the asset of these transactions and from the translation of monetary items transferred. In such cases an impairment of the asset is are recognized in the income statement. recognized. Non-monetary assets that are measured on the basis of Business combinations historical costs denominated in a currency other than the Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition functional currency continue to be translated against the rate at method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate initial recognition and will not result in exchange differences. of the consideration transferred, including liabilities incurred, measured at acquisition date fair value, and the amount of any On consolidation, the balance sheets of subsidiaries that do not non-controlling interest in the acquiree. Acquisition costs have the euro as their functional currency are translated into euro incurred are expensed. at the closing rate. The income statements of these entities are translated into euro at the average rates for the relevant period. As of the acquisition date identifiable, assets acquired, liabilities Goodwill paid on acquisition is recorded in the functional assumed and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree are currency of the acquired entity. Exchange differences arising recognized separately from goodwill. Identifiable assets acquired from the translation of the net investment in entities with a and the liabilities assumed are measured at acquisition date fair functional currency other than the euro are recorded in Other value. For each business combination, DSM elects whether it comprehensive income. The same applies to exchange measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree at fair value differences arising from borrowings and other financial Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 124 www.dsm.com instruments in so far as they hedge the currency risk related to Property, plant and equipment are systematically depreciated the net investment. On disposal of an entity with a functional over their estimated useful lives. The estimated remaining lives currency other than the euro, the cumulative exchange of assets are reviewed every year, taking account of commercial differences relating to the translation of the net investment are and technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and recognized in profit or loss. tear. The initially assumed expected useful lives are in principle as follows: for buildings 10-50 years; for plant and machinery Distinction between current and non-current 5-15 years; for other equipment 4-10 years. Land is not An asset (liability) is classified as current when it is expected to depreciated. be realized (settled) within 12 months after the balance sheet date. An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to Intangible assets arise from the continued use or the sale of the asset. Any gain Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is recorded in profit DSM’s share in the net fair value of the identifiable assets and or loss. liabilities of an acquired subsidiary, joint venture or associate. Goodwill paid on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in Leases intangible assets. Goodwill paid on acquisition of joint ventures Finance leases, which transfer to the group substantially all the or associates is included in the carrying amount of these entities. risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are Goodwill recognized as an intangible asset is not amortized but capitalized at inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased tested for impairment annually and when there are indications property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease that the carrying amount may exceed the recoverable amount. payments. All other leases are operating leases. A gain or loss on the disposal of an entity includes the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. Lease payments for finance leases are apportioned to finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. recognized at fair value on the date of acquisition and Finance charges are included in interest costs. Capitalized subsequently amortized over their expected useful lives, which leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated vary from 4 to 20 years. useful life of the asset or the lease term. Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense over the lease term. Separately acquired licenses, patents, drawing rights and application software are carried at historical cost less straightAssociates and joint ventures line amortization and less any impairment losses. The expected An associate is an entity over which DSM has significant useful lives vary from 4 to 15 years. Costs of software influence but no control or joint control, usually evidenced by a maintenance are expensed when incurred. Capital expenditure shareholding that entitles DSM to between 20% and 50% of the that is directly related to the development of application software voting rights. A joint venture is an entity where DSM has joint is recognized as an intangible asset and amortized over its control and is entitled to the net assets. Investments in estimated useful life associates and joint ventures are accounted for by the equity (5-8 years). method, which involves recognition in the income statement of DSM’s share of the associate’s or joint venture's profit or loss Research costs are expensed when incurred. Development for the year determined in accordance with the accounting expenditure is capitalized if the recognition criteria are met and policies of DSM. DSM’s interest in an associate is carried in the if it is demonstrated that it is technically feasible to complete the balance sheet at its share in the net assets of the associate asset; that the entity intends to complete the asset; that the entity together with goodwill paid on acquisition, less any impairment is able to sell the asset; that the asset is capable of generating loss. future economic benefits; that adequate resources are available to complete the asset; and that the expenditure attributable to When DSM’s share in the loss of an associate exceeds the the asset can be reliably measured. Development expenditure is carrying amount of the associate or joint venture, including any amortized over the asset’s useful life. other receivables, the carrying amount is reduced to zero. No further losses are recognized, unless DSM has responsibility for Property, plant and equipment obligations relating to the associate or joint venture. Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less depreciation calculated on a straight-line basis and less any Other financial assets impairment losses. Interest during construction is capitalized. Other financial assets comprise other participations, other Expenditures relating to major scheduled turnarounds are receivables and other deferred items. capitalized and depreciated over the period up to the next turnaround. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 125 www.dsm.com Other participations comprise equity interests in entities in which selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the DSM has no significant influence; they are accounted for as estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs available-for-sale securities. These other participations are necessary to make the sale. Products whose manufacturing cost measured against fair value, with changes in fair value being cannot be calculated because of joint cost components are recognized in Other comprehensive income (Fair value reserve). stated at net realizable value after deduction of a margin for A significant or prolonged decline of the fair value of an equity selling and distribution efforts. interest below cost represents an impairment, which is recognized in profit or loss. On disposal, the cumulative fair value Current receivables adjustments of the related other participations are released from Current receivables are measured at amortized cost, which equity and included in the income statement. If a reliable fair generally corresponds to nominal value, less an adjustment for value cannot be established, the other participations are bad debts. recognized at cost. The proceeds from these other participations and the gain or loss upon their disposal are recognized in profit Current investments or loss. Deposits held at call with banks with a remaining maturity between 3 and 12 months are classified as current investments. Loans and long-term receivables are measured at fair value upon They are measured at amortized cost. initial recognition and subsequently at amortized cost, if necessary after deduction for impairment. The proceeds from Cash and cash equivalents these assets and the gain or loss upon their disposal are Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at banks and in hand recognized in profit or loss. and deposits held at call with banks with a maturity of less than three months at inception. Bank overdrafts are included in Impairment of assets current liabilities. Cash and cash equivalents are measured at When there are indications that the carrying amount of a nonnominal value. current asset (an intangible asset or an item of property, plant and equipment) may exceed the estimated recoverable amount Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale (the higher of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell), the Non-current assets and disposal groups (assets and liabilities possible existence of an impairment loss is investigated. If an relating to an activity that is to be sold) are classified as ‘held for asset does not generate largely independent cash flows, the sale’ if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit through a sales transaction rather than through continuing use. (CGU) to which the asset belongs. In assessing the value in use, The reclassification takes place when the assets are available for the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present immediate sale and the sale is highly probable. These conditions value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market are usually met as from the date on which a letter of intent or interest rates and the risks specific to the asset. agreement to sell is ready for signing. Non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups are measured at the lower of When the recoverable amount of a non-current asset is less than carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Non-current its carrying amount, the carrying amount is impaired to its assets held for sale are not depreciated or amortized. For recoverable amount and an impairment charge is recognized in transparency, non-current assets and disposal groups that will profit or loss. An impairment loss is reversed when there has be contributed to joint ventures are reported separately from been a change in estimate that is relevant for the determination other assets and liabilities held for sale. of the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognized. Discontinued operations Discontinued operations comprise those activities that were All financial assets are reviewed for impairment. If there is disposed of during the period or which were classified as held objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more for sale at the end of the period, and represent a separate major events after initial recognition, an impairment loss is recognized line of business or geographical area that can be clearly in profit or loss. Impairment losses for goodwill and other distinguished for operational and financial reporting purposes. participations are never reversed. Royal DSM Shareholders’ equity Inventories DSM’s ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares are Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable classified as Royal DSM Shareholders’ equity. The price paid for value. The first in, first out (FIFO) method of valuation is used repurchased DSM shares (treasury shares) is deducted from unless the nature of the inventories requires the use of a different Royal DSM Shareholders’ equity until the shares are cancelled cost formula, in which case the weighted average cost method or reissued. Dividend to be distributed to holders of cumulative is used. The cost of intermediates and finished goods includes preference shares is recognized as a liability when the directly attributable costs and related production overhead Supervisory Board approves the proposal for profit distribution. expenses. Net realizable value is determined as the estimated Dividend to be distributed to holders of ordinary shares is Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 126 www.dsm.com recognized as a liability when the Annual General Meeting of related conditions will be complied with. Cost grants are Shareholders approves the profit appropriation. recognized as income over the periods necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the cost that it is intended to Provisions compensate. If the grant is an investment grant, its fair value is Provisions are recognized when all of the following conditions initially recognized as deferred income in Other non-current are met: 1) there is a present legal or constructive obligation as liabilities and then released to profit or loss over the expected a result of past events; 2) it is probable that a transfer of useful life of the relevant asset. economic benefits will settle the obligation; and 3) a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Share-based compensation The costs of option plans are measured by reference to the fair The probable amount required to settle long-term obligations is value of the options on the date on which the options are discounted if the effect of discounting is material. Where granted. The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the model, taking into account market conditions linked to the price passage of time is recognized as interest costs. of the DSM share. The costs of these options are recognized in profit or loss (Employee benefits costs) during the vesting period, Borrowings together with a corresponding increase in Equity in the case of Borrowings are initially recognized at fair value of the proceeds equity-settled options or Other non-current liabilities in the case received, net of transaction costs. Subsequently, borrowings are of cash-settled options (Share Appreciation Rights). No expense stated at amortized cost using the effective interest method. is recognized for options that do not ultimately vest, except for Amortized cost is calculated taking into account any discount or options where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, premium. Interest expenses are recorded in profit or loss. which are treated as vesting, irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance Where the interest rate risk relating to a long-term borrowing is conditions are met. hedged through a fair value hedge, and the hedge is effective, the carrying amount of the long-term loan is adjusted for Performance shares and restricted share units (matching shares) changes in fair value of the interest component of the hedge. are granted free of charge and vest after three years on the achievement of previously determined targets. The cost of Other current liabilities performance shares and restricted share units is measured by Other current liabilities are measured at amortized cost, which reference to the fair value of the DSM shares on the date on generally corresponds to the nominal value. which the performance shares and restricted share units were granted and is recognized in profit or loss (Employee benefits Revenue recognition costs) during the vesting period, together with a corresponding Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized when significant increase in equity. risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer. Net sales represent the invoice value less estimated rebates and Emission rights cash discounts, and excluding indirect taxes. DSM is subject to legislation encouraging reductions in greenhouse-gas emissions and has been awarded emission Royalty income is recognized in Other operating income or in Net rights (principally CO2 emission rights) in a number of sales on an accrual basis in accordance with the substance of jurisdictions. Emission rights are reserved for meeting delivery the relevant agreements. Royalty income is reported in Net sales obligations and are recognized at cost (usually zero). Revenue is when licensing-out technologies is part of the ordinary and recognized when surplus emission rights are sold to third parties. recurring activities of a business. Income that relates to the sale When actual emissions exceed the emission rights available to or out-licensing of technologies or technological expertise is DSM, a provision is recognized for the expected additional costs. recognized in profit or loss as of the effective date of the respective agreement if all rights relating to the technologies and Exceptional items all obligations resulting from them have been transferred under Exceptional items relate to material non-recurring items of the contract terms. However, if rights to the technologies income and expense arising from circumstances such as: continue to exist or obligations resulting from them have yet to be fulfilled, the payments received are deferred accordingly. write-downs of inventories to net realizable value or of Interest income is recognized on a time-proportion basis using property, plant and equipment to recoverable amount, as well the effective interest method. Dividend income is recognized as reversals of such write-downs; when the right to receive payment is established. acquisition costs incurred and integration costs in the first year after a business combination; Government grants non-recurring inventory value adjustments related to business Government grants are recognized at their fair value if there is combinations; reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all restructurings of the activities of an entity; Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 127 www.dsm.com costs related to refinancing existing loans; Financial derivatives are initially recognized in the balance sheet releases of provisions; at fair value and subsequently measured at their fair value on disposals of property, plant and equipment; each balance sheet date. Changes in fair value are recognized disposals of joint ventures, associates or other financial assets; in profit or loss unless cash flow hedge accounting or net book results on discontinued operations; investment hedge accounting is applied. onerous contracts; and litigation settlements. Changes in the fair value of financial derivatives designated and qualifying as cash flow hedges are recognized in Other To provide a better understanding of the underlying results of the comprehensive income (Hedging reserve) to the extent that the period, exceptional items are reported separately if the hedge is effective. Upon recognition of the related asset or aggregate amount of the event or project exceeds € 10 million. liability, the cumulative gain or loss is transferred from the From 2015 onwards, all acquisition and integration costs Hedging reserve and included in the carrying amount of the incurred in the first year from the acquisition date will be included hedged item if it is a non-financial asset or liability. If the hedged in Exceptional items and the € 10 million threshold will no longer item is a financial asset or liability, the cumulative gain or loss is be applied for these costs. The reason for this change is the fact transferred to profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of financial that DSM has entered into a new phase in its acquisition strategy derivatives designated and qualifying as net investment hedges with a focus on integration and targeted smaller (add-on) are recognized in Other comprehensive income (hedging acquisitions. reserve) to the extent that the hedge is effective and the change in fair value is caused by changes in currency exchange rates. Income tax expense Accumulated gains and losses are released from Other Income tax expense is recognized in the income statement comprehensive income and are included in profit or loss when except to the extent that it relates to an item recognized directly the net investment is disposed of. Changes in the fair value of in Other comprehensive income or Shareholders’ equity. financial derivatives designated and qualifying as fair value hedges are immediately recognized in the income statement, Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged assets taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the or liabilities attributable to the hedged risk. balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect to previous years. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are Pensions and other post-employment benefits recognized for the expected tax consequences of temporary DSM has both defined contribution plans and defined benefit differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities plans. In the case of defined contribution plans, obligations are and their tax base. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are limited to the payment of contributions, which are recognized as measured at the tax rates that have been enacted or Employee benefits costs. In the case of defined benefit plans, substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and are the aggregate of the value of the defined benefit obligation and expected to apply when the related deferred tax assets are the fair value of plan assets for each plan is recognized as a net realized or the deferred tax liabilities are settled. Deferred tax defined benefit liability or asset. Defined benefit obligations are assets, including assets arising from losses carried forward and determined using the projected unit credit method. Plan assets tax credits, are recognized to the extent that it is probable that are recognized at fair value. If the fair value of plan assets future taxable profits will be available against which the exceeds the present value of the defined benefit obligation, a net deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses can be asset is only recognized to the extent that the asset is available utilized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are stated at nominal for refunds to the employer or for reductions in future value. contributions to the plan. Defined benefit pension costs consist of three elements: service costs, net interest, and Deferred taxes are not provided for the following temporary remeasurements. Service costs are part of Employee benefits differences: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial costs and consist of current service costs, past service costs recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting and results of plan settlements. Net interest is part of Other nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in financial income and expense and is determined on the basis of subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the value of the net defined benefit asset or liability at the start of the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax the year, and on the interest on high-quality corporate bonds. liabilities are offset and presented net when there is a legally Remeasurements are actuarial gains and losses, the return (or enforceable right to offset, and the assets and liabilities relate to interest cost) on net plan assets (or liabilities) excluding amounts income taxes levied by the same taxation authority. included in net interest and changes in the effect of the asset ceiling. These remeasurements are recognized in Other Financial derivatives comprehensive income as they occur and are not recycled The group uses financial derivatives such as foreign currency through profit or loss at a later stage. forward contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 128 www.dsm.com Effect of new accounting standards The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and IFRIC have issued new standards, amendments to existing standards and interpretations, some of which are not yet effective or have not yet been endorsed by the European Union. In 2015, no new or amended standards had to be applied for the first time that had an impact on the financial position, performance or disclosures of DSM. Neither were new or amended standards adopted early and applied in 2015 for the first time. Effect of forthcoming accounting standards not yet applied The following new standards are not yet being applied by DSM. IFRS 14, 'Regulatory Deferral Accounts', establishes requirements for accounting by entities that are subject to rate regulation. The new standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 but will not impact DSM, since none of the DSM reporting entities operate in a market that is subject to rate regulation. IFRS 15, 'Revenue from Contracts with Customers', establishes a new five-step approach to revenue recognition that applies to all entities. The new standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The impact of this new standard on DSM’s financial position and performance is currently being investigated. IFRS 16, ‘Leases’, establishes a new model for lessee accounting that requires a lessee to recognize assets and liabilities for the rights and obligations created by leases. The new standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. The impact of this new standard on DSM’s financial position and performance is currently being investigated. New IFRIC interpretations are not expected to have a material effect on the financial statements of DSM. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 129 www.dsm.com Consolidated statements Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2015 x € million Notes Continuing operations Discontinued Total operations Before Exceptional Total exceptional items items (note 6) Net sales 4 7,722 7,722 1,213 8,935 Cost of sales 4 (5,271) (142) (5,413) (1,190) (6,603) Gross margin 2,451 (142) 2,309 23 2,332 Marketing and sales (1,060) (1,060) (59) (1,119) Research and development (330) (2) (332) (8) (340) General and administrative (512) (28) (540) (16) (556) Other operating income 64 12 76 6 82 Other operating expense (40) (51) (91) (4) (95) 4 (1,878) (69) (1,947) (81) (2,028) Operating profit 573 (211) 362 (58) 304 Interest costs 5 (138) (138) (13) (151) Other financial income and expense 5 (11) (15) (26) 3 (23) Profit before income tax expense 424 (226) 198 (68) 130 Income tax expense 7 (97) 51 (46) (22) (68) Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 54 (24) 30 30 Profit for the year 381 (199) 182 (90) 92 Reclassification of the net result from activities disposed of (129) (129) 129 Total 381 (328) 53 391 92 Of which: Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 18 (2) (2) 6 4 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 383 (328) 55 33 88 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 383 (328) 55 33 88 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (10) (10) (10) Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 373 (328) 45 33 78 Earnings per share (in € ) 17 Basic 1.00 0.45 Diluted 1.00 0.45 1 Excluding exceptional items Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 130 www.dsm.com Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 20141 x € million Notes Continuing operations Discontinued Total operations Before Exceptional Total exceptional items items (note 6) Net sales 4 7,051 7,051 2,232 9,283 Cost of sales 4 (4,803) (1) (4,804) (2,361) (7,165) Gross margin 2,248 (1) 2,247 (129) 2,118 Marketing and sales (921) (921) (100) (1,021) Research and development (304) (304) (19) (323) General and administrative (451) (35) (486) (33) (519) Other operating income 53 10 63 51 114 Other operating expense (38) (34) (72) (7) (79) 4 (1,661) (59) (1,720) (108) (1,828) Operating profit 587 (60) 527 (237) 290 Interest costs 5 (109) (7) (116) (16) (132) Other financial income and expense 5 7 7 7 Profit before income tax expense 485 (67) 418 (253) 165 Income tax expense 7 (84) 11 (73) 66 (7) Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 8 (66) (58) (1) (59) Profit for the year 409 (122) 287 (188) 99 Reclassification of the net result from activities disposed of (196) (196) 196 Total 409 (318) 91 82 99 Of which: Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 18 (5) (37) (42) (4) (46) Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 414 (281) 133 12 145 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 414 (281) 133 12 145 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (10) (10) (10) Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 404 (281) 123 12 135 Earnings per share (in € ) 17 Basic 1.63 0.78 Diluted 1.63 0.78 1 The split in results over continuing and discontinued operations in 2014 has been restated due to the disposal of the caprolactam, acrylonitrile and composite resins businesses (now included under discontinued operations). See also note 1 General information and note 2 Change in the scope of the consolidation. 2 Excluding exceptional items. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 131 www.dsm.com Consolidated statement of comprehensive income x € million 2015 2014 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans (59) (176) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations relating to the non-controlling interests 14 28 Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Change for the year 57 278 Reclassification adjustment to the income statement related to discontinued operations (59) Fair value reserve Change for the year 8 4 Reclassification adjustment to the income statement Hedging reserve Change for the year (51) (174) Reclassification adjustment to the income statement 51 (9) Reclassification adjustment to the shares / deferred items (4) 2 Other comprehensive income, before tax (43) (47) Income tax expense 1 56 Other comprehensive income, net of tax (42) 9 Profit for the year 92 99 Total comprehensive income 50 108 Of which: Attributable to non-controlling interests 17 (18) Attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 33 126 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 132 www.dsm.com Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December x € million Notes 2015 2014 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 8 3,228 2,867 Property, plant and equipment 9 3,171 3,673 Deferred tax assets 7 366 427 Associates and joint ventures 10 872 762 Other financial assets 11 191 130 7,828 7,859 Current assets Inventories 12 1,627 1,739 Trade receivables 13 1,349 1,570 Other current receivables 13 207 199 Financial derivatives 24 47 47 Current investments 14 9 6 Cash and cash equivalents 15 665 669 3,904 4,230 Assets held for sale 2 11 37 3,915 4,267 Total 11,743 12,126 Equity and liabilities Equity 16 Shareholders' equity 5,541 5,723 Non-controlling interests 18 90 213 5,631 5,936 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 7 319 365 Employee benefits liabilities 25 496 479 Provisions 19 98 105 Borrowings 20 2,557 1,637 Other non-current liabilities 21 228 81 3,698 2,667 Current liabilities Employee benefits liabilities 25 44 45 Provisions 19 41 42 Borrowings 20 253 1,143 Financial derivatives 24 232 362 Trade payables 22 1,168 1,361 Other current liabilities 22 674 554 2,412 3,507 Liabilities held for sale 2 2 16 2,414 3,523 Total 11,743 12,126 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 133 www.dsm.com Consolidated statement of changes in equity (note 16) x € million Share Share Treasury Other Retained earnings Total NonTotal capital premium shares reserves Actuarial Other controlling equity gains and interests losses Balance at 1 January 2014 338 489 (294) 35 13 5,327 5,908 188 6,096 Dividend (301) (301) (6) (307) Options / performance shares granted 19 19 19 Options / performance shares exercised / cancelled (11) 11 Proceeds from reissued shares 134 26 160 160 Change in DSM's share in subsidiaries 49 49 Repurchase of shares (189) (189) (189) Other 7 (7) Total comprehensive income 123 (142) 145 126 (18) 108 Balance at 31 December 2014 338 489 (349) 166 (122) 5,201 5,723 213 5,936 Dividend (297) (297) (13) (310) Options / performance shares granted 29 29 29 Options / performance shares exercised / cancelled (15) 15 Proceeds from reissued shares 152 24 176 176 Change in DSM's share in subsidiaries (127) (127) Repurchase of shares (122) (122) (122) Other (7) 2 4 (1) (1) Total comprehensive income (2) (56) 91 33 17 50 Balance at 31 December 2015 338 489 (319) 171 (176) 5,038 5,541 90 5,631 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 134 www.dsm.com Consolidated cash flow statement (note 27) x € million 2015 2014 Operating activities Profit for the year 92 99 Share of the profit of associates (30) 59 Income tax 68 7 Profit before income tax expense 130 165 Net finance costs 159 118 Exceptional items 361 334 Operating profit 6501 617 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 520 549 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) 1,170 1,166 Adjustments for: (Gain) or loss from disposals (6) (3) Restructuring and other costs (67) (30) Change in provisions (43) (49) Defined benefit plans (60) (30) (176) (112) Income tax received 4 7 Income tax paid (79) (89) Settlement intercompany hedges (218) (122) Other 7 32 Changes, excluding working capital (462) (284) Operating cash flow before changes in working capital 708 882 Changes in operating working capital: Inventories 45 (8) Trade receivables (65) (31) Trade payables (32) 2 (52) (37) Changes in other working capital 40 (37) Changes in working capital (12) (74) Cash provided by operating activities 696 808 1 This consists of the operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items (€ 573 million) and discontinued operations (€ 77 million; see also Assets and liabilities held for sale in note 2 Change in the scope of the consolidation) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 135 www.dsm.com Consolidated cash flow statement (note 27) continued x € million 2015 2014 Cash provided by operating activities 696 808 Investing activities Capital expenditure for:1 Intangible assets (85) (97) Property, plant and equipment (458) (556) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 10 13 Acquisition of subsidiaries and associates (86) (7) Cash from net investment hedge (136) Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries and businesses 297 78 Change in fixed-term deposits (2) 14 Interest received 66 108 Other financial assets: Capital payments and acquisitions (52) (35) Dividends received 144 3 Change in loans granted 27 (38) Proceeds from disposals 2 Cash used in investing activities (275) (515) Financing activities Capital payments from / to non-controlling interests 1 4 Loans taken up 1,004 532 Repayment of loans (653) (534) Change in debt to credit institutions 18 (10) Cash facility associates (21) Repayment / issue of commercial paper (250) 250 Dividend paid (174) (175) Interest paid (303) (302) Proceeds from reissued shares 39 26 Repurchase of shares (122) (189) Cash used in / from financing activities (440) (419) Change in cash and cash equivalents (19) (126) Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 669 770 Exchange differences relating to cash held 15 25 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 665 669 1 An amount of € 7 million included in capital expenditure was funded by customers (2014: € 25 million) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 136 www.dsm.com Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 1 General information Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million. In conformity with article 402, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, a condensed income statement is included in the separate financial statements of the parent company. A list of DSM participations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce (Netherlands) and is available from the company upon request. The list can also be downloaded from the company’s website. The preparation of financial statements requires estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. The policies that management considers to be the most important to the presentation of the financial condition and results of operations are discussed in the relevant notes. The same holds for the issues that require management judgments or estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management cautions that future events often vary from forecasts and that estimates routinely require adjustment. Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognized in the financial statements relate to the categorization of certain items as 'exceptional', the identification of Cash Generating Units (CGUs) and the classification of activities as 'held for sale' and 'discontinued operations'. Key assumptions and estimates that need to be made by management relate to the useful lives of non-current assets (notes 8 and 9), the establishment of provisions for retirement and other post-employment benefits (note 25), the recognition and measurement of income taxes (note 7) and the determination of fair values for financial instruments (note 24) and for share-based compensation (note 28). Furthermore impairment testing requires judgments by management, amongst others with respect to the determination of CGUs, growth rates and discounts rates to apply (notes 6, 8 and 9). Significant judgment is also required for the determination of earn-out receivables and payables in business combinations (note 2) and for the valuation of drawing rights (note 8). Estimates are based on historical quoted market prices, experience and assumptions that are considered reasonable under the circumstances. Exchange rates The currency exchange rates that were used in preparing the consolidated statements are listed below for the most important currencies. 1 euro = Exchange rate at balance sheet date Average exchange rate 2015 2014 2015 2014 US dollar 1.09 1.22 1.11 1.33 Swiss franc 1.08 1.20 1.07 1.21 Pound sterling 0.74 0.78 0.73 0.81 Brazilian real 4.26 3.24 3.69 3.12 Chinese renminbi 7.09 7.44 6.91 8.16 Presentation of consolidated income statement In the consolidated income statement the qualifying activities that were disposed of during the period or which were classified as held for sale at the end of the period, are presented as discontinued operations. As a consequence of the disposal of the caprolactam, acrylonitrile and composite resins businesses, the results of these Bulk Chemicals businesses have been presented as discontinued operations. DSM presents expenses in the consolidated income statement in accordance with their function. This allows the presentation of gross margin on the face of the income statement, which is a widely used performance measure in the industry. The composition of the costs allocated to the individual functions is explained below. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 137 www.dsm.com Cost of sales encompasses all manufacturing costs (including raw materials, employee benefits, and depreciation and amortization) related to goods and services captured in net sales. They are measured at their actual cost based on FIFO, or weighted average cost. Marketing and sales relates to the selling and marketing of goods and services, and also includes all costs that are directly related to the sale of goods, but that are not originated by the manufacturing of the goods (e.g. freight). Research and development consists of: research, which is defined as original and planned investigation undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding; development, which is defined as the application of research findings or other knowledge to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved materials, devices, products, processes, systems or services before the start of commercial production or use. General and administrative relates to the strategic and governance role of the general management of the company as well as the representation of DSM as a whole in the financial, political or business community. It also relates to business support activities of staff departments that are not directly related to the other functional areas. 2 Change in the scope of the consolidation Acquisitions 2015 On 31 March 2015, DSM obtained control of Aland Nutraceutical Holding, Ltd., a Hong Kong-based company producing vitamin C in China by buying 100% of the shares. Aland was founded in 1990 and is one of the leading vitamin C manufacturers in China. The company has a production facility in Jingjiang (China). From the acquisition date onwards, the financial statements of Aland have been consolidated by DSM and reported in the Nutrition segment. The acquisition strengthens and complements DSM’s position as a producer of vitamin C. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price of Aland had to be allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill amounted to € 15 million. The value of goodwill and intangible assets acquired was rather limited because the principal driver for the acquisition was the ability to obtain plant and equipment and related production capacity. The acquisition of Aland contributed € 63 million to net sales and € 8 million to EBITDA in 2015. Aland-related exceptional items amounted to € 5 million before tax (see note 6 Exceptional items). On 13 May 2015, DSM Dyneema finalized the acquisition of Cubic Tech Corporation by buying 100% of the shares. This privatelyowned company based in Mesa (Arizona, USA) is focused on high-end solutions in applications as diverse as racing yacht sails, equipment and apparel for sportswear, outdoor and future soldier programs as well as emergency medical equipment. From the acquisition date onwards, the financial statements of Cubic Tech have been consolidated by DSM and reported in the segment Performance Materials. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price of Cubic Tech has to be allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. The purchase price allocation is still being performed and is expected to result in a re-allocation from goodwill to intangible assets. The goodwill can be explained by buyer-specific synergies due to DSM’s unique value chain proposition in ultra high molecular weight polyethylene. Up to one year from the acquisition date, the initial accounting for business combinations needs to be adjusted to reflect additional information that has been received about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date and would have affected the measurement of amounts recognized as of that date. As a result of such adjustments the values of assets and liabilities recognized may change in the one-year period from the acquisition date. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 138 www.dsm.com Acquisitions 2015 Aland Cubic Tech Total Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair value value value value value value Assets Intangible assets 8 16 8 16 Property, plant and equipment 58 64 1 1 59 65 Other non-current assets 1 1 1 1 Inventories 15 16 15 16 Receivables 11 11 1 1 12 12 Cash and cash equivalents 4 4 4 4 Total assets 97 112 2 2 99 114 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 8 11 8 11 Current liabilities 25 25 1 25 26 Total liabilities 33 36 1 33 37 Net assets 64 76 2 1 66 77 Acquisition price (in cash) 74 10 84 Acquisition price (payable earn-out) 17 5 22 Consideration 91 15 106 Goodwill 15 14 29 Acquisition costs recognized in exceptional items1 5 5 1 Included in General and administrative: Other costs 2014 In January 2014, DSM obtained control of Yantai Andre Pectin co., Ltd. a China-based manufacturer of apple and citrus pectin, a key food hydrocolloid providing texture, as well as pectin-related food products. Andre Pectin is the only significant pectin manufacturer in Asia with premier access to the world’s fastest-growing specialty food ingredients market. DSM already owned 29% of the shares of Andre Pectin together with call options to buy out the other shareholders and obtained control by placing a DSM management team in the company. From January 2014 onwards, the financial statements of Andre Pectin have been consolidated by DSM and reported in the Nutrition segment. The acquisition strengthens and complements DSM’s position as a pectin manufacturer in Asia with access to the global food ingredients markets. In accordance with IFRS 3 the purchase price of Andre Pectin had to be allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill amounted to € 1 million. The non-controlling interest in Andre Pectin was measured at the proportionate share of the value of net identifiable assets acquired and amounted to € 45 million at the acquisition date. At the acquisition date the fair value of the interest in Andre Pectin was not materially different from the carrying amount. The acquisition of Andre Pectin contributed € 36 million to net sales and € 7 million to EBITDA in 2014. Andre Pectin-related exceptional items amounted to € 3 million before tax (see note 6 Exceptional items). Up to one year from the acquisition date, the initial accounting for business combinations needs to be adjusted to reflect additional information that has been received about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date and would have affected the measurement of amounts recognized as of that date. As a result of such adjustments the values of assets and liabilities recognized may change in the one-year period from the acquisition date which resulted in some adjustments to the opening balance sheet of Tortuga. The Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) of Andre Pectin was finalized in the course of the year. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 139 www.dsm.com The impact of all acquisitions made in 2014, including adjustments to the initial accounting for Tortuga on DSM’s consolidated balance sheet, at the date of acquisition, is summarized in the following table. Acquisitions 2014 Andre Pectin Tortuga (final PPA)2 Total Book Fair Book Fair value Change in Fair value value value total fair value value Assets Intangible assets 3 29 1 92 (2) 27 Property, plant and equipment 33 36 80 107 36 Other non-current assets 9 9 12 7 (5) 4 Inventories 11 12 34 45 12 Receivables 12 12 94 96 2 14 Cash and cash equivalents 3 3 3 2 (1) 2 Total assets 71 101 224 349 (6) 95 Non-controlling interests 27 45 45 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 5 12 26 (1) 4 Current liabilities 33 33 130 131 1 34 Total non-controlling interests and liabilities 60 83 142 157 83 Net assets 11 18 82 192 (6) 12 Acquisition price (in cash) 350 Value of associate contributed 19 19 Consideration 19 350 19 Goodwill 1 158 6 7 Goodwill available for tax purposes (included in the above) 152 Acquisition costs recognized in exceptional items1 2 2 1 3 1 Included in General and administrative: Other costs 2 In 2014, the final Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) of Tortuga was performed, which has led to the above changes in the fair value, compared to the draft PPA Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 140 www.dsm.com Disposals 2015 In March, DSM and CVC Capital Partners announced the establishment of a partnership comprising the DSM Fibre Intermediates and DSM Composite Resins businesses. The formation of ChemicaInvest, in which DSM has a 35% shareholding, was finalized on 31 July. From 31 July onwards, both businesses are no longer consolidated by DSM. The 35% shareholding in ChemicaInvest is reported as an associate and accounted in accordance with the equity method. The result on the contribution of DSM Fibre Intermediates and DSM Composite Resins to ChemicaInvest amounted to a loss of € 130 million and was recognized in 2015. The impairment/book result and the impact of the deconsolidation of these activities on the DSM consolidated financial statements is presented in the following table: Disposals 2015 Bulk chemicals Other Total Assets Intangible assets (15) (15) Property, plant and equipment (818) (3) (821) Other non-current assets (65) (2) (67) Inventories (200) (12) (212) Receivables (416) (29) (445) Cash and cash equivalents (31) (1) (32) Total assets (1,545) (47) (1,592) Non-controlling interests (126) (126) Liabilities Provisions (44) (44) Non-current liabilities (369) (369) Current liabilities (333) (32) (365) Non-controlling interests and liabilities (872) (32) (904) Net assets (673) (15) (688) Consideration 502 21 523 Transaction and other costs (18) (5) (23) Realization cumulative translation reserves 59 (2) 57 Consideration (net of selling costs, translation differences and net debt) 543 14 557 Impairment / book result (130) (1) (131) Income tax Net impairment / book result (130) (1) (131) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 141 www.dsm.com The impact of the business that has been disposed on the cash flow statement is presented in the following table: 2015 2014 Net cash provided by / used in Operating activities (112) (117) Investing activities (21) (135) Net change in cash and cash (133) (252) equivalents 2014 JLL Partners and DSM completed the transaction announced in November 2013 combining DSM Pharmaceutical Products (DPP) and Patheon Inc. into a new privately held company, named Patheon (previously reported as DPx), in which DSM holds a 49% share. From 11 March 2014 onwards, DPP, which was classified held for sale at the end of 2013, is no longer consolidated by DSM. The 49% investment in Patheon is reported as an associate and accounted in accordance with the equity method. The result on the contribution of DPP to Patheon recognized in 2014 amounted to a loss of € 124 million which is specified in the table on page 143. This is lower than the estimated loss that was recognized upon classification of the business as asset held for sale at the end of 2013. The difference of € 28 million was mainly attributable to lower tax costs than earlier estimated. The impact of the deconsolidation of these activities on the DSM consolidated financial statements is presented in the following table: Disposals 2014 DSM Other Total Pharmaceutical Products Assets Intangible assets (30) (30) Property, plant and equipment (300) (300) Other non-current assets (35) (35) Inventories (205) (205) Receivables (94) (94) Cash and cash equivalents (7) (7) Total assets (671) (671) Liabilities Provisions (44) (44) Non-current liabilities (26) (26) Current liabilities (152) (152) Total liabilities (222) (222) Net assets (449) (449) Consideration (net of selling costs, translation differences and net debt) 477 4 481 Book result 28 4 32 Income tax 2 (1) 1 Net book result 30 3 33 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 142 www.dsm.com DSM Pharmaceutical Products Assets and liabilities held for sale Total 2015 In view of the agreements reached regarding the sale of certain Net assets assets and liabilities of the cultures and enzymes business of Book value DPP assets and liabilities 449 DSM Food Specialties in France, this business was impaired by Release related items in Other 16 € 1 million and reclassified as held for sale. Before reclassification comprehensive income these activities were reported in the segment Nutrition. In view Subtotal net assets upon divestment 465 of the limited size and importance of these activities they were not presented as discontinued operations. Impairment upon held for sale classification 152 in 2013 Total net assets 617 Cultures and enzymes Consideration / fair value 505 France Transaction costs in 2014 (9) Assets Liability for demolition costs (3) Property, plant and equipment Consideration net of costs 493 (PPE) (8) Inventories (2) Total book loss (124) Receivables (2) Total assets (12)1 Of which: Goodwill impaired in 2013 (152) Liabilities (exceptional item) Current liabilities (2) Book profit 2014 (exceptional item) 28 Total liabilities (2) Net assets (10) The impact of the business that has been disposed on the cash flow statement is presented in the following table: Fair value less costs to sell 9 Impairment of intangible assets 2015 2014 and PPE (1) Net cash provided by/used in: 1 Assets held for sale in the balance sheet amount to € 11 million, which includes the impairment of € 1 million Operating activities (12) Investing activities 69 Financing activities (8) The impact of the business that has been reclassified as held for Net change in cash and cash sale on the income statement (before exceptional items), is equivalents 49 presented in the following table: Deconsolidation and other changes 2015 2014 In 2015, there were no material deconsolidations or material Net sales 11 10 changes in the percentage of ownership of subsidiaries (same Cost of sales 10 10 as in 2014). Gross margin 1 Marketing and sales 1 1 General and administrative 1 1 2 2 Operating profit (1) (2) EBITDA (1) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 143 www.dsm.com 2014 In view of the agreements reached regarding the sale of the remaining Euroresins business and DSM Synres, these businesses were reclassified as held for sale. Before reclassification these activities were reported in the segment Performance Materials. In view of the limited size and importance of these activities they were not presented as discontinued operations. Euroresins Synres Total West Assets Intangible assets (2) (2) Property, plant and equipment (PPE) (11) (11) Other non-current assets (1) (1) Inventories (6) (5) (11) Receivables (15) (7) (22) Total assets (24) (23) (47)1 Liabilities Current liabilities (8) (8) (16) Total liabilities (8) (8) (16) Net assets (16) (15) (31) Fair value 16 10 26 Transaction costs (2) (3) (5) Fair value less costs to sell 14 7 21 Impairment of intangible assets and PPE (2) (8) (10) 1 Assets held for sale in the balance sheet amount to € 37 million, which includes the impairment of € 10 million Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 144 www.dsm.com 3 Segment information Geographical information Continuing operations The Rest of Eastern North Latin China India Japan Rest of Rest of Total 2014 NetherWestern Europe America America Asia the lands Europe world Net sales by origin In € million 1,982 2,033 122 1,160 675 636 54 72 253 64 7,051 In % 28 29 2 16 9 9 1 1 4 1 100 Net sales by destination In € million 302 1,818 437 1,546 951 833 133 203 617 211 7,051 In % 4 26 6 22 13 12 2 3 9 3 100 Workforce at year-end (headcount) 4,372 4,697 404 3,299 1,891 2,639 478 141 866 240 19,027 Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment Capital expenditure 153 131 2 97 19 61 6 6 2 477 Carrying amount 1,402 1,201 31 2,324 353 373 18 20 144 22 5,888 Total assets (total DSM) 3,709 2,110 113 3,323 820 1,458 70 88 359 76 12,126 2015 Net sales by origin In € million 1,938 2,123 154 1,451 719 837 76 73 272 79 7,722 In % 25 27 2 19 9 11 1 1 4 1 100 Net sales by destination In € million 280 1,851 467 1,779 1,053 937 153 209 740 253 7,722 In % 4 24 6 23 14 12 2 3 9 3 100 Workforce at year-end (headcount) 4,190 4,682 426 3,151 2,021 4,551 521 145 811 252 20,750 Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment Capital expenditure 138 121 2 102 22 84 2 5 2 478 Carrying amount 1,619 1,238 29 2,537 292 505 19 22 117 21 6,399 Total assets (total DSM) 3,838 2,038 119 3,486 749 882 82 95 361 93 11,743 DSM has no single external customer that represents 10% or more of revenues and therefore information about major customers is not provided. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 145 www.dsm.com Business segments1 Continuing operations DisconEliminaTotal Nutrition PerformInnovation Corporate2 EliminaTotal tinued tions 2015 ance Center Activities tions operations Materials Financial performance Net sales 4,963 2,528 155 76 7,722 1,213 8,935 Supplies to other clusters 56 19 3 (61) 17 253 (270) Supplies 5,019 2,547 158 76 (61) 7,739 1,466 (270) 8,935 EBITDA 822 384 (9) (122) 1,075 95 1,170 Operating profit 535 250 (43) (169) 573 77 650 Exceptional items (40) (65) (23) (83) (211) (135) (346) Operating profit including exceptional items 495 185 (66) (252) 362 (58) 304 Depreciation and amortization 271 133 28 43 475 13 488 Impairments 16 1 6 4 27 5 32 Impairments in exceptional items 9 60 5 18 92 130 222 Additions to provisions 3 23 55 81 1 82 Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 3 (18) 45 30 30 R&D costs3 123 109 70 28 330 8 338 Wages, salaries and social security costs 859 319 71 318 1,567 82 1,649 Financial position Total assets 6,523 2,122 809 2,289 11,743 11,743 Total liabilities 1,755 791 77 3,489 6,112 6,112 Capital employed at year-end 5,309 1,723 560 (39) 7,553 7,553 Capital expenditure 322 98 34 24 478 92 570 Share in equity of associates and joint ventures 1 7 135 501 644 644 EBITDA / net sales (in %) 16.6 15.2 13.9 7.8 13.1 Workforce Average in FTE 12,903 4,450 551 2,677 20,581 1,238 21,819 Year-end (headcount) 12,930 4,477 556 2,787 20,750 20,750 1 For a description of the types of products and services of each segment please refer to the 'Review of business' in the 'Report by the Managing Board'. Supplies from DSM Fibre Intermediates to DSM Engineering Plastics were executed at cost until deconsolidation. Transfers between other segments were fairly limited and were generally executed at market-based prices. 2 Corporate Activities also includes costs for regional holdings, corporate overhead and share-based compensation. 3 R&D costs relate to the functional area Research and development and exclude R&D cost included in the functional areas Cost of sales and Marketing and sales as well as R&D expenditure capitalized. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 146 www.dsm.com Business segments1 Continuing operations DisconEliminaTotal Nutrition PerformInnovation Corporate2 EliminaTotal tinued tions 2014 ance Center Activities tions operations Materials Financial performance Net sales 4,335 2,460 154 102 7,051 2,232 9,283 Supplies to other clusters 92 38 3 (95) 38 415 (453) Supplies 4,427 2,498 157 102 (95) 7,089 2,647 (453) 9,283 EBITDA 850 323 (18) (117) 1,038 128 1,166 Operating profit 596 204 (45) (168) 587 30 617 Exceptional items (23) 4 (41) (60) (267) (327) Operating profit including exceptional items 573 208 (45) (209) 527 (237) 290 Depreciation and amortization 242 118 27 46 433 87 520 Impairments 12 1 5 18 11 29 Impairments in exceptional items 1 (1) 3 3 294 297 Additions to provisions 29 22 51 4 55 Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures (1) 2 (10) (48) (57) (2) (59) R&D costs 3 103 98 70 33 304 19 323 Wages, salaries and social security costs 818 304 67 245 1,434 163 1,597 Financial position Total assets 6,200 1,835 750 2,012 10,797 1,329 12,126 Total liabilities 1,541 529 68 3,379 5,517 673 6,190 Capital employed at year-end 5,034 1,744 523 130 7,431 674 8,105 Capital expenditure 330 71 27 49 477 139 616 Share in equity of associates and joint ventures 1 6 118 482 607 10 617 EBITDA / net sales (in %) 19.6 13.1 14.7 5.7 12.6 Workforce Average in FTE 11,067 4,476 697 2,830 19,070 2,728 21,798 Year-end (headcount) 10,857 4,496 675 2,999 19,027 2,324 21,351 1 For a description of the types of products and services of each segment please refer to the 'Review of business' in the 'Report by the Managing Board'. Supplies from DSM Fibre Intermediates to DSM Engineering Plastics were executed at cost. Transfers between other segments were fairly limited and were generally executed at market-based prices. 2 Corporate Activities also includes costs for regional holdings, corporate overhead and share-based compensation. 3 R&D costs relate to the functional area Research and development and exclude R&D costs included in the functional areas Cost of sales and Marketing and sales as well as R&D expenditure capitalized. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 147 www.dsm.com 4 Net sales and costs The increase in depreciation is mainly due to investments in recent years that have been put into operation and acquisitions. Net sales Other operating income 2015 2014 2015 2014 Continuing operations before exceptional items Continuing operations before Goods sold 7,532 6,848 exceptional items Services rendered 183 189 Release of provisions 5 6 Royalties from ordinary activities 7 14 Gain on sale of assets and activities 11 3 Total 7,722 7,051 Gain on scrap, waste material, emission rights, royalties and licenses sold 2 18 Total costs Insurance benefits 7 3 Amendments / settlements In 2015, total operating costs of continuing operations before pension plans 12 4 exceptional items amounted to € 7.1 billion, € 0.6 billion higher Earn-out payments 2 than in 2014, when these costs stood at € 6.5 billion. Total Claims 3 operating costs in 2015 included Cost of sales to an amount of Sundry 25 16 € 5.3 billion (2014: € 4.8 billion); gross margin as a percentage of net sales stood at 32% (2014: 32%). Total 64 53 Employee benefits costs Other operating expense 2015 2014 2015 2014 Continuing operations before exceptional items Continuing operations before Wages and salaries 1,365 1,246 exceptional items Social security costs 181 170 Additions to provisions 13 10 Pension costs (see also note 25) 122 106 Loss from the disposal or closure Share-based compensation (see of assets and activities 1 also note 28) 21 19 Exchange differences 16 2 Costs of financial instruments 3 Total 1,689 1,541 Earn-out payments Damages 13 Sundry 11 9 Depreciation, amortization and impairments Total 40 38 2015 2014 Continuing operations before exceptional items Amortization of intangible assets 153 137 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 322 296 Impairment losses 27 18 Total 502 451 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 148 www.dsm.com 5 Net finance costs 6 Exceptional items 2015 2014 2015 2014 Continuing operations before Cost of sales: exceptional items Impairments of property, plant Interest costs and equipment and business Interest expense 125 103 activities (204) (291) Interest relating to defined benefit Other costs (51) (1) plans 11 10 (255) (292) Capitalized interest during Research and development: construction (6) (5) Other costs (2) Interest charge on discounted (2) provisions 8 1 General and administrative: Impairments of property, plant Total 138 109 and equipment and intangible assets (18) (4) Other financial income and Other costs (32) (36) expense (50) (40) Interest income (10) (13) Other operating income: Exchange differences 6 (1) Release of provisions 13 10 Result from other securities 7 9 Book gain on disposals 28 Sundry 8 (2) Other income 9 22 38 Total 11 (7) Other operating expense: Additions to provisions (61) (33) Net finance costs 149 102 (61) (33) Operating profit (346) (327) In 2015, the interest rate applied in the capitalization of interest Other financial income and during construction was 5% (2014: 5%). expense (15) (7) Total, before income tax expense (361) (334) Income tax expense 57 82 Share of the profit of associates/ joint ventures (24) (66) Net result from exceptional items (328) (318) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 149 www.dsm.com 2015 Other costs within Cost of sales relate to the inventory step up of Andre Pectin. See also note 2, 'Change in the scope of The exceptional items in 2015 are listed below: consolidation'. The impairment of Intangible assets within General and The impairments of property, plant and equipment, and administrative relates to application software and other assets business activities within Cost of sales relate mainly to the within DSM Business Services. See also note 8, 'Intangible impairment of the DSM Fibre Intermediates and DSM assets'. Composite Resins business, divested as per 31 July 2015 Other costs within General and administrative relate to (€ 130 million); the impairment of the DSM-AGI business restructuring costs (€ 33 million), acquisition and disposal (€ 26 million), of which goodwill € 16 million; an impairment of costs (€ 5 million) and a settlement of a former disposal US tape line assets at DSM Dyneema (€ 19 million) and (-€ 2 million) an impairment at the site of DSM Resins & Functional Materials The release of provisions in Other operating income relates to in Stanley (USA) (€ 15 million). Furthermore, impairments of the (partial) release of restructuring provisions (€ 7 million) and equipments were recognized by DSM Nutritional Products the partial release of Other provisions (€ 3 million) which were (€ 9 million) and DSM Innovation Center (€ 5 million). originally recognized as exceptional items. Other costs within Cost of sales relate to restructuring costs The book gain on disposals relates to the sale of DPP. For (€ 40 million) and the revaluation of certain inventories in further information see note 2, 'Change in the scope of Venezuela (€ 11 million). consolidation'. Impairments of property, plant and equipment and intangible Additions to provisions relates fully to restructuring provisions. assets within General and administrative mainly relate to the See also note 19 'Provisions'. impairment of software within DSM Business Services Other costs within operating expenses relate to acquisition amounting to € 16 million. and disposal costs. Other costs within General & Administrative relate mainly to Other financial income and expense relates to the waiver of a restructuring costs (€ 17 million), acquisition costs for Aland loan. and Cubic Tech (€ 5 million) and divestment related costs (€ 5 million). Cash generating units (CGUs) are tested for impairment when The release of provisions in Other operating income relates to economic circumstances trigger an impairment test, which was the (partial) release of restructuring provisions (€ 4 million) and the case for the caprolactam business of DSM Fibre other provisions (€ 9 million) that were originally recognized Intermediates in 2014. The impairment was principally triggered through exceptional items. by the low utilization of the production capacity as a result of Other income relates to a commercial settlement within DSM amongst others a huge increase in Chinese caprolactam Resins & Functional Materials. capacity coming to market. DSM determined the value in use of Additions to provisions relates to restructuring provisions the CGU using the model and approach that is also used for (€ 47 million) and litigation (€ 14 million). goodwill impairment testing. The CGU excludes the acrylonitrile Other financial income and expense relates to the revaluation and licensing businesses of DSM Fibre Intermediates because of monetary positions in Venezuela. those are stand-alone businesses that generate their own independent cash flows. The cash flow projections for the first Subsequent to the recognition of an impairment loss of € 291 five years are derived from DSM’s business plan (Corporate million for DSM Fibre Intermediates in 2014 the business was Strategy Dialogue) as adopted by the Managing Board. Cash included in the new partnership with CVC Capital Partners flow projections beyond the five-year planning period are announced in March 2015. An additional loss of € 130 million extrapolated taking into account the growth rates that have been was recognized in connection with the formation of this new determined to apply for the specific CGU in the Annual Strategic partnership as mentioned above. The assets and liabilities of the Review. The key assumptions in the cash flow projections relate entities in scope of the partnership (DSM Fibre Intermediates and to the growth of the business which is expected to be below 1% DSM Composite Resins) were classified as assets held for sale and the related revenue projections. The projections exclude and discontinued operations from March 2015 onwards. restructuring effects. This resulted in a non-cash impairment charge of € 291 million reported as an exceptional item. The 2014 impairment charge was allocated to long-term assets of the CGU on the basis of the book values of these assets, which resulted The exceptional items in 2014 are listed below: in the amount being allocated to Property, plant and equipment. The estimated pre-tax cash flows were discounted to their The impairment of Property, plant and equipment and present value using a pre-tax weighted average cost of capital business activities within Cost of sales relates to the of 9%. impairment of the caprolactam business of Polymer Intermediates. Furthermore € 66 million of exceptional items after tax relating to associates/joint ventures have been included. This mainly relates Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 150 www.dsm.com to financing, reorganization and acquisition-related costs of Effective tax rate Patheon. in % 2015 2014 7 Income tax Domestic income tax rate 25.0 25.0 The income tax expense on the total result was € 68 million, which represents an effective income tax rate of 52.4% Tax effects of: (2014: € 7 million, representing an effective income tax rate of Deviating rates 7.1 (7.9) 4.2%) and can be broken down as follows: Tax-exempt income and nondeductible expense (3.9) (4.8) Other effects (5.3) 5.0 2015 2014 Effective tax rate continuing Current tax expense: operations 22.9 17.3 Current year (104) (64) Discontinued operations 2.5 0.4 Prior-year adjustments 1 10 Exceptional items (see note 6) 0.9 (1.3) Tax credits compensated 3 16 Impairment / book result bulk Non-recoverable withholding chemicals 26.1 (12.2) tax (6) (7) Total effective tax rate 52.4 4.2 (106) (45) Deferred tax expense: Other effects relate to changes in tax losses and tax credits Originating from temporary recognized. differences and their reversal 48 76 Prior-year adjustments 7 (7) The balance of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities Change in tax rate (2) 26 decreased by € 15 million owing to the changes presented in the Change in tax losses and tax table below: credits recognized (15) (57) Deferred tax assets and liabilities 38 38 2015 2014 Total (68) (7) Balance at 1 January Of which related to: Deferred tax assets 427 364 The result from continuing Deferred tax liabilities (365) (375) operations before exceptional items (97) (84) Total 62 (11) The result from exceptional items continuing operations 51 11 Changes: The result from discontinued Income tax expense in income operations (22) 66 statement 38 38 Income tax expense in other comprehensive income 1 56 The effective income tax rate on the result from continuing Acquisitions and disposals (49) (5) operations before exceptional items was 22.9% in 2015 (2014: Exchange differences (16) (17) 17.3%). This increase was due amongst others to a one-time tax Transfer 11 1 settlement for the internal transfer of a business and a somewhat less favorable geographical mix. For the strategy period Balance at 31 December 47 62 2016-2018, DSM expects the effective tax rate to be in the range of 18-20%. The relationship between the income tax rate in the Of which: Netherlands and the effective tax rate on the result from Deferred tax assets 366 427 continuing operations is as follows: Deferred tax liabilities (319) (365) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 151 www.dsm.com In various countries DSM has taken standpoints regarding its tax position which may at any time be challenged, or have already been challenged, by the tax authorities because the authorities in question interpret the law differently. In determining the probability of realization of deferred tax assets and liabilities these uncertainties are taken into account. The deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to the following balance sheet items: Deferred tax assets and liabilities by balance sheet item 2015 2014 Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax assets liabilities assets liabilities Intangible assets 20 (261) 22 (224) Property, plant and equipment 11 (214) 102 (279) Financial assets 2 (5) 2 (4) Inventories 54 (7) 58 (35) Receivables 5 (6) 6 (5) Equity 1 (3) 2 (2) Other non-current liabilities 40 (1) 36 (1) Non-current provisions 92 104 (1) Non-current borrowings Other current liabilities 71 (2) 81 (5) 296 (499) 413 (556) Tax losses carried forward 250 205 Set-off (180) 180 (191) 191 Total 366 (319) 427 (365) No deferred tax assets were recognized for loss carryforwards amounting to € 86 million (2014: € 88 million). Unrecognized loss carryforwards amounting to € 2 million will expire in the years up to and including 2020 (2014: € 2 million up to and including 2019), € 77 million between 2021 and 2025 (2014: € 63 million between 2020 and 2024) and the remaining € 7 million between 2026 and 2030 (2014: € 23 million between 2025 and 2029). The valuation of deferred tax assets depends on the probability of the reversal of temporary differences and the utilization of tax loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets are recognized for future tax benefits arising from temporary differences and for tax loss carryforwards to the extent that the tax benefits are likely to be realized. In the Netherlands tax losses may be carried forward for nine years. For the entities in the Dutch tax consolidation, losses will start to expire in 2019. DSM has to assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable profits. Deferred tax assets are reduced if, and to the extent that, it is not probable that all or some portion of the deferred tax assets will be realized. In the event that actual future results differ from estimates, and depending on tax strategies that DSM may be able to implement, changes to the measurement of deferred taxes could be required, which could impact on the company’s financial position and profit for the year. The recoverability of the Dutch deferred tax assets was enhanced in 2015 due to steps that were taken to structurally improve the profitability of the operations in the Netherlands. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 152 www.dsm.com 8 Intangible assets Goodwill Licenses Under Development Other Total and patents construction projects Balance at 1 January 2014 Cost 1,660 156 108 58 1,347 3,329 Amortization and impairment losses 77 22 540 639 Carrying amount 1,660 79 108 36 807 2,690 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 10 70 15 2 97 Put into operation 1 (79) 4 74 Acquisitions 7 23 4 34 Amortization (10) (3) (126) (139) Impairment losses (1) (12) (13) Exchange differences 122 5 2 1 63 193 Reclassification to held for sale 1 (1) Other reclassifications 3 1 1 5 128 32 (6) 18 5 177 Balance at 31 December 2014 Cost 1,788 204 102 75 1,525 3,694 Amortization and impairment losses 93 21 713 827 Carrying amount 1,788 111 102 54 812 2,867 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 31 47 7 85 Put into operation 7 (35) 28 Acquisitions 29 4 12 45 Disposals (2) (2) (11) (15) Deconsolidation 334 334 Amortization (11) (3) (140) (154) Impairment losses (18) (2) (13) (23) (56) Exchange differences 67 1 4 1 44 117 Other reclassifications 4 1 5 78 (3) 2 32 252 361 Balance at 31 December 2015 Cost 1,883 199 104 122 1,880 4,188 Amortization and impairment losses 17 91 36 816 960 Carrying amount 1,866 108 104 86 1,064 3,228 Other intangible assets principally comprises acquisition-related intangibles that have been included in the annual goodwill impairment test discussed later in this section. These assets are amortized on a straight-line basis. In 2015, an impairment on Intangible assets of € 56 million was recognized. This mainly related to an impairment of € 16 million at DSM Resins & Functional Materials against goodwill relating to DSM-AGI (see note 6 Exceptional items). Furthermore an impairment of development costs in DSM Nutritional Products of € 13 million has been included as certain new production techniques that had been developed were not taken into operation. Also an impairment of € 14 million was included relating to software, as a consequence of outsourcing the related activity. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 153 www.dsm.com Deconsolidation of € 334 million in 2015 relates to the impact of the disposal of Bulk Chemicals on the DSM Engineering Plastics business. The new partnership, ChemicaInvest, will continue to supply at least 80% of DSM Engineering Plastics caprolactam needs in Europe and North America for the coming 15 years via a drawing rights contract, effectively maintaining DSM Engineering Plastics' backward integration. The fair value of this contract has been recognized as an intangible asset by DSM Engineering Plastics. At the end of 2015 an amount of € 160 million was recognized as a liability towards ChemicaInvest for the acquisition of the drawing rights. Over the past few years, DSM has acquired several entities in business combinations that have been accounted for by the acquisition method, resulting in recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets. The amounts assigned to the acquired assets and liabilities are based on assumptions and estimates about their fair values. In making these estimates, management consults independent, qualified appraisers if appropriate. A change in assumptions and estimates could change the values allocated to certain assets and their estimated useful lives, which could affect the amount or timing of charges to the income statement, such as amortization of intangible assets. The breakdown of the carrying amount of goodwill at year-end 2015 is as follows: Goodwill Acquisition 2015 2014 Cash generating unit Functional Year of currency acquisition Martek 425 382 DSM Nutritional Products USD 2011 NeoResins 358 358 DSM Resins & Functional Materials EUR 2005 Fortitech 318 286 DSM Nutritional Products USD 2012 Ocean Nutrition Canada 196 210 DSM Nutritional Products CAD 2012 Kensey Nash 148 133 DSM Biomedical USD 2012 Tortuga 94 125 DSM Nutritional Products BRL 2013 The Polymer Technology Group 80 72 DSM Biomedical USD 2008 Pentapharm 36 32 DSM Nutritional Products CHF 2007 Cargill Culture and enzymes business 30 29 DSM Food Specialties EUR/USD 2012 Shandong ICD 27 26 DSM Dyneema CNY 2011 Unitech 17 17 DSM Nutritional Products NZD 2013 Cubic Tech 15 0 DSM Dyneema USD 2015 Aland 14 0 DSM Nutritional Products CNY 2015 Syntech Far East 12 11 DSM Resins & Functional Materials HKD 2005 Zhejiang Zhongken Biotechnology 11 11 DSM Food Specialties CNY 2010 Verenium 10 9 DSM Food Specialties USD 2012 C5 Yeast Company 9 9 DSM Bio-based Products & Services EUR 2011 Novamid 9 8 DSM Engineering Plastics JPY 2010 Crina 9 8 DSM Nutritional Products CHF 2006 DSM Japan Engineering Plastics 6 6 DSM Engineering Plastics EUR 2003 DSM Valley Research 6 5 DSM Food Specialties USD 2008 AGI Corporation 0 16 DSM Resins & Functional Materials TWD 2011 Other acquisitions 36 35 Total 1,866 1,788 The annual impairment tests of goodwill are performed in the fourth quarter. The recoverable amount of the cash generating units (CGUs) concerned is based on a value-in-use calculation. The cash flow projections for the first five years are derived from DSM’s business plan (Corporate Strategy Dialogue) as adopted by the Managing Board. Cash flow projections beyond the five-year planning period are extrapolated taking into account the growth rates that have been determined to apply for the specific CGU in the Annual Strategic Review. The key assumptions in the cash flow projections relate to the market growth for the CGUs and the related revenue projections. DSM Nutritional Products, DSM Resins & Functional Materials and DSM Biomedical are three CGUs to which significant amounts of goodwill are allocated. The growth assumptions for these CGUs are based on the growth of the global food and feed markets, the demand for advanced coating resins that is influenced by growth in the building and construction markets and the growth of the market for medical devices. Growth rates generally are between 3% and 5%. For DSM Nutritional Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 154 www.dsm.com Products organic sales growth is expected to be between 3 and 5% and the pre-tax discount rate for impairment testing is 8.5%. For DSM Resins & Functional Materials the expected growth also is between 3 and 5% and the pre-tax discount rate is 10.5%. For DSM Biomedical growth exceeding 10% is expected with a pre-tax discount rate of 10.5%. The terminal value for the period after 10 years is determined with the assumption of limited inflationary growth in all cases. A stress test was performed on the impairment tests of the CGUs. This showed that the conclusions of these tests would not have been different if reasonably possible adverse changes in key parameters had been assumed. The value-in-use of CGUs with significant amounts of goodwill clearly exceeded their carrying amount, with the exception of DSM Biomedical where the headroom was limited (similar to 2014). The market capitalization of DSM at 31 December 2015 amounted to € 8,396 million (31 December 2014: € 9,187 million) and was clearly above the carrying amount of net assets, providing an additional indication that goodwill was not impaired. The other intangible assets are listed in the following table: Other intangible assets 2015 2014 Cost Amortization Carrying Of which Of which amount acquisitionacquisitionrelated related Application software 202 (137) 65 12 11 Marketing-related 79 (18) 61 60 16 Customer-related 572 (208) 364 296 287 Technology-based 639 (422) 217 184 200 Drawing rights 334 (9) 325 Other 54 (22) 32 15 52 Total 1,880 (816) 1,064 567 566 Total 2014 1,525 (713) 812 566 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 155 www.dsm.com 9 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and Other Under Not used Total buildings machinery equipconstrucfor ment tion operating activities Balance at 1 January 2014 Cost 2,024 4,441 201 734 20 7,420 Depreciation and impairment losses 844 2,810 140 1 14 3,809 Carrying amount 1,180 1,631 61 733 6 3,611 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 15 43 5 456 519 Put into operation 65 464 18 (547) Acquisitions 15 21 36 Disposals (5) (2) (7) Depreciation (75) (285) (22) (382) Impairment losses (11) (191) (110) (312) Exchange differences 60 126 3 34 223 Reclassification to held for sale (3) (7) (10) Other reclassifications (11) 4 8 (7) (6) Other changes 1 1 50 173 13 (174) 62 Balance at 31 December 2014 Cost 2,155 5,097 234 669 20 8,175 Depreciation and impairment losses 925 3,293 160 110 14 4,502 Carrying amount 1,230 1,804 74 559 6 3,673 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 3 31 3 448 485 Put into operation 69 238 15 (322) Acquisitions 32 28 4 1 65 Disposals (108) (418) (10) (157) 2 (691) Depreciation (74) (238) (20) (2) (334) Impairment losses (12) (185) (2) (199) Impairment reversals 1 1 Exchange differences 53 112 1 17 183 Reclassification to held for sale (5) (2) (7) Other reclassifications (3) (3) 1 (5) (44) (437) (8) (13) (502) Balance at 31 December 2015 Cost 2,013 3,825 206 547 15 6,606 Depreciation and impairment losses 827 2,458 140 1 9 3,435 Carrying amount 1,186 1,367 66 546 6 3,171 There were no material finance lease agreements in 2015 (as was the case in 2014). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 156 www.dsm.com In 2015, impairment losses on Property, plant and equipment of € 198 million were recognized. This included an impairment of € 130 million relating to the disposal of Bulk Chemicals (see note 2 'Change in the scope of consolidation'). Furthermore this included a € 19 million impairment of a DSM Dyneema tape production line in the US, primarily used for vehicle protection. At DSM Resins & Functional Materials an impairment of € 15 million was taken relating to the factory in Stanley (USA) and € 10 million to Property, plant and equipment of DSM-AGI (see also note 6 'Exceptional items'). In 2014, impairment losses on Property, plant and equipment of € 312 million were recognized. This mainly related to the impairment of the CGU caprolactam of € 291 million at DSM Fibre Intermediates. The impairment test for caprolactam is discussed in note 6 'Exceptional items'. 10 Associates and joint ventures DSM applies IFRS 11 since 2013. The interests in POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels and DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals are classified as joint venture in accordance with IFRS 11 and accounted for using the equity method. DSM has a 49% interest and significant influence in Patheon since the formation of this company early in 2014 and a 35% interest and significant influence in ChemicaInvest since the formation of this partnership in July 2015. DSM accounts for these interests using the equity method. Relations with these joint ventures and associates and their strategic importance are discussed in more detail in the sections 'Partnerships and Innovation Center in the Report by the Managing Board. Entities that meet the definition of joint operations of IFRS 11 were not identified. DSM's share in its most important associates and joint ventures is disclosed below: Company DSM interest 2015 2014 DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals, Ltd. (Hong Kong, China) joint control 50% 50% POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels LLC (Sioux Falls, South Dakota, USA) joint control 50% 50% JLL/Delta Patheon Holdings, L.P. (Cayman Islands) significant influence 48.9% 49% ChemicaInvest Holding B.V. (Netherlands) significant influence 35% Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 157 www.dsm.com The following table provides an overview of DSM's investments in associates and joint ventures. Associates and joint ventures 2015 2014 Patheon DSP POET-DSM1 ChemicaOther2 Total Invest Balance at 1 January 413 142 147 60 762 295 Changes: Share of profits 56 8 (13) (14) (14) 23 (61) Capital payments 13 15 23 51 35 Repayments (14) (17) (31) Dividend received (141) (3) (144) (3) New loans 161 5 166 53 Disposals (27) (27) (1) Consolidation changes 18 18 397 Reclassification to held for sale (1) Transfers (6) (6) Exchange differences 27 1 17 (3) 3 45 67 Other 10 1 4 15 (19) Total changes (62) 19 162 (9) 110 467 Balance at 31 December 351 142 166 162 51 872 762 Of which carrying amount of the investment 351 129 120 1 43 644 617 Of which loans granted 13 463 161 8 228 145 1 The future value of the investment in DSM-POET is subject to the realization of the business objectives of the company and the development of the market price for bio-ethanol 2 Amongst others Japan Fine Coatings and Actamax are included in Other 3 The outstanding loan receivable is secured for 50% by a guarantee from the joint venture partner POET LLC Loans include a € 54 million shareholder loan with an annual fixed interest rate of 9.875% and a € 108 million bridge loan with an annually rising interest rate from 7 to 10%, both with an expected 4-year maturity, granted to ChemicaInvest; a loan of € 12 million to DSP maturing in 2017; a USD 50 million loan to POET-DSM with a 5% interest rate repayable in 2018 and secured for 50% by a guarantee from the joint venture partner. Loans 2014 include a USD 61 million loan granted to Patheon (DPx) in 2014 with an annual fixed interest rate of 10.75% and an expected 5-year maturity (from 2015 onward the loan is in included in the carrying amount of the investment in Patheon); loans of € 6 million and € 12 million to DSP maturing in 2016 together with a loan of CNY 115 million to be repaid in or before 2017; a USD 50 million loan to POET-DSM with a 5% interest repayable in 2018 and secured for 50% by a guarantee from the joint venture partner. The next page gives an overview of associates and joint ventures (on a 100% basis). Patheon is included from 11 March 2014 until the end of fiscal year 2014 (31 October) for 2014 and from 1 November 2014 until 31 October 2015 for 2015. Furthermore the book result of the divestment of the generics business of Banner Life Sciences in December 2015 has been included in exceptional items for € 39 million (100% basis). A post-tax result discontinued operations of € 93 million has been reported, which includes the businesses of Banner Pharmacaps in Mexico City (Mexico), Biosolutions Operations in Capua (Italy) and the DPx Fine Chemicals division. ChemicaInvest is included from 31 July 2015. POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels is included in Other in view of the commercial start-up of the plant. At year-end 2015, total assets amounted to € 292 million (2014: € 258 million) and net assets amounted to € 240 million (2014: € 211 million). Revenue for 2015 was € 2 million (2014: € 0 million) and EBITDA was -€ 23 million (2014: -€ 8 million). Furthermore, Japan Fine Coatings and Actamax are included among others. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 158 www.dsm.com Associates and joint ventures on a 100% basis Patheon DSP ChemicaInvest1 Other Total 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Assets Intangible assets 1,351 1,405 22 16 9 11 21 1,393 1,442 Property, plant and equipment 863 819 234 241 545 349 315 1,991 1,375 Other non-current assets 473 110 30 36 166 4 15 673 161 Inventories 340 362 81 75 171 14 13 606 450 Receivables 348 296 142 172 376 25 83 891 551 Cash and cash equivalents 567 70 102 67 107 33 48 809 185 Other current assets 7 10 5 17 5 Total assets 3,942 3,062 611 607 1,381 446 500 6,380 4,169 Liabilities Provisions (non-current) 1 3 1 3 2 6 Borrowings (non-current) 2,422 1,625 46 47 534 80 80 3,082 1,752 Other non-current liabilities 339 299 10 9 295 6 6 650 314 Provisions (current) 23 42 3 26 42 Borrowings and financial derivatives 26 25 127 145 82 21 22 256 192 (current) Other current liabilities 513 410 165 181 366 27 99 1,071 690 Total liabilities 3,323 2,401 349 385 1,281 134 210 5,087 2,996 Net assets (100% basis) 619 661 262 222 100 312 290 1,293 1,173 Of which non-controlling interest 62 4 4 94 160 4 Net assets excluding goodwill 619 661 262 222 100 312 290 1,293 1,173 Contingent liabilities Summarized statement of profit or loss Revenue (net sales)2 1,621 984 418 399 756 214 368 3,009 1,751 Operating profit (EBIT) 191 92 28 9 (32) (42) (25) 145 76 Interest income 1 1 Interest expense (133) (56) (7) (6) (18) (2) (4) (160) (66) Other financial income and expense 10 (1) 8 (4) (1) 5 7 Share of the profit of associates (2) (1) 4 2 (1) Profit before income tax expense 66 34 22 11 (50) (45) (29) (7) 16 Income tax expense 8 9 (6) (5) 10 (4) 8 4 Profit for the year (continuing operations) 74 43 16 6 (40) (49) (29) 1 20 Post-tax result discontinued operations 93 93 Exceptional items as reported by associates / joint ventures (18) (152) 2 (18) (150) Income tax expense exceptional items (16) 4 (16) 4 Profit for the year (total) 133 (105) 16 6 (40) (49) (27) 60 (126) Other comprehensive income 2 (35) (4) 2 (39) Total comprehensive income 135 (140) 16 2 (40) (49) (27) 62 (165) of which non-controlling interest 20 20 EBITDA 366 177 57 23 (3) (31) (18) 389 182 Depreciation, amortization and (175) (85) (29) (14) (29) (11) (7) (244) (106) impairment 1 ChemicaInvest will update the initial recognition of assets and liabilities acquired on the basis of a purchase price allocation in 2016 2 Excluding sales to DSM of € 10 million (DSP) and € 123 million (ChemicaInvest) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 159 www.dsm.com 11 Other financial assets Other Other Other Total participations receivables deferred items Balance at 1 January 2014 46 71 35 152 Changes: Charged to the income statement (6) (7) (13) Acquisitions (5) 5 Capital payments 6 6 Disposals (2) (2) Loans granted 1 1 Repayments (2) (2) Prepayments 20 20 Exchange differences (4) 1 2 (1) Transfers (21) (14) (35) Changes in fair value 4 4 Balance at 31 December 2014 44 45 41 130 Changes: Charged to the income statement (8) 16 8 Capital payments 2 2 Disposals 56 56 Loans granted 2 2 Repayments (2) (2) Consolidation changes 4 4 Exchange differences 1 (3) 2 Transfers (1) (1) Changes in fair value 5 5 Other 3 (16) (13) Balance at 31 December 2015 51 113 27 191 Other participations relate to equity instruments in companies whose activities support DSM’s business and which can be quoted or unquoted. In Other participations an amount of € 32 million is included that relates to equity instruments, with a fair value that cannot be measured reliably (2014: € 26 million). These instruments are therefore measured at cost. Disposals in 2015 of € 56 million are mainly relating to the deconsolidation of the bulk chemicals business and the related earn-out receivable. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 160 www.dsm.com 12 Inventories 13 Current receivables 2015 2014 2015 2014 Raw materials and consumables 448 521 Trade receivables Intermediates and finished goods 1,227 1,274 Trade accounts receivable 1,312 1,538 Deferred items 30 33 1,675 1,795 Receivables from associates 24 17 Adjustments to lower net 1,366 1,588 realizable value (48) (56) Adjustment for bad debts (17) (18) Total 1,627 1,739 Total Trade receivables 1,349 1,570 Other current receivables The carrying amount of inventories adjusted to net realizable Income taxes receivable 71 50 value (before reclassification to held for sale) was € 172 million Other taxes and social security (2014: € 213 million). contributions 22 21 Loans 32 30 The carrying amount of inventories reclassified to held for sale Receivables from joint venture was € 2 million (2014: € 10 million). partners 9 40 Interest 1 1 Changes in the adjustment to net realizable value Receivables associates relating to cash facility 36 11 Other receivables 32 38 2015 2014 Deferred items 4 8 Balance at 1 January (56) (49) Total Other current receivables 207 199 Additions charged to income statement (71) (38) Deferred items comprised € 34 million (2014: € 41 million) in Utilization / reversals 73 31 prepaid expenses that will impact profit or loss in future periods. Exchange differences (3) (3) Reclassification to held for sale 3 Receivables from joint venture partners per 31 December 2014 Disposals 9 included a deferred receivable of € 40 million excluding accrued Balance at 31 December (48) (56) interest from Sinochem Group (the joint venture partner in DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals) which has been received in 2015. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 161 www.dsm.com With respect to trade accounts receivable that are neither 14 Current investments impaired nor past due, there are no indications that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations. An aging overview of trade receivables related to commercial transactions amounting 2015 2014 to € 1,177 million (2014: € 1,408 million) is provided below. The remaining balance reported as trade receivables amounting to Fixed term deposits 9 6 € 135 million (2014: € 130 million) is excluded from this analysis because it principally concerns reclaimable VAT and accruals Total 9 6 that are not related to the payment behavior of customers. Aging overview Trade receivables 15 Cash and cash equivalents in % 2015 2014 2015 2014 Neither past due nor impaired 87 86 1-29 days overdue 9 10 Deposits 27 88 30-89 days overdue 2 1 Cash at bank and in hand 615 550 90 days or more overdue 2 3 Payments in transit 19 18 Bills of exchange 4 13 The changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable Total 665 669 are as follows: Cash at year-end 2015 was not being used as collateral and 2015 2014 therefore was not restricted (same as in 2014). In a few countries DSM faces cross-border foreign exchange controls and/or other Balance at 1 January (18) (19) legal restrictions that limits its ability to make these balances available on short notice for general use by the group. The Additions charged to income amount of cash held in these countries was € 109 million (2014: statement (10) (7) € 141 million). The cash will generally be invested or held in the Deductions 6 8 relevant country and, given the other capital resources available Disposals 5 to the group, does not significantly affect the ability of the group Balance at 31 December (17) (18) to meet its cash obligations. Cash held by DSM includes cash from certain associates that continue to participate in the cash-pooling arrangements of DSM. At the end of 2015, the amount had increased by € 56 million to € 137 million. This applies, amongst others, to the former DSM-entities DSM Fibre Intermediates and DSM Composite Resins for which control was transferred to CVC in 2015. See also note 22 'Current liabilities'. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 162 www.dsm.com 16 Equity 2015 2014 Balance at 1 January 5,936 6,096 Net profit 92 99 Net exchange differences 30 310 Net actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit obligations (54) (141) Dividend (310) (307) Proceeds from reissue of ordinary shares 176 160 Repurchase of shares (122) (189) Disposals (126) Other changes 9 (92) Balance at 31 December 5,631 5,936 Disposals in 2015 relates to the derecognition of the non-controlling interest in the Bulk Chemicals activities, see note 18 ‘Noncontrolling interests’. After the balance sheet date the following dividends were declared by the Managing Board: Dividend 2015 2014 Per cumulative preference share A: € 0.23 (2014: € 0.23) 10 10 Per ordinary share: € 1.65 (2014: € 1.65) 288 286 Total 298 296 The proposed final dividend on ordinary shares is subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and has not been deducted from Equity. For a description of the rules of profit appropriation and of the statutory rights attached to preference shares B, see page 204. Share capital On 31 December 2015, the authorized capital amounted to € 1,125 million (2014: € 1,125 million), distributed over 330,960,000 ordinary shares, 44,040,000 cumulative preference shares A and 375,000,000 cumulative preference shares B. All shares have a nominal value of € 1.50 each. The changes in the number of issued and outstanding shares in 2014 and 2015 are shown in the following table. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 163 www.dsm.com Overview of shares Issued shares Treasury shares Ordinary Cumprefs A Ordinary Balance at 1 January 2014 181,425,000 44,040,000 7,461,588 Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payments (725,210) Repurchase of shares 3,733,055 Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (2,581,248) Balance at 31 December 2014 181,425,000 44,040,000 7,888,185 Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2014 (7,888,185) Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2014 173,536,815 44,040,000 Balance at 1 January 2015 181,425,000 44,040,000 7,888,185 Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payments (1,056,880) Repurchase of shares 2,300,000 Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (2,629,332) Balance at 31 December 2015 181,425,000 44,040,000 6,501,973 Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2015 (6,501,973) Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2015 174,923,027 44,040,000 The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2015 was 174,357,139 (2014: 172,605,434). All shares issued are fully paid. The cumulative preference shares A have been classified as equity because there is no mandatory redemption and distributions to the shareholders are at the discretion of DSM. On 31 December 2015, no cumulative preference shares B were outstanding. Share premium Of the total share premium of € 489 million (2014: € 489 million), an amount of € 106 million (2014: € 108 million) can be regarded as entirely free of tax. Treasury shares On 31 December 2015, DSM possessed 6,501,973 ordinary shares (nominal value € 10 million, 2.9% of the share capital). The average purchase price of the ordinary treasury shares was € 49.05. As at 31 December 2015, 5,087,588 of the total number of treasury shares outstanding were held for servicing management and personnel share-option rights. The remainder, 1,414,385 shares, is the balance of shares that were purchased under the company's share buy-back program in 2007 and 2008 and shares that were reissued as stock dividend in the years 2011 through 2015. On 31 December 2014, DSM possessed 7,888,185 ordinary shares (nominal value € 12 million, 3.5% of the share capital). The average purchase price of the ordinary treasury shares was € 44.27. As at 31 December 2014, 3,844,468 of the total number of treasury shares outstanding were held for servicing management and personnel share-option rights. The remainder, 4,043,717 shares, is the balance of shares that were purchased under the company's share buy-back program in 2007 and 2008 and shares that were reissued as stock dividend in the years 2011 through 2014. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 164 www.dsm.com Other reserves in Shareholder's equity Translation Hedging Reserve for Fair value Total reserve reserve share-based reserve compensation Balance at 1 January 2014 16 (7) 41 (15) 35 Changes: Fair-value changes of derivatives (174) (174) Release to income statement (9) (9) Release to share of subsidiaries (acquisition) 2 2 Fair-value changes of other financial assets 4 4 Exchange differences 282 282 Options and performance shares granted 19 19 Options and performance shares exercised/cancelled (11) (11) Income tax 18 18 Total changes 282 (163) 8 4 131 Balance at 31 December 2014 298 (170) 49 (11) 166 Changes: Fair-value changes of derivatives (51) (51) Release to income statement (59) 51 (8) Release to retained earnings (7) (7) Reclassification to deferred items (4) (4) Fair-value changes of other financial assets 8 8 Exchange differences 57 57 Options and performance shares granted 29 29 Options and performance shares exercised/cancelled (15) (15) Income tax 25 (29) (4) Total changes 16 (33) 14 8 5 Balance at 31 December 2015 314 (203) 63 (3) 171 The increase in the Translation reserve is mainly caused by strengthening of the US dollar, Chinese renminbi and Swiss franc compared to the euro. As a consequence the value of the subsidiaries in those countries increased which lead to a positive exchange difference impact of € 57 million. This is offset by the € 59 million release of the cumulative translation reserve at the Bulk Chemical entities to the income statement upon their disposal. The significant increase in the Translation reserve in 2014 amounting to € 282 million is the result of the weakening of the euro in 2014. As a consequence the value of the US, Swiss and Brazilian subsidiaries of DSM increased. The decrease of the hedging reserve is the consequence of value changes of interest rate hedges for which cash flow hedge accounting is applied. The Translation reserve, Hedging reserve and the Fair value reserve are legal reserves in accordance with Dutch law and cannot be distributed to shareholders. Additional information is provided in note 6 to the 'Parent company financial statements'. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 165 www.dsm.com 17 Earnings per ordinary share Continuing operations Discontinued Total in € operations Before Exceptional Total exceptional items items 2014 Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares (in € million)1 404 (281) 123 12 135 Basic earnings 2.34 (0.71) 1.63 (0.85) 0.78 Impact of reclassification of net result from activities disposed of (0.92) (0.92) 0.92 Basic earnings after reclassification of net result from discontinued operations to exceptional items 2.34 (1.63) 0.71 0.07 0.78 Diluted earnings 2.33 (0.70) 1.63 (0.85) 0.78 Impact of reclassification of net result from activities disposed of (0.92) (0.92) 0.92 Diluted earnings after reclassification of net result from discontinued operations to exceptional items 2.33 (1.62) 0.71 0.07 0.78 Dividend distributed in the period (including stock dividend) 1.70 Dividend for the year 1.65 Weigthed average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1000) 172,605 Effect of dilution due to share options (x 1000) 762 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares (x 1000) 173,367 2015 Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares (in € million)1 373 (328) 45 33 78 Basic earnings 2.14 (1.14) 1.00 (0.55) 0.45 Impact of reclassification of net result from activities disposed of (0.74) (0.74) 0.74 Basic earnings after reclassification of net result from discontinued operations to exceptional items 2.14 (1.88) 0.26 0.19 0.45 Diluted earnings 2.13 (1.13) 1.00 (0.55) 0.45 Impact of reclassification of net result from activities disposed of (0.74) (0.74) 0.74 Diluted earnings after reclassification of net result from discontinued operations to exceptional items 2.13 (1.87) 0.26 0.19 0.45 Dividend distributed in the period (including stock dividend) 1.65 Dividend for the year 1.65 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1000) 174,357 Effect of dilution due to share options (x 1000) 624 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares (x 1000) 174,981 1 Reconciliation to profit for the year is provided in the Consolidated income statement Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 166 www.dsm.com 18 Non-controlling interests 2015 2014 DNCC Nanjing Andre Pectin Other Total Total (CN) (CN) % of non-controlling interest 40% 71% Balance at 1 January 76 51 86 213 188 Changes: Share of profit/charged to income statement 5 2 (3) 4 (46) Acquisitions 45 Capital payments 1 1 4 Dividend paid (13) (13) (6) New loans Disposals (87) (39) (126) Consolidation changes (2) (2) Reclassification to held for sale Transfers Exchange differences 8 3 3 14 28 Other (1) (1) Subtotal changes (76) 5 (52) (123) 25 Balance at 31 December 56 34 90 The decrease in the non-controlling interests mainly relates to the disposal of the Bulk Chemicals activities, which includes the caprolactam, acrylonitrile and composite resins business. The non-controlling interests part of this disposal relates to DNCC Nanjing (€ 87 million), Sitech Services (€ 26 million), Jingling DSM Resins (€ 7 million) and Georgia Monomers Company (€ 6 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 167 www.dsm.com Not fully-owned subsidiaries on a 100% basis DNCC Nanjing (CN) Andre Pectin (CN) Other 20151 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Assets Intangible assets 6 29 30 32 39 Property, plant and equipment 320 31 33 176 242 Other non-current assets 13 20 14 Inventories 28 21 13 17 32 Receivables 87 27 26 34 65 Cash and cash equivalents 67 4 2 27 40 Other current assets Total assets 521 112 104 306 432 Liabilities Provisions (non-current) 4 5 3 2 Borrowings (non-current) 166 23 68 Other non-current liabilities 28 29 Provisions (current) Borrowings and financial derivatives (current) 40 12 11 75 54 Other current liabilities 127 17 17 46 93 Total liabilities 333 33 33 175 246 Net assets (100% basis) 188 79 71 131 186 Net sales 409 616 45 31 291 395 Profit for the year (2) (14) 3 (16) (13) Total comprehensive income (2) (14) 3 (16) (15) Operating cash flows 15 33 3 8 Dividend paid to non-controlling interests 13 6 1 Due to the disposal of the Bulk Chemicals activities only up to and including July 2015 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 168 www.dsm.com 19 Provisions The total of non-current and current provisions decreased by € 8 million. This is the balance of the following changes: Restructuring Environmental Other longOther Total costs and costs term employee provisions termination benefits benefits Balance at 1 January 2014 66 30 43 23 162 Of which current 50 4 4 7 65 Changes in 2014: Additions 33 4 7 11 55 Releases (8) (8) (16) Uses (42) (4) (3) (6) (55) Exchange differences 1 1 Other reclassifications (7) (2) 9 Total changes (23) (2) 4 6 (15) Balance at 31 December 2014 43 28 47 29 147 Of which current 24 2 4 12 42 Changes in 2015: Additions 51 3 5 23 82 Releases (7) (19) (26) Uses (48) (4) (2) (7) (61) Acquisitions 4 4 Disposals (4) (1) (9) (1) (15) Exchange differences 4 1 (2) 3 Other reclassifications (1) 6 5 Total changes (4) (1) (3) (8) Balance at 31 December 2015 39 27 44 29 139 Of which current 28 2 3 8 41 In cases where the effect of the time value of money is material, The provisions for environmental costs relate to soil clean-up provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures obligations, among other things. These provisions have an expected to be required to settle the obligation. The discount average life of more than 10 years. rate used, increased from 1.8% to 2.0%. The balance of provisions measured at present value increased by The provisions for other long-term employee benefits mainly € 0.4 million in 2015 in view of the passage of time. relate to length-of-service and end-of-service payments. The average life of this provision is estimated to be between 10 and The provisions for restructuring costs and termination benefits 12 years. mainly relate to the costs of redundancy schemes connected to the dismissal and transfer of employees and costs of termination Several items have been combined under Other provisions, for of contracts. These provisions have an average life of 1 to 3 example onerous contracts and legal risks. These provisions years. No material restructuring provisions for the adjustments have an average life of 1 to 3 years. to the organizational and operating model or the Nutritionspecific improvement program were recognized in 2015 The additions to the provisions for restructuring costs and because the recognition criteria of IFRS were not (yet) met. termination benefits in 2015 mainly relate to the various restructuring projects (same as in 2014). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 169 www.dsm.com 20 Borrowings The schedule of repayment of borrowings (excluding debt to 2015 2014 credit institutions and commercial paper) is as follows: Total Of which Total Of which current current Borrowings by maturity Debenture loans 2,541 2,041 497 2015 2014 Private loans 38 22 237 144 Finance lease 2015 641 liabilities 2016 22 43 Credit institutions / 2017 760 794 commercial paper 231 231 502 502 2018 4 3 2019 and 2020 300 300 Total 2,810 253 2,780 1,143 After 2020 1,493 497 Total 2,579 2,278 In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at yearend 2015 of € 2,541 million, none of which is of a short-term nature (31 December 2014: € 2,165 million, of which A breakdown of the borrowings by currency (excluding debt to € 624 million of a short-term nature), clauses have been included credit institutions and commercial paper) is given in the following that restrict the provision of security. table: The documentation of the € 750 million bond issued in October Borrowings by currency 2007, the documentation of the € 300 million bond issued in November 2013, the documentation of the € 500 million bond 2015 2014 issued in March 2014, the documentation of the € 500 million bond issued in March 2015 and the documentation of the EUR 2,542 2,042 € 500 million bond issued in September 2015 include a changeUSD 1 125 of-control clause. This clause allows the bond investors to CNY 4 75 request repayment at par if 50% or more of the DSM shares are Other 32 36 controlled by a third party and if the company is downgraded below investment grade (< BBB-). In November 2015, Moody's Total 2,579 2,278 changed the outlook for their A3 credit rating for DSM to negative. Standard & Poor's changed DSM's credit rating in August 2015 to Awith a stable outlook. At 31 December 2015, there was € 1,493 million in borrowings outstanding with a remaining term of more than five years (at 31 December 2014, there was € 497 million with a remaining term of more than five years). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 170 www.dsm.com On balance, total borrowings increased by € 30 million owing to In March 2015, a new 1% EUR bond of € 500 million was issued the following changes: for a tenor of 10 years. In November 2011, pre-hedge contracts were concluded for an intended refinancing in 2015 of the Movements borrowings maturing 4% EUR loan 2005-2015 at a 10-year interest rate of 3.20% excluding DSM spread. At the issue of the new bond this 2015 2014 pre-hedge was settled. The effective interest rate for this bond amounts to 3.65% including settlement of pre-hedge and DSM Balance at 1 January 2,780 2,566 spread. Loans taken up 1,008 532 In August 2015, pre-hedge contracts were concluded for an Repayments (653) (534) intended refinancing in 2017 of the 5.25% EUR loan 2007-2017. Acquisitions/disposals (121) 18 The pre-hedge was concluded for nominal of EUR 500 million Changes in debt to credit by means of a collar on 10-year interest with a floor of 1% and institutions/commercial paper (232) 240 capped at 1.97%, both excluding DSM spread. At year-end Exchange differences 28 31 2015, the fair value of this collar amounted to € 1 million negative, Cash facility associates (73) completely representing the time value of the collar and reported in Other financial income and expense. Balance at 31 December 2,810 2,780 In September 2015, a new 1.375% EUR bond of € 500 million was issued for a tenor of 7 years. The effective interest rate for The average effective interest rate on the portfolio of borrowings this bond amounts to 1.40% including DSM spread. outstanding in 2015, including hedge instruments related to these borrowings, amounted to 3.41% (2014: 3.88%). A breakdown of private loans is given below: A breakdown of debenture loans is given below: Private loans Debenture loans 2015 2014 2015 2014 TWD loan floating 2013-2018 31 31 (1 month) EUR loan 4.00% 2005-2015 497 CNY loan floating 2008-2017 40 EUR loan 5.25% 2007-2017 748 747 (12 months) EUR loan 1.75% 2013-2019 300 300 USD loan 5.61% 2003-2015 124 EUR loan 2.38% 2014-2024 497 497 Other loans 7 42 EUR loan 1.00% 2015-2025 497 EUR loan 1.38% 2015-2022 499 Total 38 237 Total 2,541 2,041 DSM’s policy regarding financial-risk management is described in note 24. All debenture loans have a fixed interest rate. 21 Other non-current liabilities At the end of 2015, an amount of € 300 million (year-end 2014: € 300 million) of the 5.25% EUR loan 2007-2017 was swapped into CHF to hedge the currency risk of net investments in CHF 2015 2014 denominated subsidiaries. In 2006 and 2007, the loan had been partly pre-hedged (cash flow hedge) by means of forward Investment grants 40 42 starting swaps, leading to a lower effective fixed interest rate of Deferred items 11 29 4.89% for the full loan. Other non-current liabilities 177 10 The 2.375% EUR bond 2014-2024 of € 500 million was preTotal 228 81 hedged by means of forward starting swaps, resulting in an effective interest rate for this bond at 3.97% including settlement of pre-hedge and DSM spread. The increase in the non-current liabilities relates to the drawing rights agreements with ChemicaInvest for caprolactam supply for a period of 15 years. See also note 8 'Intangible assets'. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 171 www.dsm.com 22 Current liabilities Operating leases and rents 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 52 Trade payables 2016 43 12 Received in advance 4 6 2017 5 2 Trade accounts payable 1,114 1,287 2018 4 1 Notes and cheques due 6 45 2019 and 2020 6 1 Owing to associates 44 23 After 2020 35 28 Total Trade payables 1,168 1,361 Total 93 96 Other current liabilities Income taxes payable 32 27 Litigation Other taxes and social security DSM has a process in place to monitor legal claims periodically contributions 44 49 and systematically. Interest 25 24 Pensions 6 5 DSM is involved in several legal proceedings, most of which are Investment creditors 103 108 related to the ordinary course of business. DSM does not expect Employee-related liabilities 256 240 these proceedings to result in liabilities that have a material effect Payables associates relating to on the company's financial position. In cases where it is probable cash facility 137 81 that the outcome of the proceedings will be unfavorable, and the Other liabilities 69 19 financial outcome can be measured reliably, a provision has Deferred items 2 1 been recognized in the financial statements and disclosed in note 19 Provisions. Total Other current liabilities 674 554 During the year, an award was issued against DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals India Private Ltd. (DSP India) in a protracted 23 Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations arbitration case in India going back to 2004 involving a joint venture that DSP India had formed with Hindustan Antibiotics The contingent liabilities and other financial obligations in the Ltd., which suspended its operations in 2003. DSP India is following table are not recognized in the balance sheet. covered by an indemnity from Koninklijke DSM N.V. for this case. DSP India has made an application with the Civil Court in Pune (India) to set aside the arbitral award. The award amounts to 2015 2014 approximately € 18 million (excluding interest of 12% per annum). DSM has always viewed this case as unfounded and is Operating leases and rents 93 96 of the opinion that the likelihood of the award being ultimately set Guarantee obligations on behalf of aside is high. Therefore no liability is recognized in respect of this associates and third parties 142 124 case. Outstanding orders for projects under construction 21 34 24 Financial instruments and risks Other 4 27 Policies on financial risks Total 260 281 General The main financial risks faced by DSM relate to liquidity risk and market risk (comprising interest rate risk, currency risk, price risk Guarantee obligations are principally related to VAT and duties and credit risk). DSM’s financial policy is aimed at minimizing the on the one hand and to financing obligations of associates on effects of fluctuations in currency-exchange and interest rates the other. Most of the outstanding orders for projects under on its results in the short term and following market rates in the construction will be completed in 2016. Property, plant and long term. DSM uses financial derivatives to manage financial equipment under operating leases primarily concerns catalysts, risks relating to business operations and does not enter into buildings and various equipment items. speculative derivative positions. DSM does not hold financial instruments with embedded derivatives. DSM's financial policy, The commitments for operating leases and rents are spread as including policies and processes for managing capital, is follows: Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 172 www.dsm.com discussed more extensively in Financial and reporting policy of the commercial-paper program to a total of not more than the Report by the Managing Board. € 1,000 million (2014: € 1,000 million). The agreements for the committed credit facilities have neither financial covenants nor Liquidity risk material adverse changes clauses. At year-end 2015, no loans DSM has two committed credit facilities: one facility of € 500 have been taken up under the committed credit facilities. DSM million issued in 2011 and maturing in September 2018 and one has no derivative contracts to manage currency risk or interest facility issued in 2013 of € 500 million and maturing in April 2020. rate risk outstanding under which margin calls by the In 2013, the second extension option for the 2011 facility was counterparty would be permitted. executed to extend the final maturity by another year, which was accepted by all banks but one, i.e. the facility amount in the last Floating-rate and fixed-rate borrowings and short-term year will be € 445 million. In 2015, the second extension option monetary liabilities analyzed by maturity are summarized in the for the 2013 facility was executed to extend the final maturity by following table. Borrowings excluding credit institutions are another year, which was accepted by all banks but one. shown after taking into account related interest rate derivatives However the bank that did not accept was replaced by a bank in designated hedging relationships. DSM manages financial that did accept the extension for the full amount and the full liabilities and related derivative contracts on the basis of the period, i.e. the amount of the facility remained € 500 million. remaining contractual maturities of these instruments. The Together, the facilities amount to a total of € 1,000 million (2014: remaining maturities presented in the following table provide an € 1,000 million). overview of the timing of the cash flows related to these instruments. Financial assets are not linked to financial liabilities Furthermore, DSM has a commercial paper program amounting in order to meet cash outflows on these liabilities. to € 1,500 million (2014: € 1,500 million). The company will use Borrowings and short-term monetary liabilities by maturity Fixed-rate Floating-rate Short-term Subtotal Interest Cash at1 Total cash borrowings borrowings monetary payments redemption out 2014 liabilities Within 1 year 626 15 2,417 3,058 87 3 3,148 Within 1 to 2 years 11 32 43 65 108 Within 2 to 3 years 747 47 794 55 3 852 Within 3 to 4 years 3 3 25 28 Within 4 to 5 years 300 300 24 324 After 5 years 497 497 84 3 584 Total 2,181 97 2,417 4,695 340 9 5,044 2015 Within 1 year 1 21 2,073 2,095 69 2,164 Within 1 to 2 years 751 7 758 68 2 828 Within 2 to 3 years 1 3 4 29 33 Within 3 to 4 years 300 300 29 329 Within 4 to 5 years 2 2 24 26 After 5 years 1,493 1,493 872 7 1,587 Total 2,548 31 2,073 4,652 306 9 4,967 1 Difference between nominal redemption and amortized costs 2 Cumulative interest payment in remaining years Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 173 www.dsm.com The exposure of the financial derivatives to liquidity risk is as follows. The amounts are gross and undiscounted. 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Total Inflow 1,382 1,058 42 55 42 2,579 Outflow (1,418) (1,177) (49) (62) (43) (2,749) Interest rate risk DSM’s interest rate risk policy is aimed at minimizing the interest rate risks associated with the financing of the company and thus at the same time optimizing the net interest costs. This policy translates into a certain desired profile of fixed-interest and floatinginterest positions, including cash and cash equivalents, with the floating-interest position in principle not exceeding 60% of net debt. On 31 December 2015, DSM had no outstanding fixed-floating interest rate swaps other than the pre-hedges for refinancing in 2017 (see note 20). The following analysis of the sensitivity of borrowings and related financial derivatives to interest rate movements assumes an instantaneous 1% change in interest rates for all currencies and maturities from their level on 31 December 2015, with all other variables held constant. A 1% reduction in interest rates would result in a € 4 million pre-tax loss in the income statement on the basis of the composition of financial instruments on 31 December 2015 as floating-rate borrowings are more than compensated for by floating-rate assets (mainly cash). The opposite applies in the case of a 1% increase in interest rates. The sensitivity of the fair value of financial instruments on 31 December 2015 to changes in interest rates is set out in the following table. Sensitivity of fair value to change in interest rate 2015 2014 Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value amount to change in interest of: amount to change in interest of: +1% (1%) +1% (1%) Current investments 9 9 6 6 Cash and cash equivalents 665 665 669 669 Short-term borrowings (253) (253) 1 (1) (1,143) (1,166) 6 (6) Long-term borrowings (2,557) (2,750) 102 (109) (1,637) (1,842) 87 (94) Interest rate swaps (fixed to floating and prehedges) (1) (1) 31 (31) (109) (109) 52 (58) Currency risk It is DSM’s policy to hedge 100% of the currency risks resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition of the trade receivables and trade payables. In addition, operating companies may – under strict conditions – opt for hedging currency risks from firm commitments and forecasted transactions. The currencies giving rise to these risks are primarily USD, GBP and JPY. The risks arising from currency exposures are regularly reviewed and hedged when appropriate. DSM uses average-rate currency forward contracts, currency forward contracts, spot contracts, and average-rate currency options to hedge the exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. At year-end, these instruments had remaining maturities of less than one year. To hedge intercompany loans, receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiaries, DSM uses currency swaps or forward contracts. Hedge accounting is applied for instruments related to some larger internal loans with a total notional amount of € 825 million. On 31 December 2015, the notional amount of the currency forward contracts was € 2,541 million (2014: € 3,781 million). In 2015, DSM hedged USD 650 million (2014: USD 684 million) of its projected net cash flow in USD in 2016, of which USD 175 million against EUR and USD 475 million against CHF by means of average-rate currency forward contracts at an average exchange rate of USD 1.12 per euro and CHF 0.94 per US dollar, respectively, for the four quarters of 2016. In 2015, DSM also Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 174 www.dsm.com hedged JPY 5,450 million (2014: JPY 5,100 million) of its projected net cash flow in JPY in 2016, of which JPY 4,000 million against CHF and JPY 1,450 million against EUR by means of average-rate currency forward contracts at an average exchange rate of JPY 129 per Swiss franc and JPY 136 per euro, respectively, for the four quarters of 2016. DSM also continued the hedge of projected GBP cash obligations against CHF: GBP 50 million at an average exchange rate of CHF 1.45 per British pound. These hedges have fixed the exchange rate for part of the USD and JPY receipts and GBP payments in 2016. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for these hedges. As a result of similar hedges concluded in 2014 for the year 2015, in 2015 € 40 million negative (2014: € 11 million positive) was recognized in the operating income of the segments involved in accordance with the realization of the expected cash flows. There was no material ineffectiveness in relation to these hedges. The currency risk associated with the translation of DSM's net investment in entities denominated in currencies other than the euro was partially hedged at year-end 2015. CHF-denominated net assets have been partially hedged by currency swaps (2015: CHF 370 million; 2014: CHF 994 million). There was no material ineffectiveness in relation to these hedges. The following analysis of the sensitivity of net borrowings and derivative financial instruments to currency movements against the euro assumes a 10% change in all foreign currency rates against the euro from their level on 31 December, with all other variables held constant. A +10% change indicates a strengthening of the foreign currencies against the euro. A -10% change represents a weakening of the foreign currencies against the euro. Sensitivity of fair value to change in exchange rate 2015 2014 Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value to Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value to amount change in all exchange amount change in all exchange rates of: rates of: +10% (10%) +10% (10%) Current investments 9 9 1 (1) 6 6 1 (1) Cash and cash equivalents 665 665 54 (54) 669 669 53 (53) Short-term borrowings (253) (253) (10) 10 (1,143) (1,166) (25) 25 Long-term borrowings (2,557) (2,750) (1) 1 (1,637) (1,842) (9) 9 Interest rate swaps (1) (1) (109) (109) Cross currency swaps (110) (110) (112) 112 (49) (49) (101) 101 Currency forward contracts (19) 19 (36) (36) (136) 136 Cross currency swaps related to net investments in foreign entities1 (47) (47) (38) 38 (87) (87) (89) 89 Average-rate forwards used for economic hedging2 (27) (27) (19) 19 (34) (34) (20) 20 1 Fair-value change reported in Translation reserve 2 Fair-value change reported in Hedging reserve Fair-value changes on these positions will generally be recognized in profit or loss, with the exception of the instruments for which cash flow hedge accounting or net-investment hedge accounting is applied. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for the averagerate forwards and average-rate currency options used for economic hedging; the fair value changes of these derivatives are recognized in the Hedging reserve in equity until recognition of the related cash flows. Net-investment hedge accounting is applied for the cross-currency swaps used to protect net investments in foreign entities; the fair-value changes of these derivatives are recognized in the Translation reserve in equity until the net investment is disposed of, to the extent that the changes in fair value are caused by changes in currency-exchange rates. Price risk Financial instruments that are subject to changes in stock exchange prices or indexes are subject to a price risk. At year-end 2015, price risks related to investments in securities were limited. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 175 www.dsm.com Credit risk DSM manages the credit risk to which it is exposed by applying credit limits per institution and by dealing exclusively with institutions having a high credit rating. At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. With regard to treasury activities it is ensured that financial transactions are only concluded with counterparties that have at least a Moody's credit rating of A3 for long-term instruments. At business group level, outstanding receivables are continuously monitored by the management of the operating companies. Appropriate allowances are made for any credit risks that have been identified (as listed in note 13). It is therefore unlikely that significant losses will arise in relation to receivables that have not been provided for. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amounts of financial assets that are recognized in the balance sheet, including derivative financial instruments. No significant agreements or financial instruments were available at the reporting date that would reduce the maximum exposure to credit risk. Information about financial assets is presented in note 10 Associates and joint ventures, note 11 Other financial assets, note 13 Current receivables, note 14 Current investments, note 15 Cash and cash equivalents and note 24 Financial instruments and risks. Fair value of financial instruments In the following table the carrying amounts and the estimated fair values of financial instruments are disclosed: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Assets Other participations 51 51 44 44 Other non-current receivables 113 113 45 45 Current receivables 1,556 1,556 1,769 1,769 Financial derivatives 47 47 47 47 Current investments 9 9 6 6 Cash and cash equivalents 665 665 669 669 Liabilities Non-current borrowings 2,557 2,750 1,637 1,842 Other non-current liabilities 228 228 81 81 Current borrowings 253 253 1,143 1,166 Financial derivatives 232 232 362 362 Other current liabilities 1,842 1,842 1,915 1,915 The following methods and assumptions were used to determine the fair value of financial instruments: cash, current investments, current receivables, current borrowings and other current liabilities are stated at carrying amount, which approximates fair value in view of the short maturity of these instruments. The fair values of financial derivatives and long-term instruments are based on calculations, quoted market prices or quotes obtained from intermediaries. The portfolio of derivatives consists of average-rate forward contracts that are valued against average foreign exchange forward rates obtained from Bloomberg and other derivatives that are valued using a discounted cash flow model, applicable market yield curves and foreign exchange spot rates. All inputs for the fair value calculations represent observable market data that are obtained from external sources that are deemed to be independent and reliable. DSM uses the following hierarchy for determining the fair value of financial instruments measured at fair value: Level 1: quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value that are not based on observable market data Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 176 www.dsm.com The financial instruments that have a fair value that is different from the carrying amounts are classified as level 2 for both 2014 and 2015. The following table shows the carrying amounts of the financial instruments recognized at fair value, broken down by type and purpose: Carrying amounts financial instruments at fair value Fair value hierarchy Assets Liabilities Total Interest rate swaps Level 2 (109) (109) Currency swaps Level 2 32 (168) (136) Total financial derivatives related to borrowings 32 (277) (245) Currency forward contracts Level 2 15 (85) (70) Balance at 31 December 2014 47 (362) (315) Interest rate swaps Level 2 (1) (1) Currency swaps Level 2 2 (74) (72) Total financial derivatives related to borrowings 2 (75) (73) Currency forward contracts Level 2 45 (157) (112) Balance at 31 December 2015 47 (232) (185) During the year there were no transfers between individual levels of the fair value hierarchy. 25 Post-employment benefits The group operates a number of defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans throughout the world, the assets of which are generally held in separately administered funds. The pension plans are generally funded by payments from employees and from the relevant group companies. The group also provides certain additional healthcare benefits to retired employees in the US. Post-employment benefits relate to obligations that will be settled in the future and require assumptions to project benefit obligations. Post-employment benefit accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of post-employment benefits over the employee’s approximate service period, based on the terms of the plans and the investment and funding. The accounting requires management to make assumptions regarding variables such as discount rate, future salary increases, life expectancy, and future healthcare costs. Management consults with external actuaries regarding these assumptions at least annually for significant plans. Changes in these key assumptions can have a significant impact on the projected defined benefit obligations, funding requirements and periodic costs incurred. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 177 www.dsm.com The charges for pension costs recognized in the income Employment benefits liabilities statement (note 4) relate to the following: 2015 2014 Pension costs Balance at 1 January 524 360 2015 2014 Changes: Defined benefit plans: Balance of actuarial Pension costs included in (gains) / losses 61 167 employee benefit costs: Employee benefits costs 29 31 Current service costs pension Contributions by employer (79) (49) plans 35 27 Acquisitions 1 Healthcare plans 1 1 Disposals (20) Other post-employment Exchange differences 21 14 benefits 2 1 Reclassification from/to held for sale 1 Defined contribution plans 84 77 Other changes 3 Total pension costs included in employee benefits costs 122 106 Total changes 16 164 Pension costs included in Other Balance at 31 December 540 524 operating income (12) (4) Total Continuing operations 110 102 The Employee benefits liabilities of € 540 million Discontinued operations 9 14 (2014: € 524 million) consist of € 521 million related to pensions Pension costs included in (2014: € 478 million), € 7 million related to healthcare and other Financial income and expense 11 12 costs (2014: € 33 million), and € 11 million related to other postPension costs included in employment benefits (2014: € 13 million). Exceptional items (11) (8) Pensions Total 119 120 The DSM group companies have various pension plans, which are geared to the local regulations and practices in the countries in which they operate. As these plans are designed to comply For 2016, costs (continuing operations) for the defined benefit with the statutory framework, tax legislation, local customs and plans relating to pensions will be € 49 million economic situation of the countries concerned, it follows that the (2015: € 38 million). nature of the plans varies from country to country. The plans are based on local legal and contractual obligations. Changes in Employee benefits liabilities recognized in the balance sheet are disclosed in the following overview: DSM’s current policy is to offer defined contribution retirement benefit plans to new employees wherever possible. However, DSM still has a (small) number of defined benefit pension and healthcare schemes from the past. Generally, these schemes have been funded through external trusts or foundations, where DSM faces the potential risk of funding shortfalls. The most significant defined benefit schemes are: Pension Plan at DSM Nutritional Products AG in Switzerland (DNP AG) DSM UK Pension Scheme in the UK Consolidated Pension Plan from DSM Services USA in the US Pension Plan at DSM Nutritional Products GmbH in Germany (DNP GmbH) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 178 www.dsm.com For each plan the following characteristics are relevant: Bulk Chemicals activities has led to a 50% reduction of the active participants in this plan. DNP AG Pension Plan in Switzerland The DNP AG Pension Plan is a typical Swiss Cash Balance plan. The pension plan is a (smoothed) final pay benefit plan without For accounting purposes this plan is qualified as a DB plan. It is indexation; only the employer is required to contribute to the a contribution based plan. There is no promise of indexation for plan. The pension plan is managed and controlled by a DSM on-going pensions. The Swiss state minimal requirements for company pension fund. The board of Trustees consists of occupational benefit plans have however to be respected; the representatives of the employer and the employees who have an Minimum Guaranteed Interest Return on the cash balance independent role. Since 2011, there is a separate investment accounts for 2014-2015 was 1.75% for the mandatory portion strategy for the closed plan (liability related to divested (BVG/LPP). There is also a minimal conversion rate applicable. businesses/companies) and the open plan (liability related to the current businesses/companies). The investment strategy for the The pension plan is managed and controlled by a DSM company closed plan has a very low risk profile, whereas the investment pension fund. The board of Trustees consists of representatives strategy for the open plan anticipates on expected future returns of the employer and the employees who have an independent on equity. This investment strategy is supported by an ALM role. study which was carried out in 2014. For both the open and the closed plan there is a de-risking strategy applicable to assure The plan assets are collectively invested (no individual that the asset will be de-risked if the funding level improves. The investment choice). The investment strategy is supported by an internal funding policy of this plan is based on IFRS valuation. ALM study. The latest ALM study was done in 2012; a new study This implies a stricter funding policy than the minimum is planned for 2016. requirements on local funding. The current IFRS funding level is 84% (31 December 2015), whereas the funding level on local The risk budget for the pension fund is determined as the standards (PPA) is 111% (estimate 31 December 2015). The acceptable probability of the coverage ratio to at least exceed a minimum required funding level on local standards is 80% on a threshold ratio of 90% for any given investment strategy. This PPA-basis. probability was set at 95%. DNP GmbH Pension Plan in Germany The current funding level, based on local standards, is 116% The DNP GmbH Pension Plan in Germany is closed to new (estimate September 2015), which is above the legally required entrants as of 31 December 2008. Accrual is still applicable for minimum funding level. employees who are participating in the plan since 2008. The pension plan is a final pay pension plan (averaged over last 12 DSM UK Pension Scheme months prior to retirement) and service related benefit. The The DSM UK Pension Scheme is an average pay pension plan liability is on the balance sheet of DNP GmbH. No assets are for benefits accrued post 31 December 2011 (final pay for allocated to this liability. All the reimbursements will be paid out benefits accrued prior to 1 January 2012) with an unconditional by DNP GmbH. indexation policy. The pension plan is managed and controlled by a DSM company pension fund. The board of Trustees The most important unfunded plans are in Germany. They consists of representatives of the employer and the employees amount to € 296 million (2014: € 294 million). who have an independent role. In 2015, an ALM study was performed to support the development of a de-risking strategy. The current funding level, based on local standards, is 83% (estimate September 2015). In the UK, funding requirements are a result of the triennial valuation. The latest valuation was performed at year-end 2012. This resulted in an annual recovery contribution (GBP 1 million) and a company guarantee of GBP 14 million. A new valuation will be performed in the course of 2016 (based on the year-end 2015 position). Consolidated Plan in the US The Consolidated Plan in the US is closed to new entrants as of 31 December 2004. Accrual is still applicable for participants who have chosen to stay in this plan. The 2015 disposal of the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 179 www.dsm.com The changes in the present value of the defined benefit The actuarial gains/losses as included in the previous tables can obligations and in the fair value of plan assets of the major plans be specified as follows: are listed below: Remeasurement effects as included in Other Present value of defined benefit obligations comprehensive income 2015 2014 2015 2014 Balance at 1 January 1,564 1,279 Defined benefit obligation major pension plans Changes: Actuarial (gain)/loss due to Service costs 37 26 experience 39 1 Interest costs 34 40 Actuarial (gain)/loss due to Contributions 14 13 demographic assumption (2) 40 Actuarial (gains)/losses 43 223 Actuarial (gain)/loss due to Past service costs (4) financial assumption changes 6 182 Curtailments/termination 43 223 benefits (9) (8) Acquisitions/disposals (2) Plan assets major pension plans Exchange differences 131 59 Return on plan assets (greater)/ Settlements (16) less then discount rate (22) 61 Benefits paid (63) (52) Total actuarial (gain)/loss 65 162 Balance at 31 December 1,745 1,564 Actuarial gains/losses other plans (4) 5 Fair value of plan assets Total actuarial (gain)/loss 61 167 2015 2014 The amounts recognized of these major plans in the balance Balance at 1 January 1,086 958 sheet are as follows: Changes: Net liabilities/assets Interest income on plan assets 24 29 Actuarial gains/(losses) (22) 61 2015 2014 Actual return on plan assets 2 90 Present value of funded Contributions by employer 57 33 obligations (1,440) (1,261) Contributions by employees 14 13 Fair value of plan assets 1,224 1,086 Disbursement (50) (40) Exchange differences 112 48 (216) (175) Settlements (16) Present value of unfunded Other 3 obligations (305) (303) Balance at 31 December 1,224 1,086 Funded status (521) (478) Effect of asset ceiling Net liabilities/net assets1 (521) (478) Of which: Liabilities (Employee benefits liabilities) (521) (478) Assets (Prepaid pension costs) 1 Excluding less material plans with a net liability of € 19 million (2014: € 46 million) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 180 www.dsm.com The changes in the net assets / liabilities recognized in the The pension-plan assets include neither ordinary DSM shares balance sheet are as follows: nor property occupied by DSM. Changes in net assets/liabilities The total expense recognized in the income statement is as follows: 2015 2014 Costs major defined benefit plans Balance at 1 January (478) (321) Expense recognized in the 2015 2014 income statement (32) (29) Actuarial gains/(losses) Current service costs 37 30 recognized directly in Other Net interest costs 10 11 comprehensive income during the Past service costs in Other year (65) (162) operating income (4) (4) Contributions paid by employer 58 33 Costs included in exceptional Disbursements and settlements items (11) (8) paid by employer 12 12 Acquisitions/disposals 2 Costs related to defined benefit Exchange differences (19) (11) plans 32 29 Other 1 Balance at 31 December (521) (478) The main actuarial assumptions for the year (weighted averages) are: In 2016, DSM is expected to contribute € 45 million (actual 2015: Actuarial assumptions for plans outside the Netherlands € 58 million) to its defined benefit plans. 2015 20141 The major categories of pension-plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: Discount rate 1.98% 2.07% Price inflation 1.70% 1.73% Pension-plan assets by category Salary increase 2.40% 2.43% Pension increase 0.87-2.1% 0.93-2.2% 2015 2014 1 In the Netherlands there is only one defined benefit plan which is immaterial for the group Bonds 53% 55% Equities 33% 34% Property 11% 7% Other 3% 4% Year-end amounts for the current and previous periods are as follows: Major defined benefit plans per year 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Defined benefit obligations (1,745) (1,564) (1,316) (1,317) (1,105) Plan assets 1,224 1,086 958 931 817 Funded status of asset/(liability) (521) (478) (358) (386) (288) Experience adjustments on plan assets, gain/(loss) (22) 61 7 55 (18) Experience adjustments on plan liabilities, gain/(loss) (39) (1) 16 (27) (8) Gain/(loss) on liabilities due to changes in assumptions (4) (222) (25) (157) (12) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 181 www.dsm.com Sensitivities of significant actuarial assumptions The discount rate, the future increase in wages and salaries and the pension increase rate were identified as significant actuarial assumptions. The following impacts on the defined benefit obligation are to be expected: A 0.25% increase/decrease in the discount rate would lead to a decrease/increase of 3.5% in the defined benefit obligation A 0.25% increase/decrease in the expected increase in salaries/wages would lead to an increase/decrease of 0.5% in the defined benefit obligation A 0.25% increase/decrease in the expected rate of pension increase would lead to an increase/decrease of less than 1.0% in the defined benefit obligation The sensitivity analysis is based on realistically possible changes as of the end of the reporting year. Each change in a significant actuarial assumption was analyzed separately as part of the test. Interdependencies were not taken into account. Healthcare and other costs In some countries, particularly in the US, group companies provide retired employees and their surviving dependants with postemployment benefits other than pensions, mainly allowances for healthcare expenses and life-insurance premiums. Some of these are unfunded; in these cases, approved expense claims are reimbursed out of the financial resources of the group companies concerned. These plans are not sufficiently material to warrant the individual disclosures required by IAS 19. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 182 www.dsm.com 26 Net debt The development of the components of net debt is as follows: Cash and Current Non-current Current Credit Derivatives Total cash investments borrowings borrowings institutions x € million equivalents Balance at 1 January 2014 770 19 (1,725) (538) (303) (64) (1,841) Change from operating activities 808 63 871 Change from investing activities (515) (13) 6 2 (26) (546) Reclassification from non-current to current 623 (623) Transfers 238 (532) 534 (240) Dividend (175) (175) Interest (302) 77 (225) Proceeds from reissued shares 26 26 Repurchase of shares (189) (189) Cash facility associates (21) 73 52 Derivatives (391) (391) Other 4 4 Change from financing activities (419) 91 (89) (167) (314) (898) Exchange differences 25 (9) (16) (6) (6) Total changes (101) (13) 88 (103) (199) (251) (579) Balance at 31 December 2014 669 6 (1,637) (641) (502) (315) (2,420) Change from operating activities 696 225 921 Change from investing activities (275) 3 64 8 45 136 (19) Reclassification from non-current to current 30 (30) Transfers 119 (1,004) 653 232 Dividend (174) (174) Interest (173) (173) Proceeds from reissued shares 39 39 Repurchase of shares (122) (122) Derivatives (130) (221) (351) Other 1 1 Change from financing activities (440) (974) 623 232 (221) (780) Exchange differences 15 (10) (12) (6) (10) (23) Total changes (4) 3 (920) 619 271 130 99 Balance at 31 December 2015 665 9 (2,557) (22) (231) (185) (2,321) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 183 www.dsm.com 27 Notes to the cash flow statement The cash flow statement provides an explanation of the changes in cash and cash equivalents. It is prepared on the basis of a comparison of the balance sheets as at 1 January and 31 December. Changes that do not involve cash flows, such as changes in exchange rates, amortization, depreciation, impairment losses and transfers to other balance sheet items, are eliminated. Changes in working capital due to the acquisition or disposal of consolidated companies are included under Investing activities. Most of the changes in the cash flow statement can be traced back to the detailed statements of changes for the balance sheet items concerned. For those balance sheet items for which no detailed statement of changes is included, the table below shows the link between the change according to the balance sheet and the change according to the cash flow statement: Change in operating working capital 2015 2014 Operating working capital Balance at 1 January 1,948 1,843 Balance at 31 December 1,808 1,948 Balance sheet change (140) 105 Adjustments: Exchange differences (127) (130) Changes in consolidation (including acquisitions and disposals) 285 30 Reclassification from / to held for sale 3 20 Transfers / non cash value adjustments 31 12 Total change in operating working capital according to the cash flow statement 52 37 In 2015, the operating working capital of continuing operations before reclassification to held for sale was € 1,811 million, which amounts to 23.5% of annualized fourth quarter net sales (2014: 26.3%). Besides the business impact this decrease was due to acquisitions, disposals and an exchange rate effect. 28 Share-based compensation Under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, performance-based and non-performance-based stock options or Share Appreciation Rights (SARs) are granted to senior management. Such a grant takes place on the first day on which the DSM stock is quoted ex-dividend following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The opening price of the DSM stock on that day is the exercise price of the stock options and SARs. Since 2011, only stock options have been granted, and Share Appreciation Rights are no longer used as share-based compensation. Stock Options and SARs have a term of eight years and are subject to a vesting period of three years. After this three-year period, one third of the stock options and SARs (non-performance-related) will vest and two thirds of the stock options and SARs that are performance-based will become exercisable in whole, in part, or not at all, depending on the total shareholder return (TSR) achieved by DSM in comparison with a peer group. Non-vested performance based stock options and SARs will be forfeited. If employment is terminated prior to the vesting date, specific rules regarding vesting and forfeitures apply. The exercise of stock incentives is regulated. For members of the Managing Board specifically, only LTI performance shares have been granted since 2010 (no longer stock options). LTI performance shares vest after three years upon the realization of a predefined performance measure. The performance schedule is the same as that for stock options. For LTI performance shares, see note 9 to the financial statements of the parent company. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 184 www.dsm.com All stock options and LTI performance shares are settled by physical delivery of DSM shares, while SARs are settled in cash. Overview of stock options and Share Appreciation Rights for management Year of issue Outstanding at In 2015 Outstanding at Fair value on Exercise price Expiry date 31 Dec. 2014 Granted Exercised Average Forfeited/ 31 Dec. 2015 grant date (€ ) (€ ) price (€ ) expired 2007 103,188 (103,188) 51.04 7.69 33.60 30 Mar. 2015 2008 337,904 (103,750) 51.46 (3,125) 231,029 5.73 29.79 28 Mar. 2016 2009 327,700 (42,800) 51.38 (3,100) 281,800 2.83 21.10 27 Mar. 2017 2010 520,625 (64,500) 52.00 456,125 6.07 33.10 6 Apr. 2018 2011 1,118,508 (194,525) 52.69 (2,500) 921,483 9.60 46.20 2 May 2019 20121,2 2,665,163 (277,875) 52.96 (1,631,025)3 756,263 6.88 40.90 15 May 2020 20131 3,047,663 (29,000) 53.97 (270,625)3 2,748,038 9.23 48.91 7 May 2021 20141 2,967,613 (316,000)3 2,651,613 10.66 52.00 9 May 2022 2015 1 3,115,000 (143,250) 3 2,971,750 9.89 50.98 5 May 2023 2015 Total 11,088,364 3,115,000 (815,638) 52.34 (2,369,625) 11,018,101 Of which vested 2,767,500 3,188,150 at 31 Dec. at 31 Dec. 2013 2014 2014 Total 10,353,506 3,018,463 (599,375) 51.55 (1,684,230) 11,088,364 Of which vested 1,823,017 2,767,500 1 Stock options will partly vest, and may therefore be immediately exercised, upon termination of employment in connection with divestments, retirement or early retirement. The remaining term to exercise stock options or SARs after their vesting as a result of divestments, retirement or early retirement is limited to three years (the remaining term to exercise in the case of regular vesting is five years). 2 Based on TSR performance, the stock incentives tied to performance granted in 2012 did only partially vest; the remaining part has been forfeited. 3 Number of forfeited options: 1,631,025 (2012), 270,625 (2013), 316,000 (2014) and 126,750 (2015). Certain employees in the Netherlands are entitled to employee stock options that are granted on the first day on which the DSM stock is quoted ex-dividend following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The opening price of the DSM stock on that day is the exercise price of the stock options. Employee stock options can immediately be exercised and have a term of five years. Overview of stock options for employees Year of issue1 Outstanding at In 2015 Outstanding at Fair value on Exercise price Exercise 31 Dec. 2014 Granted Exercised Average Forfeited/ 31 Dec. 2015 grant date (€ ) (€ ) period until price (€ ) expired 2011 236,675 (41,830) 52.84 (2,470) 192,375 10.35 46.20 May 2016 2012 194,060 (32,755) 52.50 (2,460) 158,845 6.79 40.90 May 2017 2013 188,295 (28,875) 53.35 (3,855) 155,565 6.51 48.91 May 2018 2014 308,460 (33,185) 54.05 (12,970) 262,305 5.68 52.00 May 2019 2015 130,385 (15,765) 53.84 (555) 114,065 4.50 50.98 May 2020 2015 Total 927,490 130,385 (152,410) 53.23 (22,310) 883,155 2014 Total 708,387 314,660 (74,797) 49.88 (20,760) 927,490 1 Based on the 2009 result, no employee option rights were granted in 2010 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 185 www.dsm.com Measurement of fair value 29 Related parties The costs of option plans are measured by reference to the fair value of the options at the date at which the options are granted. Koninklijke DSM N.V. is the group holding company that is listed The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes model, on the Euronext Amsterdam stock exchange. The financial taking into account market conditions linked to the price of the statements of the company are included in the chapter 'Parent DSM share. Stock-price volatility is determined on the basis of company financial statements'. historical volatilities of the DSM share price measured each month over a period equal to the expected option life. The costs In the ordinary course of business, DSM buys and sells goods of these options are recognized in the income statement and services to various related parties in which DSM has (Employee benefits costs). significant influence. Transactions are conducted under terms and conditions that are equivalent to those that apply to arm's The following assumptions were used in the Black-Scholes length transactions. model to determine the fair value at grant date: Transactions and relationships with related parties are reported in the table below. 2015 2014 Management options Transactions with related parties Risk-free rate 0.18% 0.76% Expected option life in years 6 6 20151 20141 Nominal option life in years 8 8 Share price 50.98 52.00 Sales to related parties 49 14 Exercise price 50.98 52.00 Purchases from related parties 139 7 Volatility 31% 31% Loans to related parties 245 41 Expected dividend 3.24% 3.17% Receivables from related parties 25 3 Fair value of option granted 9.89 10.66 Payables to related parties 54 1 Employee options 1 Relates to continuing operations Risk-free rate (0.12%) 0.22% Expected option life in years 2.5 2.5 Nominal option life in years 5 5 DSM has provided guarantees to third parties for debts of Share price 50.98 52.00 associates for an amount of € 91 million (2014: € 81 million). Exercise price 50.98 52.00 Volatility 20.5% 23.5% Other related-parties disclosure relates entirely to the key Expected dividend 3.24% 3.17% management of DSM, being represented by the company's Fair value of option granted 4.50 5.68 Managing Board, Executive Committee and Supervisory Board. The total remuneration and related costs (including pension In the costs for wages and salaries an amount of € 21 million is expenditures, other commitments, short-term and long-term included for share-based compensation (2014: € 19 million).The incentives) of the current members of the Managing Board following table specifies the share-based compensation: amounted to € 7.7 million (2014: € 7.3 million). The increase was mainly caused by increased costs for shortand long-term Share-based compensation incentives partially offset by decreases due to the retirement of Mr. Schwalb and the departure of Mr. Doboczky. Total 2015 2014 remuneration and related costs includes fixed annual salary including other items to the amount of € 3.2 million Stock options 18 18 (2014: € 3.9 million), short-term incentives to the amount of Share appreciation rights (1) € 1.7 million (2014: € 1.1 million), pension expenditure amounting Performance shares 3 2 to € 0.5 million (2014: € 0.5 million) and long-term incentives amounting to € 2.3 million (2014: € 1.8 million). For further Total expense 21 19 information about the remuneration of the members of the Managing Board see note 9 to the 'Parent company financial statements'. The total remuneration and related costs (including pension expenditures, other commitments, short-term and long-term incentives) of the other members of the Executive Committee amounted to € 1.6 million for the last 4 months of 2015. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 186 www.dsm.com Members of the Supervisory Board received a fixed remuneration (included in General and administrative) totaling € 0.5 million (2014: € 0.5 million). Further information about the remuneration of Managing Board members and Supervisory Board members and their share option rights is given in the report by the Supervisory Board, from Remuneration Policy for the Managing Board onwards, and note 9 to the Parent company financial statements. 30 Service fees paid to external auditors The service fees recognized in the financial statements 2015 for the service of KPMG amounted to € 3.7 million (2014: € 7.3 million to EY). The amounts per service category are shown in the following table. Total service fee Of which KPMG EY KPMG NL EY NL 2015 2014 2015 2014 Audit of the group financial statements 3.5 3.9 1.8 2.1 Audit of other (statutory) financial statements 0.1 0.8 0.3 Other assurance services 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 Total assurance services 3.7 4.9 1.9 2.5 Tax services 2.4 Sundry services Total 3.7 7.3 1.9 2.5 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 187 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements Balance sheet at 31 December of Koninklijke DSM N.V. before profit appropriation x € million Notes 2015 2014 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 2 450 444 Property, plant and equipment 3 16 19 Financial assets 4 9,385 9,773 Deferred tax assets 195 260 Other non-current assets 6 10,046 10,502 Current assets Receivables 5 121 215 Cash and cash equivalents 41 41 162 256 Total 10,208 10,758 Shareholders' equity and liabilities Shareholders' equity 6 Share capital 338 338 Share premium 489 489 Treasury shares (319) (349) Other reserves (103) 166 Retained earnings 5,048 4,934 Profit for the year 88 145 5,541 5,723 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 7 2,541 1,544 2,541 1,544 Current liabilities Borrowings 7 150 1,021 Financial derivatives 51 215 Other current liabilities 8 1,925 2,255 2,126 3,491 Total 10,208 10,758 Income statement x € million 2015 2014 Share in results of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (after income tax expense) (72) (40) Other income and expense 160 185 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 88 145 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 188 www.dsm.com Notes to the parent company financial statements 1 General Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million. The Parent company financial statements are the financial statements of Koninklijke DSM N.V., which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the Netherlands. The accounting policies used are the same as those used in the consolidated financial statements, in accordance with the provisions of article 362-8 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. In these separate financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the net asset value. The balance sheet presentation is aligned with the consolidated financial statements in order to enhance transparency and facilitate understanding. In conformity with article 402, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, a condensed income statement is included in the separate financial statements of the parent company. The statutory seat of DSM is Het Overloon 1, Heerlen (Netherlands). A list of DSM participations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce (Netherlands) and is available from the company upon request. The list can also be downloaded from the company’s website. DSM is registered with the Dutch Commercial Register under number 14022069. Information on the use of financial instruments and on related risks for the group is provided in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM. 2 Intangible assets The carrying amount of intangible assets mainly comprises goodwill on the acquisition of NeoResins in 2005 (€ 358 million), Crina in 2006 (€ 9 million) and Pentapharm in 2007 (€ 36 million). For further information on these assets including the discussion of the related impairment tests please refer to note 8, 'Intangible assets' in the 'Consolidated financial statements'. 3 Property, plant and equipment This item mainly relates to land and buildings. Capital expenditure in 2015 was € 1 million (2014: € 3 million), while the depreciation charge in 2015 was € 2 million (2014: € 2 million). The historical cost of property, plant and equipment as at 31 December 2015 was € 62 million (2014: € 63 million); accumulated depreciation amounted to € 46 million (2014: € 44 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 189 www.dsm.com 4 Financial assets Subsidiaries Associates Other loans Total Share in Loans Share in Loans equity Equity Balance at 1 January 2014 9,517 315 103 45 9,980 Changes: Share in profit 8 (48) (40) Dividend received (895) (895) Deconsolidation 381 381 Capital payments 150 3 153 Net actuarial gains/(losses) (133) (8) (141) Change in Fair value reserve 4 4 Change in Hedging reserve (71) (1) (72) Exchange differences 222 42 6 270 New loans 45 45 Transfers 131 (1) (42) 88 Balance at 31 December 2014 8,933 315 471 51 3 9,773 Changes: Share in profit (136) 64 (72) Dividend received (109) (141) (250) Capital payments 2 13 15 Net actuarial gains/(losses) (56) 1 (55) Change in Fair value reserve 8 8 Change in Hedging reserve 5 1 6 Exchange differences 519 22 4 545 New loans 3 93 96 Transfers (359) (315) 51 (55) (3) (681) Balance at 31 December 2015 8,807 482 3 93 9,385 Transfers and the main part of dividend received and capital payments relate to the restructuring of the legal set-up of financing companies within DSM. 5 Receivables 2015 2014 Receivable from subsidiaries 100 157 Other receivables / deferred items 21 58 Total 121 215 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 190 www.dsm.com 6 Shareholders' equity The repayment schedule for borrowings (excluding commercial paper) is as follows: 2015 2014 Borrowings by maturity Balance at 1 January 5,723 5,908 2015 2014 Net profit 88 145 2015 621 Exchange differences, net of 2016 income tax 16 282 2017 748 747 Net actuarial gains/(losses) on 2018 defined benefit obligations (54) (140) 2019 and 2020 300 300 Dividend (297) (301) 2021 through 2025 1,493 497 Repurchase of shares (122) (189) Proceeds from reissue of ordinary Total 2,541 2,165 shares 176 160 Other changes 11 (142) In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at yearBalance at 31 December 5,541 5,723 end 2015 of € 2,541 million, none of which is of a current nature (31 December 2014: € 2,165 million, of which € 620 million of a current nature), clauses have been included which restrict the For details see the consolidated statement of changes in equity provision of security. More information on borrowings is provided (note 16) and page 134. in note 20 (Borrowings) to the 'Consolidated financial statements'. Legal reserve Since the profits retained in Koninklijke DSM N.V.'s subsidiaries 8 Other current liabilities can be distributed and received in the Netherlands, no legal reserve for retained profits is required. Profits attributable to joint ventures and associates are not material and therefore any 2015 2014 related legal reserve is also not material. In Shareholders' equity, an amount of € 314 million (2014: € 298 million) is included for Owing to subsidiaries 1,840 2,201 Translation reserve, -€ 203 million (2014: -€ 170 million) for Other liabilities 84 49 Hedging reserve, -€ 3 million (2014: -€ 11 million) for Fair value Deferred items 1 5 reserve and -€ 86 million (2014: -€ 54 million) for intangible assets related to product development projects. Total 1,925 2,255 7 Borrowings Contingent liabilities Guarantee obligations on behalf of affiliated companies and third 2015 2014 parties amounted to € 190 million (31 December 2014: Total Of which Total Of which € 160 million). Koninklijke DSM N.V. has declared in writing that current current it accepts several liabilities for debts arising from acts in law of a number of consolidated companies (including relating to the Debenture loans 2,541 2,041 497 fiscal unity for income tax and VAT). These debts are included in Private loans 124 124 the consolidated balance sheet. Commercial paper 150 150 400 400 Total 2,691 150 2,565 1,021 At 31 December 2015, there were three debenture loans (€ 1,493 million, maturing in 2022, 2024 and 2025) with a remaining term of more than five years (€ 497 million at 31 December 2014). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 191 www.dsm.com 9 Remuneration of Managing Board and Supervisory members also have individual targets. The scores achieved on Board these targets were above target. The realization of the 2015 financial STI targets has been assessed by KPMG. Furthermore, Remuneration Managing Board in 2015 KPMG has assessed the process with respect to the target As part of its remuneration policy for the Managing Board, DSM realization of the non-financial STI targets. The average benchmarks its remuneration package against the packages realization percentage was 60-61% of base salary. offered by the labor-market peer group once every three years. With the STI Deferral and Share Matching Plan, only part of the Base salary in 2015 STI outcome is paid out as cash. 25% of the gross STI value is Adjustment of the base salary is at the discretion of the mandatorily converted into DSM Investment shares. Managing Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board decided to refrain Board members can choose to convert up to a further 25% into from an increase in 2015 at the Managing Board’s request in additional DSM Investment shares (in 5% increments, with a light of the various cost-reduction programs being set up at the minimum of 5% and a maximum of 25%). company at the time. The company matches these STI Investment shares with an Fixed annual salary equivalent number of Restricted Share Units (RSUs), vesting of which is deferred for three years, conditional on achieving in € 1 July 2015 1 July 2014 predefined performance targets equivalent to the measures under the Long-Term Incentive (LTI) Plan. The remainder of the Feike Sijbesma 870,000 870,000 STI gross outcome (50% to maximum 75%) is paid out in cash Geraldine Matchett 570,000 570,000 after tax. Stephan Tanda 570,000 570,000 Dimitri de Vreeze 570,000 570,000 Short-Term Incentives Stefan Doboczky1 570,000 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb2 570,000 in € 20151 20142 1 Left DSM to pursue career outside of the company as of 1 June 2015 Feike Sijbesma 522,000 320,812 2 Retired as member of the Managing Board as of 1 December 2014 Geraldine Matchett 342,000 92,329 Stephan Tanda 347,700 158,888 Dimitri de Vreeze 342,000 193,088 Short-Term Incentives (STI) for 2015 Stefan Doboczky3 143,291 188,813 STI targets are revised annually so as to ensure that they are Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 4 166,548 stretching but realistic. Considerations regarding the performance targets are influenced by the operational and 1 Based on results achieved in 2015 and therefore payable in 2016 strategic course taken by the company and are directly linked to 2 Based on results achieved in 2014 and therefore paid in 2015 the company’s ambitions. The targets are determined at the 3 Left DSM to pursue career outside of the company as of 1 June 2015 4 Retired as member of the Managing Board as of 1 December 2014 beginning of the year for each Board member. Target STI level and pay-out All members of the Managing Board decided to invest the When they achieve all their targets, Managing Board members maximum of 50% of their gross 2014 STI (payable in 2015) in receive an incentive of 50% of their annual base salary. accordance with the STI Deferral and Share Matching Plan. In all Outstanding performance can increase the STI level to 100% of cases, these investment shares were matched with an equal the annual base salary. number of Restricted Stock Units (RSU’s). The 2015 Integrated Annual Report presents the Short-Term Long-Term Incentives (LTI) Incentives that have been earned on the basis of results achieved The following table provides an overview of the LTI performance in 2015. These Short-Term Incentives will be paid out in 2016. shares that were granted to members of the Managing Board in the respective year. These performance shares are subject to a The Supervisory Board has established the extent to which the three-year vesting period. targets for 2015 were achieved. Regarding the financial targets, the score on the EBITDA target was above target, while the score on gross free cash flow was well above target. The target for net sales growth was however not achieved. For the sustainability targets, the score on ECO+ was well above target, and the score on the Employee Engagement Index was on target. The Safety Performance target was not achieved. Managing Board Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 192 www.dsm.com Number of LTI performance shares granted1 A. Mandatory plan 2015 2014 Covers all employees employed in the Netherlands. Collective Defined Contribution Scheme: accrual based on Feike Sijbesma 29,000 24,000 fixed contribution. Indexation or reduction of accrued benefits, Geraldine Matchett 19,000 depending on PDN's coverage ratio. Stephan Tanda 19,000 16,000 The accrual is tax exempt, the benefits will be taxed. Dimitri de Vreeze 19,000 16,000 Based on career-average base pay. Pensionable salary equals Stefan Doboczky 2 16,000 base salary up to a maximum of (in 2015) € 100,000 per Rolf-Dieter Schwalb3 16,000 annum considering a deductible of € 13,093 (subject to annual review). Accrual of 1.875% per annum. 1 Grant according to Koninklijke DSM N.V. Performance Share Plan Retirement age 67 (as of 2015). 2 Left DSM to pursue career outside of the company as of 1 June 2015 The scheme includes a spouses’and disability pension. 3 Retired as member of the Managing Board as of 1 December 2014 Employee and employer contributions. For 2016, the number of conditionally granted ordinary shares B. Allowance for salary exceeding € 100,000 under the LTI program will be: Chairman 31,000 Employees whose pensionable salary exceeds € 100,000 Members 20,500 receive an age-dependent gross allowance that can be used to participate in a net pension scheme. The allowance is taxed. For an overview of all granted and vested stock options and performance shares see 'Overview of outstanding and exercised Revision and claw-back of bonuses stock incentives' on page 195. As in 2014, no revision or claw-back of bonuses occurred in 2015. In 2015, the Supervisory Board established which proportion of the shares conditionally granted in 2012, vested. The following Remuneration Managing Board and Executive Committee two performance measures are applicable to the 2012 grant: The remuneration of the members of the Managing Board is comparable Total Shareholder Return (TSR) versus a peer group determined by the Supervisory Board within the framework of and the Greenhouse-gas Emissions (GHGE) reduction over the remuneration policy as approved by the Annual General volume-related revenue. Each of these measures determines Meeting of Shareholders. More details about the remuneration half of the total vesting percentage. The applicable vesting policy are included in the 'Report by the Supervisory Board' from schemes for the three-year vesting period starting in 2012 were page 107 onwards. published in DSM’s 2012 Integrated Annual Report. DSM’s TSR performance minus the peer group performance over the vesting As announced on 25 August 2015, DSM strengthened its period did not result in the vesting of any shares, whilst the management structure by establishing an Executive Committee, performance in terms of GHGE reduction led to full vesting on enabling faster strategic alignment and operational execution by this measure. Overall this resulted in the vesting of 50% of the increasing focus on the development of the business, innovation total amount of shares granted. and people. The members of the Executive Committee are the Managing Board members Feike Sijbesma (CEO/Chairman), Pensions in 2015 Geraldine Matchett (CFO), Stephan Tanda (Nutrition) and Dimitri The members of the Managing Board participate in the Dutch de Vreeze (Materials), as well as Chris Goppelsroeder (Nutritional pension fund Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland (PDN). Products), Philip Eykerman (Strategy and M&A), Rob van Leen The pension scheme for the Managing Board is equal to the (R&D and Innovation) and Peter Vrijsen (People & Organization). pension scheme for other DSM employees in the Netherlands. The members of the Executive Committee meet the definition of The current pension plan for DSM in the Netherlands came into key management personnel. effect in 2011. As of 1 January 2015, the Dutch tax treatment of pension contributions changed. As a consequence, DSM offers two different plans to employees whose pensionable salary exceeds € 100,000 per annum. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 193 www.dsm.com The remuneration and related costs (including pension expenditure and other commitments and costs related to long-term incentives) of the current members of the Managing Board amounted to € 7.7 million (2014: € 7.3 million). The cost of the remuneration of the individual members of the Managing Board and of the other members of the Executive Committee collectively was as follows (these are costs for DSM which are not in all cases compensation paid to all members of the Executive Committee or a cash outflow for DSM): DSM's remuneration expense for the Managing Board and the Executive Committee x € thousand Salary Short-term Pension Share-based1 Other items2 Total incentive expenditure compensation 2015 2014 2015 2014 20153 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Feike Sijbesma 870 863 522 321 180 127 709 594 85 85 2,366 1,990 Geraldine Matchett4 570 538 342 92 72 35 224 125 35 1,333 700 Stephan Tanda 570 565 348 159 92 84 464 391 86 40 1,560 1,239 Dimitri de Vreeze 570 531 342 193 85 79 372 106 88 40 1,457 949 Stefan Doboczky 5 238 565 143 189 36 84 576 391 17 55 1,010 1,284 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb6 518 167 77 359 32 1,153 Total Managing Board 2,818 3,580 1,697 1,121 465 486 2,345 1,841 401 287 7,726 7,315 Other members of the Executive Committee7 674 345 119 399 41 1,578 Total Executive Committee 3,492 3,580 2,042 1,121 584 486 2,744 1,841 442 287 9,304 7,315 1 Share-based compensation expense represents the non-cash cost for DSM of performance shares awarded to members of the Managing Board and stock options to other members of the Executive Committee. These costs are recognized over the vesting period of the performance shares and stock options and therefore cover several years. The increase in 2015 is a result of the fact that older grants are being replaced by newer, more expensive grants (non-cash). 2 Other items include company car and expense allowance. 3 Since 2015, the pension expenditure contains an age-dependent contribution for the salary exceeding € 100,000. For employees with a higher age, a higher contribution level is applicable. The 2015 increase is mainly due to the calculated actuarial impact of the increase of the pensionable age from 65 and 66 years to the new pensionable age of 67 years. 4 Member of the Managing Board as of 1 August 2014; including assignment bonus of € 300,000 in 2014. 5 Left DSM to pursue career outside of the company as of 1 June 2015. 6 Retired as Member of the Managing Board as of 1 December 2014. Excluding € 95,000 salary (2014: € 47,500) and € 136,542 (2014: € 57,987) other remuneration expenses for Mr. Schwalb as retired Member of the Managing Board. 7 From 1 September 2015 onwards. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 194 www.dsm.com Outstanding and exercised stock incentives The following table shows the stock incentives of the individual members of the Managing Board and the rights exercised. Overview of stock options Year of issue Outstanding In 2015 Outstanding1 Average Exercise price Expiry date at 31 Dec. Granted Exercised Forfeited/ at 31 Dec. share price at (€ ) 2014 expired 2015 exercise (€ ) Feike Sijbesma 2008 28,125 28,125 29.79 28 Mar 2016 2009 18,750 18,750 21.10 27 Mar 2017 Total 46,875 46,875 Of which vested 46,875 46,875 Stephan Tanda 2008 22,500 22,500 29.79 28 Mar 2016 2009 15,000 15,000 21.10 27 Mar 2017 Total 37,500 37,500 Of which vested 37,500 37,500 Dimitri de Vreeze 2008 22,500 22,500 29.79 28 Mar 2016 2009 18,000 18,000 21.10 27 Mar 2017 2010 18,000 18,000 33.10 6 Apr 2018 2011 18,000 18,000 46.20 2 May 2019 2012 36,000 (24,000) 12,000 40.90 15 May2020 2013 36,000 36,000 48.91 7 May 2021 Total 148,500 (24,000) 124,500 Of which vested 76,500 88,500 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb2 2008 22,500 (22,500) 51.40 29.79 28 Mar 2016 2009 15,000 (15,000) 51.09 21.10 27 Mar 2017 Total 37,500 (37,500) Of which vested 37,500 1 Currently Geraldine Matchett does not hold any stock options 2 Retired as member of the Managing Board as of 1 December 2014 Since 2010, the Managing Board has been granted LTI performance shares instead of stock options. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 195 www.dsm.com Overview of performance shares Year of issue Outstanding In 2015 Outstanding Share price at 31 Dec. Granted Vested Forfeited / at 31 Dec. at date of 2014 expired 2015 grant (€ ) Feike Sijbesma 2012 31,000 (15,500) (15,500) 40.90 2013 24,000 24,000 48.91 2014 28,822 28,822 49.88 2015 32,051 32,051 52.58 Total 83,822 32,051 (15,500) (15,500) 84,873 Retained shares originated from performance shares 58,624 Geraldine Matchett1 2015 27,008 27,008 52.58 Total 27,008 27,008 Retained shares originated from performance shares Stephan Tanda 2012 20,000 (10,000) (10,000) 40.90 2013 16,000 16,000 48.91 2014 18,990 18,990 49.88 2015 20,511 20,511 52.58 Total 54,990 20,511 (10,000) (10,000) 55,501 Retained shares originated from performance shares 33,721 Dimitri de Vreeze 2014 16,910 16,910 49.88 2015 20,836 20,836 52.58 Total 16,910 20,836 37,746 Retained shares originated from performance shares Stefan Doboczky2 2012 20,000 (10,000) (10,000) 40.90 2013 16,000 (8,000) (8,000) 48.91 2014 19,158 (9,579) (9,579) 49.88 2015 898 (898) 52.58 Total 55,158 898 (27,579) (28,477) Rolf-Dieter Schwalb3 2012 20,000 (10,000) (10,000) 40.90 2013 16,000 (8,000) (8,000) 48.91 2014 19,158 (9,579) (9,579) 49.88 Total 55,158 (27,579) (27,579) 1 Member of the Managing Board as of 1 August 2014 2 Left DSM to pursue career outside of the company as of 1 June 2015 3 Retired as member of the Managing Board as of 1 December 2014 Purchasing shares In addition to the performance shares granted under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, the current members of the Managing Board have themselves invested in DSM shares. All members of the Managing Board have purchased shares in the company to emphasize their confidence in the strategy and the company. At 31 December 2015, the members of the Managing Board together held 161,583 shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V. These shares were bought through private transactions with private funds (including shares bought from earned STI) and obtained through vested performance shares. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 196 www.dsm.com Managing Board holdings of DSM shares 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Ordinary shares Retention from Total Ordinary shares Retention from Total purchased with vested holdings purchased with vested holdings private money performance private money performance shares shares Feike Sijbesma 48,973 58,624 107,597 45,922 47,900 93,822 Geraldine Matchett1 878 878 Stephan Tanda 14,501 33,721 48,222 12,990 26,938 39,928 Dimitri de Vreeze 4,886 4,886 3,050 3,050 Stefan Doboczky2 n.a. 24,017 n.a. 11,158 5,382 16,540 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb3 n.a. 53,832 n.a. 17,658 31,600 49,258 Total holdings 69,238 170,194 161,583 90,778 111,820 202,598 1 Member of the Managing Board as of 1 August 2014 2 Left DSM to pursue career outside of the company as of 1 June 2015 3 Retired as member of the Managing Board as of 1 December 2014 Loans The company does not provide any loans to members of the Managing Board. Supervisory Board remuneration in 2015 The remuneration package for the Supervisory Board comprises an annual fixed fee and an annual committee-membership fee. The fixed fee for the Chairman of the Supervisory Board is € 70,000. The other members of the Supervisory Board each receive a fixed fee of € 50,000. Audit Committee membership is awarded € 10,000 per member and € 12,500 for the Chairman. Nomination Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee and Remuneration Committee membership is awarded € 5,000 per member and € 7,500 for the Chairman. In addition, Supervisory Board members receive an intercontinental travel allowance of € 3,000 for each meeting that they attend outside their continent of residence. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 197 www.dsm.com Overview of remuneration awarded to the Supervisory Board in 2015 The total remuneration (annual fixed fee and annual committee membership fee) of the members of the Supervisory Board amounted to € 0.5 million (2014: € 0.5 million). The remuneration of the individual members of the Supervisory Board was as follows: in € Annual fixed fee Committee fee Other costs Total Total 2015 2014 Rob Routs, Chairman 70,000 12,500 1,250 83,750 86,750 Chairman Nomination Committee Member Remuneration Committee Ewald Kist, Deputy Chairman 50,000 12,500 2,454 64,954 68,651 Chairman Remuneration Committee Member Nomination Committee Victoria Haynes 50,000 10,000 19,250 79,250 76,250 Member Audit Committee Pierre Hochuli 50,000 15,000 1,250 66,250 69,250 Member Audit Committee Member CSR Committee Eileen Kennedy 50,000 5,000 19,250 74,250 71,250 Member CSR Committee Pauline van der Meer Mohr 50,000 12,500 2,454 64,954 68,651 Chairman CSR Committee Member Nomination Committee Tom de Swaan 50,000 17,500 2,454 69,954 73,651 Chairman Audit Committee Member Remuneration Committee Total 370,000 85,000 48,362 503,362 514,453 Total 2014 370,000 85,000 59,453 514,453 At year-end 2015, two members of the Supervisory Board held shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V.: Pierre Hochuli 7,210 (2014: 7,210) and Victoria Haynes 300 (2014: 300). Loans The company does not provide any loans to members of the Supervisory Board. Heerlen, 29 February 2016 Heerlen, 29 February 2016 Managing Board, Supervisory Board, Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Rob Routs, Chairman Geraldine Matchett, CFO Ewald Kist, Deputy Chairman Stephan Tanda Victoria Haynes Dimitri de Vreeze Pierre Hochuli Eileen Kennedy Pauline van der Meer Mohr Tom de Swaan Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 198 www.dsm.com Other information Independent auditor's report We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. To: the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V. Audit approach Summary Report on the audit of the annual financial statements 2015 Opinion In our opinion: • Overall materiality the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of € 25 million • 5.2% of profit before of the financial position of Koninklijke DSM N.V. (hereafter: tax from continuing Royal DSM) as at 31 December 2015, and of its result and its operations, before cash flows for 2015 in accordance with International Financial exceptional items Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EUUnqualified audit opinion Materiality IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; and the parent company financial statements give a true and fair Key audit matters Audit scope view of the financial position of Royal DSM as at 31 December • Auditor transition Audit at (business) group 2015, and of its result for 2015 in accordance with Part 9 of • Loss on disposal and local entity level • Deferred tax assets resulting in a coverage Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. • Goodwill and other of 74% of net sales from (in)tangibles continuing operations What we have audited • Classification of and 75% of exceptional items total assets We have audited the financial statements 2015 of Royal DSM, based in Heerlen (Netherlands). The financial statements include the consolidated financial statements and the parent company financial statements. Materiality The consolidated financial statements comprise: Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015; expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the following consolidated statements for 2015: the income the basis of these financial statements. Materiality affects the statement, the statement of comprehensive income, the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement; and evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our the notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting opinion. policies and other explanatory information. Based on our professional judgment we determined the The parent company financial statements comprise: materiality for the financial statements as a whole at € 25 million (2014 EY: € 44 million). The materiality is determined the parent company balance sheet as at 31 December 2015; with reference to profit before tax from continuing operations, the parent company income statement for 2015; and before exceptional items, of which it represents 5.2%. In the notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting addition, the appropriateness of the materiality was assessed by policies and other explanatory information. comparing the amount to consolidated net sales from continuing operations of which it represents 0.3% (2014 EY: 0.5%). We Basis for our opinion have also taken into account misstatements and/or possible We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including misstatements that in our opinion are material for qualitative the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under reasons for the users of the financial statements. those standards are further described in the ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’ section of our report. We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements in excess of € 1 million, which are identified during the audit, would We are independent of Royal DSM in accordance with the be reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that in our “Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij view must be reported on qualitative grounds. assurance-opdrachten (ViO)” and other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied Scope of the group audit with the “Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants Royal DSM is head of a group of reporting entities (hereafter: (VGBA)”. entities). The financial information of this group is included in the financial statements of Royal DSM. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 199 www.dsm.com Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are The group audit team has set entity materiality levels, which also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the ranged from € 5 million to € 12.5 million, based on the mix of size group audit. In this respect we have determined the nature and and risk profile of the entities within the group. extent of the audit procedures to be carried out for group entities. Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile of the group entities The group audit team provided detailed instructions to all or operations. On this basis, we selected group entities for which business group and local entity auditors who were part of the an audit or specified audit procedures had to be carried out on group audit, covering the significant audit areas, including the the complete set of financial information or specific items. relevant risks of material misstatement, and set out the information required to be reported back to the group audit This resulted in a coverage of 74% of total net sales from team. The group audit team visited entity locations in the United continuing operations and 75% of total assets. For the remaining States of America, Switzerland, China, Brazil and the Shared entities, we performed amongst others analytical procedures to Service Center in India. The group audit team also visited Royal validate our assessment that there are no significant risks of DSM’s investments in Patheon and POET-DSM Advanced material misstatement within these. Biofuels LLC. Telephone conferences were also held with all entity auditors who were part of the group audit. During these visits and telephone conferences, the audit approach, the Total net sales from continuing operations in % findings and observations reported to the group audit team were ■ Full Scope ■ Specified Audit Procedure ■ Out-of-Scope discussed in more detail. Also file reviews were performed for certain entities. 26 By performing the procedures mentioned above, we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence about the group’s financial information to provide an opinion about the 55 financial statements. 19 Our key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial Total assets statements. We have communicated the key audit matters to the in % Supervisory Board. The key audit matters are not a ■ Full Scope ■ Specified Audit Procedure ■ Out-of-Scope comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed. 25 These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 11 64 Transition as auditor Description We have: Initial audit engagements involve considerations in addition to performed audit procedures ourselves at group and business recurring audits. During initial audit engagements we have to group level in respect of areas such as the annual goodwill gain sufficient knowledge about the company, its business, impairment tests, other (in)tangible asset impairments, control environment and application of accounting principles in valuation of deferred tax assets, acquisitions and disposals order to perform our initial audit risk assessment and planning of and shared service centers; audit activities. used the work of local KPMG auditors when auditing or performing specified audit procedures at business group and Our response local entity level and Royal DSM’s investment in POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels LLC; and A detailed transition plan, including independence clearance, used the work of non-KPMG auditors when auditing Royal was prepared prior to the start of the audit. We gained an DSM’s investments such as Patheon, DSM Sinochem understanding of Royal DSM and its business including its Pharmaceuticals, Ltd. and ChemicaInvest Holding B.V. control environment and accounting policies as we were involved early in the year at group, business group and local entity level. We have been in close contact with the predecessor Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 200 www.dsm.com auditor EY and have performed reviews on their audit files at all whether a reasonably possible change in assumptions could levels throughout the group. During the year we had regular cause the carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount, meetings with management, performed quarterly procedures and assessed the historical accuracy of management’s and assessed key accounting matters at an early stage. estimates. In case of recorded impairment losses, we tested the impairment calculations. Based on our procedures performed Assessment of the loss on disposal of Polymer we consider management’s key assumptions to be within a Intermediates and Composite Resins reasonable range. We also assessed the adequacy of the disclosures (Note 8 and Note 9) in the financial statements. Description Valuation of deferred tax assets On 31 July 2015, Royal DSM completed the sale of its Polymer Intermediates (caprolactam and acrylonitrile) and Composite Description Resins activities. We considered the accounting treatment in the financial statements of this event as a key audit matter because The group has a significant amount of deferred tax assets, mainly of its size, complexity and the judgment required in calculating resulting from net operating losses. The risk exists that future some of the amounts included in the loss on disposal. (fiscal) profits will not be sufficient to fully recover the deferred tax assets. Management supports the recoverability of the deferred Our response tax assets mainly with income projections which contain estimates of and tax strategies for future taxable income. We tested the loss on disposal by reconciling the consideration Changes in for example the industrial footprint, the business and to the Share Purchase Agreement (SPA) and bank accounts and its markets and changes in regulations may impact these by verifying the net assets disposed to underlying accounting projections. records. In addition we verified whether the loss on disposal was calculated in accordance with the relevant clauses of the SPA. Our response When verifying the loss on disposal we particularly challenged the net present value of the earn-out receivable which is linked The valuation of deferred tax assets is significant to our audit to future performance of the divested business. We also because the assessment process is complex and is based on evaluated the adequacy of the disclosure (Note 2) of this disposal estimates of future taxable income. In this area, our audit in the financial statements. procedures included, among others, using our own tax specialists to assist us in assessing the appropriateness of the Valuation of goodwill and other (in)tangible fixed assets level of deferred tax asset balance recognized in the balance sheet. We mainly focused on the long-term forecasts and Description critically assessed the assumptions and judgments included in these forecasts by considering the historical accuracy of Royal DSM carries a significant amount of goodwill and other (in) forecasts and the sensitivities of the profit forecasts. Based on tangible fixed assets on the balance sheet. Under EU-IFRS, the our procedures performed we consider management’s key Company is required to test the amount of goodwill for assumptions to be within a reasonable range. We also assessed impairment at least annually. In case of impairment triggers, the adequacy of the tax disclosures (Note 7) in the financial goodwill and other (in)tangibles require impairment testing as statements setting out the basis of the deferred tax balance and well. The impairment tests were significant to our audit due to the level of estimation involved. the complexity of the assessment process and judgments and assumptions involved which are affected by expected future Appropriateness of presentation of exceptional items market and economic developments. Description Our response Royal DSM records exceptional items on the face of the We challenged the cash flow projections included in the annual consolidated income statement and discloses both the definition goodwill impairment tests. For our audit we furthermore critically of exceptional items and the amount and nature of the recorded assessed and tested the assumptions, methodologies, the exceptional items. The presentation of exceptional items was weighted average cost of capital and other data used, for significant to our audit given the size and nature of the amounts example by comparing them to external and historical data, such included. as external market growth expectations and by analyzing sensitivities in Royal DSM’s valuation model. We included Our response valuation specialists in our team to assist us with these procedures. We specifically focused on the sensitivity in the We considered the items accounted for within ‘Exceptional available headroom for the cash generating units, evaluating items’ as deﬁned in note 6 to the ﬁnancial statements. We Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 201 www.dsm.com determined, through examination of the audit evidence obtained We have no deficiencies to report as a result of our relating to the underlying transactions and discussion with examination whether the Report by the Managing Board, to management, whether such classification is consistent with the extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance Royal DSM’s stated policy as disclosed in the summary of with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and whether the significant accounting policies and past practice for recognition information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil of such items, and whether, taken as a whole, the income Code has been annexed. statement is fair and balanced in its presentation. We report that the Report by the Managing Board, to the extent we can assess, is consistent with the financial Responsibilities of the Managing Board and the Supervisory statements. Board for the financial statements Engagement The Managing Board is responsible for the preparation and fair We were appointed as auditor of Royal DSM by the Annual presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EUGeneral Meeting of Shareholders on 7 May 2014. The audit 2015 IFRS and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and for was our first year’s audit. the preparation of the Report by the Managing Board in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Amstelveen, 29 February 2016 Furthermore, the Managing Board is responsible for such internal control as the Managing Board determines is necessary KPMG Accountants N.V. to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to errors or fraud. E.H.W. Weusten RA As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the Managing Board is responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting framework mentioned, the Managing Board should prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Managing Board either intends to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Managing Board should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s financial reporting process, amongst other things. Our responsibilities for the audit of financial statements Our objective is to plan and perform the audit to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence for our opinion. Our audit has been performed to obtain a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all errors and fraud. For a further description of our responsibilities in respect of an audit of financial statements we refer to the website of the professional body for accountants in the Netherlands (NBA) www.nba.nl/standardtexts-auditorsreport. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Report on the Report by the Managing Board and the other information Pursuant to legal requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code (concerning our obligation to report about the Report by the Managing Board and other information): Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 202 www.dsm.com Independent auditor's assurance report preparation of the Report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. To: the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V. Our responsibility for the review of the Report Our objective is to plan and perform the review assignment in a Independent auditor’s assurance report 2015 manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate Our conclusion assurance evidence for our conclusion. We have reviewed the sustainability information in the sections: ‘DSM in motion: driving focused growth’, ‘Growth driver: Our review engagement has been performed to obtain a limited Sustainability’, ‘Stakeholder engagement’, ‘People in 2015’, level of assurance. Procedures performed to obtain a limited ‘Planet in 2015’, and ‘Sustainability statements’, as included in level of assurance are aimed at determining the plausibility of the Integrated Annual Report (hereafter: the Report) over the year information and are less extensive than those for a reasonable 2015 of Koninklijke DSM N.V. (hereafter: Royal DSM). Based on level of assurance. our review, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the sustainability information in the Report is not presented, in all The following procedures were performed: material respects, in accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines and the reporting criteria of Royal DSM. A risk analysis, to identify relevant sustainability issues for Royal DSM in the reporting period; Our report on consistency Reviewing the suitability and application of the internal We report, to the extent we can assess, that the information on reporting criteria including conversion factors used in the sustainability in the Report is consistent with the rest of Royal preparation of the Report; DSM’s Integrated Annual Report 2015. Evaluating the design and implementation of the reporting processes and the controls regarding the qualitative and Basis for our conclusion quantitative information in the Report; We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Dutch Interviewing management and relevant staff at corporate, Standard 3810N: “Assurance engagements relating to business group, and site level responsible for the sustainability sustainability reports”, which is a specified standard under the strategy, policies, management, internal controls and International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000: reporting; “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Visits to production sites to review the source data and the Historical Financial Information”. We do not provide any design and implementation of controls at site level; assurance on the achievability of the objectives, targets and Review of the results of procedures performed by the expectations of Royal DSM. Corporate Operational Audit department of Royal DSM as part of the operational audits at sites with respect to sustainability Our responsibilities under Standard 3810N and procedures information; performed have been further specified in the paragraph titled Evaluating internal and external documentation, based on “Our responsibility for the review of the Report”. sampling, to determine whether the information in the Report is supported by sufficient evidence; We are independent of Royal DSM in accordance with the Analytical review of the data and trend explanations submitted “Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij by all business groups and sites for consolidation at corporate assurance-opdrachten” (ViO) and other relevant independence level. requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore we have complied with the “Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels Amstelveen, 29 February 2016 accountants” (VGBA). KPMG Accountants N.V. We believe that the review evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. E.H.W. Weusten RA Responsibilities of the Managing Board for the Report The Managing Board of Royal DSM is responsible for the preparation of the Report in accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines and the reporting criteria of Royal DSM (as described in the section ‘Reporting policy’). It is important to view the information in the Report in the context of these criteria. As part of this, the Managing Board is responsible for such internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 203 www.dsm.com Profit appropriation According to article 32 of the Articles of Association of Koninklijke DSM N.V. and with the approval of the Supervisory Board, every year the Managing Board determines the portion of the net profit to be appropriated to the reserves. For the year 2015 it has been determined that no amount of the net profit of € 88 million will be appropriated to the reserves. From the profit of € 88 million, dividend is first distributed on the cumulative preference shares B. At the end of 2015 no cumprefs B were in issue. Subsequently, a 4.348% dividend is distributed on the cumulative preference shares A, based on a share price of € 5.29 per cumulative preference share A. For 2015 this distribution amounts to € 0.23 per share, which is € 10 million in total. An interim dividend of € 0.08 per cumulative preference share A having been paid in August 2015, the final dividend will then amount to € 0.15 per cumulative preference share A. The profit remaining after distribution of these dividends on the cumulative preference shares A (€ 78 million) will be put at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in accordance with the provisions of Article 32, section 5 of the Articles of Association. The Managing Board proposes a dividend on ordinary shares outstanding for the year 2015 of € 1.65 per share to be paid from the profit remaining after distribution (€ 78 million) and from the distributable reserves in accordance with the provisions of Article 33, section 4 of the Articles of Association (€ 210 million). With a total dividend of € 1.65 per ordinary share and an interim dividend of € 0.55 per ordinary share having been paid in August 2015, the final dividend would then amount to € 1.10 per ordinary share. If the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders makes a decision in accordance with the proposal, the net profit will be appropriated as follows: in € million 2015 2014 Net profit 88 145 Profit appropriation: To be paid from the reserves (210) (151) Dividend on cumprefs A 10 10 Interim dividend on ordinary shares 96 95 Final dividend distributable on ordinary shares 192 191 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 204 www.dsm.com Special statutory rights On 31 December 2015, the board of the Foundation was composed as follows: DSM Preference Shares Foundation The DSM Preference Shares Foundation was established in Gerard Kleisterlee, chairman 1989. Cees Maas, vice-chairman Mick den Boogert By virtue of DSM's Articles of Association, 375,000,000 cumulative preference shares B can be issued. The listing Important dates prospectus of 1989 stated that if, without the approval of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board, either a bid is made for the ordinary shares or a significant participation in ordinary Annual General Meeting of Shareholders shares is built up, or such an event is likely to occur, then these The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is to be held at the DSM preference shares B may be issued, which shall have the same head office in Heerlen (Netherlands) on Friday, 29 April 2016 at 14.00 voting rights as the ordinary shares. hours. Under an agreement entered into in 1999, and subsequently Important dates amended, between the DSM Preference Shares Foundation and Publication of first-quarter results Tuesday, 26 April 2016 DSM, the Foundation has the right to acquire such preference Ex-dividend quotation Tuesday, 3 May 2016 shares (call option) to a maximum corresponding to 100% of the Publication of second-quarter capital issued in any form other than preference shares B, less results Tuesday, 2 August 2016 one. Publication of third-quarter results Thursday, 3 November 2016 Full year results 2016 Wednesday, 15 February 2017 The objective of the Foundation is to promote the interest of DSM, and the enterprise maintained by DSM and all parties connected therewith, whereby influences that would threaten the continuity, independence or identity, contrary to the aforementioned interests, are resisted to the maximum extent possible. The purpose of the agreement with the Foundation is, among other things, for the Foundation to allow DSM the opportunity to determine its position, for example with regard to a possible bidder for DSM shares or a party or parties tempting to obtain (de facto) control, to examine any plans in detail and, to the extent applicable, to look for (better) alternatives. Preference shares B will not be outstanding longer than necessary. As soon as there are no longer any reasons for the preference shares B to remain outstanding, the Managing Board will convene a General Meeting of Shareholders and recommend the cancellation of the preference shares B that are still outstanding. The Foundation acquired no preference shares B in 2015. The DSM Preference Shares Foundation is an independent legal entity within the meaning of article 5:71, first paragraph, under c of the Dutch Act on Financial Supervision (Wet op het financieel toezicht). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 205 www.dsm.com DSM figures: five-year summary Balance sheet x € million 20151 20141 2013 2012 2011 Assets Intangible assets 3,228 2,867 2,690 2,793 1,786 Property, plant and equipment 3,171 3,673 3,611 3,811 3,405 Deferred tax assets 366 427 364 340 292 Associates 872 762 295 40 35 Other financial assets 191 130 152 141 135 Non-current assets 7,828 7,859 7,112 7,125 5,653 Inventories 1,627 1,739 1,638 1,803 1,573 Receivables 1,556 1,769 1,597 1,799 1,704 Financial derivatives 47 47 126 62 50 Current investments 9 6 19 12 89 Cash and cash equivalents 665 669 770 1,121 2,058 3,904 4,230 4,150 4,797 5,474 Other assets held for sale 11 37 637 44 30 Current assets 3,915 4,267 4,787 4,841 5,504 Total assets 11,743 12,126 11,899 11,966 11,157 Equity and liabilities Shareholders' equity 5,541 5,723 5,908 5,874 5,784 Non-controlling interests 90 213 188 168 190 Equity 5,631 5,936 6,096 6,042 5,974 Deferred tax liabilities 319 365 375 236 192 Employee benefits liabilities 496 479 326 388 322 Provisions 98 105 97 125 116 Borrowings 2,557 1,637 1,725 1,922 2,029 Other non-current liabilities 228 81 75 94 69 Non-current liabilities 3,698 2,667 2,598 2,765 2,728 Employee benefits liabilities 44 45 34 42 6 Provisions 41 42 65 81 43 Borrowings 253 1,143 841 642 160 Financial derivatives 232 362 190 299 326 Current liabilities 1,842 1,915 1,845 2,081 1,905 2,412 3,507 2,975 3,145 2,440 Other liabilities held for sale 2 16 230 14 15 Current liabilities 2,414 3,523 3,205 3,159 2,455 Total equity and liabilities 11,743 12,126 11,899 11,966 11,157 1 Application of IFRS 11 'Joint Arrangements' that came into effect from 1 January 2014. 2013 has been restated. The years 2011 and 2012 have not been restated. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 206 www.dsm.com Income statement x € million 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Net sales 8,935 9,283 9,429 9,131 9,193 Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) 1,170 1,166 1,312 1,109 1,325 Operating profit (EBIT) 650 617 773 635 895 Net finance costs (159) (118) (137) (109) (82) Income tax expense (125) (89) (111) (91) (155) Share of the profit of associates 54 7 (19) 2 3 Net profit before exceptional items 420 417 506 437 661 Net profit from exceptional items (328) (318) (237) (149) 199 Profit for the year 92 99 269 288 860 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests (4) 46 2 (10) (46) Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 88 145 271 278 814 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (10) (10) (10) (10) (10) Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 78 135 261 268 804 Key figures and ratios Capital employed1 7,553 8,105 8,060 8,084 6,581 Capital expenditure: Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment 570 616 694 715 528 Acquisitions 106 424 1,265 974 Disposals 307 93 78 46 742 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 520 549 539 474 430 Net debt (2,321) (2,420) (1,841) (1,668) (318) Dividend 297 296 297 263 247 Workforce at 31 December, headcount 20,750 21,351 23,485 23,498 22,224 Employee benefits costs (x € million) 1,778 1,713 1,822 1,761 1,655 Ratios1 ROCE in % 8.2 7.8 9.6 8.9 14.3 Net sales / average capital employed 1.13 1.17 1.18 1.29 1.53 Current assets / current liabilities 1.62 1.21 1.49 1.53 2.24 Equity / total assets 0.48 0.49 0.51 0.50 0.54 Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) 0.29 0.29 0.23 0.22 0.05 EBIT / net sales in % 7.3 6.6 8.2 7.0 9.7 Net profit / average Shareholders' equity available to holders of ordinary shares in % 1.4 2.4 4.5 4.8 14.9 EBITDA / net finance costs 7.4 9.9 9.6 10.2 16.2 1 Before reclassification to held for sale Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 207 www.dsm.com Information about ordinary DSM shares per ordinary share in € 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Net profit continuing operations before exceptional items 2.14 2.34 2.84 2.52 3.66 Net profit 0.45 0.78 1.52 1.62 4.86 Operating cash flow 3.93 4.62 5.74 4.35 5.27 Dividend: 1.651 1.65 1.65 1.50 1.45 Interim dividend 0.55 0.55 0.50 0.48 0.45 Final dividend 1.10 1.10 1.15 1.02 1.00 Pay-out including dividend on cumulative preference shares as % of net profit before exceptional items 71 71 59 60 37 Dividend yield (dividend as % of average price of an ordinary DSM share) 3.4 3.3 3.2 3.7 3.6 Share prices on Euronext Amsterdam (closing price): Highest price 55.11 57.97 59.75 46.29 46.82 Lowest price 39.62 44.44 43.93 36.33 30.54 At 31 December 46.28 50.64 57.16 45.79 35.85 (x 1000) Number of ordinary shares outstanding: At 31 December 174,923 173,537 173,963 168,684 163,257 Average 174,357 172,605 172,183 165,543 165,567 Daily trading volumes on Euronext Amsterdam: Average 912 801 728 823 1,028 Lowest 130 104 95 225 191 Highest 4,506 7,981 3,049 2,720 3,512 1 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 208 www.dsm.com Explanation of some concepts and ratios PEOPLE international standards, extensive road testing and external stakeholder dialogues. DSM takes an active approach to further Eubiotics harmonize and standardize this metrics in the Roundtable for Eubiotics is the science of hygienic and healthy living. The term Product Social Metrics and World Business Council for is used to refer to a healthy balance of the micro-flora in the Sustainable Development (WBCSD). gastrointestinal tract. REC-rate DSM all Frequency Index (FI) The REC-rate DSM all is the number of recordable injuries per The Frequency Index is a way to measure safety performance. 100 DSM employees and contractor employees in the past 12 The number of accidents of a particular category per 100 months: REC-rate = 100 * (number of RECs (past 12 months) / employees per year. average effective manpower including contractor employees (past 12 months)). Inclusion Index The Inclusion Index is a subset of items in the Employee Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Engagement (Pulse) Survey to specifically measure Inclusion. DSM’s policy is to maintain business activities and produce Inclusion is: “A working environment where all employees are a products that do not adversely affect safety or health, and that full and equal member of a team; where diverse perspectives are fit with the concept of sustainable development. The company valued, and investment is made in their development; where does this by setting the following objectives: to provide an injurypeople are respected and able to contribute as they are and not free and incident-free workplace; to prevent all work-related having to conform; where they can reach their potential, and disabilities or health problems; to control and minimize the risks where they can speak up without fear of retribution. associated with DSM's products for their whole life cycle and to choose production processes and products such that the use LWC-rate DSM own of raw materials and energy is minimized; to evaluate and The LWC-rate DSM own is the number of lost workday cases improve DSM's practices, processes and products continuously per 100 DSM employees in the past 12 months: in order to make them safe and acceptable to its employees, the LWC-rate = 100 * (number of LWCs (past 12 months) / average customers, the public and the environment. effective manpower (past 12 months)). United Nations Global Compact Occupational Health Incident A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to This refers to any abnormal condition or disorder requiring aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally medical treatment – other than one resulting directly from an accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, accident – caused by, or mainly caused by, repeated exposure environment and anti-corruption. to work-related factors. United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights People+ On 10 December 1948, the General Assembly of the United People+ solutions are products and services that, when Nations adopted and proclaimed the Universal Declaration of considered over their whole life cycle, offer a clear social benefit Human Rights. Following this historic act, the Assembly called compared to the mainstream reference solutions. The social upon all Member countries to publicize the text of the Declaration benefit can occur at any stage of the product life cycle. and 'to cause it to be disseminated, displayed, read and People+ solutions, in short, create more value with a better social expounded principally in schools and other educational impact. The qualification People+ is based upon the DSM People institutions, without distinction based on the political status of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) method. From 2016, DSM will refer countries or territories'. to its People+ solutions as Brighter Living Solutions. Brighter Living Solutions are products and services that, when PLANET considered over their whole life cycle, offer a clear environmental benefit (ECO+) and/or a social benefit (People+). Biofuel A fuel which is derived from renewable organic resources, as People Life Cycle Assessment (People LCA) distinct from one which is derived from non-renewable resources The People LCA identifies the social impacts of products over its such as oil and natural gas. life cycle on the dimensions of health, comfort and well-being, working conditions and community development. The methodology has been developed by DSM based on Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 209 www.dsm.com Carbon footprint carbon footprint and eco-footprint, published by the WBCSD The impact of a certain activity in terms of the emission of nonChemical Sector in 2014. renewable CO2 to the atmosphere. Eco-efficiency Circular economy Eco-efficiency is a concept (created in 1992 by WBCSD) that Circular economy refers to an economy that is restorative and in refers to the creation of more goods and services while using which materials flows are of two types: biological nutrients, less resources and creating less waste and pollution throughout designed to re-enter the biosphere safely, and technical their entire life cycle. DSM applies the concept to its ECO+ nutrients, which are designed to circulate at high quality without program. In the context of DSM’s SHE targets, eco-efficiency entering the biosphere throughout their entire lifecycle. relates specifically to the reduction of emissions and energy and water consumption, relative to the production volumes of DSM’s CO2 plants. Carbon dioxide, a gas that naturally occurs in the atmosphere. It is part of the natural carbon cycle through photosynthesis and Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE) reduction over volumerespiration. It is also generated as a by-product of combustion. related revenue (VRR) Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas. The GHGE definition is according to the Kyoto Protocol and includes carbon dioxide (CO2), methane, nitrous oxide (N2O), Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) sulfur hexafluoride, hydrofluorocarbons and perfluorocarbons. COD is an indicator of the degree of pollution of waste water by VRR is net sales adjusted for changes in selling prices, exchange organic substances. rates and the impact of acquisitions and divestments. GHGE/ VRR is one of the ratios in the Long-Term Incentive part of the ECO+ Managing Board remuneration and relates to a three-year ECO+ is DSM’s program for the development of sustainable, period. innovative products and solutions with environmental benefits. Products qualify as ECO+ when their environmental impact is Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE) efficiency improvement lower than competing mainstream products that fulfill the same The GHGE efficiency improvement is the amount of GHG function. When considered over their entire life cycle, ECO+ emissions per unit of output (specific emissions) in a given year solutions offer superior performance with a lower eco-footprint. compared to the specific emissions in the prior year. GHG The environmental benefits can be created at any stage of the efficiency improvements are one of the ratios in the Long-Term product life cycle, from the raw materials through to Incentive part of the Managing Board remuneration and relate to manufacturing and potential re-use and end-of-life disposal. a three-year period. ECO+ solutions, in short, create more value with the least environmental impact. The qualification ECO+ is based upon GRI internal expert opinions where various impact categories are The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) has developed Sustainability evaluated. For a growing number of products these expert Reporting Guidelines that strive to increase the transparency and opinions are supported by Life Cycle Assessments (LCA). As of accountability of economic, environmental, and social 2016, the expert opinion process will be prescribed to harmonize performance. The GRI was established in 1997 in partnership the processes for expert opinion and LCA-based ECO+ with the United Nations’ Environment Programme. It is an solutions. From 2016, DSM will refer to its ECO+ solutions as international, multi-stakeholder and independent institution Brighter Living Solutions. Brighter Living Solutions are products whose mission is to develop and disseminate globally applicable and services that, when considered over their whole life cycle, Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. These Guidelines are for offer a clear environmental benefit (ECO+) and/or a social benefit voluntary use by organizations for reporting on the economic, (People+). environmental, and social dimensions of their activities, products, and services. Environmental Life Cycle Assessment (Eco LCA) The Environmental Life Cycle Assessment (Eco LCA) identifies N the material, energy and waste flows associated with a product Nitrogen. A mostly inert gas constituting 78% of the earth’s or process over its entire life cycle to determine environmental atmosphere, nitrogen is present in all living organisms. impacts and potential improvements; this full life cycle approach is also referred to as ‘Cradle to Grave’. It is also possible to N2O assess a partial life cycle of a product or process with the most Nitrous oxide. A gas that is formed during combustion. When common type being ‘Cradle to Gate’ which assesses the emitted to the environment, it contributes to global warming. environmental impacts of a manufacturing process without accounting for use phase or end of life impacts. There are many NOx different environmental impact categories that can be assessed Nitrogen oxides. These gases are released mainly during using LCA; at DSM the standard approach is to evaluate the combustion and cause acidification. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 210 www.dsm.com Renewable resources Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization A natural resource which is replenished by natural processes at (EBITDA) a rate comparable to, or faster than, its rate of consumption by EBITDA is the sum total of operating profit plus depreciation and humans or other users. The term covers perpetual resources amortization. such as solar radiation, tides, winds and hydroelectricity as well as fuels derived from organic matter (bio-based fuels). Earnings per ordinary share Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. SO2 minus dividend on cumulative preference shares, divided by the Sulfur dioxide. This gas is formed during the combustion of fossil average number of ordinary shares outstanding. fuels and causes acidification. Innovation sales VOC Innovation sales are defined as products and applications that Volatile organic compounds. The term covers a wide range of have been introduced over the last five years. chemical compounds, such as organic solvents, some of which can be harmful. Operating working capital The total of inventories and trade receivables, less trade PROFIT payables. General Organic sales growth In calculating financial profitability ratios, use is made of the Organic sales growth is the total impact of volume and price/mix. average of the opening and closing values of balance sheet items in the year under review. Return on capital employed (ROCE) Operating profit as a percentage of weighted average capital The financial indicators per ordinary share are calculated on the employed. basis of the average number of ordinary shares outstanding (average daily number). In calculating Shareholders’ equity per Total shareholder return (TSR) ordinary share, however, the number of shares outstanding at Total shareholder return is capital gain plus dividend paid. year-end is used. In calculating the figures per ordinary share and the ‘net profit as a percentage of average Shareholders’ equity available to holders of ordinary shares’, the amounts available to the holders of cumulative preference shares are deducted from the profits and from Shareholders’ equity. Capital employed The total of the carrying amount of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade receivables and other receivables, less trade payables and other current liabilities. Capital expenditure This includes all investments in intangible assets and property, plant and equipment as well as the acquisition of subsidiaries and associates and related cash flows. Core earnings Core earnings represent profit or loss from continuing operations excluding exceptional items and excluding amortization of intangible assets recognized from the application of purchase accounting for business combinations. Disposals This includes the disposal of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment as well as the disposal of participating interests and other securities. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 211 www.dsm.com List of abbreviations ADR American Depositary Receipts IAS International Accounting Standards AFM Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets IASB International Accounting Standards Board API Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee BIO Biotechnology Industry Organization IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards BRIC High growth economies including Brazil, Russia, India and ILO International Labour Organization China IP Intellectual Property CEFIC Conseil Européen des Fédérations de l'Industrie Chimique IUCN International Union for the Conservation of Nature (European Chemical Industry Council) LCA Life Cycle Assessment CGU Cash Generating Unit LTI Long-Term Incentive COA Corporate Operational Audit department LWC Lost Workday Case COD Chemical Oxygen Demand NGO Non-Governmental Organization CRA Corporate Risk Assessment NPS Net Promoter Score CSR Corporate Social Responsibility OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development DNCC DSM Nanjing Chemical Co., Ltd. PDN Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland DNP DSM Nutritional Products PPA Purchase Price Allocation DPP DSM Pharmaceutical Products PSI Process Safety Incident DSP DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals R&D Research & Development EBA Emerging Business Area REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of EBIT Earnings before interest and taxes (Operating Profit) Chemical substances EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ROCE Return on Capital Employed EEI Energy Efficiency Improvement SAM Sustainable Asset Management FIFO First in, first out SAR Share Appreciation Rights FTE Full-time equivalent SHE Safety, Health and Environment GAIN Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition SSP Supplier Sustainability Program GDP Gross Domestic Product STI Short-Term Incentive GHG Greenhouse gas TDC Total Direct Compensation GHGE Greenhouse-gas emissions TSR Total Shareholder Return GHS Globally Harmonized System VOC Volatile Organic Compound GMM Genetically Modified Microorganisms VRR Volume-Related Revenue GRI Global Reporting Initiative WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development WEF World Economic Forum WFP United Nations World Food Programme Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2015 212 www.dsm.com Questions about or feedback on this report can be addressed to: Royal DSM P.O. Box 6500 6401 JH Heerlen The Netherlands T +31 (0)45 578 8111 E media.contacts@dsm.com W www.dsm.com For the printing of this report 100% biological ink and FSC-paper was used. This report is printed carbon neutral.
