Sustainable Partnership Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Uhrenholt Welcome CSR report 2015 Welcome to the Uhrenholt CSR report 2015 Welcome 3 It provides you with an insight and a review of the way we handle and integrate our corporate social responsibility in our daily business. Message from the CEO 4 About Uhrenholt 5 The Uhrenholt CSR report is prepared in accordance with the Danish Financial Statement Act § 99 a. Uhrenholt Global Organization 6 In addition our CSR work is structured in accordance with the framework and principles of the UN Global Compact. Business Areas and Product Portfolio 7 This means that we have committed ourselves to report on improvements in the areas of human rights, labour, Uhrenholt Vision and Values 8 environment and anti-corruption. The Uhrenholt Partnership Philosophy 9 Global Compact is the world’s largest corporate responsibility initiative with more than 12,000 voluntary business Invitation to Responsible Partnership 10 and non-business participants in more than 145 countries. CSR Focus Areas 11 For more information about Global Compact visit: www.unglobalcompact.org Business Ethics 12 March 2016 Employees 17 Partnership Development 21 Human Rights/Labour 24 Environment/Climate 26 Charity 29 Progress 2015 30 CSR 2016 31 Thanks 32 2 Message from the CEO About Uhrenholt Dear Reader Uhrenholt A/S is a global food company supplying products within the categories dairy, seafood, meat and vegetables to a broad range of retail, wholesale, foodservice and industrial customers across the world. Political instability, war and threats make life complicated for commercial companys operating world wide. Proven Our products are sold in more than 80 countries under the brand names Emborg™, Friendship™ and Amigo™ or again in 2015 where not only conflicts but also the need to protect and defend national interests dominated the as commodities and industrial sales. global agenda. However, the Uhrenholt vision is unchanged to be a Leading Food Solutions Provider, Globally. And talking about Corporate Social Responsibility our noblest contribution these years is exactly to insist on our Uhrenholt was founded April 1 1978 in Denmark by Frank Uhrenholt. The main business was international trading role. Rather than give in and let conflicts and forces of darkness dominate the way we think and behave, we of table cheeses and cheese for processing and soon Uhrenholt became one of the largest privately owned dairy should move on with our mission to bridge gaps with partnerships and trade. companies in Denmark. In 2005 Uhrenholt acquired Emborg Foods A/S and in 2009 all activities of the former Needless to say that the situation in Russia is a huge challenge to us. But it also pushed us in new directions and in Uhrenholt and Emborg Foods companies were merged and marketed under the Uhrenholt name. a way it has fuelled our nature and desire to explore and investigate new markets and new ways to release them. In 2007 Sune Uhrenholt took over the role as CEO and has undertaken a restructuring of the company to include As an exporter we have been present in Africa for decades with particular attention on the cold chain of our sales to the retail channel and focus on branded products. products under difficult circumstances. Now we are ready to complement exports with products manufactured by local actors in the African dairy industry. Frank Uhrenholt created the original ship logo in 1978 by folding a paper ship from a newspaper page and painting Recently we had our first milk tapped locally in Kigali, Rwanda, and we plan to develop a similar project with at least it red and white. He was inspired by the Hans Christian Andersen fairytale, The Steadfast Tin one more partner in East Africa. The social and environmental benefits are obvious and eventually they will go hand Soldier, who went to conquer the world in a ship of paper. in hand with our commercial interests. Today the logo has been simplified and is mirrored in the water. This visualises that Uhrenholt is a modern food Also in 2015 we entered the organic dairy market with the ambition to establish an export platform to the company and all our actions are agile reflections of the surrounding world and the opportunities it offers. independent Danish organic dairy companies. A clear win/win/win case with sustainability as the third part. Finally, allow me to express how proud I am on behalf of the Uhrenholt apprenticeship program. Facts Over the years, we have educated almost 80 apprentices and quite a number – the best of course are still employed by Uhrenholt. In 2015 Uhrenholt was awarded “Apprenticeship Of The Year” in our region – a blue print and a great honour to our organisation. Founded: 1978 by Frank Uhrenholt Enjoy reading our 2015 report. Number of employees: Approx. 540 Ownership: Uhrenholt A/S is a 100% family owned business CEO: Sune Uhrenholt Location Denmark: Head office in Middelfart Location worldwide: Represented in more than 20 countries Sales: Selling products in more than 80 countries across the world Sune Uhrenholt CEO 4 5 Uhrenholt Global Organisation Business Areas and Product Portfolio Uhrenholt employs approx. 540 dedicated people. Our commercial organisation is structured in four regions: Uhrenholt has a long tradition and experience within sales of food products B2B and B2C. Reliability, Russia & CIS, Middle East & Africa, Asia & Oceania and Europe. tailor-made service and the ability to spot and seize opportunities together with our partners and customers has made Uhrenholt a preferred business partner for many years. Our Global Trading section focusing on commodities and industrial sales are integrated in the Europe Division. Uhrenholt Seafood A/S handles the group's trading in this area. Our partners and customers benefit from the Uhrenholt extensive global network of selected suppliers. This enables us to offer unique tailored food solutions across the entire portfolio. All regions are supported by our expert corporate functions including Legal and Risk Management, Quality Assurance, Procurement, Portfolio Management, Marketing, Logistics & Transportation, HR, Finance and IT to secure that we deliver the highest quality and standards and meet the diversity demands worldwide. The commercial organisation is responsible for sales in the regions and divisions as mentioned above. The regions are apart from the geographical differences also different in terms of business focus. Unique for the region Russia & CIS is the large distribution setup in Moscow. Here Uhrenholt distributes own products and external brands to the retailand foodservice channel. Dairy Seafood We supply a wide range of cheeses sourced from all over the Uhrenholt has unique sourcing partnerships with selected suppliers world and aim to source the cheeses from where the cheese across the world. has its origin. Our in-depth product knowledge and in-depth know ledge about CEO At our Grøndal Dairy we produce cheeses like Fontina, Havarti the market situation enable us to buy at the right time and offer and – as from 2015 Kefalotyri. a competitive price. The Uhrenholt trading sections deliver flexible solutions in terms We supply a comprehensive range of frozen fish and seafood of variety of product composition, origin and packaging products for both retail, wholesale, foodservice and for the food Commercial Structure Corporate for milk powder and cheeses. industry. All our products are quality products with recognised international standards and accreditations. The Uhrenholt dairy portfolio also contains whey products, lactose, butter, UHT-milk and cream. Uhrenholt was the first shrimp supplier in the world certified to use the Euro Leaf logo on organic shrimps. Russia and CIS Asia and Oceania Human Resource Marketing Middle East Logistics and Legal and Europe and Africa Transportation Risk Management Uhrenholt Global Trading Finance Portfolio Management Seafood A/S Procurement IT Quality Assurance Vegetables Meat We supply our customers – B2B and B2C with a wide range Uhrenholt offers a great assortment of premium quality meat. of frozen vegetables. Classic individually quick frozen, e.g. peas, beans, sweet corn and carrots – and a range of different exotic We have selected a range of tasty products that are convenient vegetable mixes for customers seeking a bit more adventure. – easy and quick to prepare. The Emborg vegetable range has been awarded SuperBrand several times in (e.g.) U.A.E. For more information about Uhrenholt please visit www.uhrenholt.com 6 7 Uhrenholt Vision and Values The Uhrenholt Partnership Philosophy Vision In accordance with our vision and values Uhrenholt is a partnership driven corporation. We believe in close Our vision is to be a Leading Food Solutions Provider. Globally. partnerships and networks. The Uhrenholt way of working is to demonstrate an entrepreneurial approach to the development and innovation of food solutions. We will market a portfolio of high quality brands that anticipate and satisfy the needs of our customers and consumers. We have for 35 years made valuable connections and relations around the world. •W e will create long-term value for our business partners, employees and owners based on our unique company This is how we can be a part of the optimisation of very strong and diverse food solutions for a global competences and by delivering sharp commercial propositions. audience. We consider this knowledge-based partnership as the core of our business engine. •W e will succeed because of the unique Uhrenholt spirit which is founded on responsible entrepreneurship, We offer value chain optimising services for the food industry from sourcing, distribution to sales tailored to our deep market and product insight and personal freedom. business partner's need. Our entrepreneurial approach, deep insight and broad knowledge make it possible for us to create value for our business and for our partners by finding and dealing with the links in the value chain which Values needs special attention. Uhrenholt's activities are based on four values: Winning, Partnering, Excellence and Passion. These values are part of our daily work and we strive to follow them in everything we do. Through close cooperation with our partners we are well prepared to meet the increasing demand and continuously pressure from the world around us to deliver higher food safety, deeper traceability and information flow, sustainability etc. Winning Partnering Every day this challenges the way we are working and how we understand doing business and we continuously look for improvements. We value partnership and win-win solutions in Our business is based on long-term partnerships everything we do – when we develop great with customers and suppliers around the world. products, service customers and work together We strive to add value in our partnerships by conwith suppliers. Our goal is to create an environment tinuously exploring new opportunities and by where we are inspired to perform our very best working together to create mutual sustainable together. value. Production Operation Marketing Sales Excellence Passion Professionalism and commercial excellence is We are passionate about food and enjoy an exciting the foundation for our behavior internally and and dynamic atmosphere in our daily work. Global network Tailor-made Market, category Route-to-market externally. Our enthusiasm is reflected in our way of working of producers services and consumer insight expertise We deliver results through strong solutions for with markets, products, partners and colleagues. our customers and our organisation. • Unique global sourcing partnership • Multiple packaging solutions • Market and category knowledge • Global distribution network • Quality assurance • Warehouse solution, chilled and and research • Local sales organisation • In-depth product knowledge frozen facilities • Trends • Sales to several sales channels • In-depth knowledge about market • Custom and order handling • Consumer understanding and • Key account management and situation enabling competitive pricing • Flexible logistics and delivery communication merchandising • Advertising • Global and local sales training • Global brand portfolio 8 9 CSR Focus Areas We have structured our CSR work around six focus areas. These areas are most relevant to our business and we focus our efforts here. The ten principles of Global Compact complement our work and activities and therefore we describe our progress and efforts in these areas. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including Principle 9 extortion and bribery. EMPLOYEES Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT Invitation to Responsible Partnership PARTNERSHIP DEVELOPMENT Our philosophy is to use our global network to learn from and influence all partners involved. HUMAN We will build bridges between our different projects around the world making sure that we bring out the best LABOUR RIGHTS practice to all corners of the world. We need you to join and challenge us! The ambition is to invent sustainable solutions with the highest food safety standards. Principle 1 Principle 3 Businesses should support and respect the Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the We will take the role as the link between producers, customers/end-users, organisations/NGOs and governprotection of internationally proclaimed human effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; ments. rights; and Principle 4 You are invited to join us for commitment to projects with focus on: Principle 2 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Respect and improvement of the Global Compact principles of human rights, labour, environment Make sure that they are not complicit in human and anti-corruption rights abuses. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and • Highest food safety and quality assurance standards • Certified sustainability (Organic, MSC, ASC, Global G.A.P., AEO etc.) Principle 6 • Establishment and development of unbroken cold chains in new markets The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 10 11 Business Ethics Uhrenholt Business Principles Uhrenholt A/S is an AEO certified company The core competence of Uhrenholt is the ability to source, sell, In December 2012 Uhrenholt A/S officially received the AEO certificate proving our status as an Authorised distribute and market food products in a way that respect all the Economic Operator (AEO). In 2015 our compliance has been reviewed and sustained by the Danish Tax regulations and red tape that follows international food business. Authorities. It is our promise to our stakeholders, partners, consumers and the societies in which we operate that we continuously develop our The AEO certificate confirms that Uhrenholt A/S is a reliable partner in all economic, custom and safety related procedures to maintain this status. operations. Uhrenholt A/S meets all the common criteria regarding: • security and safety standards The traditional skills required of the individual sales person remain • record of compliance with customs requirements – but every day the surrounding commercial world changes and the • satisfactory system of managing commercial and transport records which allows appropriate customs controls administrative burden is increasing. To cope with this we decided • proven financial solvency to prepare a written catalogue of our Uhrenholt Business Principles for internal use to frame and codify our key commercial rules and habits. All together the Uhrenholt Business Principles concern the way we care about our image, brands, employees, compliance, documents Uhrenholt and not least our money. As more colleagues join our company Business across our global market the Uhrenholt Business Principles also Principles Policies and guidelines for business conduct clearly define how we expect employees to behave, act and work within Uhrenholt Group together internally and externally. It will be reviewed regularly and employees are urged to familiarize with those parts that are relevant in their specific position. To the benefit of our partners the AEO certificate allows goods handled by Uhrenholt a preferential treatment in certain procedures of customs control of goods and documents. First of all at the EU level but in the long term it will become much more global. So far mutual recognition is in place with the USA, Japan, Norway and SwitzerCode of Conduct land and the EU Commission is negotiating with China and Canada. As we operate in more than 80 countries it is only natural that employees working in the frontline find our busiUhrenholt is among the frontrunners in the Danish food sector to obtain the AEO certificate and as such we are in ness ethics challenged from time to time. It is of paramount importance that all employees share Uhrenholt’s due time to face the future. interpretation of moral and ethical values. Serving as an educational tool, as a moral obligation and as a support in daily decision making our Code of Conduct is perceived as an important tool. All employees have signed the Code Companies with AEO status are recognised as safe, secure and compliant business partners in of Conduct. international trade. Uhrenholt will continuously seek to improve the level of business ethics even further. We care about choosing business partners whose business standards and ethics match ours. Being a global trading company we inevitably also operate in a number of countries that according to the corruption index developed by Transparency International are high risk areas. There is a close link between these Business Principles and our Code of Conduct. Therefore an updated version of Code of Conduct will follow in 2016 to assure that these two documents correspond. 12 13 We work to create a culture where everyone feels welcomed, valued, respected, and empowered 14 15 IT Security Employees Our new IT security system has been fully impleAn Inclusive and Diverse Culture based on Values mented in 2015 with a number of improved features. The service to protect against virus and get rid of In Uhrenholt we harness our peoples' diverse experiences and backgrounds to better understand the needs spam will evaluate all external mails before they are of global customers, drive innovation and enhance employee engagement. We work to create a culture where delivered to our mail server. If the service encounters everyone feels welcomed, valued, respected and empowered. a mail where rating is not possible, it will forward a message to the receiver and let that person deterDiversity has always been an important trademark of Uhrenholt. We are represented in more than 20 countries mine if the mail is to be released or deleted. and have 21 nationalities employed. We want to reflect the variety in society in terms of culture and way of thinking. In order to minimise the risk of hacking we have invested in a new generation firewall that protect not At the same time our focus is on ensuring that our partners, customers and consumers experience a high level of only against external attacks but also protects the service whoever they address. inside of the network. This will increase the chance of stopping infected PCs from communicating to outIn Uhrenholt we want to promote not least gender diversity at all levels of management. In 2015 we reached our side hackers with intentions of getting access to our goal to increase the proportion of female managers to at least 40% and we also aim for 25% female directors internal network. within the coming three years. The new backup and restore solution include a We continuously focus on upgrading the competences among the sales force. Internal and external people within number of new functions – e.g. extends our options commercial sale have been through our internal Uhrenholt sales training course – these costs are not part of the of testing the validity of completed backups. figures invested in education and training. Our backup system has been improved not only internally but also by external backups located in a After finishing the course the skills are maintained through consistent and structured follow-up by the trainer and Microsoft datacentre elsewhere. the board of directors. Besides enhancing the competences it has been critical to bring the Uhrenholt values out in every corner of the world. The phase we enter now is to promote the Uhrenholt CSR profile and efforts to our business partners worldwide. 16 17 Flexible Working Apprentice Program We respect and care for each other through an open environment that offers our employees opportunities to Awarded Apprenticeship 2015 learn and grow. Open communication within offices and across countries helps us work well together and At Uhrenholt we continue our work in educating apprentices in always strive to do the right thing. Collaboration is the heart of our culture. 2-year apprenticeships. Nearly 80 apprentices – 3-4 at a time have over the years been trained, primarily within sales and sales Uhrenholt's technologies enable people to collaborate with colleagues around the world. Employees share ideas, coordination. brainstorm solutions and recognise achievements to help us succeed together. Our work with the apprentices was awarded in 2015 as one of our Our technologies also promote flexible working that can enhance health and well-being by enabling people to apprentices nominated Uhrenholt as “Apprenticeship 2015” and we better balance work and personal commitments. were elected among 20 companies in our region. The local board of education elected Uhrenholt and the ceremony took place at the Our flexible work practices also help us meet our environmental goals by reducing the need for air and car travel. International Business College (IBC) in June. As an extra bonus for the company our apprentice was elected ”Apprentice of the year” in the category sales/trade apprentice. 2013 2014 2015 It is a huge recognition for Uhrenholt to get this award and we are very proud of the acknowledgement we get for the work we do with our apprentices. Total employees 653 644 540 Female 41% 42% 43% “IBC and the local board of education has emphasised that Uhrenholt understands that an apprentice education Male 59% 58% 57% is a combination of school theory and work practice. Furthermore the company shows interest in the school and makes sure the apprentices are challenged academically and gain knowledge about the company structure and Average age 38,3 39,4 40,7 working processes during the apprenticeship” Education Manager Bodil Kirkegaard Johansen says in the press Average seniority 4,6 3,9 4,1 release. Sick leave percentage 2,5% 2,4% 1,6% Furthermore we strive to maintain some of the apprentices in the company after finishing the apprenticeship and giving them the possibility to grow and make solid careers. Number of promotions (next level promotions) 27 23 25 Female manager 34% 38% 40% Student Work and Internships Male manager 66% 62% 60% Besides the apprenticeship program Uhrenholt has started to give some university students and recent graduFemale directors 15% 14% 15% ates the possibility for writing their master thesis with our assistance or giving them the possibility for shorter or Male directors 85% 86% 85% longer internships at our HQ or at one of the regional offices. This teaches them to put theory into practice and give them a better understanding of the worklife they are about to enter. Investment in education and training (external) € per. employee 182 144 112 Number of nationalities 21 22 21 First Aid and Defibrillator More and more companies choose to invest in an AED (defibrillator). Shock from an AED is the most effective treatment of heart failure and increases the survival chances significantly. Every minute is vital when someone suffers a cardiac arrest and it happens for approximately 3500 Danes outside the hospital every year. At Uhrenholt's head office and at our Danish department in Aalborg we have set up AEDs. These are also registered on TrygFondens list of AEDs in Denmark which means that other people can find them in emergency. 18 19 Grøndal Dairy is FSSC 22000 Certified Partnership Development Since 2012 Grøndal Dairy has maintained certification in accordance with FSSC 22000. As a result of the Cold chain in Africa certification and the work with continuous improvement of quality and food safety the dairy has had success in: Year by year we increase and develop our activities and collaboration with partners primarily in Africa. The unbroken cold chain project that was launched in 2012 has been developed further and as of year-end 2014 • Upgrading the whole organisation with knowledge and awareness on food safety freezers have been distributed to local business partners in 11 countries. • Signal that our management system to control food safety is in place and up to date • Ensuring ongoing focus internally on continuous improvements The project continuously aims at: • Improving food safety and developing our access to market The work continues towards improvements to maintain the highest food safety and quality of the products. • Allowing the retail stores to store frozen products correctly and offer products from an unbroken cold chain • Allowing our local business partners to offer a broader range of products which are stored correctly and with due respect to food safety principles • Supplying freezers that have been assessed from an environmental view to avoid excessive electricity consumption • Providing freezers that are purchased and serviced locally The envisaged target of creating 2-3 more workplaces per country involved has been achieved. Local production In 2015 we expect to start local contract production of UHT milk and cream in Kigali, Rwanda, for export to other East African markets. A pilot project that will provide us with valuable experience in our efforts to supply the African markets not only imported goods but gradually also with more and more local high quality products. This kind of cooperation with the local industry will long term develop and benefit not only our business but indeed also African milk farming and processing. The potential for milk production in the sub Saharan countries is huge. Our role is to help unlocking it with our knowledge regarding logistics, distribution and marketing. 20 21 We believe in close partnerships and networks. 22 23 Human rights/Labour Supplier management Uhrenholt cooperates with a global network of suppliers. The Uhrenholt supplier network is continuously developing and consequently the supplier risk assessment and approval process is ongoing. It is crucial that our suppliers demonstrate professional care for our interests ensuring that products delivered to Uhrenholt are safe and produced under secure and responsible conditions. Per 31.12.2015 the following numbers of our suppliers have signed the Uhrenholt Supplier Requirements and passed our supplier risk assessment: Therefore our suppliers undergo critical risk assessment regarding food safety, quality assurance and corporate social responsibility including elements which are part of our AEO approval. 71% of the total number of suppliers (63% in 2014) 91% of the top 100 suppliers measured on purchase value (86% in 2014) 91% of the suppliers representing 90% of the GM (90% in 2014) Risk assessment of suppliers is based on the • Chemical, physical and microbiological contamination following criterias: • Certificate of Conformance COC / Certificate of In 2016 our goal is to increase further the number of suppliers who have signed the Uhrenholt Supplier • Duly signed ”Uhrenholt Supplier Requirements” Analysis COA Requirements and passed our supplier risk assessment: • Level of food safety and quality assurance • Handling of claims management at the supplier • Crisis Management and recall/withdrawal of products Suppliers who have signed the Uhrenholt Supplier 2014 2015 Goal • Food safety risk profile of the products to be Requirements and passed our supplier risk assessment 2016 produced by the supplier Corporate Social Responsibility: • Country of production • Human rights % of total number of suppliers measured on purchase value 63% 71% 75% • Brands to be produced at the supplier / overall • Labour standards % of the 100 suppliers measured on purchase value 86% 91% 95% commercial impact for Uhrenholt • Environment % of the suppliers representing 90% of the GM 90% 91% 95% • Workplace environment Based on risk assessment onsite audit at the supplier’s • Anti-Corruption production and storage facilities can take place by Uhrenholt to ensure compliance with our requirements. Authorised Economic Operators (AEO): • Secure premises and conditions Uhrenholt Supplier Requirements cover the • Reliable staff following elements: • Protection against unauthorised interference Food Safety and Quality Assurance: Uhrenholt prefers suppliers holding a food safety • Compliance with laws and regulations certificate approved by GFSI (Global Food Safety • Food safety management system Initiative) like BRC Global Standard, IFS Food Standard, • Product specification FSSC 22000, SQF 2000 level 2 and others. • Food contact packaging materials • Genetically Modified Organism (GMO) Suppliers not holding a food safety certificate approved • Irradiation by GFSI are required to answer the Uhrenholt Supplier • Allergens Self-Assessment Questionnaire. 24 25 Environment and Climate Uhrenholt goes Organic At Uhrenholt we want to minimise our impact on the In 2015 Uhrenholt Seafood has become a member of During 2015 Uhrenholt has decided to explore opportunities to enter the organic route within dairy products. environment! Sedex: Supplier Ethical Data Exchange. We have signed membership of the two leading Danish trade organisations Økologisk Landsforening Sedex is a non-profit membership organisation dedicated (Organic Denmark) and Bio aus Dänemark in order to support the continued expansion within the production Environmental responsibility is a moral obligation for to driving improvements in responsible and ethical and sales of organic dairy products. any commercial business. Protection of our nature business practices in global supply chains. The online including biological diversity on earth is an important database allows members to store, share and report We aim at introducing a range of primarily Danish produced organic quality dairy products to our already existing issue when reviewing different business areas. information on four key areas: Labour Standards, and new clients. We foresee most interest in this field in the Scandinavian countries as well as in Germany. Health and Safety, Environment, Business Ethics. Uhrenholt follows the environmental legislation in Our vision is to build an export platform for independent Danish organic dairy producers and help them to the countries where we are placed, but acknowledges Sustainable Palm Oil expand outside of Denmark. that our responsibility includes our business in other countries and an effort for further improvement. The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) unites Uhrenholt has the expertise and know-how in handing international clients and the dairies with whom we have stakeholders from the palm oil industry: Oil palm producers, signed export contracts are excellent in production and product development as well as organising domestic sales Our company structure leads to different areas on which processors or traders, consumer goods manufacturers, in Denmark but may lack the know-how and logistical expertise which as Uhrenholt possesses. So a kind of win/ we can influence the environment. These include our retailers, banks/investors, and environmental and social win. offices around the world, our cooperation with food non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to develop producers and suppliers worldwide and of cause our own and implement global standards for sustainable palm The initiative is well in line with Uhrenholt’s principles of always ensuring sustainable and environmental friendly dairy plant Grøndal. oil. routes-to-market. Sustainability The RSPO has developed a set of environmental and social criteria which companies must comply with in MSC, ASC, Global G.A.P. and B.A.P. In our seafood order to produce Certified Sustainable Palm Oil business we continuously focus on promoting MSC (CSPO). When they are properly applied, these criteria products for wild caught seafood and Global G.A.P. can help to minimise the negative impact of palm oil and ASC for farmed seafood. cultivation on the environment and communities in palm oil-producing regions. Our focus areas: • Using MSC and Global G.A.P. as a sales parameter The RSPO has more than 1,700 members worldwide for our retail and manufacturing channels with focus who represent all links along the palm oil supply chain. on Denmark, Germany and UK. They have committed to produce, source and/or use • Expand the knowledge about certified sustainable sustainable palm oil certified by the RSPO. Totally 20% seafood products inside the Group. of palm oil globally is certified by RSPO (2015). Palm oil is used in some Uhrenholt products mainly Organisations managing global standards for because of excellent technical functionalities of palm responsible seafood aquaculture: oil in many food applications. Our aim is to use Certified MSC: Marine Stewardship Council Sustainable palm oil wherever possible. ASC: Aquaculture Stewardship Council This work continues together with our suppliers in Global G.A.P.: Global Good Agricultural Practice 2016. BAP: Best Aquaculture Practice 26 27 Transport Charity Uhrenholt has a huge focus on optimising the transportation need and aim for using the most direct way to the customer which gives the lowest impact on the environment with less CO2 emission. There is an increased Help in South Africa focus on developing more environmental trucks and the trucking companies we are using must live up to the CO2 In 2015 we created a couple of different Emborg films and we used many of our Emborg products in them norm valid for the involved countries. – frozen vegetables, milk, butter and cheese. A big part of our volumes are shipped in containers by sea and the vessel operators have a big focus on using fuel After the filming we had a lot of products left over and as we were filming in South Africa we contacted a with less impact on the climate and further developing of vessels which have a very low fuel consumption. shelter in Cape Town which has many different shelters for people in need. The shelter we chose helps and supports both adults and especially children. New rules were implemented 1st of January 2015 where shipping lines serving North Europe and North America must make use of low sulphur fuel with a lower impact on the climate. Similar rules are being prepared for more By giving them all of our products, we helped the shelter to feed people in need with breakfast, a packed and more areas. lunch and dinner. The 2015 Uhrenholt Christmas Donation Grøndal Dairy For many years in Uhrenholt we have chosen at Christmas time to use the money we would otherwise spend on a present to our customers and business partners to make a donation for charity. After a year of restructuring Grøndal Dairy turned back to a stabile pattern of production with full use of the capacity in 2015. It can be given: • Anywhere around the world However, our new set up and a switch from semi hard cheese to hard cheese production in August 2014 means • To an international humanitarian organisation whose primary aim is to improve conditions for children that the use of ressources is partly uncomparable to the previous years. 2015 will form a new standard for the future and we consider how to revise our environmental 2020 strategy completely. In 2015 we started a new This year the donation went to the Danish organisation DINNoedhjaelp operating in Nigeria. mapping of our use of energy in order to identify potential savings. DINNoedhjaelp is running a home for the socalled witch children that due superstition have been accused of being possessed by evil spirits. Often these children are killed or tortured and excluded from their families and societies. In total the quantity of cheese at Grøndal Dairy increased 19% in 2015 meaning that our total CO2 emission increased as well due to a significantly higher use of gas in the beginning of the year. Further investments in new equipment The organisation was founded by Anja Ringgren Lovén in 2012 and is based on volunteering. It means that all allowed us to bring the gas use down in the last quarter and we expect this development to continue in 2016. donations are used exclusively for the purpose of giving these children a decent life. The consumption of water is another topic area in which we strive to optimise further in 2016. Regarding garbage a number of new initiatives have been taken to increase the amount of reuse. Salt from the cheese production is reused for road salting and discarded products are recycled in a bioenergy plant. In total we have reached a level of 40% of reused waste. Results 2015 Total use Use 2014 vs. 2013 per kg cheese produced CO2 +19.9% +4.7% -0.8% +10.9% Water +22.9% +8.2% Waste +55.9% +47.5% Cheese production +19.1% (4.942 mt.) Energy saving at the head offices Energy saving at our head office in Middelfart is a natural ongoing process year by year. In 2014 the old roof on the main building was replaced and the insulation was improved which has saved considerably amounts of energy for heating. In 2014 we also started to install new computer screens. This project has been completed in 2015 where we also have replaced hundreds of light bulbs with electricity saving LED-bulbs. 28 29 Progress 2015 Projects 2016 Focus Area Activity and goal 2015 Result 2015 Focus Area Activity and goal 2016 Employees Employees Education Enhanced the CSR framework/foundation Education Enhance the CSR framework/foundation through our internal sales training through our internal sales training activities activities (internal people/distributors) (internal people/distributors) Internships Allowing university students and recent graduates the possibility for shorter Travel security Dos and dont's revised and internal or longer internships at our HQ or at one of the regional offices procedures regarding safety assessments in Human Rights/Labour place Uhrenholt Quality Assurance In 2016 our goal is to increase further the number of suppliers who have Human Rights/Labour for suppliers signed the Uhrenholt Supplier Requirements and passed our supplier risk Supplier Management Get suppliers to sign Uhrenholt Supplier 71% of the total number assessment: Requirements and perform supplier risk of suppliers (63% in 2014) assessment in order to approve suppliers for 79% of the total number of suppliers Uhrenholt 91% of the top 100 95% of the top 100 suppliers measured on purchase value suppliers measured on 95% of the suppliers representing 90% of the GM Goal: Improve the figures compared to 2014 purchase value (86% in Partnership Development 2014) Local production Africa Enhanced local production in Kigali, Rwanda – exports to neighbour countries 91% of the suppliers representing 90% of the In depth analysis of potential further local production activities in East Africa GM (90% in 2014) Accommodate customers Enhance our conscious approach to halal and kosher products to Partnership Development religious and cultural preferences accommodate religious and cultural preferences of customers Sustainable Production Expansion and awareness of certified Environment/Climate In depth analysis of potential further local production activities in East Africa sustainable wild caught and farmed seafood Grøndal Dairy Review the 2020 environment goals and action plan after switching from Cold chain Africa Continue to expand and develop business semi hard cheese to hard cheese production through the cold storage facilities Organic Vegetables to be added to the Uhrenholt organic product portfolio Local sourcing Africa Implementation of local sourcing, Kigali, – first step will be Middle East markets Rwanda Business Ethics Donation Preparing further local production activities in Uhrenholt Business Principles Written catalogue to be evaluated and maintained annually East Africa – Danida explorer project Environment/Climate AEO certificate Maintenance and renewal Grøndal Dairy New pasteurization equipment – energy saving (electricity, hot water) Energy saving Further efforts to reduce the use of energy for heating and lighting at the head office Palm oil Mapping products with palm oil and together with suppliers initiate change over to Certified Sustainable Palm oil wherever possible Organic First steps to build an export platform for independent Danish organic dairy producers Business Ethics Uhrenholt Business Principles Written catalogue prepared for stakeholders and employees AEO certificate Maintenance and renewal IT security New IT security system in force. Improved access control and protection against spam, virus and hacking 30 31 Thanks CSR 2015, English, Print and layout 03/2016 The CSR team would like to thank all partners and employees for inspiration and support to the 2015 CSR report. Special thanks to Lars Grissell Christensen, Christa Desberg and Pia Mathiasen for again giving assistance to complete the report. The CSR team Kate Bonne Larsen (Group HR), Arne Schmidt (Quality Assurance), Susanne Overby (Quality Assurance), Charlotte Kaasing Skougaard (Global Trading), Anette Gjørtsvang Kock (Legal and Risk Management), Stine Jensen (Marketing), Jørgen Jeppe Hansen (Group Logistics), Edgar Marchl (Procurement) and Keld Winther Rasmussen (Global Trading, editor). Uhrenholt A/S • Teglgårdsparken 106 • DK-5500 Middelfart • Denmark Phone: +45 64 41 40 41 • Fax: +45 64 21 21 26 • info@uhrenholt.com • uhrenholt.com
