Dear Stakeholders, I am pleased to reaffirm the commitment of Wabcom Ventures Limited for the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, Labour, the environment, and anticorruption. In this inaugural Communication on Progress (COP), we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders and the general public, using our primary channels of communication. Wabcom Ventures Ltd is proud of its continued efforts and progress to embrace the ten guiding principles of the Global Compact which have become part of our global cultural and daily operations. I am therefore pleased to enclose our first report on progress since joining the Global Compact in December 2015. Yours sincerely, Beatrice Wababu CEO, Wabcom Ventures UN GLOBAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT WHO WE ARE Wabcom Ventures Limited is a privately owned company. The Board consists of two Executive Directors and three nonExecutive Directors. Wabcom has unmatched expertise in Training and Business Management Consultancy. We are accredited by National Industrial Training Authority (NITA). WHAT WE DO Wabcom Ventures works with top management in organizations in tackling their most difficult and unique organizational development challenges. Wabcom Ventures consultants then design and structure appropriate consulting or project management training addressing those specific needs at each level of the organization. This can be as basic as introducing project management tools and techniques to new managers or as complex as assisting a company’s transition into a new way of doing things (change management). VISION To be the Market Leader within Africa and beyond by providing the best Training and Consultancy experience using the most viable, transformative, relevant, practical and modern approaches. MISSION We exist to Provide Transformative Training and Business Management Consultancy Solutions to our clients. CORE VALUES Integrity Effectiveness Excellence in service We have a wide range of products that aim at building capacity for professionals and leaders.. These products include but not limited to: Gender Training Gender training focuses on creating awareness of gender rights and gender parity. Training of Trainers This is a training that equips professionals with adequate training skills so that they can effectively share their knowledge on the areas of expertise. This training is extended even to people that work with the communities. This programme equips the trainers with skills to impart knowledge and skills for sustainable development at the community level. Excellent Customer service This training ensures that the organization is able to focus on its mission to fully satisfy the clients. It is tailored to maximise the organization’s potential to consistently and constantly exceed the customer’s expectations. We help organization to develop Customer Service Charter. It is a call to commitment on the part of the organization to their clients. College gap skills This is a training aimed at young graduates who are joining the work environment. It includes negotiation skills, the art of networking, and emotional intelligence among other soft skills. This is aimed at positioning the young people as competent professionals. Team building We understand that diversity exists in every organisation and at Wabcom we work with the management and their staff to achieve the much desired cohesion. , which is vital. This is aimed at maximising productivity and achievement of organisational strategy. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ON YEAR 2016 Wabcom Ventures is pleased to present our inaugural Communication on Progress (COP) report reflecting our achievements and support for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Wabcom Ventures is regulated by NITA who promote the highest standards in the quality and efficiency of Industrial Training in Kenya and ensures adequate supply of properly trained manpower at all levels in industry. On 2nd December 2015, the executive team made a formal commitment to become a member of the UNGC – the world’s largest voluntary corporate sustainability initiative. We take steps to ensure social, economic and environmental sustainability in our operations through our services. Wabcom ventures, is committed to capacity building, promoting economic development, creating opportunities for the society, in different capacities. HUMAN RIGHTS Wabcom Ventures is committed to respecting and protecting all internationally proclaimed human rights, as well as applicable laws at the local, regional and national levels. We are committed to continually review and update our policies and procedures to remain in compliance with all human rights standards for every jurisdiction in which the company operates. Activities To promote human rights and uphold them in working places, we offer training on Gender. This year we trained the Retirement Benefits Authority (RBA) staff on Gender based violence, which is a human right violation. We also organized an International women’s conference, with the theme ‘Empowering women for strategic leadership in Africa’ this conference addressed the role of women in building a sustainable economy and also transformative leadership for sustainable development. Outcome We got opportunities to train another organization through referral after the gender training. After the conference, Wabcom Ventures Chief trainer got opportunities to participate and partner with other organizations that share the same vision on Women participating in sustainable development. Some of the participants in the conference, enrolled for trainings so as to be better professionals, trainers and leaders in their different capacities in the society. We are working with some young women as mentees to run their own businesses and to be future leaders. Activities planned for next year Hold trainings on Gender, corporate governance and cross cultural communication and understanding diversity in work places ANTI CORRUPTION Wabcom Ventures upholds integrity as a core value in its business and has zero tolerance on corruption. Wabcom has also signed the code of ethics for business in Kenya, to show its commitment towards fighting corruption. In the Wabcom ventures code of conduct, employees are required to have fair dealings theydo not seek advantages through illegal or unethical business practices. They are also required to act with integrity-integrity being defined but not limited to being forthright, non discriminatory, honest and candid. It is also clear on not engaging in activities that may arise in terms of conflict of interest-conflict of interest referred as that which occurs when an individual’s personal or private interest, financial or otherwise, interferes or appears to interfere with the interests of Wabcom Ventures in cases of procurement. Activities Participated in the Anti corruption kick off workshop organized by Un Global Compact in Kenya on 1st of September To fight corruption, Wabcom Ventures has had to turn down individuals, persons who have directly or indirectly solicited to work without transparency or have suggested ways of engaging in a manner that would compromise the integrity of the business and the values. Outcome Wabcom Ventures has missed out on some training opportunities and this may have affected the finances, however the management and employees understand that in order to curb corruption values have to be upheld. Activities planned for next year Actively continue participating in forums that promote the fight against corruption. Increase company leadership commitment to integrity and anti-corruption. Promote peer learning through best practice exchange on corruption prevention LABOUR RIGHTS Wabcom Ventures is committed to employee policies that are in adherence to the Labour laws of Kenya, eliminating all forms of labor malpractices and also enforcing a culture of Wabcom being an equal opportunity employer in support to a zero tolerance attitude in respect to employment and occupation. The company employee handbook clearly states the employment related policies that protect the staff, including health and safety and discrimination and harassment policy among others. We also ensure that the suppliers and clients that work with us do not engage child labour nor are they involved in labour malpractices. We offer trainings and consultancy where we work with the management to ensure that they are well equipped with knowledge on labour laws and regulations and how to handle labour related issues. ENVIRONMENT Wabcom Ventures Limited is committed to environmental leadership in all of its business activities. Wabcom Ventures provide policies to provide a safe, healthful workplace, protecting the environment, conserving energy and natural resources. With these policies in place we believe that we can achieve a healthy and safe environment. We encourage the employees to recycle the papers used and only print when necessary. In future we plan to get more involved in eco friendly activities that our staff can engage in and sensitise our stakeholders on the importance of preserving the environment.
