Scipio Services Company Ltd. Facility Management and Security Services in Myanmar. No.6, Shwe Hintha Street, 11 Ward, Hlaing Township, Yangon, Myanmar | +95 (0)9 796 324 876 Date: June 23rd, 2016 Subject: Communication of Progress 2016 -Statement of Continued Support by Managing Director To our Stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Scipio Service Company Ltd. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. This is our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Adam Castillo Managing Director Scipio Service Company Ltd. Scipio Services Company Ltd. Facility Management and Security Services in Myanmar. No.6, Shwe Hintha Street, 11 Ward, Hlaing Township, Yangon, Myanmar | +95 (0)9 796 324 876 Human Rights Principles Scipio Services’ goal is to influence that our employees and all our business partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human rights and environmental protection. Based on our commitment we have set up a Human Rights Policy within our company. As a provider of security services through our local partner, Myanmar Assurance Company Ltd., we also require our employees to be trained on a Use of Force Policy along with the Human Rights Policy. We have updated our Human Rights Policy to also comply with VPSHR. We have developed this set of principles to guide us in maintaining the safety and security of their operations within an operating framework that ensures respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. We recognize that security and respect for human rights can and should be consistent. We have implemented this by attaching both policies with the employee has to read and sign. Violation of these polices will result in employment termination and criminal prosecution. These provisions are outlined in their employee contract. To date we have had zero human rights violation or related incidents. Labour Rights Principles Our company employee contracts, handbook, and policies state the right for collective bargaining. Our handbook covers policies concerning our employee rights and compensation and responsibilities. We assess labor related risks and have put measures in place to ensure we do not violate labour principles. We ensure are employees have set working hours and are compensated for overtime. We have a 100 % Scipio Services Company Ltd. Facility Management and Security Services in Myanmar. No.6, Shwe Hintha Street, 11 Ward, Hlaing Township, Yangon, Myanmar | +95 (0)9 796 324 876 compliance on approved working contracts. We have Department of Labour approval on our employee contracts. We have had zero work related injuries in 2014 till 2016. Environmental Principles Being mostly office based, the nature of the operations makes our environmental impact relatively small. The environmental impact of our services are instead mostly indirect, via clients, businesses and suppliers. We employ large numbers of poor locals due to the unskilled nature of our positions, thus we are a central actor in the community. That enables us to influence the environmental awareness of these communities through are employees. We try to limit fuel consumption for our operations and Air conditioning usage. We have done are best to limit our use of computer paper (think before you print! Signs). We will always support environmental initiatives as they surface. Anti-Corruption Principles Scipio Services has a zero-tolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion. The following company policy according to bylaws can be evidence by our Anti-Corruption (ABC) policy. We implement this in our employee induction as well as give our employees classes on ethics and moral courage. This outlines anti-corruption as well the individual’s courage to report such violations and to “do the right thing.”
