2015 Corporate responsibility report Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 1 Content Page 3..........................................From our Chair Page 4 & 5...................................Vision, Mission and Values Page 6 & 7....................................How we govern Page 8 & 9...................................Ethics and anti-corruption Page 10-12...................................How we do it Page 13.........................................Our vessels Page 14-19...................................Our people Page 20-21..................................Safety Page 22-23..................................How we communicate Page 24-31..................................Environment Page 32-33..................................Rescue missions Page 34-35.................................Grieg Foundation and local contributions Page 36........................................Our history Page 37........................................Our fleet Page 38-41..................................GRI Index All images Grieg Star copyright, except page 24 courtesy of the WWF Philippines . 2 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 In George R.R. Martin’s best-selling book series ability goals is even more important for indus“A Song of Ice and Fire”, normally referred to as trial policy and the future of our businesses. “Game of Thrones”, one of the leading Houses have the motto “winter is coming”. For the London School of Economics (LSE) recently shipping industry we may establish that the published a study in which they looked into winter is already here. how the global economy will be affected by the “ climate crisis. In the “worst case scenario” LSE But difficult times are nothing new for the calculates a loss equivalent to 17 percent of international shipping total global financial industry. We have seen assets. It would lay this before. So it may Climate change could the world economy be tempting to think in ruins. destroy our livelihood, and that this is just another round. I think that we have a few, crucial years Fortunately a lot hapwould be a mistake. I for us to reverse the trend pens when it comes do not think the situto fight climate ation we are experichange: Ideas from encing now is merely the same, but worse than individuals, initiatives by individual countries, anything we’ve seen in a generation. I also innovations from individual companies; small think it is different. and large advances from all corners of the globe. We have all gotten used to an enormous economical growth. We see a globalised world But overall we are still far more effective in our in which we all have gotten closer to each overall efforts to destroy the climate, than we other. Economic growth and trade has reduced are in our efforts to save it. poverty and enhanced development. The truth is that climate change can destroy But we also see a world out of balance. Our our livelihood, and we may only have a few, progress has had consequences we now need crucial years for us to reverse the trend. to solve. We have challenges screaming for better solutions. The western part of the world The Paris summit took place in critical moment is not protected from what happens elsewhere. in human history. And I myself belong among War, poverty and environmental challenges are the optimists. Not in the sense that I think the not something that just happens to those far consensus in Paris solved the climate chalfrom us. These problems affect us all. lenge for us, but because I hope and believe it gave the world the common platform we need Businesses may not withdraw from reality. to do the job. We need to sign up. We must understand the importance of long-term perspective. Yes, A job we all have to do. In Grieg Star we have daily fluctuations in stock prices and quarterly rolled up our sleeves. reports will of course have the attention. But a healthy business cannot over time be governed by this alone. In the long run the world Elisabeth Grieg GRI 1.1 community’s ability to achieve the UN sustainChair, Board of Directors GRI 1.2 GRI EC2 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 3 Create lasting value through our common effort Our Vision Our mission: Grieg Star A solid and dynamic partner Grieg Star is a solid, long term business partner, more dynamic than its competitors, recognized by a strong company culture, fully integrated with efficient cooperation and processes. Grieg Star is continuously looking for new solutions and improvements and is not afraid of doing things its own way, whether it is related to smarter and more efficient solutions for customers or new solutions for environmental care. In the heart of our competitive strength lies a sincere commitment to our business partners and a strong understanding of the market. 4 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Our values Solid Open We emphasize the importance of havWe inform, invite and include. ing a strong economic foundation and a long term approach to our business. We are honest, speak clearly and direct. We strive towards quality and compeWe are open minded and regard integtence and act on sound ethical princirity and respect as indisputable requireples. ments. We stand by our commitments. Proud We want to be proud of our business, Committed its methods, products and results. We are committed to the same vision, mission, values and objectives as well We assume responsibility for a solid as the interests of our stakeholders. brand name an a good working environment. We take great interest in our job and working environment, building a strong We contribute to the welfare of our and including company culture. society. We accept responsibility for the environment and the society. Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 5 How we do it How we govern Our board The Grieg Star Group Board of Directors is lead by Chair Elisabeth Grieg and meets regularly in Bergen and Oslo to stake out the long term strategies for the company. During 2015 we had one change in the composition of the board, as Lise Kingo left GRI 4:1 GRI 4:2 the board when she was appointed Executive Director of the UN Global Compact. GRI 4:3 Rune Birkeland joined the Board in November. Board members abstain from board GRI 4:4 GRI 4:6 discussions if potential conflict of interests occur. Board members are recruited using GRI 4.9 independent executive search. The Board of Directors comprises: Elisabeth Grieg Camilla Grieg Kai Grøtterud (Chair and owner) (CEO and owner) Bjørn Gabriel Reed Didrik Munch Rune Birkeland 6 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Our Management team The Grieg Star Management Team, lead by CEO Camilla Grieg, oversees day-to-day business. They meet weekly to implement strategies and plans approved by the Board, and to ensure holistic operations. The Team consists of leaders from all parts of our business, and currently 44 % of the members are women. GRI 4.1 Risk management Risk management is vital to protect the environment as well as our people, vessels, cargo, equipment and business. January 1st 2015 our new Quality Management Reporting System (QMRS) was put into force. This includes Improvement Reporting GRI 1:2 and Audits & Inspections. GRI 2.3 GRI 4.11 GRI SO2 As of January 1st 2016 the QMRS was expanded to include chartering, operation and anti-corruption reporting. Our Quality Manager and the QMS Steering Committee head this work. Risk assessments are always performed in accordance with governing documents in our Quality Management System. Business continuity and emergency response To be able to continue to conduct our operations and business in case of an incident, emergency and business continuity plans are a vital part of our governing documents. The Emergency Preparedness Team convenes whenever an incident occurs, and drills are carried out regularly both onshore and on board our vessels, to ensure our organisation is fit for purpose. We review the emergency plans continuously, both as result of findings during drills and based on new knowledge. Emergency drills are a natural part of life onboard. Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 7 How we do it Ethics and anti corruption Ethical guidelines As a member of the Grieg Group, Grieg Star aims to be recognized by high standards for health and safety, environment and ethics. The objective of the ethical guidelines is to state the requirements for business practice and personal behaviour. The target GRI 4:8 group is all employees working for the Grieg Group, including the members of the Boards of each company and subsidiary of the Grieg Group. It is the responsibility of all employees to understand and demonstrate these principles. All relevant Norwegian and international laws and regulations must be carefully observed. Personal and business conduct must be well within the intentions of the principles outlined below. The management in each of the companies has the overall responsibility to ensure that the guidelines are observed and respected. Violations of the ethical guidelines will have consequences, and serious incidents may result in termination of employment. The ethical guidelines are approved by the Board of Directors in each company within the Grieg Group and apply from January 2013. The values shared by all Grieg Group companies shall be expressed in the way business is conducted, in interaction with each other, and with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. The values are: Open, Solid, Proud and Committed. Our ethical principles 1. We will carry out our business fairly, honestly and openly 2. We do not accept any form of discrimination of employees or others involved in our activities 3. We do not accept any form of corruption, nor will we condone it taking place on our behalf so as to influence business. 4. We will avoid doing business with others who do not accept our values and who may harm our reputation. 5. We shall be careful about giving and accepting gifts or other services. 6. We will keep clear and updated records of all business transactions made on behalf of the Grieg Group. 7. We will avoid situations where personal interests may conflict with the interests of the Grieg Group. 8. We will treat all information, assets and property of the Grieg Group responsibly and professionally. If an employee is concerned about a potential breach of any of the Grieg Group’s ethical principles, these concerns should be reported immediately. Individuals may report through the regular channels; to their superior, or to their superior’s superior. The concern may also be raised to any member of the board of directors in each respective company within the Grieg Group. 8 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Please do 请务必： 欢迎登船 Wear Personal Protective 穿戴个人防护衣和设备， Equipment and strictly follow the 并严格遵循船上规则及要求； Welcome onboard rules and requirements on board We encourage you to study the information Help maintain a safe working 我们建议您学习以下信息并留 帮助维持安全的工作环境并 below and observe Grieg Star’s instructions to ensure a safe and secure working environment and report anything 意格利戈星航公司的指 示，以 报告任何你认为不安全的情况; you consider unsafe environment onboard the vessel. 确保登船工作环境的安全保障 Follow the alarms and any 性。 遵从船员给出的任何警告和提示； instructions given by the crew Keep the workplace tidy and use the correct garbage bins to ensure 保持工作场所的整洁并正确使用 proper handling of garbage 垃圾桶，以确保垃圾的妥善处理。 no corruPtion 禁止腐败 请勿： Grieg star does not offer or accept any form Please do not of corruption, including bribery, facilitation 格利戈星航不提供或接受任何形式的腐败， Smoke outside designated areas 在非指定区域抽烟； payments and undue gifts. 包括贿赂，便利性付款和不适当的礼物 No employee at any level Grieg Star is a member of Enter any restricted area not related 严禁任何级别的员工提供， 格利戈星航是海事反腐败 may offer, promise or give the Maritime Anti-Corruption to your work onboard 许诺 或给予任何有价值的 局中的一 员，主要针对港 进入任何跟你船上工作无关 anything of value (including Network (MACN) targeting 物品（包括 香烟或酒精） 口处的腐败行为 所有的事 的禁止区域； cigarettes or alcohol) to any corrupt practices in ports. 给任何政府官员或 商业合 件将报告给海事反腐局 及 public official or business All incidents will be reported Block walking areas or doors, 作方；任何员工也不得索 及最终有关当局。 partner. Nor may any to MACN and ultimately especially around fire escapes and 取或者收受任何贿赂或不当 封堵人行通道或门禁，特别是 employee ask for or accept appropriate authorities. 的礼 物 防火逃生通道。 any bribe or undue gift. exit routes CIGARET CIGARET All our vessels have clearly visible signs on board, communicating risk awareness and our strict no-corruption policy in five languages. Reporting of potential breaches of the ethical principles is considered loyal, and will be treated in a responsible manner. Whoever reports such incidents will not experience any negative consequences. Anti corruption With its global presence, the shipping industry operates in environments particularly prone to corruption, countries with poor governance and legal frameworks, and ports in lack of structures and standard operating procedures. Corruption risks may range from small facilitation payments to bribes, extortion and trading in influence. The legal framework on anti-corruption is ever stricter and requires businesses to take action and work systematically to reduce risks. Grieg Star recognises the need to provide employees and third parties with clear ethical guidelines and regular support in tackling these challenges. Our leaders need to set the tone and demonstrate our commitment to high ethical standards. Similarly, our captains and crew need to be supported. They are in the front line when facing the challenge; pay or risk delay. On board our ships we state our no-corruption policy clearly to all visitors and officials. The message is communicated in five languages; English, Mandarin Chinese, Hindu, Arabic and Bahasa Indonesia. This message is also sent out to our agents. All reported incidents of corruption are recorded, and whenever appropriate raised with agents and local port offices. To fight corruption in the maritime industry, Grieg Star has joined the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN), a global business network working for a maritime industry free of all types of corruption. MACN consists of a member-elected GRI 4:12 GRI 4:13 steering committee, several working groups, and the MACN GRI S04 member meetings. Members meet in-person at least twice a GRI S05 year, with more frequent interaction through working groups. Anti-corruption training workshops for the seafarers are conducted at bi-annual officers’ conferences and regularly at our manning office. GRI SO3 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 9 How we do it Bergen Squamish R Vancouver Livorno Atlanta Savannah Mobile Rio de Janeiro Doing business What we do Grieg Star is a fully integrated shipping company, and is part of the privately owned Grieg Group, established in 1884. We transport approx. 13 million tons of cargo annually, of which 60% parcel and break-bulk cargo and 40% dry bulk cargo. In 2015 GRI 2:2 GRI 2:6 we had a revenue of USD 529 million, with an equity of USD 461 million and liabiliGRI 2:7 ties of USD 670 million. Wood pulp and paper have been our most important cargo GRI 2:8 since our beginning in 1961. However, as the benefits of our specialised ships became evident, other industries have also come to prefer our service. Our specialised ships are built to meet our customers’ high quality requirements and to deliver superior cargo care. Highly qualified seafarers, trained for our operations, man the ships. A high return rate among the crew is emphasised to ensure familiarity with the ships and operational requirements. Grieg Star focuses on long-term competence development both onboard and ashore. In-house ship management ensures safe and efficient operation. Safety and security of employees, the environment, cargoes and ships have the highest priority. 10 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Oslo Gothenburg otterdam Seoul Tokyo Shanghai Manila Singapore Where we are Operating worldwide, we have offices in USA, Canada, Europe, Asia and South America. Grieg Star headquarters is located in Bergen, Norway. GRI 2:3 Our branch offices outside Norway are staffed with experienced commercial and opGRI 2:4 GRI 2:5 erational people who deal directly with customers and with the stowage, loading and discharging of the ships in direct contact with local stevedores, agents and vendors. Grieg Star also owns Squamish Terminals in British Columbia, Canada. How we are organised Grieg Star consists of several companies, based on tasks or geography. The main division is between operating companies dealing with chartering, ship management, three ship owning companies and the group’s holding company. Our branch offices are either subsidiaries of or GRI 2:3 departments in the chartering company. Our manning office and support in Manila are also separate companies. In addition we own Grieg Green, a supplier of sustainable recycling of vessels, offshore units, Inventory of Hazardous Materials (IHM) and related services. Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 11 How we do it Suppliers Code of conduct Making sure vessels are equipped and attended to with all the necessary supplies and services at all times, is a complex task, involving suppliers across the world. With more than 370 suppliers, our main challenge is to influence them effectively. Grieg Stars’ supplier code of conduct was established in 2008, and went through a total revision in 2015, ensuring it is aligned with new expectations to businesses and GRI 4.16 our own strategic approach to the supply chain. It represents an extension of our values, ethical guidelines and ISO14001 requirements. Through this code Grieg Star requires our suppliers and contractors to observe high ethical, environmental and social standards. Grieg Star has a great number of suppliers and the inclusion of our Supplier Code of Conduct is currently focused on suppliers to vessels, which accounts for approximately 80% of our purchases. We have developed a self-assessment checklist to GRI HR1 GRI HR2 accompany the Supplier Code of Conduct. Suppliers are asked to fill in the self-asGRI HR6 sessment form, and to provide Grieg Star with feedback on their overall performance GRI HR7 within all areas covered by the Supplier Code of Conduct. Human rights issues such as child labour, forced labour, discrimination and freedom of association are included in the assessment. The suppliers are also scrutinized whenever we performs a due diligence as part of our pre-qualification of supplier contracts. No frame agreement with suppliers to our vessels is concluded unless the Supplier Code of Conduct and checklist are completed and agreed upon. This is also standard practice within Incentra, an purchasing organisation where Grieg Star is member of GRI 4.16 working group. Running a ship demands a large quantity of consumables and spare parts for e.g. the machine. 12 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 The L-class Open Hatch vessel Star Laguna at Stewart World Port, BC. Our vessels Fleet Composition Grieg Star is a fully integrated shipping company, focusing on two categories of vessels: Open Hatch general cargo carriers and conventional Bulk carriers. We operate a fleet of over 40 vessels transporting parcel cargo; break bulk and dry bulk cargoes. In the period from 2012 to 2014 we took delivery of ten brand new Open Hatch vessels, our L-class. These vessels are different from our older vessels by having four slewing cranes instead of gantry cranes we have on our 20 other Open Hatch vessels. The box-shaped holds, efficient cranes, dehumidification systems and state-ofthe-art cargo equipment, enable loading and discharge of the cargo with minimum handling, ensuring safe stowage and minimum delays. Dehumidification systems ensure that the air quality in the holds is right for the various types of goods carried. Further, the vessels’ unobstructed deck, included tween decks. provides for excellent stowage, and a safe and damage free ocean transit for various project cargoes. Our conventional bulk department presently operates a modern fleet of about 10 owned and chartered geared and grab-fitted ships ranging from 25,000 to 81,000 DWT, combining contracts and tramping in worldwide trades. In 2015 we acquired two brand new Eco-design Ultramax bulk carriers, expecting delivery of two more in 2016 and 2017. Recycling and Grieg Green During 2015 we recycled four of our vessels. Keeping in line with our policy and the IMO Hong Kong International Convention for the Sound Recycling of Ships (2009), all were dismantled in a responsible manner: Environmentally verified and documented. Grieg Star will not use the beaching method, even if this is a far more profitable way of dismantling old vessels. In 2010 Grieg Star started Grieg Green, a company GRI 4.12 focusing on providing a sustainable recycling process for old vessels. Through Grieg Green we promote and make it possible for other ship owners to recycle their vessels, offshore units etc. in a social and environmentally responsible manner through a fully documented process at certified ship-breaking yards. Grieg Green handpicks from what they consider to be among the world’s top recycling yards – by using their own “score-card” rating method. They follow up and obtain reports from regular inspections. In addition the company offers Green Passport/ Inventory of Hazardous Materials to vessel owners. Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 13 Who we are Our people Our owners Grieg Star is a family owned company, with the fifth generation Griegs as its owners: Elisabeth Grieg, Camilla Grieg, Per Grieg Jr. and Elna-Kathrine Grieg. Indirectly the Grieg Foundation owns 25% of the shares. Per Grieg Sr. leads the foundation (for GRI 2:6 more on the foundation, see page 34). To secure a continuing sound family owned business, a program to ensure the knowledge and commitment of the next generation has been implemented. The Next Generation Program gathers the heirs of the four owners on a regular basis to educate and prepare them for a future shift of generation. Our employees Our business success relies on the quality of our people and the work they all do. This requires highly specialized skills, dedication and a professional attitude combined with commercial awareness. Being able to build good relations with customers, business partners and colleagues is imperative for success. High-level formal education constitutes the basis for any critical competence in Grieg Star. All areas are manned with people educated at university level, spanning from finance, economy and law to engineers and social sciences. Today we have a good mix of recruits at post-graduate entry level and people with longer professional experience in addition. Other characteristics and personality traits are important above and beyond professional proficiency. In general we always need a sufficient amount of people who have a profound understanding of the nature of our business and our processes, are able to innovate and are open-minded in looking for new solutions, as well as curious and open for change. We have 265 employees in the shore organisation, of which 42 % are females. 120 are employed at the headquarters in Norway, while the rest are located at the branch offices and our manning office in Manila. As a rule all staff are employed locally and hired on GRI 2.8 GRI LA1 local terms. GRI LA2 GRI SO1 The personell turnover in Grieg Star in 2015 was 6,4% (6,8% in 2014). The turnover figure is based on number of permanent employees who have voluntarily left the company, excluding retirees. 14 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 42% 58% Gender balance on shore Age distribution Years of service 20-35 yrs 58+ yrs 20+ yrs 23% 21% 19% 10-19 yrs 0-9 yrs 36-57 yrs 23% 58% 56% We have a very competent workforce with long service in the company. Almost 50% of the workforce has been in the company for more than 10 years. The age distribuRetention rate tion shows that we have a pool of talents with young people, and a group of people 2012 2013 2014 2015 who will retire in the coming years, giving new opportunities for the young genera90,9% 91,7% 84,6% 96,1% tion as people retire. In 2015 we have 35 people who have already reached the age of Retention of seafarers. Numbers before 2014 is not fully comparable 60. due to change in methodology Relying solely on the Philippines as the source for seafaring personnel, all our seafarers are hired through our manning office in Manila or recruited as cadets. The manning office adheres to international ILO conventions as well as the Maritime Labour Convention in all its practices that affect the seafarers. GRI 4.12 GRI LA2 The seafarers are per agreement contractual workers, but we see a lot of advantagGRI LA4 es by treating them as regular employees and strive to ensure a high retention rate. GRI LA5 GRI LA6 Ship officers have 6 months contracts, and stand by payment while on leave. Ratings GRI LA9 apply for sailing periods of 9 months. All crew is voluntarily organized by internaGRI LT9 GRI LT16 tional seafarers´ associations, and consequently covered by collective bargaining GRI LT17 agreements and any other international rules and standards that apply. GRIHR5 We do not employ any children in our operations, nor accept that our suppliers do so. The number of sailing personnel is approximately 769, of which 11 are female cadets or officers. We have 44 % females in the top management team and about 19 % at middle management level. During 2015, the group’s Board of Directors has consisted of 50 % GRI LA1 women and 50 % men. Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 15 Who we are Training It is our aim to provide a working environment where our people will thrive and develop by working together, and have the opportunity to combine formal education, on-the-job training and new challenges. We offer our employees a wide range of learning opportunities, which includes both technical and non-technical skills training. Managers are responsible for identifying training needs together with their employees through daily follow-up and annual employee dialogues. We make use of internal and external classroom training covering a wide range of subjects, which our employees are invited to attend as part of their development. In addition we will from 2016 make use of e-learning to enhance learning further. New employees go through a familiarization program with introduction to the company and the duties of their position. In addition employees visit a ship and terminal as part of the introduction program to learn how the ships and terminals operate, as well as meeting the crew. Our leadership program “Leading into the Future” is offered to leaders worldwide. Its overall objective is to contribute to increased value creation and efficiency through developing individual responsibility and leadership capabilities. A main outcome of the leadership program is to provide alignment of leadership skills and behaviours in our international organization. The program has been run several times and a new group of managers and talents are now ready to enter the program. A seminar for the LIF alumni group and the top management gathered about 50 participants in 2015. The main themes were change leadership and how to deal with change processes. As an international organization, we see it as very valuable that our employees have working knowledge from our offices in the countries abroad or from the head office in Norway. Our young talents are therefore encouraged to work abroad for shorter or longer periods of time as part of their career program. As part of the knowledge sharing, we also organize events where employees are invited to attend and take part in discussions on subject matters of interest. With respect to our seafarers, education and certificates are the basic formal requirements. The high level of technological specialization onboard and the general complexity of ship operations combined with regulatory requirements make the demands on competence levels of crew increase. Grieg Star follows the international convention called Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping (STCW) GRI 4.12 as well as other official requirements. In addition we have developed a set of tailor made courses and training programs in order to make sure that all the seafarers are STCW able to handle the equipment they meet onboard our vessels, as well as obtain comStandards of training, Certification and Watchkeeping pany specific skills. 16 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Officers’ workshop in the new premises of Grieg Philippines, February 2016 Competence development and training are vital to ensure operational and situational understanding and to build confidence. In 2015, 1860 training participants were recorded, divided on more than 50 company-specific courses. Some courses are mandatory for all seafarers, while others are specific to rank. This calculates into 6470 days spent on company-specific training courses. In recent years, much focus has GRI LA10 been on leadership and anti-corruption, and in 2015, 46 officers attended a course specifically targeted on how to handle corruption in port and onboard. Before going on board, all our seafarers have to complete the Pre Departure Orientation Seminar (PDOS) held in our offices in Manila. The seminar focuses on health, safety, security, discipline, procedures and regulations. Whenever appropriate this GRI 4.16 includes training, and prevention and risk-control regarding diseases. GRI LA8 All vessels are conducting Safety Representative Working Environment Committee (SRWEC) meetings once a month. The company requires all officers to attend the NIS required SRWEC/PEC course. GRI 4.12 Through the SRWEC meetings the Shipboard Management has the opportunity for to give information to the Officers and Crew and getting feedback and suggestions in return. The SRWEC meetings are important forums where Officers and Crew can freely discuss and gain experience from each other. Areas like safety, security and working environment are in focus and we strongly believe that these meetings are important for rising consciousness with regards to these topics. The HSSEQ department makes monthly summaries based on all vessels inputs/feedback from the SRWEC reports and all Improvement reports that has been received each month. This is being distributed as experience transfer in our Quality Management Reporting System (QMRS). Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 17 Who we are The Grieg Star Cadets at UCML in Cebu, Philippines, February 2016 Developing competence from within Academic performance, good communication skills, personal suitability and dedication are essential in selecting our future seafarers. In preparation for the future need of officers, cadets have been selected every year through the Norwegian Shipowners’ Association’s (NSA) Philippines Cadet Program. Grieg Star, together with the NSA Philippines Cadet Program, interviews and selects GRI 4.13 the students before they begin their education at one of the leading maritime universities in the Philippines. For the past years, we have had at any given time about 100 cadets in our system. We also source cadets from our own seafarers, where the children or siblings of our sailing personnel, can apply for seagoing service in order to earn their certificates as licensed officers. One of the most important aspects to evaluate is the cadets’ ability to communicate. Further, we consider the ability to adapt to a life at sea, as well as inquiring about the cadets’ adaptability to teamwork versus individual work. It is also essential to evaluate the candidate’s level of realistic ambition and determination, in addition to the person’s physique as much of the work onboard can be physically challenging. To ensure harmonious relations onboard, it is also important that the candidates we choose to embark on a journey with are from provinces all over the Philippines, to ensure a geographical spread of our seafarers onboard. The first years in the company are of great significance to obtain a good understanding of the company culture and operational procedures. An open dialogue to discuss the development of the cadets and the career path ahead of them is important to continuously evaluate the progress made. 18 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Gender and ethnicity equality Grieg Star does not accept discrimination in any form. This ensures all employees the same opportunities to personal and professional development, irrespective of gender, age, ethnical background, nationality or age. Discrimination shall be nonexistent when it comes to recruitment, advancement and remuneration. Our aim is to give all employees the possibility to Jr. Third Officer Krezl Sarigumba became reach their potential while increasing Grieg Star´s competitive our first female officer from the Philippines edge and value creation. February 7th, 2016 We had no reports of any kind of discrimination in 2015. Health GRI HR4 Grieg Star maintains an overview of sick leave in accordance with current laws and regulations. In 2015 the general sick leave for the global on-shore organization was 2.2 %, including long and short term absence. Working environment committees oversees the company’s work on health and safety. GRI 4.16 GRI LA7 GRI LA6 Sick leave is reported and followed up on a continuous basis by the managers in cooperation with the employee and Human Resources Department. Project Re:fresh Grieg Star has been part of an industry-initiated survey, organized by Marine Benefits, called Project Re:fresh, focusing on the health and well-being of Filipino seafarers, in the areas of physical, psychological, social and spiritual well-being. GRI 4.17 GRI LA8 The project pointed out a number of important concerns, which must be taken seriously by the employees and the company as a whole, to ensure safety and wellness onboard. Maintaining a healthy and balanced lifestyle must become a focus area in the future to minimize illness and stress, both onboard and on shore. We need to promote having proper and nutritious diets, active lifestyles, and an understanding of how to take care of own health. Combined with a stable psychological environment, both at work and at home, these actions will contribute to increased wellness and happiness among our seafarers, which in turn will give safe and efficient ship operations. Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 19 Who we are Safety The safety on our vessels is of our uttermost concern, and we have an ongoing focus on preparing our seafarers as well as stevedores and visitors. GRI LA7 This focus has given results, reducing injuries compared to previous years. The most LTIF objective measure of this is the Loss Time Injury Frequency (LTIF), which measures 2012 2013 2014 2015 the number of hours a seafarer is unable to work due to injuries. 2015 ended with the 2.69 2.17 2.80 1.46 lowest LTIF the last five years. Repatriation due to accident/illness As in the three previous years, we had no fatal accidents in 2015. 2012 2013 2014 2015 Still accidents do happen, and we repatriated two seafarers due to Acc. Ill. Acc. Ill. Acc. Ill. Acc. Ill. injuries after accidents, and ten seafarers were sent home be8 12 3 12 6 9 2 10 cause of illness. Total Near Sometimes incidents happen without resulting in injuries. We record these as well, Miss reports defined as Near Misses. In 2015 the number of Near Miss Reports was the highest 2012 2013 2014 2015 in five years, partly because of our focus on encouraging the crew to report. These 75 82 96 192 reports make it easier for us to evaluate our procedures to prevent dangerous situations in the future. Port State Control Port State Control (PSC) is the inspection of ships in ports by PSC inspectors to control and verify that the competency of the master and officers on board, and the condition of the ship and its equipment comply with the requirements of international conventions, and further that the vessel is manned and operated in compliance with applicable international law. During 2015 Grieg Star had 121 Port State Controls on 34 ships, showing on average 2 deficiencies per ship. This is down from 3.2 in 2014. GRI LT13 Grieg Star had no detentions in 2015 20 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Rightship Grieg Star is a member of Rightship (www.rightship.com), who performs Riskand Environmental Rating. Rightship inspects our vessels, and report and grade our quality based on their findings. GRI 4.12 Risk ranking GRI 4.13 The fleet average Environmental Rating improved from 2,4 2012 2013 2014 2015 in 2014 to 3,5 in 2015. In addition, our affiliation with ESI 4,80 4.91 5.00 4.91 (Environmental Ship Index) has contributed to the growth in the Rightship system for our L-class and K-class. The Environment ranking newer tonnage scores higher on the ranking due to newer 2012 2013 2014 2015 The rightship scale spands technology. NA 2.4 3.5 3.51 from 0 to 5, where 5 is top score. Star Harmonia is among our high Rightship ranking vessels. USCG Qualship 21 The US Coast Guard have implemented an initiative to identify high-quality ships, and provide incentives to encourage quality operations. This initiative is called QUALSHIP 21, quality shipping for the 21st century. GRI 4.12 All our vessels trading regularly in the US ports have been awarded QUALSHIP 21 certificates. Grieg Star was also awarded the QUALSHIP 21 certificate as a result of positive performance over time. The Qualship 21 program and criteria can be found at: http://homeport.uscg.mil/ Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 21 Who we are How we communicate Good communications is necessary to be able to run a sustainable, responsible and profitable company. Over the years Grieg Star has invested in several solutions to ensure good communications internally and externally. External communication systems Beside active usage of web site and social media, Grieg Star uses several digital services to interact with our customers, agents and other stakeholders. StarPort, TMS and SIMS are some of these. Through these systems we improve efficiency and accuracy, and reduce the amount of paper consumed and sent. Internal communication systems Our main service for internal communication is the intranet 130+ and the combined intranet and online portals Crewnet and Vesselnet. All systems provide extensive information and access to a wide variety of systems, reports and tools important in day-to-day operations. Our own IT department continuously develop these and new systems according to need. The Grieg Review, an open meeting for all Grieg Group employees, are streamed live over the Internet to all our employees world wide. Our Open Meetings for our employees are held in Bergen four times a year. From 2015 these meetings are filmed and shared with all employees world wide, to ensure the same information is shared all over the organisation. The annual Grieg Review, and open meeting for all employees in the Grieg Group is streamed live as well as made available for later viewing. 22 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Crew Grieg Sta Star E her maos on r Maga zine ı Oc tober 28 th 20 15 ı N o 1 rging voyag en id ImSpm oe QMRS AMoOn fartant ct al mos t fin ished e Crew Celebration Poje mil visits y Our new Quality Management Reporting SysıN 4 Jannic o th 2016 ary 12 tem (QMRS) was put into force January 1st 2015. ı Janu St neersnke azine Mag snap Crew Star ges of ard Grieg Six pa m onbo New parte s fro shot Through this we are able to report and capture vital The r ine ı December 18th 2015 ı N 3 o Bertling and Grieg the ne eg Sttoarwork GriStar w GMtogether of Philippin es ea Grieg Star Magaz information regarding safety, quality and environCST y mental matters. The perks A cadet on why she rd miss being onboa Live y Energy research th heal Video conferencing head Grieg Star VP to Popula Snapsnew research partnership hots seals r Pictu onboard res from With offices in 15 different countries as well as over and on shore 30 owned vessels, good solutions for talking to each other are vital. We have started to work on Photo contest s ague increasing the usage of electronic communication Colle oured hon Our CEO channels like Skype, Facetime and Viber. In addition sums up 2015 to improving the quality of day-to-day communication our goal is also to reduce travel cost and CO2 Crew magazine footprint, as well as bothersome travel. On board internet access For most seafarers, contact with family and loved ones at home is one of the most important welfare concerns. GRI LT10 To ensure such contact, all our ships are equipped with a system that gives our seafarers access to personal e-mail, unlimited SMS text messaging, social networking and browsing the Internet. Crew magazine Due to low bandwidth some places at sea, it is not always simple for our crew onboard to access our digital solutions. Every third week we therefore publish an electronic magazine for our seafarers, providing important news on the company, business and situation at home. This magazine is made available on the crew computers onboard. Mobility To ensure flexibility, most land based employees are equipped with lap tops and mobile phones. This makes it possible for them to work from outside the office if needed, either for private or business reasons. They have access to all the same sysGRI LT10 tems and communication channels when outside the office by using virtual private networks (VPN). Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 23 Our responsibility Environment Grieg Star envisions a future where we have no harmful emissions to air, sea and land. The path to this future is long, but we are committed to walk the talk. Shipping – which transports about 90% of global goods – is, statistically, the least environmentally damaging mode of transport, taking its productive value into consideration. Still, the emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) from the shipping industry constitutes about 2,5% of global emissions, and shipping emissions are by some predicted to increase between 50% and 250% by 2050 depending on future economic and energy developments. We take this problem seriously, and work towards reducing the emissions from our operations significantly in the years to come. Our vision is to ultimately have no harmful emissions to air, sea and land. It is important to stress that this is not a zero emission vision. A zero emission scenario is not technically possible in the foreseeable future. The world will rely on use of hydrocarbons for years to come, but the level of such usage is possible to lower. Our vision is to not harm the environment in any way in the conduct of our business. Regardless of our strategy and goals, national and international agreements and regulations on environmental issues will be amended and set in force in the years to come. Our goal is to be in accordance with or exceed such regulations before their implementation dates. 24 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Emissions to air Carbon dioxide (CO2) When a vessel is burning one ton of fuel, approximately three tons of CO2 is released, due to the chemical reaction of burning. For Grieg Star it is important to reduce the fuel usage of our ships. In 2015 we burned 116,979 tons of heavy fuel oil, emitting 522,269 tons of CO2. Over the years we have implemented several measures GRI EN3 to ensure such reductions, both technical and operational. What we have done is GRI EN16 GRI EN18 illustrated at pages 28 and 29. Even if the 1997 Kyoto Protocol uses 1990 as a base year for CO2 emissions, we are not able to use the same. Our knowledge of our emissions expressed by EEOI (Energy Efficiency Operational Indicator) for 1990 is simply not available. We do, however, have good data from 2007 onwards, and have so far used this as our base year. We have valid reasons to assume that our emissions in the years from 1990 to 2007 did not grow. In that period our fleet changed dramatically in size, and engine and propeller technology as well as ship designs in general improved. We therefore assume that our 2007-levels are comparable or better than the world 1990-levels. Our goals should therefore be comparable or better than those of the various national and international governments and organisations. Our goal for 2015 was to reduce our emissions measured by EEOI by 20%. We almost managed to get there, ending at 19%, primarilly due to less use of Eco-speed in 2015 compared to 2014, as a result of lower bunker prices. Now we have set new goals, as shown below. GRI EN5 CO2 2007-2020 Remaining in 2050 -35% 45%? 2020-2030 2030-2050 -10% -10%? Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 25 Our responsibility Sulphur Oxide (SOx) The emissions of SOx are not a danger to the climate, but have potentially serious effects on the environment locally or regionally, causing health issues for people, animals and vegetation. SOx emissions The emissions of SOx from our vessels are directly related 2012 2013 2014 2015 to the amount of sulphur in the fuel we burn. Many coastal 3,958 3,903 3,557 3,459 areas in the world are now implementing Emission Control tons emitted GRI EN20 Areas (ECAs) where fuel burned may not contain more than 0,1% sulphur. Grieg Star welcomes these initiatives, and follows the regulations strictly. Our goal is to always comply with or exceed the ECA regulations. To further reduce our emissions of SOx, we work on several measures to reduce the amount of fuel burnt, e.g. a project trying to use battery technology on our cranes to reduce engine usage when at port. Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) In small amounts nitrogen oxides (NOx) can act as nuNOx emissions trients for plants. High levels, however, are damaging to 2012 2013 2014 2015 GRI EN18 GRI EN20 plant life. Excessive exposure to NOx may have serious 15,740 16,443 15,702 15,530 tons emitted health effects in humans and animals. NOx also contribute to global warming. International regulations on NOx are progressively more stringent, demanding engines built in 2016 or later to emit no more than 20% of the levels in 2010. Among the measures we have implemented in this regard is installing sliding fuel valves on all our vessels built after 1987. Our goal is to reduce NOx by 35% by this measure alone. The battery project will also reduce such emissions while the ships alongside in port. Particulate matter Solid or liquid particles from unburnt matter are always emitted from combustion processes. The biggest particles are what humans see as smoke. Some of these particles may have negative health effects, especially in the lungs. Particulate matter has also the potential to modify the climate through the formation of clouds and snow. Particles also contribute to acid deposition and may absorb solar radiation and impair/reduce visibility. Our work on reducing fuel consumption and run our engines in the best possible way, reduces emission of such particles. 26 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Emissions to water Our vessels travel from one place on the earth to another all the time. This makes it a possibility for us to take with us organisms from one ocean to another. The organisms may be brought there through our ballast water system or attached to our vessels’ hull. Such non-indigenous organisms may have harmful effects on the eco system in which they are brought into. International bodies work hard to reduce such transferral of organisms from one area of the earth to another, and several regulations are or will be set in force. The International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships’ Ballast Water and Sediments (BWM Convention) was adopted by consensus at a Diplomatic Conference held at IMO Headquarters in London on 13 February 2004. It is expected that the convention will be ratified by the end of 2016, and enter into force one year later (2017). We have started installing the necessary equipment on our vessels, and aim to be in compliance in due time. GRI EN12 Consumed fresh water is generally produced onboard or purchased where required. Estimated grey water per crew is 200 litres per day, approximately 50,000 litres per year. GRI EN8 GRI EN21 Oil spill Grieg Star had no oil spills in 2015. Emissions to land GRI EN23 As for most businesses our operations create waste. We have, however, good routines for handling such waste in a sustainable manner. All waste onboard our ships is either incinerated in special ovens onboard, or brought to land for proper handling. Dunnage is properly sorted and recycled while in port. We do not use disposable GRI EN22 dunnage bags, but repair and reuse the bags to reduce waste. Our offices all have proper waste handling, making sure we send the waste for recycling whenever this is possible. Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 27 Our responsibility Weather routing system Frequency control used in all vessels for of large pumps on optimal sailing route. new vessels. Expecting Optimized slow-steaming substantial energy saving to reduce engine load. during land stay. Increased use of Ecospeed to reduce fuel consumption. Electronic fuel injection on main engines chosen for L-class vessels. Marorka Energy Efficiency System installed on five vessels. Green passport on all new Model tests for and operating ships. optimal trim performed on all vessels newer than the G-class. Model data included in cargo stewing software to obtain optimal Traditional light bulbs trim. replaced by LED. Mevis duct so far installed on four vessels. Tests indicate 5-6 % fuel reduction. Propellers polished every 6 months Auto tuning for optimal operation of Main Engine Propeller Boss Cap Fin Frequenzy controlled (PBCF) installed pumps to reduce energy on K-class vessels. 2 % consumption. energy reduction expected. Sliding fuel valves installed on G-class and newer. Reduces NOx emissions by 35 %. Stern tube oil replace by biodegradeble oil 28 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Environmental measures on our vessels L-class cranes uses 35% less power than conventional cranes. Bilge systems upgraded Cooling agent changed on all vessels from Freon to R-417 in order to reduce CFC emissions. Soap dispensers for washing machines. Estimated annual Waste water from reduction of 7 tonnes cleaning storage tanks soap for the fleet. installed on most vessels. Contaminated water is handled on shore. Ballast water treatment systems for selected new vessels. Sand blasting of hull during dockings to better No aft trusters on roughness L-class to be able to optimalize hull to reduce energy consumption. Bildge water equipment upgraded to filter everything down to 5 ppm. Regulations say 15 ppm. Testing state-of-the-art Antifouling systems Roughness measurement of hull for better antifouling decisions. Engine Hull Navigation Vessel general/Accomodation Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 29 Our responsibility Inventory of Hazardous Materials (IHM) The IMO Guidelines on Ship Recycling of 2009 introduced the IHM for ships. It was envisaged that this document, containing an inventory of all materials used in the construction of a ship that are potentially hazardous to human health or the environment, would accompany the ship throughout its working life. All vessels in our fleet have the IHM/Green Passport. Changes of materials onboard listed on the inventory are registered in our Planned Maintenance System (PMS) system. The IHM has recently been used when recycling ships, whereby hazardous GRI 10:2 materials have been located and handled as specified in “Appendix 3, part 2, of the IMO Guidelines on ship recycling”. UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for companies dedicated to sustainable business development. GRI 4.12 Grieg Star Group committed to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in 2008, and strives to implement these principles in our strategies and operative work. It is imperative that these principles become embedded in the way we conduct our business and thus our corporate culture. We promote and use our influence to voice UN Global Compact’s principles and ideas, and report on progress by applying the Global Reporting Initiative as our reporting standard. Trident Alliance The Trident Alliance is a coalition of shipping owners and operators who share a common interest in robust enforcement of GRI 4.12 maritime sulphur regulations and are willing to collaborate to GRI 4.13 help bring it about. The strengths and attributes of the different members and partners will be used to drive the various strategies identified to improve enforcement. Grieg Star is a member of the Trident alliance. The threat of weak enforcement of sulphur regulations is escalating. Responsible industry is taking the initiative to mitigate this threat, in interest of the environment and human health, as well as creating a level playing field for business. By speaking with a united voice we have the greatest chance to bring about change. 30 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Every 15 minutes our vessels automatically send us vital information. These are analysed by our employees to make it possible for us to better our environmental performance. ISO 14001:2004 Grieg Star is ISO 14001:2004 certified. ISO 14001:2004 sets out the criteria for our environmental management system and maps out a framework that we follow to set up an effective environmental management system. GRI 4.12 During 2015 we have had internal audits as well as 14 external audits carried out by DNV-GL or BV to ensure that our systems are in accordance with the framework of ISO 14001:2004 and the ISM and ISPS codes. Non-Conformities are entered into our QMRS and changes to procedures resulting from these audits are implemented ISO through our Quality Management System. 14001:2004 certified Ecovadis There are many ways of showing how sustainable a business is. We have decided to work with EcoVadis to measure how we do. EcoVadis operates a collaborative platform providing Supplier Sustainability Ratings Ecovadis score for global supply chains. Environment 40 Our work with EcoVadis has shown that even Labor Pratices 40 if we do the right things, we have been slow to document our successes. Our EcoVadis score Fair Business Practices 40 in 2015 was 38, up by 10 points from our start in 2014. The average in our business was 41.7 Sustainable Procurement 30 points in 2015. Our goal is to climb to the upper part of the scale within few years. Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 31 Our responsibility Rescue missions We adhere to our commitment to help other seafarers in distress, and our vessels take part in the Amver system. In 2015 Star Hidra received the Amver pewter plate for 20 consecutive years of participation. Another 14 vessels received their Amver GRI 2.10 flags for one to ten years of commitment. GRI 4.13 Amver Director Benjamin Strong, Grieg Star superintendent Captain Truels E. Hovde and Acting Deputy Chief of Mission of the Embassy of the USA Ms. Carmela Conroy with Star Hidra’s Amver pewter plate. Mediterranean refugee situation Our vessels regularly sail the Mediterranean, putting them in a situation where they may be called upon to assist in SAR missions related to refugees trying to travel to Europe. The Grieg Group supports the work of The Norwegian Society for Sea Rescue operating in the Mediterranean Sea with their rescue vessel «Peter Henry von Koss». Since June 2015 the crew has brought 1200 people safely ashore. The effort they make is of great humanitarioan value and we are honored to be able to contribute by sponsoring their work. 32 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Ordinary SAR missions Our vessels have been involved in two rescue missions in 2015: In August the Star Herdla picked up nine Algerian fishermen south of Sardinia. The small fishing boat was not suited for the seas it encountered, and our crew took them onboard and took care of them until they could disembark in the first safe port. In November the Star Java rescued three Colombian fishermen south west of El Salvador. The Colombians had been at sea for 15 days, trying to get help from other passing vessels. All had ignored them. After giving them a health check the starving fishermen were given food and a place to stay. They were turned over to the Coast Guard of El Salvador. Seven hours after they had been rescued the three were on their way to shore. Three colombian fishermen ran low of fuel, and had tried to get help for 15 days before Star Java picked them up in November. Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 33 Our responsibility Zmart Foundation: Zmart aims to contribute to a Grieg Foundation healthier next generation through knowledge, The Grieg Foundation owns 25% of the shares in Grieg Group, reminders, rewards but holds no voting rights. The money gained by the ownership and evaluations. is donated to benevolent projects all over the world. In 2015, the Grieg Foundation donated 32 million Norwegian kroners (approx. USD 3,93 million). Half of the funds goes to projects tarMNOK geting children and youth. This map show some of the projects, 0.3 marked with ligh blue. Squamish The Dutch Cancer Terminals Youth & Foundation: Our office Environment Fund: A in Rotterdam sponsored permanent community a bicycling team in the foundation endowment fundraising Alpe d’HuZes fund supporting local bicycling event in projects. France Herring Habitat Restoration: A partnership with Streamkeepers to enhance herring habitat (underneath Squamish Terminals’ docks) Port as a classroom: Seafarers from several CAD of our vessels visited middle schools and The Postmedia 2,000 student visisted ships to learn about the Raise-a-Reader campaign exists to business. empower today’s children MNOK and families with tools to improve their reading MNOK 2 skills. 0.15 CARF: The Kolibri Project is engaged in eXXpedition: Research work among children program by female and young people at risk scientists, exploring the at favela areas in Sao impact of plastics that Paulo, Brazil. end up in the sea. 34 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 GRI EC8 Local contributions Norwegian Refugee Every year our different offices and employees Council.Syria & Iraq contribute in small and big ways to their local Crisis. Emergency fund for children in refugee community, to all kind of charity causes. Some of camps. them are found on the map, market with purple. MNOK 1 WWF Philippines: MNOK Help local fishermen 0.22 build new fiberglass boats after the typhoon Haiyan wrecked 30,000 fishing boats in 2013 MNOK 7 SOS Childrens Villages: Work for gender equality policy among 134 SOS MNOK member countries 0.75 MPHP Sahara Forest Project: A 0.2 Childrens’ research project trying to Haven: A nonregreen the desert. profit organization that amongst other focuses on helping MNOK abandoned, neglected 0.1 and exploited children by providing basic needs. Coastal Clean Up: Our employees in Manila attended the coastal clean Water Aid Canada: Clean up in the Bay Area. Water for Schools in Uganda Many of our employees donate monthly to the operations of a home in the SOS Childrens Villages in Cebu. Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 35 Our history Year 1884 Joachim Grieg sets up his shipbroker business in Bergen, Norway 1959 Per Waaler establishes AS Star Shipping November 24th, but the company is not formally registered until April 11th 1961 1962 In November the Star Pool come into effect, formalized February 5th 1963. Star Shipping and Westfal-Larsen & co agree to make vessels available for a joint shipping operation. 1963 Star Shipping’s first subsidiary is established in Sydney, Australia. The year after an office is established in New York, and in 1966 in Vancouver. Our global presence is starting. 1964 The Star Pool agreement is even more formalized, as Star Bulk Shipping Company is formed on September 18th, with Westfal-Larsen & co and Star Shipping as equal owners. 1965 The first ships are equipped with gantry cranes to secure more accurate stowage and larger output per hour. The gantry cranes stay on as preferred cranes on the Star vessels until the L-class is acquired in 2012. 1965 The company’s first long time cargo contract is signed: packaged lumber from British Columbia to Australia. Further contracts are to be signed the following year. Our focus on long term relationships with customers starts in earnest. 1965 In a Board meeting in Star Bulk Shipping on September 13th, it is decided to order three Open Hatch vessels, the first in the Star system. Since then the Open Hatch vessels have been the backbone of the Star fleet. 1970 Fred Olsen & co closes down their Fred Olsen Line and enters as a 30% owner of Star Bulk Shipping alongside Per Waaler/Per Grieg controlled Billabong and Westfall-Larsen & co. 1971 Star decides to invest in Squamish Terminals in British Columbia, and three years later Star is sole owner. To this day Grieg Star is the proud owner of Squamish Terminals. 1972 To reflect that Star has advanced from being a bulk transporter, the name of the company changes to Star Shipping. At the same time the name and common identity is approved, giving all the vessels Star names and yellow funnels with the star flag – a tradition we have carried on ever since. 1973 Star Shipping enters into a pool with greek shipping company Rethymnis and Kulukundis and establishes Conventional Bulk-Carriers Division (CBCD). The partnership secures a growth in CBCD from 2 million tons cargo shipped in 1972 to 12 million tons in 2000. 1988 Fred Olsen & Co sell their shares in Star, and the original partners are left alone as owners in a 50/50 split. 1995 Westfal-Larsen & Co decide to sell their Star vessels to a new company formed by the Westfal-Larsen brothers in Singapore: Masterbulk. Masterbulk take over the Westfal-Larsen position in Star Shipping. 2001 The last of the 3rd generation owners and gründers retire. Per Grieg retires at an age of 70, leaving his place on the board to his daughter Camilla Grieg. 2008 The Star organisation and business is split. Grieg continues to operate a slimmer Star Shipping, while Masterbulk set up their own organisation. Star Shipping is integrated as a part of Grieg Star, moving its Headquarters to Grieg Gaarden in Bergen. 2010 Grieg Star establishes Grieg Green, a company focusing on sustainable recycling of ships. 2012 One of the biggest new building programs start. Grieg Star orders 10 identical Open Hatch vessels, leaving the gantry crane for the first time since 1965. 36 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Our fleet Class Name Built DWT Type Owned/TC/BB F Star Fuji 1985 40,850 Open Hatch Owned G Star Gran 1986 43,712 Open Hatch Owned G Star Grip 1986 43,712 Open Hatch Owned H Star Hansa 1995 46,580 Open Hatch Owned H Star Harmonia 1998 46,580 Open Hatch Owned H Star Herdla 1994 46,580 Open Hatch Owned H Star Hidra 1994 46,580 Open Hatch Owned I Star Isfjord 2000 46,547 Open Hatch Owned I Star Ismene 1999 46,547 Open Hatch Owned I Star Istind 1999 46,547 Open Hatch Owned J Star Japan 2004 44,837 Open Hatch Owned J Star Java 2006 44,837 Open Hatch Owned J Star Juventas 2004 44,837 Open Hatch Owned K Star Kilimanjaro 2009 49,924 Open Hatch Owned K Star Kinn 2010 49,924 Open Hatch Owned K Star Kirkenes 2009 49,924 Open Hatch Owned K Star Kvarven 2010 49,924 Open Hatch Owned L Star Laguna 2012 50,761 Open Hatch Owned L Star Lima 2012 50,761 Open Hatch Owned L Star Lindesnes 2013 50,761 Open Hatch Owned L Star Livorno 2013 50,761 Open Hatch Owned L Star Loen 2013 50,761 Open Hatch Owned L Star Lofoten 2013 50,761 Open Hatch Owned L Star Louisiana 2013 50,761 Open Hatch BB L Star Luster 2013 50,761 Open Hatch Owned L Star Lygra 2014 50,761 Open Hatch BB L Star Lysefjord 2013 50,761 Open Hatch Owned M Kai Xuan 2008 50,761 Open Hatch BB M Star Minerva 2008 50,757 Open Hatch BB M Star Navarra 2010 51,593 Open Hatch TC M Star Dalmatia 2011 51,593 Open Hatch TC 31 Open Hatch vessels 8 Conventional Bulk vessels Star Athena 2012 58,018 Conv. bulk Owned 39 vessels in total Star Artemis 2015 63,132 Conv. bulk Owned Star Eracle 2012 58,018 Conv. bulk Owned Star Eos 2015 63,132 Conv. bulk Owned Star Norita 2012 58,097 Conv. bulk TC Star Maine 2015 61,263 Conv. bulk TC Star Pathfinder 2015 61,298 Conv. bulk TC Star Crimson 2015 61,150 Conv. bulk TC Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 37 Global Reporting Initiative GRI Standard Disclosure Description of the Indicator Page/References indicators Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organizaPage 3 and Grieg Star Annual Report 2015 (AR15) tion 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Pages 3 and 7, AR15 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization Grieg Star 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Page 10 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation Page 10 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Page 10 2.5 Countries where the organization operates Pages 10, 11 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Pages 10, 14 2.7 Markets served Page 10 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation Pages 10, 14, AR15 2.9 Significant changes in size, structure, or ownership None 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Page 32 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period 2015 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) March 2015 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content Senior Vice President Ole Steinar Mjell 3.5 Process for defining report content Involvement of relevant departments 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, etc). All subsidiaries, divisions and countries included. 3.7 Limitations on the scope of boundary of the report GRI reporting does not include Product Responsibility. Customer related indicators are not measured per today and other indicators are irrelevant. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries etc Refer to accounting principles in AR15 3.9 Data measurements techniques Refer to accounting principles in AR15 3.10 Effect of any re-statements of information None 3.11 Changes in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods None 3.12 GRI Index table Pages 36-39 3.13 External assurance for the report Financial reporting only. Other parameters are self declared. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation Page 6 4.2 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an Page 6 executive officer 4.3 For unitary board structure, state the number of members of the Page 6 highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommenPage 6 dations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Compensation for the highest governance body, senior managers, AR15 and executives 38 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure Page 6 conflicts of interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the Page 6 members of the highest governance body 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of Page 8 conduct, and principles 4. 9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the Page 6 organization 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own Internal audit and self assessment performance 4.11 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principles is Page 7 addressed by the organisation 4.12 Externally developed charters, principles, or other initiatives to Pages 9, 13, 16, 17, 21, 30, 31 which the organisation subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advoPages 9, 18, 21, 30, 32 cacy organisations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Employees, suppliers, environment, local community 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom Strategic decision to target some key staketo engage holders actively. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Pages 12, 17, 19 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholdHealth & safety , competence development on er engagement environmental issues. Co-operation with WWF Norway, NSA and other shipping companies to increase energy efficiency. International anti-corruption network for shipping industry, the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Management Approach EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR15 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to Page 3, AR15 climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. AR15 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. AR15 EC6 Spending on locally-based suppliers at significant location of Not reported operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring proportion of senior management AR15 EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for Pages 34, 35, AR15 public benefit ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Management Approach EN1 Materials used by weight or volume NA EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials NA EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Page 25 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Not recorded EN5* Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Page 25 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Page 27 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 39 EN11 Location and size of land in areas of high biodiversity value outside Not relevant protected areas EN12 Impacts on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high Page 27 biodiversity EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Page 25 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Page 26 EN18* Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions Pages 25, 26 achieved EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Not reported EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight Page 26 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Page 21 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Page 27 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Page 27 EN26 Environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of Not reported impact mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are Not reported reclaimed by category EN28 Significant fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environNone mental laws and regulations SOCIAL PERFOMANCE INDICATORS Labor Practices and Decent Work Management Approach LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and Pages 14-15 region LA2 Employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Pages 14-15 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreePage 15 ments LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes Page 15 LA6* Formal joint management-worker health and safety committees Pages 15, 19 LA7 Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and Pages 15, 20 work-related fatalities LA8 Education, training, prevention, and risk-control programs in place Pages 17, 19 regarding serious diseases LA9* Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade Page 16 unions LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee Page 17 category LA13 Diversity within governance bodies and employee categories AR15 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Not reported Mobile worker working pattern LT9 Description of policies and programmes to determine working Page 15 hours and rest hours, rest facilities and leave for seafarers LT10 Approaches to provision of facilities to enable mobile workers to Page 23 maintain personal communication while working 40 Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Ship safety inspections LT13 List the accients when ships have been detained by port inspecPage 20 tors Use of labour providers LT16 Describe how these criterias relate to existing international stanPage 15 dards such as conventions of the ILO Continuity of employment LT17 Describe measures in place to provide income security and employPage 15 ment continuity for workers employed/contraced repeatedly but not continuously Human Rights Management Approach HR1 Human rights clauses or screening related to investment agreePage 12 ments HR2 Screening of suppliers and contractors regarding human rights Page 12 HR4 Total number of discrimination and actions taken Page 19 HR5 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Page 15 HR6 Child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of Page 15 child labor HR7 Forced or compulsory labor Page 12 Society Management Approach SO1 Impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operatNone ing, and exiting SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks Page 7 related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption Page 9 policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Page 9 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy developPage 9 ment and lobbying SO7* Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and moNone nopoly practices SO8 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning None provision and use of products Grieg Star Group applies the G3 core performance indicators and some specific indicators for the Transport & Logistics sector in its reporting on sustainability. The GRI index for 2015 is self-declared. Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 41 griegstar.com
