Global Compact UN Global Compact Communication On Progress 01.05.2015 – 30.04.2016 'This Communication on Progress forms part of the management review of the BoConcept Holding A/S 2015/2016 annual report and constitutes the compulsory statement on corporate social responsibility as specified in section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act. This Communication on Progress is not covered by the Independent Auditor's Report' CVR no. 34 01 84 13 Statement from the CEO The desire to take responsibility for human beings, the environment The BoConcept CSR policy is divided into the following focus areas: and social relations is an important element of BoConcept's global environmentally friendly and safe production at our own production brand. At the same time, it is vital that the BoConcept CSR policy facility and at our sub-suppliers and reduction in CO2 emissions strikes an obvious and healthy balance between environmental related to transportation and logistics. impact and business economics. The following pages contain an update on developments in our Seven years ago, BoConcept joined the UN Global Compact, and designated CSR focus areas in the 2015/2016 financial year. the BoConcept CSR policy which forms the framework of our CSR initiatives and priorities is based on UN Global Compact's 10 On behalf of BoConcept, I thank you for the interest you are principles relating to human rights, employee rights, respect for the showing in our organisation by reading this report. environment and a prohibition against corruption. Torben Paulin CEO BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015/2016 / 2 BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015/2016 / 3 BoConcept is the brand name of Denmark's most global retail THE BOCONCEPT VISION AND VALUES furniture chain with 297 brand stores and studios in 63 markets worldwide. Our vision and our core values guide us in everything we do at BoConcept. These statements are not just words on a page they Passion at our core are acted out every day by BoConcept employees around the world. Passion and persistence are what move the people behind the BoConcept brand, whether they are designing a wall unit, leading a Our vision team, or managing a store. Our common mission is to make To make BoConcept no. 1 brand within urban interiors. modern design furniture available to the urban-minded customer. About Our core values Our furniture and accessories We offer customised, coordinated and affordable design furniture 'Values are what bring people together in a common understanding. and accessories. Customised because our products can be fitted to They're a set of rules telling us how to think and act. From Herning the needs and dreams of our customers. Coordinated because we in Denmark to Auckland in New Zealand, values unite us across BoConcept take a holistic approach in the development and design of our product range. Design because we are a design company with our own designers. Affordable because we want to spoil our customers occupation, language and culture. They make us family.' Viggo Mølholm, BoConcept Holding A/S Deputy Chairman and by giving them great value. former BoConcept A/S CEO BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015/2016 / 4 CSR VISION Revenue At BoConcept it is vital that our CSR policy strikes an obvious and (in DKK million) healthy balance between environmental impact and business 1400 economics 1200 1000 As an organisation, we wish to ensure that our conduct has the 800 least possible adverse environmental impact; and at the same time 600 400 we need to be pragmatic and understand that it is impossible to 200 CSR Vision avoid such impact altogether. 0 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 Business Environmental and Policy economics impact 150 Profit/loss after tax (in DKK million) 100 50 0 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 -50 -100 Profit ratio (in %) 15 10 CSR POLICY 5 One of the core values at BoConcept is respect. We want to show 0 respect for our customers by delivering great design and quality at 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 the right price. But not at any price. -5 All BoConcept suppliers must follow the BoConcept Code of Conduct in order to ensure that all our products are manufactured in a way that respects the rights of their employees. Our headquarters are No. of employees based in Denmark and we apply our Danish background in our 650 expectations to our suppliers when it comes to quality, environment and work processes. 600 550 Over 60 years of experience and know-how provide invaluable benefits for our production facility in Denmark as well as in our 500 close co-operation with our global suppliers. We have carefully 450 selected suppliers that share our commitment to high quality. 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 Together, we work to develop competencies and processes, and to implement initiatives that take responsibility for people and the environment. BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015/2016 / 5 Due to BoConcept's social commitment and sense of responsibility, Eight years ago BoConcept launched the first edition of its Code of BoConcept has joined the UN's Global Compact in its attempt to Conduct. The purpose of the BoConcept Code of Conduct is to build a more sustainable and inclusive global economy. ensure that BoConcept suppliers operate in accordance with internationally recognised standards on human rights, labour and With this partnership BoConcept shows its support of the 10 environment. BoConcept adheres to the principles of this code and principles of Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, expects the same of its suppliers. The content is based on relevant environment and anti-corruption. ILO (International Labour Organisation) and UN conventions. The following pages contain an update on the areas that BoConcept The aim of the BoConcept Code of Conduct is not to end our Communihas designated as its principal focus areas: business with non-compliant suppliers but to help our suppliers improve their social and environmental standards. BoConcept is SUPPLIERS therefore willing to work with suppliers to achieve their compliance with this code. However, we will not conduct business with a At BoConcept we have become more globally oriented as a growing supplier if compliance with the requirements of the code is deemed cation on share of our products is sourced from all over the world. We realise that we are able to exert some influence on our suppliers, and we believe it would be natural to take advantage of impossible. Nor will we conduct business with a supplier engaged in violations of fundamental human rights. this to the extent possible. At BoConcept, we visit all our principal suppliers to ensure that Progress At BoConcept, we believe that personal relationships, mutual respect, communication and determination are useful drivers for growth. With this in mind, we regularly discuss environmental and these comply with the BoConcept Code of Conduct and that action plans are established to deal with the most important issues. While adherence to the BoConcept Code of Conduct brings our 01.05.2015 – 30.04.2016 safety issues with our suppliers, and we have in the past suppliers up to a certain standard, it basically only sets out our encouraged our suppliers to abide by the 10 Global Compact minimum requirements. With this in mind, we work with a principles, just as we endeavour to do so ourselves. 'development wheel' that is used in our ongoing dialogue with suppliers. The model below illustrates how we hold our suppliers to their CSR commitments, and it shows that it is an ongoing process. BoConcept sourcing share trend 40% 35% Step 3 30% Environmental framework 25% 20% 15% 10% Step 2 Social 5% conditions 0% 2011/2012 2012/2013 2013/2014 2014/2015 2015/2016 Step 1 Scandinavia Asia Eastern Europe Europe Legal framework BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015/2016 / 6 SUPPLIERS STEPS TO BECOMING A BOCONCEPT SUPPLIER STATUS ON DEVELOPMENTS 01.05.2015-30.04.2016 The model below shows a number of parameters that BoConcept requires its suppliers to live up to. BoConcept will not begin collaborating with a company that fails to comply with Step 1. Asian suppliers During the past 12 months our strategic supplier of upholstered products has built a new production facility, containing the latest production equipment, resulting in more efficient work flows and improved working conditions for the supplier's employees. In connection with the move to the new production facility, which is located in another geographical district, BoConcept A/S has paid all costs related to the move of its two quality controllers whose permanent workplace is with this supplier. Moreover, one of our Asian metal and glass suppliers has made further investments in updated ventilation systems and polishing workshop areas, thereby ensuring better and safer working conditions. Also, the supplier has further improved the social conditions mentioned in step 2 in the 'Steps to becoming a BoConcept supplier' (shown in the illustration to the right) by ensuring its employees a company-paid annual health check. Also, one of our suppliers of solid wood products has built a new gluing workshop area with updated heating and ventilation equipment, thereby obtaining even better working conditions. Another supplier of solid wood products has invested in an updated ventilation system in the company's wood working area, serving to Step 2 states a number of the expectations BoConcept has to established suppliers. A BoConcept supplier should fulfil most of these further improve the employees' working conditions. expectations. In case there are any remaining issues, a written action plan will be drafted in consultation with the supplier, setting out practical steps for improvement. European suppliers At the beginning of 2016 our accessories supplier became Step 3 comprises a number of expectations relating more to management and control issues, and a BoConcept supplier should be able to GoodWeave certified, thereby providing their customer the best comply with these specifications. Once Steps 1 and 2 have been established, plans will be drawn up for implementation of Step 3. possible assurance that no child labour is used in the production of their rugs. Further, the supplier actively supports a project aiming at preventing child labour in the rug manufacturing industry. Also, Further, in the 2015/2016 financial year, an energy report on the GOALS AND FOCUS FOR THE COMING YEAR the supplier aims at reducing the internal use of prints by 20% by production facility in Ølgod, Denmark, was prepared. One of the the end of 2016. recommendations in the energy report was to further investigate In the 2015/2016 financial year 70% of our total buying volume the energy consumption of the ventilation system used at the was sourced from our strategic suppliers, who all have established In recent years, our own production facility in Ølgod, Denmark, production facility in order to establish if further energy CSR and Global Compact-related action plans. Our focus for the has further increased its focus on working conditions/environment consumption reductions can be obtained. This is currently being coming financial year will be turned to the suppliers accounting for and in particular reductions in occupational injuries. In the investigated. the remaining 30% of our total buying volume. Here our goal is to 2015/2016 financial year, the extra focus has resulted in a ensure that 1/3 of these suppliers have established CSR and decrease of 50% in occupational injuries compared to the Global Compact-related action plans. This way we will ensure that 2014/2015 financial year. 80% of our total buying volume comes from suppliers with established CSR and Global Compact-related action plans at the Also, at our production facility in Ølgod the test of dyed edgings on end of the 2016/2017 financial year. our best-selling desk in the colour white in 2015 proved to be a success, and consequently the use of dyed edgings is now applied to all similar products. This has reduced the annual lacquer use by 1764 litres, equaling a reduction of 35% compared to last year. BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015/2016 / 7 TRANSPORTATION aircraft types, more efficient aircraft engines and a general optimisation of flight routes. As an international company, both with regard to retail and supply NOX AND PM EMISSION STANDARDS FOR DIESEL chain, transportation and logistics are key aspects of our business. In 2015, BoConcept reduced the transported volume by 7.8% due TRUCKS Buying and selling at the right prices is of vital importance to to improved control within our supply chain. BoConcept. However, it is just as important to maintain a high quality standard and ensure reliable delivery. Road transport As for the European road transport, we constantly encourage our BoConcept has its own production facility in Denmark, but carriers/transport operators to minimise their environmental otherwise also purchases goods from the Far East and Europe. impact. In order for this to be successful, a strict and precise management of logistics and suppliers is required. When selecting carriers for our European transport corridors, the use of the best truck engine type/highest Euro norm (norms 5-6) STATUS ON DEVELOPMENTS 01.05.2015-30.04.2016 is an important parameter. Sea transport Our carriers' use of the different truck engine types/Euro norms During the past 12 months, there has been no change in the directly affects the CO2 emission levels. From 2014 to 2015 the BoConcept sea transport set-up. The shipping lines used by use of less polluting truck engine types increased by 2.9%. Also, in BoConcept all have a strong focus on reductions in CO2 emissions 2015, the share of Euro norm 5-6 truck engine types represented Further, a large share of our carriers uses the following initiatives from their vessels, and they continued to improve the energy 83%. to reduce their environmental impact: efficiency again in 2015. • Tyre pressure monitoring The environmental impact of the different engine types appears • Idle-running reductions (truck engines) Air transport from the illustration to the right. • Transport reports on each truck/driver The airlines are developing in the same positive direction as the • Further training of drivers shipping lines. These have focus on minimisation of fuel • Driver bonus schemes (based on the use of diesel per km) consumption through initiatives such as development of new GOALS AND FOCUS FOR THE COMING YEAR THE BOCONCEPT WAREHOUSE AND DISTRIBUTION SET-UP For the 2016/2017 financial year it is our goal that the share of Euro norm 5-6 truck engine types represent min. 85%. BoConcept has two distribution centres: Further, our focus for the coming financial year is to ensure • Ølgod, Denmark continuous distribution set-up improvements, in addition to which • Shanghai, China we strive to minimise the impact of our distribution set-up on the environment as far as possible. One distribution point: • Lithuania One sourcing office: • Shanghai, China BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015/2016 / 8 THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES BOCONCEPT'S ACTIONS: WE VALUE YOUR FEEDBACK If you have any questions, comments or proposals relating to this HUMAN RIGHTS: Principle 1: Businesses should support and BoConcept supports the international declared human report, please feel free to contact the designated contact person: respect the protection of internationally rights. proclaimed human rights; and We do not discriminate against any person, regardless of Principle 2: make sure that they are not race, sex, colour or religion. complicit in human rights abuses. Being a global organisation, BoConcept has employees with many different cultural backgrounds. It is vital to Torben Blindbæk BoConcept to maintain this. Quality Manager LABOUR: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective One of BoConcept's core values is 'Respect'. E-mail: toj@boconcept.com recognition of the right to collective In this context the value covers respect for other people Telephone: +45 7013 1366 bargaining; and their rights. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of BoConcept knows that people makes the difference! forced and compulsory labour; Therefore all employees are encouraged to bring up their ideas to improve workflow, work environment or ideas to Principle 5: the effective abolition of child improve other parts of the BoConcept business. labour; and The BoConcept Code of Conduct states that all suppliers Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination must ensure that basic human rights and basic labour in respect of employment and occupation. standards are implemented. Further, we have communicated to our present suppliers that we have enrolled in the UN Global Compact program and that we expect they will run their companies applying the same 10 principles as we do. ENVIRONMENT: Principle 7: Businesses should support a As can be read on the preceding pages, BoConcept has precautionary approach to environmental prepared a specific plan for the clarification and reduction challenges; of the environmental impacts of our chain and our products. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and This plan covers sub-suppliers/production and transportation. At BoConcept, we will continue our work Principle 9: encourage the development to improve the accuracy of the data. and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION: Principle 10: Businesses should work At BoConcept we do not accept any form of corruption. against corruption in all its forms, including We do not use bribe or extortion in any way. extortion and bribery. Further, anti-corruption is an integrated part of our Code of Conduct, which we ask our suppliers to confirm in writing. BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015/2016 / 9 BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015/2016 / 10
