BVC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 BVC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 BVC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Coordination Contact Vicepresidencia Corporativa Relación con Inversionistas Dirección de Relación con Inversionistas y Responsabilidad Social +57 1 3139800 ext 1167 Corporativa cbarrios@bvc.com.co Dirección de Comunicaciones y Relaciones Públicas atencionalaccionista@bvc.com.co Dirección de Mercadeo y Publicidad Facebook: Conozca la BVC (Bolsa de Valores de Colombia) Writing Twitter: @BVCCOLOMBIA BVC Visite la página web de la BVC: Translation www.bvc.com.co Precision Translators Graphic Design .Puntoaparte Bookvertising Letter to Shareholders Dear Shareholders, Despite the decrease in the appetite of foreign investors, 60.31% explained primarily by the acquisition of Sophos G4-1 our Company put its achievements on the growth strategy Banking Solutions (COP $ 42,353 million). The total It is my pleasure to make this new management report avaifor 2015 to the test and secured its first steps in the new shareholder’s equity in 2015 totaled COP$ 123,991 million lable to you, where we describe our Company's performance 2025 MEGA. which represents a 12.94% increase. during 2015 in the financial, strategic, corporate governance, internal control, quality and sustainability spheres, as well as The efforts of recent years towards making the diversification The BVC increased 9.50% its operating profit from COP$ our commitment to our shareholders, clients, employees and of businesses and income a reality allowed us to absorb the 31,004 million to COP$ 33,961 million and delivered a net suppliers. low returns from traditional transactional markets, as we conprofit slightly lower than the previous year (-0.06%) of COP$ tinued to work to achieve medium and long-term value in our 27,787 million and an EBITDA that grew 15.10% up to COP$ During this period we obtained satisfactory results on the fiindustry's infrastructure value chain. 39,339 million. nancial perspective and notable results on the strategic perspective, strengthening the Company's sustainability in a diffiThis is how we closed the year, achieving the main financial However the Exchange’s Ebitda margin had a slight decrease cult year for the capital markets in Colombia and the world. goals established for the Company, as well as all the strategic from 39.87% to 32.15%, due to the reduction of the Operating targets, which are more relevant in the current circumstances. Margin from 36.08% to 27.74%. The Return on equity (RoE) Throughout the year the capital market experienced an adThe acquisition of Sophos Banking Solutions and SET ICAP Sefinished in 22.41%, and the Return on Assets (RoA) totaled verse and complex panorama, starting with the international curities were two great moves, resulting from the BVC's new 16.70%. environment flooded with uncertainty about the economic strategy with which we will be able to strengthen our value performance of China and of the so-called developed nations. offering for the local and regional industry. There was also the Strategic Management of the BVC revenue from the standardized derivatives market, which reFurthermore, the global economy was affected by a sharp ported historical volumes as well as the revenue from Market Together with the good financial results, I would like to highdrop in prices for mining and energy commodities, with reperData and Education. light the work of the Exchange in its constant search for chancussions on the income and performance of many countries, ges and initiatives that motivate liquidity of the markets from such as Colombia. Meanwhile, after many months of contraThese new businesses demonstrated that the BVC is now a technical, methodological and technological perspective. dictory announcements, the U.S. Federal Reserve initiated the better prepared to face the changing market environment upward path in its interest rates, which triggered a restructuand they allow us to continue at the forefront of technoloThe BVC started the migration of its affiliates to the new FIX ring of monetary and FX flows during the second half of the These conditions caused the devaluation of the Colombian gical challenges, regulatory adjustments and demands in 4.4 communication protocol. This facilitates greater speed year, driving the exit of capital from the region. peso against the U.S. dollar, one of the greatest recorded in customer service. and stability of the routing platforms for our national and inthe world, amounting to 67% in 18 months. This was comternational clients, allowing access to stock trading algorithms With this global panorama, the most affected were the so-capounded by outbreaks of inflation, which materialized after Main Results for the Period in the different markets. This new model rectifies many defilled emerging economies and in particular, our country, exthe abrupt devaluation, as well as the seasonal impact of the ciencies of the recent past and puts the Company in sync with posing its fragility and vulnerability. The marked dependence El Niño phenomenon. The monetary authorities were forced During 2015 we reported a satisfactory balance reaching the rest of the world. during recent years on revenue from the hydrocarbon sector, to take emergency action with a drastic adjustment of interest higher consolidated revenues than the previous year by added to lower revenue from both foreign direct investment rates, increasing them from 4.50% to 5.75%, which had ad42.40% equivalent to COP$ 122,378 million from COP$ From a technical perspective, the BVC changed the methodoand foreign portfolio investment resulted in a complicated fisditional consequences on the devaluation of portfolios and 85,939 million in 2014. Total assets of the Company also logy for trading stocks, incorporating continuous auctions for cal outlook for the Colombian government. worsening of the bleak local investment outlook. increased by 22.13% to COP$ 166,344 million; Liabilities non-liquid instruments and new price ranges for order entry 2 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 3 Letter to Shareholders in trading. The criterion for price reporting also substantially standard of information disclosure. Therefore, we ended the BVC continues to ratify its support to the United Nations Glodecreased and regulations for short sales were clarified. year with 31 companies that voluntarily formed part of this bal Compact and its Ten Principles on human rights, labor, enselect group. On the other hand, the Market Makers Project vironmental and anti-corruption. Furthermore, the BVC led the local implementation of cusincorporated two important issuers: EEB and ETB. In just two todians model; the decree for which stipulates that mutual years, the program has achieved important results, reducing Undoubtedly, this was an intense year on activities and comfunds (MF) must exclusively delegate the safeguarding activithe buy/sell spreads of the instruments to less than 1%. plex in results. It was thanks to the commitment of our emploty to a custodian, as well as the management of equity rights. yees and our management team, and their persistence and The requirement of portfolio managers for the Latin American In terms of internationalization, a new session to promote the perseverance in pursuit of good results, that we maintained Integrated Market (MILA, for the Spanish original) is also incluglobal markets was held within the COLOMBIA INSIDEOUT the course towards our goals, and we are grateful to them. ded in the project. (New York and London) initiative, which was supported by Colombia's Vice-President and 19 listed companies, as well I would especially like to thank the constant support of In fixed income, the BVC led an initiative together with the as a new version of MILA Day in Frankfurt and London, where the Board of Directors. We acknowledge all of its members whole industry to build a comprehensive roadmap that facitogether, more than 700 investors inquired and could learn for their contributions, vision, monitoring and analysis, litates the revival of market liquidity for private debt to the firsthand about the reality of the companies and the opportuwhich are essential to the decision-making and the future benefit of national companies seeking financing. Before the nities for entering the local market. of the Organization. end of the year, the document, which includes initiatives of all the sectors, had already achieved progress, such as the review The Exchange also actively participated in the Regional FiFinally, I would like to thank our shareholders and clients for of Decree 2878/2013 on operating limits for brokerage firms nancial Integration Initiative of the Pacific Alliance. There their trust and support. For them we will continue to fulfill our and the amendment to the Bulletin of the Financial Superinit managed not only to incorporate mutual recognition as mission to work for a better future for the securities industry tendence regarding liquidity requirements. part of the commitments of the four countries regarding for the country's benefit through the development of the strainitial public offerings of stocks on the MILA but also the tegy until 2025, which gives us the best preparation to face Regarding standardized derivatives, our best move was the trading in the future of fixed income and derivatives. The the challenges of our environment. incorporation of the overnight interest rate swap future floor was also opened for discussion on how to achieve operated by the main bank treasuries, pension funds and recognition of equal conditions for the region’s pension trust funds, allowing us to end the year with more than six funds and mutual funds. thousand futures contracts and around COP 3 trillion traded Best regards, in a few months of operation. We consider that this instruIn our contribution to the country's sustainability in terms of ment will form part of the backbone of the market and will be social development and economic growth, this year we wora reference for the IBR rate. ked in strengthening our leadership, winning the recognition of the Portfolio Awards with an honorary mention in the Social In terms of work with issuers, the Exchange continued to drive Responsibility Category for our work with issuers of the setwo key aspects of the market's eligibility related to the quacurities markets so that 26 companies including the BVC had lity of its listed companies. On the one hand, IR Recognition Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reports in 2015. This support was reinforced with the inclusion of environmental, social and is important and valuable to keep generating long-term value Juan Pablo Córdoba Garcés governance (ESG) sustainability criteria to keep increasing the through corporate sustainability. CEO 4 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 5 Index CHAPTER 6 CHAPTER 1 Commitment to BVC Strategy Shareholders Pag. 9 Pag. 233 CHAPTER 7 CHAPTER 2 Commitment to Clients The BVC and the Market Pag. 17 Pag. 249 CHAPTER 8 CHAPTER 3 Commitment to Corporate Governance our Employees Pag. 29 Pag. 275 CHAPTER 4 CHAPTER 9 Internal Control Commitment to and Quality Providers Pag. 209 Pag. 289 CHAPTER 5 CHAPTER 10 Sustainability GRI GRI Content Index Pag. 219 Pag. 293 CHAPTER 1 BVC Strategy 1 BVC STRATEGY 1.1 Strategic Orientation: the market (which currently has more than 70 companies) OTC network for the distribution of new and current BVC G4-2 and drove regulatory changes such as the foreign issuer products whether directly or through its subsidiaries SET list, book building and Greenshoe. ICAP FX and SET ICAP Securities. In 2015, Bolsa de Valores de Colombia closed the cycle of its strategic objectives established ten years ago with the • Internationalization: In this area, in recent years, the Vision: The BVC will be one of the top three trading venues in 2015 MEGA, which was mainly based on driving the core BVC has achieved greater exposure of the Colombian Latin America while maintaining its position as Colombia’s top business of the Exchange through the pillars of Eligibility, capital market to global investors and greater intertrading venue. The BVC will be recognized by companies as a Internationalization and Entry in the OTC market, supported connection with international markets through the real option to finance their own growth and by shareholders by greater market reliability. Over these ten years, each pillar development of new technologies that have facilitaas a profitable and sustainable company. was gradually developed and adjusted to the needs of the ted the access and the operation of foreign portfolio Colombian capital market, generally achieving the following investors. Out of the markets managed by the BVC, the Mission: Contribute to capital markets growth and development results, as summarized: share of foreigners in the equity market is notable, while positioning the BVC and its subsidiaries as the top exchanwhere they went from trading 0.5% in 2005 to 31% ge and financial center in the region, providing complete solu• Eligibility: The BVC has worked relentlessly to increase of the volume in 2015, and in the fixed income martions. The BVC is trustworthy, transparent, efficient and admired the eligibility of our capital market through the adoption ket, they are among the three greatest holders, ending for its innovation, close client-relationships and ability to learn. of international standards in market infrastructure and 2015 with 18% of the Government Bonds (TES). operations, such as the implementation of the X-Stream 1.2 Perspectives and Future Vision: Nasdaq-OMX trading platform for stocks and derivatives, Another great achievement is the creation of the Integrated the creation of the Central Counterparty Risk Clearing Latin American Market (MILA, for the Spanish original) with The BVC is a company in constant transformation and to adapt House for the derivatives market and the FX Clearing Chile, Colombia, Peru and Mexico, aligned with the Pacific to the new realities of the market and keep growing profitaHouse for the foreign currency market, the creation of SET Alliance. MILA has driven the entry of new participants into bly, in 2015, it decided to update its strategy with the 2025 ICAP FX for currency trading, and the creation of INFOVALthe local market and greater foreign portfolio investment. MEGA. It proposes the BVC as the leader in the management MER as securities pricing provider. To make this a reality, the BVC drove several significant of capital markets through a multi-product, multi-market apIn terms of the development of new products and the regulatory changes. Another important component of this proach and vertical and regional integration. promotion of the liquidity and depth of markets, the Expillar has been the promotion of the Colombian securities change created the standardized derivatives market with market through the “COLOMBIA INSIDEOUT” initiative, whiThe BVC will keep strengthening its current businesses and the launch of the market for interest rate, foreign currench at its four events in New York and London has had the constantly increasing the reliability of its markets through: cy and stock futures. Also for the equity market, the BVC participation of the main issuers of the Colombian market created products such as securities lending, exchangeand senior government representatives. traded funds (ETFs), new families of indexes, and the market makers for stocks. Additionally, in its continued effort • Entry in the OTC market: In this pillar, the BVC has mafor more and better issuers, during this period, the BVC naged to generate value with the development of new registered 29 new equity market issuers, created the CoOTC products and services for the fixed income, derivalombia Capital Program for companies that are still not in tives and foreign currency markets, and the use of the 10 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 11 1 BVC STRATEGY Enhancing core business growth … Leveraging risk management and security … 1.3 Monitoring the Strategy in 2015: increase in the use of securities lending by the pension funds. Finally, the third objective of customer experience, which ✓ More and better issuers ✓ Robust security in transactions To monitor its effectiveness in achieving its strategic objectimeasures the degree of user satisfaction regarding BVC serviElegibility ✓ Best in class market participants Market Security ✓ Enhanced financial risks ves, in 2015, the BVC continued to focus on the four manageces, ended with a rating below the acceptable minimum with ✓ New products monitoring ✓ Renewed IT & connectivity platforms ment perspectives: Financial, Clients, Internal Processes and a score of 65 points. ✓ Promotion of liquidity ✓ Robust corporate governance Strategic Capital, using the Balanced Scorecard as a tool for standards ✓ Market promotion assessment. The global score for this instrument in 2015 was In terms of the Internal Processes Perspective, three objecInternacionalization ✓ Interconnection with other markets ✓ International standards Market 82.93 points. tives were developed. The first, effectiveness of regulatory ✓ MILA ✓ Promote market discipline Architecture initiatives, exceeded the expectations, achieving the im✓ DMA access ✓ Modern regulatory framework ✓ Global custodians The BVC set 12 objectives and 83% (10 objectives) of them plementation of six regulatory initiatives, which were: ad✓ Set Icap were successfully achieved, which are related to the Internal justments to the BVC investment regime, requirements for OTC ✓ New products Processes, Talent Management and Clients Perspectives. The recurring issuers, prevention of money laundering for infras✓ Distribution of current products on the OTC market two goals that ended with a rating below the established tartructure entities, the new system of securities custodians gets were the Total EVA of the BVC in the Financial Perspective as part of the clearing and settlement system, the new risk and Customer Experience in the Clients Perspective. model of MEC and finally the amendment of Decree 2555, Additionally, we will focus on three new pillars that involve our transformation and will empower our growth through the approach on expanding trading securities on the MILA. The second indithe life cycle of financial instruments, where the BVC aims to understand its clients’ needs and to provide services that help them to In the Financial Perspective, which is comprised of three incator, project management, achieved the targets set with a resolve problems, reduce operating costs and generate greater returns. dicators, the results were as follows. The target was met in rating of 94%, meeting the schedules of the custodian prorevenue, ending with COP 122,378 million, especially thanks jects, DMA, information screens, options market, Electronic to the income diversification strategy. Regarding EBITDA, the Access Services optimization, risk model and the update of indicator ended at the acceptable minimum with COP 39,939 MEC plus. The third objective of the Internal Processes PersBoosting growth in post-trading products & services Fostering growth in capital market enabling services… million. Finally, the indicator of the total EVA of the BVC ended pective, reduction of operational risk events, ended at the with a rating below the acceptable minimum with COP 9,776 acceptable minimum with a rating of 57%. Clearing and ✓ CCP for equities ✓ Connectivity million compared to a target of COP 9,900 million. Settlement ✓ C&S for fixed income Technology ✓ Professional services Finally, in the Strategic Capital Perspective, three indicators ✓ Managed services Integration along ✓ Integration of market infrastrucIn the Clients Perspective, three specific targets were set for were developed. The first, development of capital markets ture entities in the Colombian ✓ Corporate communications the Value Chain 2015. The first objective to increase the number of listings enabling services, ended with a rating close to the target in capital market Issuers ✓ IR services ✓ Corporate governance services in the equity market exceeded expectations thanks to the six fulfillment of milestones, thanks to the entry of Sophos to emlistings carried out in the year. The second objective of broker power the BVC’s enabling services strategy. The second indiConsolidating regional growth … Education ✓ Capital markets educational services & tools quality met the established targets in the milestones propocator, operational excellence, met the targets set thanks to the ✓Search and evaluation of inorganic growth sed for 2015, such as the program for the strengthening and achievement of milestones such as teamwork and empoweropportunities in the current business and internationalization of the economic research areas of local ment in the different areas of the Organization. Finally, the also the new businesses brokers, the strengthening of the derivatives market through third indicator, leadership and talent management, obtained a an increase in the volume operated by third parties and the rating close to the target established. 12 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 13 1 BVC STRATEGY Measure Exec. Execution 2015 Goal Traffic Light Perspective Indicator Unit % Points Period IV-Q 2015 December I II III IV Annual MA $114.011 Consolidated Millions Q. $31.451 $122.378 G $119.759 10 107.8 Revenues EE $125.699 MA $38.232 Financial Consolidated Millions Annual N/A $39.939 G $41.927 10 75,1 EBITDA EE $46.581 MA $9,900 Total BVC EVA Millions Annual N/A $9.776 G $11,145 10 0.0 EE $12,000 MA 4 No. Special Operations No. Annual 2 6 G5 5 140.0 in the Equity Market EE 6 Milestone1: EE, MilestoMilestone AchieClients Intermediaries Quality nes Annual N/A Milestone2: G, 5 100.0 vements Milestone3: MA MA 70 Client Experience No. Annual 67 65 G 71 10 0.0 EE 74 MA 4 Efectividad en las iniciatiNo. Annual N/A 6 G5 5 140.0 vas regulatorias EE 6 MA 75% Internal Project Management % Q. 91,5% 94.0% G 85% 10 135.1 Processes EE 95% MA 30% Reducción de Eventos de % (Anual) Trim 37 57% G 40% 15 89.1 Riesgo Operativo No. (Trim) EE 45% Development of MilestoE.E. in the 60% Milestone Achienes Annual N/A 10 84.0 Enabling Services of Milestones vements Milestone1: G, Reduction MilestoMilestone AchieOperating Excelence nes Annual N/A Mileston2: SE, 5 126.8 of operating vements Milestone3: MA risk events Talent and Leadership Milestone1: EE, Management MilestoMilestone2: G, Milestone Achienes Annual N/A 5 80.6 Milestone3: BMA vements Exceeding Expectations Goal Minimum Acceptable Below Minimum Acceptable BVC Matrix 82.93 14 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 15 CHAPTER 2 The BVC 2 THE BVC BVC Brand Endorsed Brands 2.1 BVC The Securities Exchange of Colombia G4-3, G4-5, G4-7, G4-15, G4-16 The Colombian Securities Exchange (BVC:CB) is Colombia's Exchange (BMV) and the Central Securities Depositories of primary trading platform of securities. It is a private comthe four countries. pany listed on the public securities market based in Bogotá, Colombia. It is also part of the COLCAP, COLEQTY, COLSC As part of its commitment to sustainability, the BVC voand COLIR indexes. luntarily participates in UN initiatives, such as Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) and the Global Compact, and works The BVC is a multi-product, multi-market exchange offering on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). trading platforms for the equity, fixed income and standardized derivatives markets. Likewise, the BVC provides In 2014, the BVC renewed the IR Quality Issuer standard, issuer listings and market information services. Through wherein it voluntarily agreed to remain committed to best its subsidiaries, the BVC trades and provides services on international practices of investor relations and disclosure Independent Brands the foreign exchange (SET ICAP FX S.A.); fixed income and of market information to its different stakeholders in both OTC derivatives (SET ICAP Securities) markets and enerSpanish and English. gy derivatives market (Derivex S.A.); as well as innovative technology services (Sophos Banking Solutions) and pri2.2 BVC Brands: ce provision services (Infovalmer PPV S.A.). Additionally, G4-4, G4-8 the BVC is involved in the whole securities industry value chain through shareholdings in the Central Securities DeThe BVC has established a monolithic brand structure to pository (Deceval), the Central Counterparty Risk Clearing promote the institutional brand as well as the fixed incoHouse (CRCC) and the FX Clearing House (CCDC). me, equity, derivative, education, issuer and information Subsidiary Brands: and electronic media products under the same umbrella. Internationally, the BVC plays an active role as a member To expand our value proposition for clients, the BVC has formed strategic partnerships with its subsidiaries, which meet specific of the main global forums of the securities industry, such The Company still has endorsed brands, though, such as IR needs other than those served by the BVC in the financial sector. Therefore, these subsidiaries have distinct brands that represent as the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) of which it is Issuer, BVC Issuer, BVC Affiliate, BVC Awards, BVC Point and the work they do. currently the President. e-BVC, as well as four independent brands: Millionaire Exchange, Capital Market Architects, COLOMBIA INSIDEOUT The BVC is also part of the Ibero-American Federation of and Colombia Capital. Stock Exchanges (FIAB), the Latin American Integrated Market (MILA), together with the Santiago Stock Exchange (BCS), the Lima Stock Exchange (BVL), the Mexican Stock 18 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 19 2 THE BVC 2.3 Main Products and Services: G4-4, G4-6, G4-8 2.4 Material Aspects and Coverage: reputation survey was not carried out for 2015, because G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-22, G4-23, G4-DMA it is conducted every two years, and for the purposes of Main Products and Services this report imply changes in the scope and coverage of the The material aspects defined are evaluated for the market and material aspects with respect to the 2014 Report. The Exfor the Company by means of the reputation and customer serchange hopes that in the future, it can include the stakevice satisfaction surveys conducted by the BVC through two holders that were not covered on this occasion and assess polling firms, where the Exchange's different stakeholders rate the material aspects that have not yet been evaluated. Products • Trading platform • Consulting, • Electronic systems: • Voice brokerage Valuation prices: the researched aspects. To measure the work environment, the administration implementation of Trading and securities service • Local and international • Registration services core banking, software registration of • Securities operafixed income BVC uses the Great Place to Work Institute (GPTW) survey, whiThe most significant changes are mainly in the scope and development and currency operations tion registration • Provision and licensing financial solution • Local and international ch is administered to all of its employees. the coverage of the report, because it only covers the cusof market information • Servicio de broke• Post-trade securiequity markets for vendors testing: rage de voz sobre ties services tomer service satisfaction survey, focused on assessing • Standardized and OTC • Bankfusion divisas • Custodian services derivatives In 2015, it only carried out the customer service satisfour types of stakeholder: issuers, brokers, investors and • Bankmaster • Servicios de infor• Issuers • Structured products faction and Great Place to Work (GPTW) surveys and one educational institutions; the media survey; and finally, the • Flexcube mación y post-trade • Listing services para divisas • Valuation of other assets • Finacle survey of the Communications and Public Relations DeGreat Place to Work survey for the Company's employees. • Educational services • Risk management tools • Summit partment focused on the media. These surveys are only • Murex carried out for the BVC and they did not include informa• OPICS • Firstdata tion about its subsidiaries or long-term investments. The • Electronic media, digital banking Markets: • Equity • Treasury management • Currency • Numbered fixed • Equity • Fixed income • Banking assets and • OTC currency deriincome • Fixed income • Standardized liabilities vatives • Fixed income OTC • Standardized derivatives • Equity derivatives derivatives • Fixed income • OTC derivatives • Standardized derivatives Types of • Securities market Financial industry • Exchange market • Securities market • Securities market clients: brokers in the • Banking brokers brokers in the brokers in the RNAMV* RNAMV* • Ministry of Finance RNAMV* • Entities from the real • Securities markets • Entities from and Public Credit sector • Trusts the real sector • Central Bank • Information vendors Geographic Colombia Colombia, México, Colombia Colombia Colombia and Panamá scope: Chile and Panamá * National Registry of Securities Market Agents. These include banks, brokers, financial corporations, institutional investors and authorized public entities. 20 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 21 2 THE BVC The following results were obtained: 2.5 Reputation and Satisfaction Survey Results: 3. Educational institutions: As future direct market particiGrupos de Interés / Stakeholders G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27, G4-PR5. pants, through the appropriate generation of training on Aspectos materiales de acuerdo a su nivel de impacto BVC the market. Persona Comunien los grupos de interés / MaColaboIntermediaGobierno / ProveeFor the Exchange, knowing the opinion, suggestions and exterial aspects according to the Accionistas / Emisores Inversionistas Medios de Comuninatural dades / Estudiantes / radores / rios / IntermeGovernmdores / level of impact on stakeholders Shareholders / Issuers / Investors cación / Media / Retail CommuniStudents pectations of its stakeholders is one of the most important After having carried out the work for the three surveys, it was posEmployees diaries ment Suppliers Investors ties pillars in the construction of solid, long-term relations. sible to interview 799 people distributed as follows: 656 people A Nivel del Mercado de Valores / Marketplace in brokers, 78 people in issuers and 65 people in universities. Administración de productos y servicios / x x x x x x The satisfaction of their needs is the basis for the growth and Management of Products and Services development of the securities market. Therefore, in 2015, it Using each survey, action plans were implemented based on inCumplimiento de la regulación / Compliance x x x x x x x x x x conducted the satisfaction survey again, which on this occacreasing customer satisfaction, allowing us to integrate all the with Laws and Regulation Desarrollo del Mercado sion had three measurements throughout the year, each one areas of the Organization for the service of the client. Initially, an de Valores / Market x x x x x x x x x aiming to assess the loyalty of our clients and the quality of improvement was shown in this indicator. However, at the end of Development Disponibilidad de los their experience with the BVC. the survey, the customer satisfaction indicators did not reach the sistemas / System x x x x x x x x x x Availability proposed minimum. The BVC hoped to achieve a level of 70 or Evolución y actualización tecnológica / IT Evolution x x x x x x x x x x x With this experience indicator, the aim is to measure on the above, but it achieved a level of 65, very close to the target. and update Internacionalización / one hand the level of satisfaction of each client regarding the Internationalization x x x x x x x x x x products, processes and brand, and on the other, the clients' At the end of 2015, the Exchange conducted a survey with 21 Política pública / Public x x x x x x x x x x x Policy disposition to recommend the BVC to other potential clients. media companies about relevant aspects for the construction Seguridad de las operaciones en el mercado / x x x x x x x x x x The latter is of utmost importance for the performance of saof corporate reputation. Said survey is comparable with the one Market transaction Security les and Company image. conducted a year before and allowed the BVC to observe the foA Nivel de la Compañía / Company llowing results. Desempeño y crecimiento económico sostenido y Stakeholders diversificado / Sustainable x x x x x x x x x x x Regarding BVC Honesty and Transparency, the interviewed media and Diversified Economic Development and Growth For the customer experience survey, the following stakeholrated the Organization's management with 4.24, improving the Gobierno Corporativo / Corporate Governance x x x x x x x x x x ders were taken into account given the strategic approach of rating by 26 bps from the one obtained in 2014. They also imImagen y reconocimiento / x x x x x x the BVC regarding its value proposition. proved their rating regarding Vision, going from 3.58 to 3.95, and Image and Recognition of Image and Recognition, which improved 14 bps, going from a Servicio al cliente / x x x x x x x Customer service 1. Intermediaries: This group includes brokerage firgeneral rating of 3.72 to 3.82. The perception about Leadership A Nivel del Ambiente Laboral de la Compañía / Workplace ms, banks, commercial financing companies, finanmaintained an average of 3.81, which indicates a slight decrease Camaradería / Camaraderie x x x x x x x x x x ce corporations, pension funds, insurance compaof 6 basis points. Credibilidad / Credibility x x x x x x x x x x nies and trust funds. Imparcialidad / Impartiality x x x x x x x x x x 2. Issuers: Companies of different sectors that aim to The increase in the ratings for Compliance with Legal Obligations, obtain public resources through securities issuances. Maintaining a Transparent and Honest Market Category also posiOrgullo / Pride x x x x x x x x x x Respeto / Respect x x x x x x x x x x Calificación / Rating: 45 3-4 03 Criterio evaluado / Assessed Criteria: Criterio no evaluado / Not assessed Criteria: x 22 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 23 2 THE BVC tively stand out, which increased 25 basis points to 4.05, 1. Identification of Issues Relevant to Stakeholders as well as Transparency in Operations by the same to an average rating of 4.10. • Identification of the requirements of Colombian regulations. • Identification of the content required by the BVC Code of Good However, the media lowered their rating on the perception of the Governance. Organization regarding Service and Availability of its Systems by • Identification of the content suggested by the Global Reporting 75 bps to 3.43. They also decreased their rating on the Security Initiative. of transactions carried out through the BVC by 10 basis points to • Identification of the Company's stakeholders. 4.05 points. 2. Determining and Prioritizing the Topics to Report Additionally, the ratings on Training & Education and Internationalization & Corporate Governance decreased by 22 bps, ending • Assessment of the importance in terms of the significance of the topics that form part of the management report with the different with a rating of 3.81. areas involved in the process of preparation. • Definition of the content of the report. 2.6 Annual Report Profile: • Definition of the coverage of the topics included in the G4-17, G4-18, G4-28, G4-29 G4-30, management report. G4-31, G4-32, G4-33 3. Preparation, Validation and Presentation of the Topics to Report The BVC's Annual Management Report contains the requirements • Collection of information regarding the markets managed, financial and guidelines required by Colombian regulations through the Fistatements, risk management, corporate governance, sustainability nancial Superintendence of Colombia and those included in the and human resource management, among others. BVC Code of Good Governance, as well as the content suggested • Selection, compilation and reporting of information. by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Version G4. • Detailed review by Management of the information reported by the different areas involved in the process. The different areas of the Exchange responsible for the various • Review and approval of the Management Report by the BVC Board of Directors. topics reported herein were involved in the process of preparing this report. Throughout the different chapters, they explain their • Independent audit by the Statutory Auditor of the financial statements with the accompanying notes to ensure accuracy, reliability and management during 2015, including material aspects, which lartransparency. gely reflect the issues of greatest relevance to the Exchange's • Submission and approval of the Management Report and financial stakeholders. statements by the BVC General Shareholders’ Meeting. • Publication and disclosure of the Management Report to the Financial Superintendence and on the BVC website. Below is a description of the process followed to establish the content of the management report and the coverage thereof: 24 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 25 2 THE BVC The 2015 Annual Management Report presents the corThe financial statements reported in the IFRS accounting porate and financial performance of Bolsa de Valores de standards contain comparative information of the pre1. Any important events occurring following the period. Colombia S.A. and its subsidiaries during the period from vious year. This is the fourth annual management report 2. The Company's foreseeable development. January 1 to December 31, 2015 at the head office in the that includes a sustainability report of Bolsa de Valores 3. Transactions carried out with partners and managers. city of Bogotá, Colombia, corresponding to the fiscal year de Colombia aligned with the standards and indicators set 4. The Company's fulfillment of regulations on intellecof the BVC. The previous report on the Company's perforforth by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in its G4 Guitual property and copyright. mance in 2014 was published following approval by the delines. This fourth report has the service of GRI Content General Shareholders Meeting on March 26, 2015. Index for the exhaustive option “in accordance” with the Regarding reporting of the financial statements, the Statuguide. The index is found on page 293. This report protory Auditor validates or corroborates that the figures are The BVC's financial statements are reported according to vides key quantitative and qualitative information on all consistent with the financial information that it has on the the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for areas of the Company with sustainability guidelines and Company, as contained in its financial statements, and prothe individual statements (only BVC) and consolidated its relations with BVC stakeholders, including shareholvides an opinion pursuant to Article 38 of Law 222 / 1995, statements (BVC and its subsidiaries). ders, investors, market participants, employees, suppliers, which indicates: that the certified financial statements atregulators and the Colombian government. tached to the Statutory Auditor's professional opinion or, in Significant changes occurred in 2015 in the size and the absence thereof, that of the independent public accounstructure of the BVC due to the acquisition of 50% of SET The 2015 Financial Statements were independently auditant, have been audited based on the examination thereof in ICAP Securities in March 2015 and the acquisition of 51% ted by KPMG, which replaced Deloitte & Touche in 2014 in accordance with the generally accepted auditing standards . of Sophos Banking Solutions S.A. in June 2015. These two compliance with Article 61 of the BVC's Code of Good Gonew companies were incorporated as subsidiaries of the vernance, authorizing the Shareholders Meeting to elect When the financial statements are presented together with BVC together with SET ICAP FX S.A., Infovalmer S.A. and Inthe Statutory Auditor on a yearly basis. the managers' Management Report, the Statutory Auditor vesbolsa S.A., which is reported as an investment vehicle. must include in his report an opinion on whether they are The Statutory Auditor, appointed by the General Shareholconsistent with each other. They also include information on the BVC's long-term inders Meeting, is responsible for reviewing the management vestments in companies that are part of the value chain of report, including the financial statements with the respectiThe 2015 Management Report is available in Spanish and the Colombian capital market such as: Depósito Centralive notes and disclosures. The scope of the Statutory AudiEnglish on the BVC website: www.bvc.com.co as a PDF file, zado de Valores S.A. Deceval, Cámara de Riesgo Central tor regarding the Management Report is to validate that it and also in the printed copy distributed during the General de Contraparte S.A. CRCC and Cámara de Compensación contains, as required by Article 47 of Law 222, amended by Shareholders Meeting. de Divisas de Colombia S.A. – CCDC. Finally, Derivex S.A. Law 603 / 2000, at least (…) an accurate statement on the is also reported as a jointly controlled investment and XM evolution of business and the company's economic, admiFor further information on the report, please contact the BVC's Expertos en Mercados S.A. as an investment classified as a nistrative and legal situation . In this context, the Statutory Department of Investor Relations and Corporate Social Resfinancial instrument. Auditor verifies that it contains information on: ponsibility by email: cbarrios@bvc.com.co 26 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 27 CHAPTER 3 Corporate Governance 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3.1 Report on Corporate Governance Practices: ms of the definition and management of situations of conThe General Shareholders Meeting held on March 26, 2015, the current members of the Board of Directors were appointed for the G4-43 flicts of interest. Therefore, the BVC provided tools to all 2015-2016 period indicated below: members of Management and all employees to be able to Table 7 In line with key guidelines from the Board of Directors, the manage the situations that these circumstances potentiaBoard of Directors BVC dedicated great efforts to increasing and strengthelly generate. Independent Members Non Independent Members ning the already existing corporate governance standards. Therefore, following the recommendations of External Finally, the results of the “2014 Código País Survey” puBulletin 028 / 2014, issued by the Financial Superintenblished in September 2015, the BVC came in first place in dence and in force from January 1, 2015, different amendthe group of issuers that reported the most measures imments were made to the Company's corporate documents plemented. This gives the Company a notable distinction for this objective. in terms of corporate governance, making it comparable Julián Domínguez Rivera Sergio Clavijo Vergara Rafael Aparicio Escallón Juan Luis Franco Arroyave with leading international entities in this area. It is also Confecámaras Acciones y Valores S.A. Anif BTG Pactual S.A. As the entity in charge of managing the Colombia's secu2003 2007 External Member appropriate to indicate that the 2015 Report of Imple2008 – 2016 Chairman 2013 2016 2012 – 2016 rities markets (equity, fixed income and derivatives), one mentation of Best Corporate Practices has been available 2001 2016 of the BVC's aims is to be an example of good corporate on the BVC's website since February 1, 2016. governance practices. 3.2 Board of Directors: Therefore, the General Shareholders Meeting held on G4-34, G4-39 Carlos Eduardo Jaimes Jaimes Javier Jaramillo Velásquez March 26, 2015, approved a reform of the by-laws, whiMauricio Rosillo Rojas Aura Arcila Giraldo Independent Independent ch focused on the following topics: Corporate Purpose of In compliance with the corporate governance standards, Bancolombia S.A. Universidad de Medellin. 2008 – 2016 2007– 2018 / 2009-2016 2014 2016 2013 2016 the BVC, Rights and Equitable Treatment of Shareholders, the BVC Board of Directors is comprised of thirteen prinFunctions of the General Shareholders Meeting, Functions cipal members without alternates, seven of which are of the Board of Directors (general and special), Control Arindependent members 1 . According to the BVC By-laws 2, chitecture and Transparency of Financial Information. In members of the Board of Directors are elected for periods this point, we highlight the inclusion of issues such as the of one (1) year. Roberto Junguito Bonnet Santiago Montenegro Trujillo decrease in the percentage required for the shareholders Independent Asofondos Diego Jiménez Posada Germán Salazar Castro to request specialized audits, the increase in the functions 2005 2006 External Member 2010 – 2016 Credicorp Capital Colombia S.A. Banco de Bogotá. of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Secretary, 2006 – 2016 2008 2011 2003 2007 External Member 1In accordance with Article 2.10.1.1.1 of Decree 2555 / 2010 and Paragraph Three of 2013 – 2016 2007 2016 and the procedure to follow for them to include new toArticle 47 of the BVC By-laws, an independent member is one who at the time of his/her election, does not have relationships with subsidiaries of the BVC, shareholding entities of pics on the Agenda of the General Shareholders Meeting. the BVC (within the materiality criteria adopted on this issue), partners, shareholders or caAdditionally, the respective reforms were included in the pital providers for shareholding entities of the BVC (within the materiality criteria adopted on this issue), entities or individuals that provide goods or services to the BVC or its subsiregulations of the General Shareholders Meeting. diaries (within the materiality criteria adopted on this issue), or with an employee, manager, proxy holder, official, agent, adviser, consultant, contractor or supplier of goods and services Juan Camilo Vallejo Arango to the BVC or its subsidiaries (within the materiality criteria on this issue), or with entities that receive donations or contributions from the Exchange (within the materiality criteria Fiducor Likewise, amendments were made to the BVC's Code of adopted on this issue), or with public entities with regulatory and supervisory functions of 2001-2005 Internal Member / 2006-2016 Good Governance and Ethics and Conduct Manual in terthe public securities market. 2Article 48 of the BVC By-laws. 30 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 31 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE It should be highlighted that the members of the BVC Board of As a result of the above, the assessment of the Board of DirecTable 8 April-December 2015 Results4 Directors are recognized executives with an excellent reputation. tors and its Committees observes the following criteria: Comité de Gobierno With the aim to ensure transparency, impartiality and indepenConsejo Directivo Comité de Regulación Comité Admin. Y Comité de Auditoría % de Corporativo / i) Compliance with the meeting schedule. Miembros / Members / Executive / Regulation Financiero / Finance y Riesgos / Audit & cumplimiento / Corporate Governnace dence, the curriculum vitae of the selected members were publiCommittee Committee Committe & Admin Committe Risk Committee % of Attendance shed throughout the whole period on the Company's website3 and ii) Number of meetings that met the required quorum. Rafael Aparicio Escallón 10 / 11 7/7 2/3 90% none of them declared having labor or commercial connections iii) Attendance of each member at meetings. with the Exchange or its subsidiaries. Additionally, the BVC expresJuan Luis Franco Arroyave 8 / 11 2/3 71% ses that it does not have knowledge of relationships of a family, iv) Compliance with the agenda. Mauricio Rosillo Rojas 9 / 11 5/6 82% commercial, contractual or company nature that exist between v) Approval of the corresponding minutes. Aura Marleny Arcila Giraldo 8 / 11 6/6 82% the holders of the significant shares and the Company, or among Diego Jiménez Posada 11 / 11 7/7 100% the holders of significant shares between them or of agreements Changes did not occur during the period in the forbetween shareholders. Nor does the BVC have knowledge of the mation of the Board of Directors. In Table 8, the reGermán Salazar Castro 8 / 11 5/7 3/6 67% existence of agreements between shareholders, since no deposit sults for the April 2015 December 2015 period Sergio Clavijo Vergara 7 / 11 7/7 78% has been made for any agreement. can be observed: Carlos Eduardo Jaimes 11 / 11 7/7 5/5 100% Jaimes Roberto Junguito Bonnet 9 / 11 3/3 85% Julián Domínguez Rivera 9 / 11 4/5 81% Javier Jaramillo Velásquez 11 / 11 3/3 6/6 100% Santiago Montenegro 11 / 11 2/3 5/5 95% Trujillo Juan Camilo Vallejo 8 / 11 5/7 1/3 67% % De Asistencia / % Of 84% 90% 80% 70% 93% Attendance % De Cumplimiento Del Calendario / % Fulfillment 100% 100% 100% 83% 100% Of Scheduled Meetings No. De Reuniones Con Quorum Delibertorio / No. Of 11 7 3 5 5 Meetings With Quorum Cumplimiento De La Agenda 95% 100% 100% 93% 100% / Fulfillment Of The Agenda % De Aprobación De Las 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Actas / % Minutes Approval 3 http://www.bvc.com.co/gobierno/mostrarpagina.jsp?codpage=23 4 This table includes the extraordinary sessions help in the period. 32 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 33 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE On the other hand, the BVC's Management is comprised of a General Shareholders Meeting held on March 26, 2015. The • Duties of the Board of Directors. d.Process of Appointment and Selection group top-level senior executives with a CEO and five Chief Offimain amendments include the reform of the corporate purpoof the Board of Directors and Committees: • Minimum content of the regulations cers, who work for the fulfillment and development of the Comse, which aimed to consolidate the necessary instruments to G4-35, G4-48 of the Board of Directors. pany's objectives and obligations: achieve the fulfillment of the strategy promoting the Company's growth through the diversification of income; the increase • Increase of the functions of the Board The BVC's By-laws6 establish that the appointment and remo• Juan Pablo Córdoba Garcés – Presidente de la BVC / in the frequency of the meetings of the Audit Committee, now of Directors Committees. val of the members of the Board of Directors is the function of BVC CEO the Audit and Risk Committee; that the functions of the Sharethe General Shareholders Meeting. In turn, the Code Of Good • Reinforcement of the functions of the • Alberto Velándia Rodríguez – Vicepresidente Jurídico y Seholders Meeting cannot be delegated regarding the approval Governance indicates the procedure to follow for these purpoCorporate Governance Committee. cretario General / Chief Legal Officer & General Counsel of the reforms of by-laws and appointment, removal and apses, as follows: At least twenty (20) business days prior the date proval of remuneration and succession policies of the Board • Expansion and reinforcement of the functions when the General Shareholders Meeting to elect members of the • Angela Valderrama Guzmán – Vicepresidente de Mercaof Directors; the introduction of new points to the Agenda of of the Audit and Risk Committee. Board of Directors is to be held, the General Counsel will advideo y Producto / Chief Marketing & Product Officer the General Shareholders Meeting and procedure for these se the shareholders about said election through the Company's • Strengthening of the duties of abstention and • Bogdan Djoric5– Vicepresidente de Tecnología / Chief Inpurposed by the shareholders; the functions of the r Board of website or a written communication, so that they may nominadisclosure in the event of conflicts of interest. formation Officer Directors, its Chair and its Secretary; and the mechanisms for te candidates for the Board of Directors. Next, the shareholders the resolution of conflicts of interest. who wish to nominate candidates must do so at least ten (10) • Mauricio Mosseri Estrada – Vicepresidente Corporativo / c.The Board of Directors and its Committees: business days prior to the date when the Meeting is due to be Chief Corporate Officer b. Main Amendments to the Code of Good Governance G4-40 held, and they must send the list to the General Counsel. The • Javier Díaz Fajardo – Vicepresidente Comercial / Chief G4-38 next business day after the expiry of the indicated term, the GeCommercial Officer With the aim to support the development of the functions of the neral Counsel will publish on the Exchange's website the forms With the aim to continue with the implementation of the reBoard of Directors, the same Board has created four (4) permaof the candidates to be members of the Board of Directors that 3.3 BVC Governance Structure: commendations of the New Colombian Code of Best Corporanent committees, which are identified as managerial bodies that have been nominated, it will report the number of nominated G4-34 te Practices, “Código País”, the BVC's Code of Good Corporate have specialized functions to act on specific matters with the cacandidates, and it will indicate if they are sufficient to join the Governance was reformed in 2015 and the following amendpacity to submit proposals to the Board of directors and possibly Board of Directors. a. Amendments to the BVC By-laws: ments were made: exercise certain functions by delegation. The committees are the G4-42, G4-43 Regulation Committee, the Administration and Finance CommitLater, the Corporate Governance Committee will proceed to veri• Right of the shareholders to add new points to the Agentee, the Audit and Risk Committee and the Corporate Governanfy that the nominated candidates have the general qualifications da of the General Shareholders Meeting and the opportuIn 2015, the BVC's By-laws were amended with the aim to ce Committee. These committees submit reports, proposals and the By-laws require of members of the Board of Directors and the nity to ask questions and request the clarifications they increase the already adopted corporate governance stanrecommendations to the Board of Directors for its later analysis special conditions to be an independent member, and that they consider relevant. dards in the content of the social agreement for the better and approval. are not liable to one of the established disqualifications or inadaption of the recommendations of External Bulletin 028 / • Financial information that shall be made available to the compatibilities for being a member of said body. Accordingly, the 2014 issued by the Financial Superintendence. Said reform shareholders on a monthly basis. Additionally, the participation of non-independent members in Committee's opinion shall be made within the three (3) business was submitted for the consideration and approval of the the Board of Directors ensures the representation of different days following the expiry of the aforementioned term that the • Submission to the General Shareholders Meeting of the action plans proposed by Management with the aim to stakeholders such as the shareholders and the brokerage firms shareholders have to nominate candidates or the expiry of the rectify possible exceptions to the financial statements in that are members of the BVC. 5Mr. Bogdan Djoric joined the BVC on October 5, 2015. the opinion of the Statutory Auditor, if they exist. 6 Section 2 of Article 31 of the By-laws. 34 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 35 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE extended term, and it shall be communicated to the nominated Finally, it is worth highlighting that the Board of Directors, as well The progress in corporate governance and attention to the Therefore, Article 77 of the By-laws establishes as a goshareholder no later than the business day following the date as the BVC CEO, submits the Management Report for the consitopics of strategic development and financial evolution of verning regulation that all persons connected to the Comof issue of said opinion. Finally, on the day of the Shareholders deration and approval of the General Shareholders Meeting, as the Company was notable. pany must act with due diligence and loyalty, and estaMeeting, the shareholders will be able to register lists for electhe supreme authority of the Company, at the end of each corblishes the procedure that all persons must follow when tion of the members of the Board of Directors with the Secretary porate period. g. Remuneration Policies of the faced with a situation of a possible conflict of interest. of the Meeting. The Secretary of the Shareholders Meeting shall Board of Directors and BVC CEO: verify that the persons that are included on the lists are eligible f. Board of Directors Self-Assessment: G4-37, G4-41, G4-53 Additionally, guidelines have been incorporated into the in the opinion of the Committee or of the Board of Directors, in G4-51, G4-52 BVC's Ethics and Conduct Manual to be adopted by all the case of reconsideration. The lists of candidates may be registeAccording to the functions that it develops in line with the employees and members of Management to prevent sired before starting with the item on the Agenda regarding the The BVC's Board of Directors is assessed annually, through BVC's Code of Good Governance, the Corporate Governance tuations of interference between spheres of interest that election of the Board of Directors. both individual and collective self-assessments, with the Committee is responsible for studying the policies for the may result in omissions of control or diligence in the proaim to establish efficiency and effectiveness levels in the remuneration of the Board of Directors. However, the Genecedures of customer knowledge in pursuit of a personal Therefore, the Board of Directors in the first session of the performance of their duties and functions, the achieveral Shareholders Meeting is the authority for the approval of benefit or that of a third party. respective period establishes the composition of the four ment of their goals, the members' observance of the printhe remuneration policy, as well as establishing the fees of (4) committees for the corresponding term. ciples and responsibilities established for them in the the Board members, which at the session on March 26, 2015, During the year, mechanisms were strengthened for the manaCode of Good Governance, as well as the identification of established them as four (4) Current Minimum Monthly Legal gement of conflicts of interest through the reform of Articles e. Functions of the Board of improvement measures. Salaries. 7.1.1.2 and 7.1.1.4 of the Code of Good Corporate Governance. Directors and Senior Management: G4-44 Therefore, the BVC Board of Directors carried out its selAdditionally, in accordance with the By-laws and the Code Finally, it is important to indicate that the BVC did not f-assessment between February and April 2015 with the of Good Governance, the Board of Directors is the body resenter into any contracts with directors, managers, senior The functions of the Board of Directors are aimed at fulsupport of an external and independent consultant. The ponsible for establishing the fees of the BVC CEO, which in executives or legal representatives, including relatives, fillment of the strategic and organizational activities of following criteria were taken into account for said self-asno circumstances may be paid with stocks or other securities partners and other related individuals, except for those the Company. Therefore, its responsibilities include essessment: (i) interaction between the Board of Directors issued by the Company. of a labor nature. Furthermore, commercial relationships tablishing policies for risk management inherent to the and Senior Management; (ii) structure and operations; (iii) with their related parties remained within the context of Company, defining policies that verify the existence, indefulfillment of duties; (iv) topics and agenda; and (v) other h. Mechanisms for the Management of Conflicts of Interest market terms and conditions. pendence and effectiveness of internal controls, permitcorporate governance practices. ting adequate monitoring of the BVC's operation. In turn, The BVC has different corporate regulations for the mathe Company's Senior Management is responsible for geBased on the results of said assessment, the duties of the nagement of situations that generate conflicts of interest, nerating results aligned with the strategy approved by the Chair of the Board of Directors were reinforced, the issues which may arise at any level of the Company, that is, beBoard of Directors, achieving goals and economic results of subsidiaries and long-term investments were strentween the BVC employees, members of the Board of Directhrough the coordination and management of resources, gthened and some opportunities for improvement were tors and Senior Management, and even between shareholas well as following the instructions of the Board of Directors identified regarding time management in the agendas. ders and the Company. for the proper operation of the Company. 36 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 37 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE i. Legal Proceedings and Administrative Investigations against the BVC as of December 31, 2015 3.4 Basic Activities of the Directors Table 9. General Shareholders' Meetings and Management of the Exchange: Fecha Abogado Valor Probabilidad G4-35 Tipo De Proceso Demandante Notificación Responsable Cuantía / Contabilidad Provisión / / Procedure Type / Plaintiff / Notification Objeto / Object / Attorney Amount / Accounting Provision Pérdida / Loss BVC’s Shareholder Meetings 2015 Probability Date In Charge Value a. Board of Directors 12,642,323,239 stocks Declaration of the March 26, The main function of the Board of Directors is to lead the Ordinary 2015 Quorum equivalent to 67.7044% contractual civil responof the outstanding shares. sibility of the BVC and proper operation of the Company, developing strategic Fogacol for the untimely COP activities with the aim to maximize the value and profiwrite-off of Obursátiles LEGAL Rodrigo Juan Pablo 1,280,000,000 08/05/2010 (mandatory investment) COP N.A Remote PROCEEDING Sarasti stocks and Fogacol Cárdenas + loss of 1,414,409,834 tability of the BVC to the benefit of all its shareholders. potential units, respectively. To fulfill its functions, the Board of Directors is supported earnings Agenda Submitted to the General Shareholders’ Meeting The above plus consequential loss and loss by its committees, which facilitate the preparation and of potential earnings. analysis of the issues for their later review by the Board of Directors, also serving as the ideal place for debates Involvement of the • Management Report of the Board BVC as intervening in according to the specialty of each one. this lawsuit that purCOP of Directors and BVC CEO. ACTION sues the subscription 10,000,000 + • Statutory Auditor's Report on the management of 2014. José Ignacio Angela Cristina COP OF DIRECT Uribe 01/24/2014 of 4,887 stocks of Silva Rojas variation in the 10,000,000 N.A Remote It is appropriate to clarify that the functions of the Chair REPARATION ECOPETROL within the dividends of • 2014 Financial Statements. process of initial public ECOPETROL. of the Board of Directors as well as those of the Company offerings of this issuer • Proposal for the distribution of profits for carried out in 2008. Secretary are described in the By-laws 7 . Additionally, it is the year ended December 31, 2014. necessary to announce that the BVC CEO, who in turn is • Reform of the By-laws, including the Constitute evidence for the purpose of the Legal Representative of the Exchange, is a different amendment of the corporate purpose. Verbal Summary requesting compenperson to the one who serves as Chair of the Board of • Amendment of the Regulations for the (Evidence RESTCAFE sation for the alleged Norman Albin COP 07/29/2014 N.A Remote* General Shareholders Meeting. gathered before S.A.S. undue termination of Garzón Mora 150,000,000 Directors, because the latter permanently represents said the trial) the concession contract • Election of independent members of the Board of signed between the body and its committees. The main function of the Chair BVC and RESTCAFE. Directors for the April 2015 to March 2016 period. of the Board is to preside over and direct the meetings • Election of non-independent members of the Board of The Pension and Parafiscal Manageof the Board of Directors and their deliberations, and to Directors for the April 2015 to March 2016 period. ment Unit started an investigation to verify ensure observance of the By-laws and Code of Good Cor• Definition of fees for the Board of Directors. the correct payment porate Governance. • Election of the Statutory Auditor for the Pension and COP of contributions to ADMINISTRATIVE Parafiscal 03/25/2015 the Social Security Nicolas Yemail 182,031,300 COP COP Probable statutory term and approval of the budget INVESTIGATION Management Charum + penalty for 117,000,000 117,000,000 System in 2011 and appropriation for its administration. Unit inaccuracy b. General Shareholders Meeting 2013. The official settlement was formulated and the BVC filed an appeal In its session on March 26, 2015, the General Shareholders Meeting for reconsideration. considered and approved the topics indicated below: * A transaction agreement was signed for COP 65,000,000, which was paid by the BVC on December 20, 2015. The parties signed a petition requesting the termination of the proceeding by 7 Article 71. withdrawal, which will be filed in January 2016, once the vacation of court is over. 38 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 39 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE c. Assessment of the BVC CEO: 3.5 Audit Committee's Annual I. Composition of the Audit and Risk Committee G4-36, G4-39 Report to the Board of Directors: G4-43, G4-45, G4-46, G4-47 Pursuant to Section 6 of Article 50 of the BVC By-laws, the AuThe Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors regularly assesses the BVC CEO based on the fulfillment of the dit and Risk Committee is comprised of three (3) members of goals and indicators provided on the Balanced Scorecard. For 2015, the Committee considered the performance of the CEO's Bogotá D.C., February 22, 2016 the Board of Directors, who act independently. For the period work as appropriate and beneficial for the Organization. from April 2015 to March 2016, Julián Domínguez Rivera and Dear Sirs Santiago Montenegro Trujillo were elected and the undersigned Carlos Eduardo Jaimes Jaimes was appointed as Chair of BOARD OF DIRECTORS the committee. Bolsa de Valores de Colombia S.A. II. Duties and Powers City In accordance with Article 1 of the BVC Audit and Risk Committee's Rules of Procedure, approved by the Board Subject: The Audit and Risk Committee's Annual Report to of Directors on January 27, 2016, said committee is a the Board of Directors body that supports the Board of Directors in monitoring the operation and effectiveness of the Company's Internal To the directors, Control System, including risk management and verification of the controlling bodies. As the Chairman of the Board of Directors Audit and Risk Committee, I would like to submit the report on the actiIts functions are described in Article 3 of the BVC Audit vities carried out and results obtained by the committee and Risk Committee's Rules of Procedure strictly in acduring the year it was in force from April 2015 to Fecordance with the requisites established in Section 6.1.2, bruary 2016. The above is based on the provisions esPart I, Title I, Chapter IV, of External Bulletin 029 / 2014. tablished in Sections 2.3.10. and 2.2.32 of Chapter IX of the Fundamental Accounting and Financial Bulletin, and III. Assessment of the Committee's Operation Section 6.1.2.1, Chapter IV, Title I, Part I, of the Fundamental Legal Bulletin, both issued by the Financial SuThe following criteria were taken into account in accorperintendence of Colombia; as well as the provisions of dance with the BVC's Corporate Governance policies to Section 7, Article 4.1.4.2, of the BVC Audit and Risk Comassess the activities of the Board of Directors Audit and mittee's Rules of Procedure: Risk Committee: i) compliance with the meeting schedule, 40 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 41 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4.2.1. Control Environment ii) number of meetings that had the required quorum, iii) atgement a definition of specific guidelines on internal control The following main activities were carried out on this subject: tendance of each member at the meetings, iv) fulfillment of for affiliates of the BVC to be submitted for the considerathe scheduled agenda, and v) approval of the corresponding tion of the Audit Committee and if applicable, for the consia) Ordinary Meeting on July 27, 2015 (Minutes 039, Section V) minutes. deration of the Board of Directors. The proposal that covers Subject Description Result the spheres of Auditing, Risk, Finances and Accounting were Proposal of the Internal Control Governance Model for the BVC's subsidiaries Therefore, during the period of analysis, the Board of Dipresented by Management and the Internal Auditing DepartSubsidiary Road Map (Control Submission to the Board focused on financial and accounting management, risk management and rectors Audit and Risk Committee held four (4) ordinary ment at the June 23, 2015, meeting of the Corporate GoverEnvironment Policy) approved internal auditing. meetings, including the meeting at which this report was nance Committee and at the July 27, 2015, meeting of the submitted for approval, and one (1) extraordinary meeting. Audit and Risk Committee. The proposal shall be assessed by b) Ordinary Meeting on November 23, 2015 (Minutes 042, Section VIII) All the meetings had the required quorum to hold discusthe Board of Directors in 2016 with the recommendations Subject Description Result sions and make decisions. The agenda for each meeting, made at said meetings. Audit and Risk Committee's Submission to the Board along with the presentations used during the meetings, Submission of the new Rules of Procedure for the Audit and Risk Committee. Rules of Procedure approved were posted for all committee members on the BVC web4.2. Assessment of the Effectiveness of the Internal site. All of the 32 topics scheduled for discussion in preControl System c) Present Meeting on February 22, 2016 ( Sections IV and VII) vious meetings were addressed, so 100% of the initially Subject Description Result proposed topics were analyzed. In order to see the big picture of the Institutional Internal Control System, in the 2015-2016 period, the committee Selection of Statutory Auditor Analysis of proposals for the 2016 Statutory Auditor service. N/A Furthermore, the committee approved 100% of the minuaddressed different topics and issues in each one of the tes, and on average it had a 93% attendance record of the system's elements: members at the meetings. 4.2.2. Risk Management Additionally, greater depth in said components was ensuFor the period covering the current report, the committee analyzed the following risk management issues: IV. Institutional Internal Control System red with the increase in the frequency of meetings (from a) Ordinary Meeting on May 25, 2015 (Minutes 038, Section VIII) quarterly to bimonthly) approved by the Board of Directors 4.1. Internal Control Policy at its meeting on March 18, 2015, and the proposal to grant Subject Description Result an alternate emphasis on risks or auditing (and statutory The policies on internal control approved by the Board of Diauditing) to each committee meeting, approved by the AuMonitoring of the ML/TF risk profile, reports, update of lists, situations of Compliance Officer's Report Reported conflicts of interest and declarations of control entities. rectors for the Exchange were not subject to any amendments dit and Risk Committee at its meeting on August 27, 2015. in 2015 and therefore, remained fully effective. NotwithstanPresentation of the following main amendments: ding the above, as part of the improvements that the CorpoBelow we present a summary of the topics effectively adAdjustments to definitions (client, client folder and terrorist financing). Amendment of the Specification of the functions and responsibilities of the Commercial VP. Submission to the Board rate Governance Committee has been leading, at the extraordressed in the period, classified within each one of the AML/CFT Manual Adjustments to the client incorporation process. approved dinary meeting held on October 21, 2014, to define specific components of the Internal Control System. Adjustments to the process of updating client information. Adjustment to elements regarding market knowledge. guidelines and instructions with respect to internal control for the subsidiaries of the BVC, said body requested from ManaMarket Risk Report Monitoring of repo transactions on stocks, fixed-income simultaneous Reported trades and compliance with risk limits. 42 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 43 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE b) Ordinary Meeting July 27,2015 (Minutes 039,section VI) e) Ordinary Meeting on January 25, 2016 (Minutes 043, Section VII) Subject Description Result Subject Description Result Monitoring of the ML/TF risk profile, reports, update of lists, situations of conflicts The report contains: Compliance Officer's Report Reported of interest and declarations of control entities. Analysis of the gaps between the current recovery strategies of the BVC Final Analysis Report of the versus the requirements of the processes identified in the BVC. Submission to the Board Monitoring of repo transactions on stocks, fixed-income simultaneous trades and Business Continuity System -The new recovery strategies identified with the process owners. approved Market Risk Report Reported compliance with the established risk limits. -Improvement initiatives identified in the continuity project. Monitoring of the brokerage firms' financial statements, the cash transactions of the -Road map to close the project's gaps. Monitoring of Brokerage Firms Reported equity market and the cash operations of the fixed-income market. It includes: Advances in the 2015 Risk Management Strategy. f) Present Meeting on February 22, 2016 (Section X) Evolution of risk events in 2015. Biannual Risk Management Monitoring of BVC risk profile and risk road maps. Reported Subject Description Result (ORMS) Report Technological risks. Follow-up of the Ethics Manual and effectiveness of the ethics control systems. Monitoring of risk profile, update activities, warnings and declarations of Advances in the awareness plan. Compliance Officer's Report N/A control entities. Monitoring of BVC risk profile and risk road maps (fraud risk). Reported Monitoring of the Business Scope of the project to update the Business Continuity Plan and result of the Monitoring of repo transactions on stocks, fixed-income simultaneous Reported Market Risk Report N/A Continuity Plan selection process of consultancy firm candidates. trades and compliance with the established risk limits. It includes: Results of the 2015 Risk Management Strategy. c) Ordinary Meeting on September 28, 2015 (Minutes 041, Section VII) Evolution of risk events in 2015. Monitoring of BVC risk profile and risk road maps. Subject Description Result Technological risks. Biannual Risk Management Follow-up of the Ethics Manual and effectiveness of N/A The presentation includes the analysis and strategy to update the Anti-Fraud Program, (ORMS) Report the ethics control systems. Update of the AntiSubmission to the Anti-Fraud Program Management Manual and Fraud-Related Risk Road Maps, as well as Advances in the awareness plan. Fraud Manual Board approved monitoring and profile of fraud-related risks. Monitoring of BVC risk profile and risk road maps (fraud risk). d) Ordinary Meeting on November 23, 2015 (Minutes 042, Sections VI and VII) Subject Description Result 4.2.3. Control Activities 4.2.4. Information and Communication Monitoring of the ML/TF risk profile, reports, update of lists, situations of conflicts Compliance Officer's Report Reported of interest and declarations of control entities. As part of this component, the committee reviewed and For the period covered by this report, the committee manaMonitoring of repo transactions on stocks, fixed-income simultaneous trades and analyzed the internal audit reports, aimed essentially at asged the following information and communication matters: Market Risk Report Reported compliance with the established risk limits. sessing the effectiveness of the most relevant risk controls Analysis of Scope of Summary of the most relevant activities of financial risk and fidelity policies, and the results of the general control assessments in IT made Reported Insurance Policies Directors and Managers of the Modular Policy. by the Statutory Auditor (see Section 4.2.5. of this report). 44 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 45 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE a) Ordinary Meeting on May 25, 2015 (Minutes 038, Section IX) a. Visit report in official memorandum 201512300-027function of the Auditor; the need to adapt risks and controls that 000 by which the SFC makes some considerations reare absolutely necessary, reasonable and foreseeable; the conSubject Description Result garding the same and requests the implementation of trol structure of the subsidiaries and/or controlled companies Submission of the Company's consolidated financial statements in line an Adjustment Plan . of the Exchange; the assurance of technical knowledge; and the Financial Statements with IFRS at the close of March 2015 and the pro forma consolidated Reported strengthening of the road map of critical positions”.8 revenue of April 2015. b. List of Institutional Charges registered with number 2015048380-001-000 of July 27, 2015, prepared by Below we present an account of all the discussions and mob) Ordinary Meeting on July 27, 2015 (Minutes 039, Section IV) the Delegate Superintendent for Operative Risks of nitoring talks that the committee undertook regarding these the Financial Superintendence of Colombia. important issues. Subject Description Result The committee requested that Management take into account Submission of the Company's consolidated financial statements in line with aspects including the following for the preparation of the Ad8 Minutes 040 corresponding to the extraordinary meeting of the Audit and Risk Committee June 2015 Management on August 24, 2015, Section IV, Financial Superintendence of Colombia Visit Report (March IFRS at the close of June 2015. The period includes the acquisition of 51% Reported Report (Financial Statements) justment Plan : “good international practices; the preventative 2015). of the shares of Sophos Banking Solutions S.A.S. a) Extraordinary Meeting on August 24, 2015 (Minutes 040, Sections IV and V) c) Present Meeting on February 22, 2016 (Section VI) Subject Description Result The presentation includes: Subject Description Result Summary of the findings and recommendations from the inspection visit by the SFC Visit Report (March 2015) Financial Superintendence of Colombia in February 2015. Reported Submission of the Company's consolidated financial statements in line with Preliminary specifications and comments of Management and the Internal Auditing Financial Statements N/A IFRS at the close of 2015. Department. ORMS objections of the SFC Summary of the facts on which the SFC bases its list of charges. Reported 4.2.5. Monitoring and Independent Assessment 4.3. Observations of the Regulatory Bodies b) Ordinary Meeting on September 28, 2015 (Minutes 041, Sections III and V) As an essential element of monitoring, the presentation of the MaThe Audit and Risk Committee was informed by Management Subject Description Result nagement Report at all meetings to report significant internal conof an inspection visit by the Financial Superintendence of Response to the list of charges prepared by the Financial trol system events during the specific period stands out. The report Colombia (SFC, for the Spanish original) between March 2 ORMS objections of the SFC Reported Superintendence of Colombia regarding the ORMS. gives a precise indication of the permanent supervision of plans, and 27, 2015, basically designed to assess the committee's The presented proposal has the following scope: programs and projects undertaken by Management at all levels. functions. Once the results of said visit were received at an Specify the functional dependence of the Board of Directors and the Audit and Risk Committee. extraordinary meeting on August 24, 2015, the committee Establish the rules for appointment and removal of the Internal Auditor. Amendments to the Internal In addition to the above, the reports of the controlling bodies, whianalyzed the findings and recommendations, as well as the Audit Charter Complement the functions of the internal audit. Approved Specify the strategies to ensure the aptitude and ch are essential for the monitoring of the system, were submitted preliminary observations of Management and the Internal Auprofessional care of the internal audit. for the consideration of the committee (see Sections V and VI of dit regarding the following communications: Review whether the current functions of the internal audit include one or more functions that overextend(s) the role. this report). 46 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 47 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE c) Ordinary Meeting on November 23, 2015 (Minutes 042, Section V) siness Continuity System and it reiterates the need already • Adjust the operative risk management methodology Subject Description Result proposed the previous year to maintain monitoring of the ORMS SFC visit report on the Progress of the commitments to the SFC resulting from the inspection visit relevant risks and the cases of materialization (risks events). progress of the action plan made to the BVC in March 2015. Reported • Update the Anti-Fraud Program It urges the quick implementation of corrective measures, The presentation includes: especially in the cases where the availability of services for • Adjust the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing PreSubmission to the Board SFC visit report commitments Changes to the ORMS Methodology. clients is affected. It requests that the controlling bodies vention and Control Manual approved New Model of the Business Continuity System. continue their assessments on critical risks and processes. • Design the new Business Continuity Management System d) Ordinary Meeting on January 25, 2016 (Minutes 043, Section VII) 4.5. Main Measures Adopted c. Systematically monitor market risks and the behavior of brokerage firms. Subject Description Result No material deficiencies were detected. Nevertheless, as a Follow-up of commitments Progress of the commitments to the SFC resulting from the inspection visit result of analyzing the aforementioned information, the obd. Improve the technology processes, specifically regarding Reported of SFC visit action plans made to the BVC in March 2015. servations made by the controlling bodies and the recomgeneral controls and project management. mendations of the regulatory entities, it was possible to take e) Present Meeting on February 22, 2016, (Section VII) measures on the following issues: V. Internal Audit Management Subject Description Result a. Optimize operational, accounting and tax controls. 5.1. Activities Implemented Methodology of the internal Opportunities for improvement and action plans regarding the methodology, audit control processes processes and tools of Internal Auditing. N/A b. Improve the corporate risk management process: The committee addressed the following issues regarding internal auditing: 4.4. Conclusions on the Effectiveness 3.Adequately manage risks. a) Ordinary Meeting on May 25, 2015 (Minutes 038, Sections V and VII) Based on the reviews conducted, on the information presen4.Increase reliability and timeliness of the information produced. ted by Management and the controlling bodies and on the Subject Description Result observations by the regulatory authorities, the committee 5.Fully comply with applicable rules and regulations. considers that the Company's Internal Control System has The report is comprised of: been satisfactory over the past year, as it provides for reasoTo make the system more effective, the committee considers Progress of the 2015 Internal Audit Plan and effects. nable compliance with the following objectives: it important to consolidate the process of methodology imAudit results of the period. Internal Auditing Report Reported Indicators of the department for the second quarter of 2015. provement on risk management through its own analyses Most relevant results of the audits carried out during the period 1.Improve operational efficiency and effectiveness. and the observations of the regulatory bodies in order to (Commercial Management Process). strengthen its value contribution. It understands the vital 2.Prevent and mitigate the occurrence of fraud. importance of continuing efforts to implement the new Bu48 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 49 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE b) Ordinary Meeting on September 28, 2015 (Minutes 041, Sections IV, V and VI) e) Present Meeting on February 22, 2016 (Sections IV and VII) Subject Description Result Subject Description Result The proposal presented has the following scope: Specify the functional dependence of the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee. Establish the rules for appointment and removal of the Internal Auditor. Methodology of the internal Opportunities for improvement and action plans regarding the methodology, Amendments to the Submission to the Board N/A Complement the functions of the internal audit. auditing control processes processes and tools of Internal Auditing. Internal Audit Charter approved Specify the strategies to ensure the aptitude and professional care of the internal audit. Review whether the current functions of the internal audit include one or more functions that overextend(s) the role. Internal Auditing Report Annual Report on Management and the Status of the Internal Control System N/A The report is comprised of: Progress of the 2015 Internal Audit Plan and effects. Audit results of the period. 5.2. Performance functional dependence of the Board of Directors and Internal Auditing Report Reported Indicators of the department for the second quarter of 2015. Most relevant results of the audits carried out during the period (Commerthe Audit Committee. cial Management Process). Based on the review of the above issues, the committee concluded that the audit plan covered the main business b. The approval of an additional professional for the area c) Ordinary Meeting on November 23, 2015 (Minutes 042, Section IV) risks, that its auditing tasks met the requirements and that to reinforce the IT auditing of the person in the selection the results satisfy the Company's control needs. Furtherprocess. Subject Description Result more, the committee has confirmed that the Internal Auditor performed its tasks independently and impartially c. The preparation of action plans regarding the methodoPresentation for the approval of the 2016 Work Plan and Budget of Internal Auditing Report Approved with resources and information, and with no limitations logy, processes and tools of the Internal Auditing DeInternal Auditing that might hinder the integrity of the audit. partment (result of a self-assessment process), which are expected to be completed in the upcoming months. d) Ordinary Meeting on January 25, 2016 (Minutes 043, Sections IV and V) Regarding the action plans established to respond to the recommendations made by the Financial SuperintendenVI. Statutory Audit Management Subject Description Result ce of Colombia upon its inspection visit, the committee highlights the following: 6.1. Activities Implemented The report is comprised of: Progress of the 2015 Internal Audit Plan and effects. Audit results of the period. a. The update of the Audit Charter reviewed by the comThe following activities were carried out with respect to Internal Auditing Report Indicators of the department for 2015. Reported mittee and approved by the Board of Directors on Septhis controlling body: Most relevant results of the audits carried out during the period: Assessment of IT project management, IT incidents of the period, security tember 30, 2015, essentially aimed at specifying the assessment and configuration of the FI module of SAP. 50 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 51 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE a) Ordinary Meeting on May 25, 2015 (Minutes 038, Sections V and VII) 6.2. Performance Subject Description Result With regard to the Statutory Auditor appointed by the General The BVC CEO, the Chief Legal Officer and the Internal AuShareholders Meeting in March 2015, the committee concluditor attended all the committee meetings, which facilitaResults of the assessment of compliance with: ded that it has performed its duties in accordance with the ted the presentation of the issues, prompt responses to AML/CFT. ORMS and business continuity. provisions set out in the regulations and By-laws. questions raised and timely allocation of responsibilities Statutory Auditor's Report Reported Assessment of general IT controls. by the committee to Management. The Statutory Auditor Assessment of controls related to SAP accesses. Assessment of tax aspects. VII. Framework of the Committee's Relations attended all the committee meetings called to. Once this report has been approved by the Audit and Risk b) Ordinary Meeting on September 28, 2015 (Minutes 041, Sections IV, V and VI) Committee, it shall be submitted for the consideration of the Board of Directors in accordance with the provisions Yours faithfully, Subject Description Result of Section 7, Article 4.1.4.2, of the Corporate Governance It includes assessment of the BVC's financial statements under IFRS, Code and Article 8 of the BVC Audit and Risk Committee's Statutory Auditor's Report assessment of the Company's controls and update of the materiality criteria Reported Rules of Procedure in order to report its content and conapplicable to 2015. clusions, and obtain relevant feedback. c) Ordinary Meeting on January 25, 2016 (Minutes 043, Sections IV and V) Similarly, when approved, the report shall be made available to shareholders for their inspection in accordance with Subject Description Result the provisions of Article 447 of the Code of Commerce and Article 43 of the BVC By-laws and it shall also be submitted CARLOS EDUARDO JAIMES JAIMES The report includes: for the consideration of the General Shareholders Meeting. Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee Assessment of the processes of recognizing revenue, log entries and flow Statutory Auditor's Report of accounting information. Reported Pre-closure on individual and consolidated financial statements at September 30, 2015. d) Present Meeting on February 22, 2016 (Sections IV and VII) Subject Description Result Opinion on the consolidated and individual financial statements of the Statutory Auditor's Report N/A BVC for 2015. 52 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 53 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3.6 Values, Principles, Standards 3.7 Shareholders' Rights: be answered by the Legal Vice-Presidency, or the appliand Regulations of the BVC: G4-49, G4-50 cable one, within fifteen (15) business days following its G4-56 submission. For the BVC, the active participation of its shareholders As the entity responsible for managing the Colombia's and their access to information are essential for obtaining Abiding by the principle of equality and equity of the shasecurities markets (equity, fixed income and derivatives) the Company's goals. Therefore, in harmony with the legal reholders in the Company, if the response to the respectiand promoting its development, the BVC has established regulations that govern the activity of the BVC, the Code ve petition, claim or proposal may represent an advantage a strong set of corporate regulations that are incorporated of Good Governance contains the rights of the Company's to the other shareholders, the Exchange shall ensure the and harmonized with the Company's strategy and objecshareholders. immediate access of the other shareholders to said restives. Taking the above into account, the BVC has establiponse according to the mechanisms established for that shed the principles and parameters that add to the legal It is important to highlight that the BVC maintains equal purpose and in the same economic conditions. regulations in the Code of Good Governance, By-laws and and equitable treatment of all shareholders by the ComEthics and Conduct Manual, which guide the Management pany's employees as one of the main governing princi3.8 Compliance with the Authorities: to achieve its goals. ples. The employees must ensure the exercise of the shaG4-49, G4-50 reholders' rights when submitting their claims, petitions With the aim to consolidate the existing structure of goand proposals to the Exchange, responding respectfully The BVC is an entity subject to the inspection, control and vernance practices, the BVC highlights that compliance and promptly. supervision of the Financial Superintendence of Colomwith said regulations is mandatory for all employees, Sebia (SFC) and therefore, it must observe and follow the nior Management and the Board of Directors. This way, the The shareholders' rights are mainly related to: regulations that govern it. Likewise, the BVC must meet harmonious execution of the work and roles that each one the requirements of said authority in the exercise of its • Topics to be discussed on the agenda of the General plays in the Company's structure is ensured, always keeShareholders Meetings. legal functions. ping in mind those principles and regulations for conduct • Complete and prompt access to information for making that provide added value to the Company. Therefore, in compliance with the provisions of External informed decisions. Bulletin 028 / 2014, the BVC annexes the 2015 Report on In coordination with the above and in addition to said sys• The possibility of requesting specialized audits and the Implementation of Corporate Governance Practices to making recommendations to the Corporate Governance tem, other corporate regulations have been adopted such this Management Report was published as relevant inforCommittee. as the Regulations for the General Shareholders Meeting, mation to the Financial Superintendence of Colombia on the Regulations for the Board of Directors and the Internal • Resolution of conflicts and channeling of complaints, January 29, 2016. Control Policies of the BVC. claims or proposals to the BVC. It should be noted that the BVC has fully met the terms estaFinally, the whole set of corporate regulations is permaTherefore, the BVC constantly updates its website, as this is blished by the Financial Superintendence of Colombia for the nently published on the BVC website in both English and one of the most representative means of communication beimplementation of all the regulations and provisions in the Spanish to be consulted by the shareholders and the getween shareholders and the Company. Additionally the sharerequirements issued by said entity. neral public. holders' petitions that are reasoned and made in writing shall 54 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 55 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT OF BEST CORPORATE PRACTICES IMPLEMENTATION INTRODUCTION Implementation of the recommendations of the new CoSince some recommendations are conformed of a series of lombian Code of Best Corporate Practices shall be reported specific aspects, it is important to note that recommendations BOLSA DE VALORES DE COLOMBIA S.A. by issuers to the Financial Superintendence of Colombia shall be understood as implemented only when all the aspects (SFC in the Spanish original) via this Report of Best Corpothat comprise them are met, unless the reason for not adopting rate Practices Implementation. some of them is of a legal nature, which must be specified. PRIMARY LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE The goal of this report is to inform the securities market of Each recommendation has a checkbox to indicate the date each issuer's implementation or lack thereof of the Code's rein which the issuer implemented it for the first time. In adJUAN PABLO CÓRDOBA commendations. To that end, next to each recommendation dition, there is a checkbox to enter dates of amendments. there are three checkboxes labeled YES, NO, and N/A and a space to complement the answer as follows: Finally, when the issuer does not count with the specific administrative body in the recommendation because of its nature, If the answer is yes, the issuer shall briefly describe how the it shall be understood that said recommendation refers to the implementation was carried out. If the answer is no, the issuer body that is equivalent to, or acts as such in the organization. LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE DESIGNATED TO SUBMIT THE IMPLEMENTATION REPORT must explain the reasons why it has not complied with it. ALBERTO VELANDIA RODRÍGUEZ N/A can be selected by the issuer only in cases in which for legal reasons it is unable to adopt the recommendation. In that case, it will indicate the regulations that impedes it. REPORT PERIOD 2015 REPORT DATE: JANUARY 29, 2016 56 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 57 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE I. RIGHTS AND EQUITABLE TREATMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS Measure Number 1: Principles of Fair and Equitable Treatment G4-49 1.2. The Board of Directors has approved a specific procedure that defines the Company's practices relating to shareholders of varying conditions, in matters such as access to information, information request resolutions, communication channels, types of 1.1. The Company provides equal treatment to all shareholders who, within the same class of stocks, are under the same conditions, interactions between shareholders and the Company, its Board of Directors and other Administrators. without implying access to privileged information by some shareholders over others. 1.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 1.2 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Article 79 of the By-laws stipulates that the Board of Directors is responsible for defining the regulations to provide information to its shareholders. Yes. Article 44 of the By-laws guarantees equitable treatment to its shareholders regardless of the number of stocks they hold. Likewise, Article 2.1.1.1 Therefore, the Board of Directors has defined in the Code of Good Governance the procedures for shareholders to access information (Articles 3.2.1.1., of the Code of Good Governance complements said Article by indicating that The Exchange shareholders shall be treated equitably by Company ma3.2.2.1., 3.2.2.2., 3.2.3.1, 3.4.1.1 and 3.4.1.6.), and the communication channels and procedures that address shareholder requests, claims or proposals nagement and employees, who, in the scope of their functions, shall ensure that shareholders are allowed to exercise their rights, and that questions, (articles 3.1.1.1., 8.1.1.1, 8.1.1.2., 8.2.1.1., 8.3.1.1, 8.3.1.2., 8.3.1.3). Furthermore, certain rules have been established in Article 43 of the By-laws and complaints and suggestions they bring to the Company are heard, regardless of the number of shares they hold. Article 6 of the General Shareholders Meeting Regulation regarding the exercise of the right to inspection. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation November 28, 2003 Date of implementation November 28, 2003 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 58 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 59 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 2: Information on stocks G4-7 Measure Number 3: No stock dilution G4-41 2.1. Through its website, the company informs the public with clarity, accuracy and integrity regarding the various types of shares 3.1. For transactions that can result in stock dilution for minority shareholders (case of a capital increase and waiver of the right of issued, as well as the number of shares issued for each class and the number of shares in reserve, and the rights and obligations preference in the subscription of stocks, merger, spin-off or segregation), the company shall provide shareholders detailed inforinherent to each class of stock. mation in a report prepared by the Board of Directors, and with the opinion of an independent external consultant of recognized creditworthiness regarding the terms of the transaction (fairness opinion), designated by the Board of Directors. These reports are made available to shareholders prior to the Meeting within the timeframe to exercise the right of inspection. 2.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 3.1 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Pursuant to Section 14 of Article 3.4.1.1 of the Code of Good Governance, the BVC has information available to the general public about the types of shares issued by the Company, the number of shares in reserve, authorized capital, and the subscribed and paid capital: http://www.bvc.com.co/ gobierno/homeFiles/Capital_Social_BVC.pdf. In turn, Article 8 of the By-laws describes shareholders' rights regarding the type of stocks they hold. The Company's By-laws are available for public perusal on the BVC's website at http://www.bvc.com.co/pps/tibco/portalbvc/Home/Regulacion/BVC+Corporativo/Estatutos?action=dummy. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: In a session held on January 27, 2016, the Board of Directors approved the inclusion of Section 23 of Article 2.2 of the Board of Directors Regulation, which establishes the following as a function of the Board of Directors: “To provide the shareholders with a detailed report about transactions that can result in a dilution of stock (case of a capital increase and waiver of the right of preference in the subscription, merger, spin-off, or segregation). The report shall include the opinion of an independent external consultant appointed by the Board of Directors, and it will be made available to the shareholders prior to the Meeting. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Date of implementation N.A. Amendment dates July 29, 2009 Amendment dates N.A. 60 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 61 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 4: Information and communication with shareholders G4-37 4.2. The Company has access and use mechanisms aimed exclusively at shareholders, including a link on the website accessible only to shareholders, an office for shareholders and investors relations, regular informational meetings, etc., for them to express 4.1. The Company has a corporate website in both Spanish and English, with a link to Corporate Governance or shareholders and their opinions, voice their concerns and make suggestions about the Company's endeavors, or anything pertaining to their condiinvestor relations or equivalent that includes financial and non-financial information under the terms proposed by recommendation as shareholders. tions 32.3 and 33.3, which will never disclose confidential information about the company or pertaining to industrial secrets, or information that may be used to the detriment of society if disseminated. 4.2 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: 4.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A Yes. The BVC has the following Investor Relations permanent link: http://www.bvc.com.co/pps/tibco/portalbvc . In addition, the BVC has an Investor Service department where investors can contact the Company via email at cbarrios@bvc.com.co, telephone number 571 313 9800 Ext. 1167 or Fax: YES. Describe briefly: (+57 1) 3139766. Yes. The BVC's website has Spanish and English versions. Both versions include an Investor Relations link which has non-confidential financial and Similarly, pursuant to Articles 8.1.1.1. and 8.3.1.2., shareholders may visit BVC's offices located at Carrera 7 No. 71-21 Torre B Piso 12, Bogotá, Colomnon-financial information that may be consulted by shareholders under the terms proposed by recommendations 32.3 and 33.3. The Spanish version bia, or they can voice their opinions, concerns or suggestions about the Company or anything pertaining to their condition as shareholders via email is available at: http://www.bvc.com.co/pps/tibco/portalbvc/Home and the English version is at: http://en.bvc.com.co/pps/tibco/portalbvc. at secretaria@bvc.com.co or use one of the channels established in Annex 5 of the Code of Good Governance. Moreover, the following links can direct shareholders to the Corporate Governance portal in Spanish: http://www.bvc.com.co/gobierno/mostrarpagina. The BVC also schedules quarterly meetings to present results. jsp and in English: http://en.bvc.com.co/gobierno/mostrarpagina.jsp. In addition, Articles 3.2.1.1., 3.2.2.1., 3.2.2.2., 3.2.3.1., and 3.4.1.1. of the Code of Good Governance describe the information available to shareholders NO. Explain: in various scenarios. Paragraph 1 of Article 6 of the General Shareholders Meeting Regulation regarding the right of inspection specifies that documents that describe industrial secrets or information that if disseminated could be used to the detriment of society are not subject to this right. NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates December 14, 2011 62 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 63 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4.3. The Company hosts quarterly results presentation events for its shareholders and market analysts that can be attended in 4.4. The Company organizes or participates in presentations, events and fixed income forums primarily aimed at investors in debt person or remotely via teleconferences (conference, videoconference, etc.). instruments and market analysts which update the issuer's business indicators, liabilities management, financial policies, ratings, and issuer's performance on covenants, etc. 4.4 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 4.3 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Every quarter the BVC submits its Consolidated Financial Results in IFRS. It is addressed to all investors and published on the Company's website Yes. The BVC conducts quarterly results presentation events which are announced at the website and via email to investors and market analysts. Reat: http://www.bvc.com.co/pps/tibco/portalbvc/Home/Accionistas/Informaci%C3%B3n+Financiera/Resultados+Trimestrales?action=dummy. sults are presented as teleconferences, available both in English and Spanish at the following link, including the presentation: However, at this time the BVC is not a fixed income debt issuer. It should be noted that the BVC promotes the fixed income market through the “private http://www.bvc.com.co/pps/tibco/portalbvc/Home/Accionistas/Informaci%C3%B3n+Financiera/Resultados+Trimestrales?action=dummy debt visionaries” program initiative (developed in August) and launched in the framework of the Colombian Private Debt Market Forum organized by the BVC. At this forum, the research document entitled “Private Debt Market: Evolution and Diagnostic” was presented. The event was hosted by the BVC and featured a discussion panel with representatives from financial market trade unions who analyzed inhibitors that need to be removed in order to develop the private debt market in Colombia. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates November 23, 2015 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 64 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 65 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4.5. The Company's By-laws stipulate that a shareholder or group of shareholders that represents at least five percent (5%) of the 4.6. In the exercise of this right, the Company has a written procedure with the specifications included in recommendation 4.6. capital may request Specialized Audits on matters other than those audited by the Company's Statutory Auditor. On the basis of its capital structure, the Company may select a percentage lower than five percent (5%). 4.6 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Article 78 of the By-laws sets forth the procedure for shareholders to exercise their right to ask the BVC's CEO for specialized audits. The request 4.5 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A shall be made in writing and describe the reasons that motivated the request, the facts, and the transactions to be audited, as well as the duration, and list three (3) firms of known reputation and background to conduct the audit. YES. Describe briefly: It is necessary for specialized audits to be requested by a number of shareholders representing at least five percent (5%) of the subscribed shares. This Yes. Article 78 of the BVC's By-laws establishes the possibility that a number of shareholders representing at least five percent (5%) of the subscribed percentage has been established because the legal restrictions on the share ownership of the Company are considered sufficient for the protection of shares can ask the CEO to conduct specialized audits on matters other than those audited by the Company's Statutory Auditor, at the expense and minority shareholders. liability of the shareholder(s) who requested the audit. When the percentage required to request the specialized audit is comprised of a plural number of shareholders, they shall designate a representative Along those same lines, paragraph e) of Article 12 of the General Shareholders Meeting Regulation states that shareholders at a Meeting have the right who will handle all the formalities. The Company's Board of Directors shall respond to the request within then (10) business days and provide the name to request specialized audits in the manner and terms stipulated in the By-laws of the firm selected to conduct the audit, as well as its start date. The cost and responsibility of the specialized audit shall be borne by the shareholders that requested it, and thereafter the results of the specialized audit shall be disclosed in the first instance to the BVC's CEO, who will have ten (10) business days to decide on the matter. Subsequently, the results NO. Explain: and statement by the CEO will be disclosed to the Board of Directors and the oversight and control entities within ten (10) business days following issuance of the results. Finally, in the case of possible infringements of legal standards, the case will be referred to the corresponding judicial and investigative entities. NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation November 28, 2003 Date of implementation November 28, 2003 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 66 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 67 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 5: Administrative actions taken for exchange transactions or company take-overs G4-41 Measure Number 6: Listing of companies included in Conglomerates G4-34, G4-38 5.1. Members of the Board of Directors and Senior Management have expressly accepted in the Acceptance Letters or agreements 6.1. Without prejudice to each individual company included in the Conglomerate and the responsibilities of its administrative bothat upon notification of a tender offer or other relevant transactions like mergers or divisions, there shall be periods during which dies, there is an organizational structure for the Conglomerate that defines the administrative bodies and key individual positions they agree to not directly or indirectly trade Company shares through an intermediary. for the three levels of governance (shareholders meeting, Board of Directors, and Senior Management), as well as the relations between them. This structure is public, clear and transparent, and able to determine clear lines of responsibility and communication and facilitates strategic and effective orientation, supervision, control and administration of the Conglomerate. 5.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: 6.1 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A Yes. It should be noted that the legal system applicable to the BVC sets forth express prohibitions in matters that coincide with the objective proposed YES. Describe briefly: by this measure. In effect, Article 8 of Decree Law 1172 / 1980 establishes that administrators at Brokerage Firms are prohibited from acquiring listed stocks. In addition to that, Article 10 of Law 27 / 1990 and Article 5.3.1.3 of the BVC's General Regulation stipulate that the Exchange's legal representatives shall not trade listed securities, neither directly nor through intermediaries. They must have prior express authorization from the Board of Directors and it must be for reasons other than speculation. Likewise, Article 4.3. of the BVC's Ethics and Conduct Manual, included in Annex 2 of the Code of Good Governance, indicates that Company employees or their subordinates, including their legal representatives, shall not acquire listed stocks. Finally, it shall be noted that pursuant to Article 54 of Law 510 / 1999, no beneficial owner may hold a share greater than 10% of the subscribed NO. Explain: capital. In view of the above, and pursuant to Article 6.15.2.1.1 of Decree 2555 / 2010, there is no place for an obligatory tender offer on stocks issued by the BVC. Within the BVC there is a clear division of the levels of governance described in Article 28 of the Company's By-laws. Articles 29 and 31 of the Company's By-laws describe the relations between these administrative bodies with regard to the nature and functions of the General Meeting of Shareholders; Articles 46 and 50 describe the nature and functions of the Board of Directors, and Articles 55, 58, and 59 describe the duties of the CEO and its alternates, as well as other Legal Representatives. NO. Explain: However, regarding conglomerate guidelines, the BVC is in the process of evaluation and design of the conglomerate's organizational structure, which defines the administrative bodies and individual key positions that facilitate strategic orientation, supervision, oversight and effective administration of the Conglomerate. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation N.A . Date of implementation N.A . Amendment dates N.A . Amendment dates N.A . 68 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 69 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 7: Settlement of Disputes G4-41 6.2. The Parent Company and its most important subordinates have defined a reference framework of institutional relations with 7.1. Except in the case of disputes among shareholders or between shareholders and the company or its Board of Directors, which the signing of a public agreement approved by the Board of Directors of each company, which regulates the topics indicated in because of their legal character must necessarily be resolved by ordinary jurisdiction, the Company's by-laws include conflict-solrecommendation 6.2. ving mechanisms such as direct agreement, amicable settlement, conciliation, and arbitration. 6.2 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A 7.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Article 82 of the By-laws provides conflict-resolution mechanisms such as direct settlement and arbitration to settle any differences that may arise between shareholders or administrators and the Company, among shareholders, and between the latter and administrators. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: To date, the BVC has signed service level agreements that regulate some important aspects of the relations between companies that are part of the Conglomerate. Additionally, section 13 of Article 31 of Company's By-laws establishes that one of the Board of Director's functions is to approve important transactions conducted between economic associates, except for operations that simultaneously comply with the following conditions: (i) Conducted at market rates set generally by the entity acting as provider of the good or service in question, and (ii) Pertaining to transactions of the issuer's regular course of business that are not material. In addition to the aforementioned, the BVC is in the process of assessing and designing agreements that define the framework of institutional relations between the BVC and its subordinates that include aspects described in this measure, with the aim of strengthening existing agreements. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation N.A . Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Amendment dates N.A . Amendment dates March 26, 2015 70 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 71 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE I. GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS MEETING Measure Number 9: Regulations for the General Shareholders Meeting G4-43 Measure Number 8: Duties and Scope G4-41 9.1. The Company has a General Shareholders Meeting Regulation that governs all matters pertaining to it, from notice of meetings to preparing information to be received by shareholders, attendance, and the development and exercise of shareholders' political 8.1. In addition to other functions attributed to the General Shareholders Meeting by the legal framework, the By-laws expressly rights. This is to ensure that shareholders are perfectly informed of the full schedule and development of the Meetings. define the General Shareholders Meeting's functions, as indicated in recommendation 8.1., and emphasize their exclusive, nondelegable nature. 8.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 9.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Pursuant to Article 31 of the By-laws, the functions indicated in this recommendation are inherent to the General Shareholders Meeting, and Yes. Pursuant to section 11 of Article 31 of the By-laws, it is the function of the General Shareholders Meeting to develop its own Regulation. In pursuant to paragraph 1 therein, these functions are nondelegable. that sense, the General Shareholders Meeting approved the latest amendment to its operations Regulation on March 26, 2016, in accordance with Document Number 026 of the Ordinary Meeting. In addition to that, it should be noted that Article 10 of Law 27 / 1990 and Article 5.3.1.3 of the BVC's General Regulation stipulate that the Exchange's legal representatives shall not trade listed securities, neither directly nor through intermediaries. They must have prior explicit authorization These Rules of Procedure are posted on the BVC website at the following link: http://www.bvc.com.co/gobierno/homeFiles/Reglamento_Asamfrom the Board of Directors, and for reasons other than speculation. Likewise, Article 4.3. of the BVC's Ethics and Conduct Manual, included in Annex blea_2015_03_26.pdf 2 of the Code of Good Governance, indicates that Company employees or their subordinates, including their legal representatives, shall not acquire listed stocks. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 72 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 73 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 10: Notification of an Assembly G4-43 10.2. In addition to the traditional and mandatory mediums included in the legal framework, the Company ensures maximum disse10.1. In order to facilitate the exercise of shareholders' right of information, the By-laws stipulate that the General Shareholders mination and publicity of the notification through the use of electronic media, including the corporate website, alerts via individual Meeting must be announced at least thirty (30) calendar days in advance, and that extraordinary meetings must be announced at emails, and if deemed pertinent, even on social media. least fifteen (15) calendar days in advance. The aforementioned without prejudice of the legal terms set forth for corporate reorganizations such as mergers, spin-offs or transformations. 10.2 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: 10.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A Yes. The BVC ensures maximum dissemination and publicity of the notification of General Shareholders Meeting via publication in a widely circulaYES. Describe briefly: ted national newspaper as a traditional means, and through publication on its website as an alternative means, at the following link: http://www. bvc.com.co/gobierno/homeFiles/Convocatoria_AGA_2015.pdf. The BVC also uses Twitter to promote and disseminate the notification of the 2015 Yes. Paragraphs b, c and f of Article 33 of the By-laws indicate that ordinary General Shareholders Meeting will be announced at least thirty (30) General Shareholders Meeting. calendar days in advance, and extraordinary meetings shall be announced at least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the meeting, except in the case of meetings to analyze end-of-year financial results, in which case the notification will come fifteen (15) business days prior to the meeting. The aforementioned pursuant to the provisions of Article 33 of the By-laws and Articles 3.2.1.1 and 3.2.3.1 of the Code of Good Governance. It the meeting topic is company transformation, merger or split, the notification of the meeting shall be made at least fifteen (15) business days in advance. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 74 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 75 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 10.3. With the aim of increasing transparency in the decision-making process during the General Shareholders Meeting, the Com10.4. Splits can only be analyzed and approved by the General Shareholders Meeting if the point was expressly included in the pany not only provides the Meeting Agenda with a point-by-point list of the topics to be debated, but it also makes available to respective meeting's notification. shareholders at the same time as the notification, or at least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the meeting, the Agreement Proposals to be presented by the Board of Directors for each point at the General Shareholders Meeting. 10.4 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 10.3 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Paragraph two of Article 31 of the BVC's By-laws stipulates that the BVC is responsible for analyzing and approving matters corresponding to a Yes. In effect, paragraph g of Article 33 of the By-laws stipulates that Shareholders must receive as part of the notification, or at least fifteen (15) change of corporate purpose, waiver of the right of preference in subscription, change of corporate headquarters, anticipated dissolution, merger, ordinary days prior to the date of the meeting, all the points to be addressed on the agenda, and the text of the proposal that the Board of Directors spin-off or segregation, provided these matters were expressly included in the notification of meeting in which they will be debated. In turn, parais to submit to shareholder voting. graph one of Article 1 of the General Shareholders Meeting Regulation includes this same rule. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 76 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 77 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 10.5. The agenda proposed by the Board of Directors accurately lists the content of the topics to be discussed, so that nothing is 10.6. In the case of By-law amendments, each article or group of articles that are substantially independent are voted on separaconcealed or disguised under inaccurate, generic or imprecise statements such as “others” or “suggestions and various”. tely. In any case, if a shareholder or group of shareholders representing at least five (5%) of the share capital makes the request, separate votes will be held for articles as needed. Shareholders are notified ahead of time of this right. 10.5 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 10.6 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A YES. Describe briefly: Yes. In that regard, paragraph d) of Article 33 of the By-laws and paragraph one of Article 5 of the General Shareholders Meeting Regulation both YES. Describe briefly: stipulate that the notification of General Shareholders Meeting must indicate the topic discriminately, ensuring that the agenda is presented to the shareholders with the precise content of the topics. Similarly, section 2 of Article 2.1.1.2 of the Code of Good Governance and paragraph b) of Article twelve of the General Shareholders Meeting Regulation stipulate that in order to be presented for shareholders’ approval, the agenda of ordinary and extraordinary meetings of the General Shareholders Meeting must break down the various matters to be discussed so as to avoid confusion, except for those points that must be discussed jointly because they are interconnected. Furthermore, not fulfilling this requirement pursuant to Article 33 of the By-laws can result in poor decisions made on said topics. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: The General Shareholders Meeting operating regulation expressly stipulates the obligation of discriminating all the points in the agenda mentioned in the notification. However, the obligation of voting separately is not expressly stipulated when the By-laws are amended. Overall, pursuant to Article 44 of the By-laws, shareholders may ask that specific topics be included for discussion in the respective Meeting. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Date of implementation N.A. Amendment dates N.A. 78 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 79 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 10.7. Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 182 of the Code of Commerce, and in order to reinforce and ensure the sha10.8. If the request is dismissed by the Board of Directors, the Board is obligated to respond in writing to requests supported by at reholder's right of inspection and information prior to the Meeting, the By-laws recognize the right of shareholders, regardless of least five (5%) percent of the share capital, or a lower percentage established by the Company in addressing the degree of concenthe size of their stock option, to propose the introduction of one or more points to be debated in the Agenda of the General Shatration of ownership, explaining the reasons that motivated its decision and informing shareholders of their right to present their reholders Meeting within a reasonable time, and provided the request for new points is justified with supporting documentation. proposals during the Meeting pursuant to the provisions of Article 182 of the Code of Commerce mentioned above. Shareholders' requests must be submitted within five (5) calendar days following publication of the notification. 10.7 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 10.8 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Article 44 of the By-laws stipulates that all shareholders, irrespective of the number of shares they possess, may propose the inclusion of one or Yes. Pursuant to the provisions of Articles 8.1.1.2 and 8.2.1.1 of the BVC's Code of Good Governance, the Company's Vice-President's Secretary is more points of debate in the agenda for the General Shareholders' Meeting, provided that the request is accompanied by justification. This request obligated to respond to the petitions or proposals submitted by shareholders in writing within fifteen (15) business days after these were recorded. must be submitted within five (5) calendar days following publication of the notification. Along those lines, paragraph a) of Article twelve of the This obligation was more explicit by the amendment to the Code of Good Governance approved by the Board of Directors on January 27, 2016, General Shareholders Meeting operation regulation includes the same rule. which amended section 1 of Article 2.1.1.2 of the Code of Good Governance. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation November 28, 2003 Date of implementation January 27, 2016 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates N.A. 80 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 81 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 10.9. If the Board of Directors accepts the request and the shareholders' time to propose topics pursuant to the preceding recom10.10. Within the same term described in Section 10.7. shareholders may also submit new substantiated Proposals of Agreement mendations has expired, the Company shall publish a supplement to the notification of General Shareholders Meeting at least on matters already included in the Agenda. For these requests, the Board of Directors shall act in a similar manner as described in fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the meeting. sections 10.8 and 10.9. 10.9 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 10.10 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Paragraph h of Article 33 of the BVC's By-laws stipulates that in the event that the Board of Directors accepts the request from a shareholder to include one or more points in the agenda of the general shareholders' meeting following expiry of the term allotted for proposing subjects, as per the procedure established by the company, a supplement to the notification of the general shareholders' meeting will be published at least fifteen (15) days prior to the meeting. Paragraph 5 of Article five of the General Shareholders Meeting operation regulation includes the same rule. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: Paragraph g) of Article eleven of the General Shareholders Meeting operation regulation sets forth the possibility that other recommendations and propositions may be submitted during the meeting that shareholders may wish to present for consideration. On January 27, 2016, the Board of Directors approved the introduction of section 2 of Article 2.1.1.2 of the Code of Good Governance which establishes that shareholders may submit new substantiated proposals on matters already included in the Meeting's Agenda within five (5) calendar days following publication of the notification. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Date of implementation N.A. Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates N.A. 82 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 83 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 10.11. The Company is obligated to use electronic communication means, primarily the corporate website with exclusive access 10.12. The Company's By-laws recognize the shareholder's right to request with sufficient notice any information or clarification for shareholders to provide them with the documents and information associated to each of the points on the Meeting's agenda. deemed pertinent, using traditional channels and/or when applicable, using new technologies for that purpose, or to submit in writing any questions deemed necessary with regard to matters included in the Agenda, documentation received or regarding public information provided by the Company. In terms of the period selected by the Company to convene the General Shareholders Meeting, the Company shall determine the period during which the shareholders may exercise this right. 10.11 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 10.12 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Pursuant to Articles 3.2.1.1 and 3.2.3.1 of the Code of Good Governance, information pertaining to the development of the General ShareholYes. Pursuant to the provisions of Article 44 of the BVC's Bylaws, all shareholders will have the right, within ten (10) calendar days following ders Meeting and specifically associated to points on the Agenda shall be published on the BVC's website. publication of the notification, to request any information or clarifications they deem pertinent and to ask any necessary questions related to the subjects included in the agenda, the documentation received, or the public information provided by the company. In said cases, the BVC shall deal Documents and information pertaining to the points on the Agenda for all the Meetings held in 2015 can be consulted on the following link: with shareholders through the Company's Secretary. http://www.bvc.com.co/gobierno/mostrarpagina.jsp#, under the menu Meetings, Meeting 2015. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation November 28, 2003 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 84 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 85 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 10.14. When the response to a shareholder can place them at an advantage, the BVC will ensure that the other shareholders will 10.13. The Company has established that information requested may be denied if pursuant to internal procedures it can be quaimmediately have access to said response concomitantly, according to the mechanisms established for that purpose, and in the lified as: i) unreasonable; ii) irrelevant in disclosing the Company's progress or interests; iii) confidential, which includes privileged same terms. information in the scope of the securities market, industrial secrets, transactions for which the Company substantially depends on secret negotiations, and iv) others whose dissemination could place the Company's competitiveness in imminent and critical danger. 10.13 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 10.14 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Article 43 of the By-laws and Article 6 of the General Shareholders Meeting operation regulation set forth rules to negate information requests Yes. Pursuant to the provisions of Article 8.1.1.2 of the Code of Good Governance, the BVC's Vice-President's Secretary shall respond in writing all based on industrial secrets or information that if disseminated could be used to the detriment of society such as privileged company information or petitions, claims or proposals made by shareholders. However, when in the Company's opinion, the response to a shareholder can place them at an contracts that disclose the company's competitive advantages. advantage, the BVC will ensure that the other shareholders will immediately have access to said response, according to the mechanisms established for that purpose, and in the same economic conditions. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation November 28, 2003 Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates July 29, 2009 86 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 87 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 11: Representation Regulation G4-49 11.2. The Company minimizes the use of proxy blank votes without voting instructions, actively promoting the use of a letter of representation standard model that the Company provides shareholders or posts on its website. The model includes the points on 11.1. Without prejudice of the limits set forth by Article 185 of the Code of Commerce, External Bulletin 24 of 2010 and the rethe Agenda and corresponding Agreement Proposals, which are decided pursuant to a previously established procedure and are gulations that amend, supplement or replace it, the Company does not limit the right of the shareholder to be represented at the submitted to shareholders for their consideration, with the goal of allowing the shareholder to indicate to his or her representative General Shareholders Meeting or to delegate his or her vote to any individual, whether shareholder or not. the direction of his or her vote for each instance as deemed appropriate. 11.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 11.2 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Pursuant to paragraph b of Article 35 of the By-laws, the BVC does not limit the right of the shareholder to be represented at the General Shareholders Meeting, or to delegate his or her vote to any individual, as long as that individual is in possession of the power of attorney indicating the name of the proxy, the person indicated as replacement, and the date or time of the meeting in which it is conferred. This representation regulation is complemented by the provisions of Article 7 of the General Shareholders Meeting Rules of Procedure. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: On its website the BVC publishes instructions to grant powers of attorney at General Shareholders Meetings, power of attorney models for individuals or legal entities, and practices deemed unsafe or unauthorized as issued by the SFC with regard to shareholders' legal representation at the Meetings. These instructions and recommendations must be taken into consideration by shareholders at the time of granting the proxy. The aforementioned is in compliance of Chapter 6 of Title I of Part III of External Bulletin 029 / 2014. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Date of implementation N.A. Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates N.A. 88 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 89 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 12: Other people in attendance besides shareholders G4-49 II. BOARD OF DIRECTORS 12.1. With the aim of revitalizing the General Shareholders Meeting's role in the composition of Corporate Intent, and in order to Measure Number 13: Board of Directors Functions G4-42 make it a more participative body, the Company's Rules of Procedure require Board of Directors members, and especially Chairs of Board of Directors committees as well as the BVC CEO, to attend Meetings and respond to shareholders' concerns. 13.1. The By-laws expressly indicate functions that may not be delegated to Senior Management, including those stipulated in recommendation 13.1. 12.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: YES NO X N/A Yes. Article 7 of the General Shareholders Meeting Rules of Procedure establishes the participants of the General Shareholders Meeting and indicates that Chairs of Board of Directors committees will attend meetings in order to respond to shareholders' concerns pertaining to company activities SI. Indique brevemente: and results obtained by every committee. NO. Explique: NO. Explain: This recommendation implies the adoption of 32 specific activities. The BVC is in compliance of 28 of the 32 recommendations. Regarding the 4 recommendations not being met, it should be noted that a paragraph in Article 50 of the BVC's By-laws indicates that the functions described in this article are the sole competence of the Board of Directors, and may not be delegated to Senior Management members. Furthermore, the BVC is working on the process of evaluating and designing the conglomerate's organizational structure which defines certain additional functions of an nondelegable nature, including approving guidelines and financial and investment policies for the Company and the Conglomerate. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation March 23, 2006 Date of implementation N.A. Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates N.A. 90 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 91 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 14: Board of Directors Regulation G4-42 13.2. Without prejudice to the autonomy of governing bodies at Subsidiary Companies, anytime the Company acts as parent company of a Conglomerate, these functions of the Board of Directors have a group focus and are developed through general policies, 14.1. The Board of Directors has approved Rules of Procedure that govern its organization and function, as well as the functions and guidelines or requests for information that respect the balance between the parent company's interests and the interests of the responsibilities of its members, Chairman and Secretary, and its duties and rights. The Rules of Procedure are disseminated to the subsidiaries and Conglomerate as a whole. shareholders and are of a binding nature for Board of Directors members. 14.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 13.2 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. The BVC's Board of Directors approved its own Rules of Procedure, and its purpose is to determine the principles of performance and functions of the Board of Directors of Bolsa de Valores de Colombia S.A. and its committees, to regulate the organization and operation thereof, and to set the standards of conduct for its members, as provided by law and in the By-laws. These Rules are mandatory for Board of Directors members and its Secretary. The Rules of Procedure are available to shareholders for consultation at the following link: http://www.bvc.com.co/gobierno/mostrarpagina.jsp. NO. Explain: The BVC is working on the process of assessing and designing the Conglomerate's organizational structure to define functions and policies for the Board of Directors that focus on the creation of an economic group and generate guidelines or requests for information that respect the balance NO. Explique: between the parent company's interests and the interests of the subsidiaries. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation N.A. Date of implementation June 27, 2007 Amendment dates N.A. Amendment dates July 25, 2012 92 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 93 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 15: Board of Directors Scope G4-42 Measure Number 16: Board of Directors Composition G4-40 15.1. The Company has statutorily opted to not designate Alternate Members to the Board of Directors. 16.1. Based on the premise that once elected, all members of the Board of Directors act in the Company's best interest, the Company engaged in an exercise of maximum transparency to identify the origin of its board members in accordance with the plan described in recommendation 16.1. 15.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 16.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. The Board of Directors does not have alternate members pursuant to Article 47 of the By-laws. Yes. The BVC provides the list of members elected for the statutory period 2015-2016, together with their curriculum vitae, at the following link: http://www.bvc.com.co/gobierno/mostrarpagina.jsp?codpage=186 This diagram identifies independent members and proprietary members. The Management Reports prepared by the Company also identify members of the Board of Directors as independent and non-independent. It should be noted that there are no executive members of the Board of Directors who are also legal representatives or part of the Company's Senior Management. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Date of implementation April 7, 2001 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 94 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 95 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 16.3. The Board of Directors provides shareholders with copies of professional profiles deemed necessary so that the various sta16.2. The Company has a procedure that is coordinated through the Remuneration and Nomination Committee or another that fulkeholders, primarily controlling or significant shareholders, families, shareholders groups and institutional shareholders, if any, and fills its functions, that allows the Board of Directors to reach objectives set forth in recommendation 16.2 through its own dynamics the Board of Directors itself, are ready to identify the most suitable candidates. and the conclusions of the annual assessments. 16.2 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 16.3 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Section 4 of Article 4.1.4.7 of the BVs Code of Good Governance indicates that the Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for reYes. Article 47 of the BVC’s By-laws describe the qualifications and requirements that Board of Directors aspiring members must meet. Additionally, viewing Board of Directors composition criteria, ensuring the candidate selection process meets legal, statutory and code of good governance stanArticle 4.1.2.3 of the Code of Good Governance describes mechanisms included in the procedure to verify qualifications and conditions of Board of dards, ensuring that candidates meet the special qualifications and conditions and have no inabilities or incompatibilities. Moreover, the Corporate Directors aspiring members to inform shareholders about the candidates so that they can decide on the most suitable ones. Governance Committee must present to shareholders the candidate proposal for membership of the Board of Directors, as well as an assessment of the work and performance of members seeking re-election or ratification, as well as their effective commitment to the role over the previous period. The BVC posts information about its By-laws and Board of Directors member profiles at the following links: http://www.bvc.com.co/pps/tibco/ portalbvc/Home/Regulacion/BVC+Corporativo/Estatutos?action=dummy y http://www.bvc.com.co/gobierno/mostrarpagina.jsp?codpage=23. During the election process there is a link to publish information about candidates nominated by shareholders. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 96 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 97 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 16.5. In addition to requirements of independence already stated in Law 964 / 2005, the Company has voluntarily adopted a defi16.4. The Company believes that evaluating curriculum vitae is an insufficient resource for shareholders in determining candidanition of independence more rigorous that what is established by said law. This definition has been adopted as a frame of reference te suitability, so it has put in place an internal procedure to assess any incompatibilities and inabilities of a legal nature and the through the Board of Directors Rule of Procedures and includes relations or connections or any nature on the part of the candidate candidate's suitability to meet the Board of Directors' needs by assessing a set of criteria that the candidates must meet in their for independent board member with controlling or significant shareholders and Related Parties, both domestic and foreign, and functional and personal profiles, and verify compliance of objective requirements to become a member of the Board of Directors, demands a double declaration of independence: (i) by the candidate before the Company, its shareholders and members of Senior and others to become an Independent member. Management, instrumented through its Letter of acceptances, and (ii) by the Board of Directors regarding the candidate’s independence. 16.4 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 16.5 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. The procedure established by the BVC to verify inabilities and incompatibilities on the part of individuals aspiring to the Board of Directors is Yes. Article 47 of the By-laws includes independence criteria that the BVC has adopted, which are more rigorous than those stipulated by Law 964 / stipulated in paragraph 6 of Article 47 of the By-laws. So the Corporate Governance Committee acts through the Board of Directors to verify inabi2005. Additionally, according to Article 4.1.2.3 of the Code of Good Governance, candidates to the Board of Directors must complete a declaration lities and incompatibilities on the part of individuals aspiring to become members of the Board of Directors. If the committee finds that a candidate of independence that matches a pre-established document. Article 3.3 of the Board of Directors Rules of Procedures establishes the independence is involved in some inability or incompatibility, said candidate may not be part of any published lists. Furthermore, Article 4.1.2.3 of the BVC's requirements. Corporate Governance Code describes the procedure to be followed by the Corporate Governance Committee to verify qualifications and conditions of candidates aspiring to the Board of Directors.. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Amendment dates December 16, 2009 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 98 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 99 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 16.6. For the Company, the Board of Directors through its Chairman and working with the Remuneration and Nomination Committee 16.7. The Board of Directors Rules of Procedures stipulates that assessing candidate suitability is an activity to be carried out prior or whichever fulfills its duties, is the most adequate body to centralize and coordinate, prior to the General Shareholders Meeting, to holding the General Shareholders Meeting, so that shareholders can have sufficient information (personal qualifications, suitabithe process of conforming the administrative body. This way, shareholders who based on their stock option aspire to be part of lity, track record, experience, integrity, etc.) about the candidates named to join it prior to elections in order to assess adequately. the Board of Directors can learn about the Board’s needs and describe their aspirations, negotiate stock balances and distribution among the different member categories, present their candidates and agree to have them assessed by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee prior to voting at the General Shareholders Meeting. 16.7 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 16.6 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Evaluating the suitability of candidates to the Board of Directors is an activity that must take place prior to holding the General Shareholders Meeting. This procedure is established in Article 47 of the By-laws, Article 4.1.2.3 of the Code of Good Governance, and the Corporate Governance Yes. Article 47 of the BVC's By-laws and Article 4.1.2.3 of the Corporate Governance Code indicate the procedure to be followed by shareholders Committee Regulation. in naming candidates prior to the General Shareholders Meeting, centralizing the process in the Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. This aspect is also governed in the committee's regulation. Additionally, Article 5.1 of the Board of Directors Rules of Procedures indicates that the Chairman of this administrative body acts as the link between shareholders and the Board of Directors, especially during the process of electing the Board of Directors. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates December 16, 2009 100 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 101 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 17: Board of Directors functional structureG4-40 17.1. The Board of Directors Rules of Procedures stipulates that Independent and Proprietary members are always majority over 17.2. Based on the minimum percentage of twenty-five percent (25%) of Independent Members set by Law 964 / 2005, the ComExecutive Members, whose number, in the case of joining the Board of Directors, is the minimum necessary to address the needs pany analyzes and voluntarily adjusts the number of Independent Members, taking into account that the number of independent for information and coordination between the Company-s Board of Directors and Senior Management. members must be in relation to the Floating Capital. 17.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 17.2 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Following the provisions of Article 47 of the Corporate Bylaws of the Exchange, the Board of Directors will have thirteen (13) members, of which YES. Describe briefly: seven (7) should be independent members. It should be noted that the BVC's Board of Directors does not have members who are legal representaYes. Given the BVC's particular legal system, independent members of its Board of Directors must comprise at least 40% (see Article 2.10.1.1.1 of tives or are part of the Company's Senior Management. This regulation is also included in Article 3.1 of the Board of Directors' Rules of Procedure. Decree 2555 / 2010). Pursuant to Article 47 of the By-laws, the absolute majority of members is independent. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 102 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 103 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 18: Board of Directors Organization G4-39 18.1. The functions of the Board of Directors' Chairman are indicated in the By-laws, and its primary responsibilities are established 18.2. The Company’s internal regulations describe the possibility that the Chairman of the Board of Directors may be treated diffein recommendation 18.1 rently than other members both in its obligations as in its compensation, resulting from the scope of its specific functions and more working time. 18.2 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A 18.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Article 71 of the By-laws stipulates the functions of the Chairman of the Board of Directors. These functions were updated in the Rules of Procedure of the Board approved by it on January 27, 2016. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: Although the Chairman of the Board of Directors has more responsibilities than other members, as of December 31, 2015, the BVC's internal regulation did not consider differential treatment for the Chairman, especially regarding fees. As of January 27, this regulation is included in Article 5.1 of the BVC Board of Directors' Rules of Procedure. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation N.A. Date of implementation March 26, 2015 Amendment dates N.A. Amendment dates N.A. 104 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 105 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 18.3. The By-laws include the rules for naming the Board of Directors Secretary, including those indicated in recommendation 18.3. 18.4. The Board of Directors Rules of Procedure establish the functions of the Secretary, which includes those contained in recommendation 18.4. 18.4 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 18.3 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. The Secretary of the Board of Directors is responsible for the following functions, pursuant to Article 71 of the By-laws and 5.3 of the Regulations of said administrative body: to supervise the formal and material legality of the Board’s actions and to guarantee that its procedures and rules of governance are respected; to safeguard all company documents; to duly record meeting proceedings in the Minutes Book and to attest to the agreements by corporate bodies that act as Secretary; to publish the notification of meetings of the Board of Directors and its committee, and to submit pertinent material in a timely manner, among others. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: Article 71 of the By-laws states that the company will have a Secretary appointed by the BVC CEO. It also states that the Secretary will act as Secretary of the General Meeting and of the Board of Directors and may not be a member thereof. The Board of Directors determined that all Company Vice-presidents must be appointed and dismissed by the BVC CEO. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation March 26, 2015 Date of implementation N.A. Amendment dates N.A. Amendment dates N.A. 106 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 107 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 18.5. The Board of Directors has constituted a Remuneration and Nomination committee. 18.6. The Board of Directors has constituted a Risk committee. 18.5 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 18.6 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Pursuant to Article 50 of the By-laws, the BVC's Board of Directors proposed the creation of the Corporate Governance Committee. The BVC's Yes. Pursuant to Article 50 of the By-laws, the BVC’s Board of Directors proposed the creation of the Permanent Audit and Risk Committee. Said Board of Directors proposed that the Corporate Governance Committee would assume the functions described in Código País recommendations at Committee's functions and operating rules are stipulated in Article 4.1.4.15 of the Code of Good Governance. As of January 27, 2016, the Board of the BVC and put the Remuneration and Nomination committee in charge. These provisions are found in Article 4.1.4.7 of the Code of Good GoverDirectors transferred said function to said Committee's Rules. nance. As of January 27, the functions of the Corporate Governance Committee are defined in its Regulations. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 108 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 109 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 18.8. If the Company has deemed it unnecessary to constitute all these committees, their functions have been distributed among 18.7. The Board of Directors has constituted a Corporate Governance Committee. existing committees or were assumed by the Board of Directors in full. 18.7 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 18.8 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Pursuant to Article 50 of the By-laws, the BVC's Board of Directors proposed the creation of the Corporate Governance Committee. The CorYES. Describe briefly: porate Governance Committee's functions are stipulated in Article 4.1.4.7 of the Code of Good Governance. As of January 27, the functions of the The BVC has constituted four committees: Administration and Finance Committee, Corporate Governance Committee, Regulation Committee, Audit Corporate Governance Committee are defined in its Regulations. and Risk Committee. Said committees exercise the functions assigned by the Board of Directors in Articles 4.1.4.3, 4.1.4.7, 4.1.4.11, 4.1.4.15, of the Corporate Governance Code, respectively. It should be noted that the functions of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee are exercised by the Corporate Governance Committee. The functions of the Risk Committee are specifically assigned to the Audit Committee of the BVC's Board of Directors. As of January 27, 2016, the Board of Directors stipulated that committee rules of operations would be included in their respective Regulations. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 110 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 111 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 18.9. Every Board of Directors committee has Rules of Procedure that govern the details of its formation, the issues and functions 18.10. Board of Directors committees are exclusively conformed by Independent or Proprietary members, with a minimum of three on which the committee must work, and its operation, paying special attention to the communication channels between the com(3) members, and presided by an Independent member. In the case of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee, Independent mittees and the Board of Directors, and in the case of Conglomerates, to the relations and coordination mechanisms between Board Members are always the majority. of Directors committees of the parent company, and subsidiaries, if any. 18.10 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 18.9 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. It is important to clarify that the BVC's Board of Directors has no executive members as part of its formation. In addition, Article 50 of the By-laws and Articles 4.1.4.8 and 4.1.4.16 of the Corporate Governance Code indicate that the Corporate Governance Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee are presided by an independent member in accordance with their Rules of Procedure. In both cases, the majority are always independent members. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: Each committee's rules of operations are included in the Corporate Code of Good Governance. As of January 27, 2016, the Board of Directors approved the amendment to the Code of Good Governance which removed each committee's regulations and compiled said provisions in separate documents. At the same time, the BVC is in the process of structuring and designing relations and coordination mechanisms for subsidiaries of BVC. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Date of implementation N.A. Amendment dates N.A. Amendment dates N.A. 112 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 113 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 18.11. The Board of Directors Committees can obtain on-going or occasional help from Senior Management members who have 18.12. In forming its Committees, the Board of Directors considers the profiles, knowledge and professional experience of the experience on matters of their competence, and/or outside experts. members as it pertains to the Committee's subject matter 18.11 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 18.12 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Section 5 of Article 4.1.4.18 of the Code of Good Governance authorizes committees to invite third parties and/or outside experts to their meeYES. Describe briefly: tings, and to request assistance from the BVC's Senior Management. Yes. The BVC's Board of Directors considers the profiles of every member according to their background and specialty as per their curriculum vitae and other rules of assessment. The above pursuant to Articles 4.1.4.1 and subsequent of the Code of Good Governance. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 114 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 115 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 18.13. The minutes of each committee meeting are taken and a copy is forwarded to all the Board of Directors members in the Com18.14. Unless legal or regulatory frameworks require the creation of committees, in the case of Conglomerates the internal regulapany. If the committees have been delegated decision-making powers, the minutes are adjusted to the requirements of Articles tion stipulates that Board of Directors at Subsidiaries may opt out of constituting committees intended to deal with certain matters. 189 and 421 of the Code of Commerce. Instead, these tasks may be assumed by the Parent Company's Board of Directors Committees, without this entailing a transfer of the Board of Directors' responsibilities from the subsidiaries to the Parent Company. 18.13 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 18.14 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. For each Committee meeting there will be minutes that will be signed by their Chairman and Secretary. Said minutes contain all the formalities of Articles 189 and 431 of the Code of Commerce, and are placed at members’ disposal within the period stipulated in Article 4.1.4.18 of the Code of Good Governance. Moreover, Article 7.2 of the Board of Directors Rules of Procedure indicates that all members shall have access to the minutes five (5) days prior to the respective meeting. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: Boards of Directors at BVC subsidiaries do not provide the possibility of not creating specific committees to deal with certain matters. The BVC is in the process of assessing and designing general policies for relations between the Parent Company and its subsidiaries. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation N.A. Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates N.A. 116 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 117 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 18.15. The Audit Committee's main task is to assist the Board of Directors in its supervision function, by assessing accounting pro18.16. Audit Committee members are sufficiently experienced in accounting, finance and other related matters that they are able cedures and relations with the Statutory Auditor, and in general, through a revision of the Company's Control Architecture, including to decide rigorously on issues within committee jurisdiction and understand its scope and complexity. an audit of the Risk Management System implemented by the Company. 18.16 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 18.15 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Members of the BVC's Audit and Risk Committee are experienced in accounting, finance and other related matters. The aforementioned can be verified in each member's Curriculum Vitae, posted on the BVC's website. Yes. Pursuant to Article 4.1.4.14 of the Code of Good Governance, the Audit and Risks Committee is a body that supports the Board of Directors’ functions regarding monitoring the BVC’s internal controls and its oversight responsibilities with respect to risk management, assessment of accounting procedures, review of risk management system audits, and verification of the audit function, and the relationship between the Board of Directors and the Statutory Auditor. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates June 27, 2007 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 118 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 119 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 18.17. At the request of the General Shareholders Meeting Chair, the Chair of the Audit Committee shall inform the General Share18.18. The Audit Committee’s Rules of Procedure describe its functions as indicated in recommendation 18.18. holders Meeting concerning specific aspects of the work performed by the Committee; i.e., an analysis of the scope and content of the Statutory Auditor’s report. 18.17 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 18.18 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A YES. Describe briefly: Yes. The Chair of the Audit Committee presents a report to the General Shareholders Meeting covering specific aspects of the work performed by the YES. Describe briefly: Audit and Risk Committee, and addressing shareholders' questions and concerns in matters of its jurisdiction, in accordance with Article 4.1.4.15 of the Code of Good Governance. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: This recommendation implies the adoption of 22 specific activities; the BVC is in compliance with 18 of them. With regard to the remaining 4, it is pertinent to mention that on January 27, 2016, the Board of Directors approved the amendment to the Code of Good Governance, transferring and complementing the Audit and Risk Committee's functions and incorporating those that were pending compliance as of December 31, 2015. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation N.A. Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates N.A. 120 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 121 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 18.19. The Remuneration and Nomination Committee's primary objective is to assist the Board of Directors in the exercise of its 18.20. Some Members of the Remuneration and Nomination committee are sufficiently experienced in strategy, human resources decision-making and guidance functions in matters of nominations and remuneration for Board and Senior Management members, (recruitment and selection, hiring, training, personnel management and administration), salary policy, and similar matters to unand to watch over the observance of corporate governance regulations, periodically inspecting their compliance, recommendations derstand the scope and complexity of these matters in the Company. and principles (in cases in which this function is not expressly attributed to another committee in the Company). 18.19 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 18.20 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Pursuant to Article 4.1.4.6 of the Code of Good Governance, the Corporate Governance Committee's primary objective, which fulfills the duties Yes. Members that comprise the BVC's Corporate Governance Committee are experienced in strategy, human resources, salary policy and similar of Remuneration and Nomination committee, is to assist the Board of Directors efforts regarding the BVC's good governance, assessing candidates matters, as can be ascertained upon revision of their curriculum vitae posted on the Company's website. in the election process, recommending fees for Board members, assessing its own performance and that of its advisors by periodically checking compliance, recommendations and principles of corporate governance. It also supports the Board in complying with its function to evaluate the Senior Management of the Company, and the evaluation of the candidates for CEO of the Company. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 122 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 123 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 18.21. At the request of the General Shareholders Meeting Chairman, the Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Com18.22. The Remuneration and Nomination Committee's Rules of Procedure describe its functions as indicated in recommendation mittee can inform the General Shareholders Meeting concerning specific aspects of the work performed by the Committee; i.e., 18.22. monitoring the Board of Directors and Senior Management remuneration policies. 18.22 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A 18.21 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Article 4.1.4.7 of the Code of Good Governance stipulates that the Corporate Governance Committee shall inform the General Shareholders Meeting of its performance during the period and address questions posed by shareholders in matters of their jurisdiction. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: This recommendation implies the adoption of 26 specific activities; the BVC is in compliance with 18 of them. With regard to the remaining 8, it is pertinent to mention that on January 27, 2016, the Board of Directors approved the amendment to the Code of Good Governance, transferring and complementing the Corporate Governance Committee's functions and incorporating those that were pending compliance as of December 31, 2015. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation N.A. Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates N.A. Amendment dates March 18, 2015 124 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 125 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 18.23. The Risk Committee’s primary objective is to assist the Board of Directors in the compliance of its supervision responsibili18.24. At the request of the General Shareholders Meeting Chair, the Risk Committee’s Chair can inform the General Shareholders ties concerning risk management. Meeting of specific aspects concerning the work performed by the committee. 18.23 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 18.24 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Pursuant to Article 4.1.4.14 of the Code of Good Governance, the Audit and Risks Committee is a body that supports the Board of Directors' YES. Describe briefly: functions regarding monitoring the BVC's internal controls and its oversight responsibilities with respect to risk management, assessment of acYes. Pursuant to Article 4.1.4.15 of the Code of Good Governance, the Audit and Risk Committee shall inform the General Shareholders Meeting of counting procedures, review of risk management system audits, and, verification of the audit function, and the relationship between the Board of matters proposed by shareholders within its jurisdiction. Directors and the Statutory Auditor. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 126 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 127 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 18.25. The Risk Committee’s Rules of Procedure describe the functions stipulated in recommendation 18.25, with any amendments 18.26. The primary task of the Corporate Governance Committee is to assist the Board of Directors in its functions of proposals and necessary to distinguish between companies that are part of the financial or real sector of the economy, and without prejudice of supervision of the corporate governance measures adopted by the Company. the functions assigned to this committee by current regulations. 18.26 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 18.25 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Pursuant to Article 4.1.4.6 of the Code of Good Governance, the Corporate Governance Committee's primary objective, which fulfills the duties of Remuneration and Nomination committee, is to assist the Board of Directors efforts regarding the BVC's good governance, assessing candidates in the election process, recommending fees for Board members, assessing its own performance and that of its advisors by periodically checking compliance, recommendations and principles of corporate governance. It also supports the Board in complying with its function to evaluate the Senior Management of the Company, and the evaluation of the candidates for CEO of the Company. This committee also has the function of ensuring compliance of corporate governance policies, regulations and practices, as well as compliance of the Ethics and Conduct Manual. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: This recommendation implies the adoption of 14 specific activities; the BVC is in compliance with 9 of them. With regard to the remaining 5, it is pertinent to mention that on January 27, 2016, the Board of Directors approved the amendment to the Code of Good Governance, transferring and complementing the Audit and Risk Committee’s functions and incorporating those that were pending compliance as of December 31, 2015. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation N.A. Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates N.A. 128 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 129 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 19: Board of Directors Operations G4-42 18.27. The Corporate Governance Committee's Rules of Procedure describe its functions as indicated in recommendation 18.27. 19.1 The Chairman of the Board of Directors, with the help of the BVC CEO and Secretary, prepares a work plan for the Board of Directors for the assessed period. This tool helps determine a reasonable number of ordinary meetings per year, and their estimated duration. 18.27 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 19.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Pursuant to Articles 4.1.4.6, 4.1.4.7 and 4.1.3.3 of the Corporate Governance Code, the Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for the YES. Describe briefly: functions described in this measure. Yes. Included in the functions of the Chairman of the Board of Directors described in Article 71 of the By-laws is coordinating the Board of Directors' operations through the Secretary General with the implementation of an annual work plan. At the same time, Article 3.3.1.2 of the Code of Good Governance indicates that subjects included in the annual work plans for the Board and its Committees will be guidelines for the effective management of subjects for each of the meetings. However, the information in said plans may be modified by BVC management, if necessary. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation March 26, 2015 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates N.A. 130 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 131 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 19.2. Except for entities subject to oversight which because of their nature are obligated to hold at least one (1) meeting per month, 19.3. One (1) or two (2) Board of Directors meetings a year have a focus clearly aimed at defining and monitoring the Company's the Company’s Board of Directors holds between eight (8) and twelve (12) ordinary meetings per year. strategy. 19.2 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 19.3 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Article 51 of the By-laws and 6.1 of the Board of Directors' Rules of Procedure indicate that ordinary meetings are held at least once a month on Yes. The BVC's Board of Directors meets two times per year, in August and November, to review the Company's strategic corporate plans. This is in the day and time indicated on the notification, at the company's main place of business, unless otherwise stated on the notification. accordance with the annual work plan approved by the Board of Directors at the beginning of the year. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Date of implementation March 18, 2015 Amendment dates July 25, 2012 Amendment dates N.A. 132 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 133 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 19.4. The Board of Directors approves a schedule of ordinary meetings without prejudice of being able to hold extraordinary mee19.5. Five (5) days in advance, members of the Board of Directors receive the meeting notification and documents or information tings as often as necessary. related to each point in the Agenda, so that the members can participate actively and make reasonable decisions. 19.5 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 19.4 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Pursuant to Article 3.3.1.2 of the Corporate Governance Code and Articles 7.1 and 7.2 of the Board of Directors Rules of Procedure, five (5) calendar days prior to the meeting, the BVC provides members of the Board and its committees information related to each point in the Agenda. Yes. Pursuant to Article 6.1 of the Board of Directors' Rules of Procedure, it is the function of the Board of Directors to approve the schedule of ordinary meetings presented by the secretary. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates July 25, 2012 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 134 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 135 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 19.6. The Chairman of the Board of Directors, with the assistance of the Board's Secretary, assumes the ultimate responsibility in 19.7. The ultimate responsibility for preparing Board of Directors' meeting Agendas lies with the Chairman of the Board of Direcensuring members receive information sufficiently in advance and that the information is useful. For that reason, quality must pretors, and not with the Company's CEO. The Agenda follows certain parameters that make it possible to follow a logical order in the vail above quantity in the set of documents provided (Board of Director's dashboard). presentation of topics and discussions. 19.6 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 19.7 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Article 71 of the By-laws describes functions of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, including ensuring that timely and appropriate inforYES. Describe briefly: mation is provided to members of the Board of Directors, directly or through the Board's Secretary. Yes. Pursuant to Article 71 of the By-laws, it is the duty of the Chairman of the Board to assist in the preparation of meeting agendas, in coordination with the company CEO and the Secretary of the Board of Directors. Similarly, Article 5.1 of the Bolsa de Valores de Colombia S.A.'s Board of Directors Rules of Procedure stipulates that the Chairman of the Board of Directors is responsible for arranging and approving the Agenda prepared by the Secretary. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation March 26, 2015 Date of implementation March 26, 2015 Amendment dates N.A. Amendment dates N.A. 136 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 137 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 19.8. Attendance by members to Board of Directors and committee meetings is made public by the Company on its Annual Corpo19.9. Every year the Board of Directors assesses the efficacy of its work as a collegiate body, as well as that of its committees and rate Governance Report as well as on its corporate website. individual members, including a peer assessment, and the reasonableness of its internal regulations and the dedication and performance of its members. On that basis, it proposes amendments to its organization and operations deemed pertinent. In the case of the Conglomerate, the parent company's Board of Directors demands that the assessment be carried out at the Boards of Directors of its subsidiaries. 19.8 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 19.9 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Article 3.4.1.1 of the Code of Good Governance stipulates that part of the information made available to the general public through the website Yes. Pursuant to Article 4.1.3.3 of the Code of Good Governance, every year the Board of Directors engages in individual and collective self-assesis the annual corporate governance report and annual report for each committee. Both documents include attendance by members of the Board sments of its members and of the Board of Directors as a collegiate body. This assessment aims to establish levels of efficacy and efficiency in the and committees to the meetings. compliance of its duties and functions. Such assessment is practiced and reported by an outside consultant hired especially for that purpose. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates July 29, 2009 Amendment dates February 26, 2014 138 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 139 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 20: Rights and Duties of the Members of the Board of Directors G4-40, G4-45 19.10. The Board of Directors alternates between internal assessments and external assessments made by independent advisors. 20.1. The Board of Directors Regulation complements the provisions of the regulatory framework with regards to the rights and duties of the Board of Directors Members. 19.10 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 20.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Article 4.1.3.3 of the Code of Good Governance, through the application of the individual and collective self-assessment methodology, the Yes. Article 4.1 of the BVC's Board of Directors Rules of Procedure complements the rights and duties established in Article 50 of the By-laws and individual participation of each member of the Board of Directors will be examined, the performance of the Board of Directors as a whole, and the Article 4.1.1.2 of the Code of Good Governance. relevance, depth, and frequency the different subjects must be addressed by the Board of Directors and its Committees. For that purpose, the means and mechanisms defined by the Board of Directors shall be utilized. These include utilizing an external source. Such assessment is practiced and reported by an outside consultant hired especially for that purpose. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Amendment dates February 26, 2014 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 140 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 141 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 20.2. The Board of Directors Regulation develops the Company's understanding regarding the duties of Board of Directors members 20.3. The Board of Directors Regulation develops the content of the rights of Board of Directors members referred to by recomreferred to by recommendation 20.2. mendation 20.3. 20.2 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 20.3 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Pursuant to Article 4.1 of the Board of Directors Rules of Procedure develops the understanding of the duties enshrined in Article 50 of the Yes. Pursuant to Article 31 of the By-laws, Articles 3.3.1.1 and subsequent, 4.1.2.5 of the Code of Good Governance develops the rights of the Board By-laws and Article 4.1.1.2 of the Code of Good Governance. of Directors members to receive fees and timely information, to have the support of experts and to receive induction and ongoing updates. Furthermore, the Board of Directors Rules of Procedure develop the topics of the recommendations in Articles 7.1 and 9.1. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 142 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 143 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 21: Conflicts of Interest G4-41 21.2. The procedure to manage conflicts of interest distinguishes the nature of the conflicts, differentiating between a sporadic and permanent conflict of interest. If the conflict of interest is sporadic, the applicable procedure indicates the rules and steps needed. 21.1. The Company has a policy and procedure that is defined and formalized in the internal regulations for the understanding, These must be relatively easy to manage and hard to elude to the affected party. In the case of permanent conflicts of interests, administration and resolution of conflict of interest situations, either directly or indirectly through Related Parties that can affect the procedure indicates that if the situation affects the Company's overall operations, then it is considered cause for mandatory Board of Directors members and other Administrators. resignation by the affected party, as it has become impossible to exercise his or her position. 21.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 21.2 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Article 77 of the By-laws and Articles 4.1.1.2, 7.1.1.1 and subsequent and the Code of Good Governance describe the policy and procedures to reveal in a timely and autonomous manner, any conflict of interest that might arise between a member of the Board of Directors and the Exchange or its shareholders, parent offices, controllers or subsidiaries, and also about any situation that might potentially create possible conflicts of interest. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: On January 27, 2016, the Board of Directors approved an amendment to the Code of Good Governance which differentiates between sporadic and permanent conflict of interest, indicating the rules or steps to be followed and in the case of permanent conflicts, specifying the procedure on the part of the company official involved in the conflict. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation November 28, 2003 Date of implementation N.A. Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates N.A. 144 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 145 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 21.3. Members of the Board of Directors, legal representatives, members of Senior Management and other Company Managers periodically inform the Board of Directors of the relations, either direct or indirect, that they engage in among themselves or with 21.4. Relevant situations of conflicts of interest, understood as those that would force the affected party to abstain from a meeting other entities or structures belonging to the Conglomerate of which the issuer is a part, or with the issuer, or with providers, or with and/or voting where members of the Board of Directors and other Administrators are present, are included in the public information clients or any other stakeholders that could result in situations of conflicts of interests, or sway the direction of their opinion or that the Company publishes every year on its website. vote. This procedure is used to construct a “map of Related Parties” for Administrators. 21.3 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 21.4 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Members of the Board of Directors reveal in a timely manner, and in the way indicated in the corporate bylaws, any conflict of interest that might arise between a member of the Board of Directors and the Exchange or its shareholders, parent offices, controllers or subsidiaries, and also about any situation that might potentially create possible conflicts of interest. Moreover, any conflict of interest that may arise between them and the BVC or its shareholders, and parent, controlling, or subordinate companies must be disclosed. To that purpose, the members must complete the declaration of eventual conflicts of interest and self-assessment forms provided by the Exchange pursuant to Sections 5 and 11 of Article 4.1.1.2 of the Code of Good Governance. In addition, Article 6.9 of the Board of Directors Rules of Procedure indicates that at the time of voting, members of the Board may declare themselves banned from voting when there is any kind of conflict of interest. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: To date, situations of potential conflicts of interest are not part of the public information published annually by the Company. Notwithstanding the aforementioned, Board of Directors' documents expressly include events in which some member abstains from participating because he or she is involved in a potential conflict of interest situation. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation N.A. Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates N.A. 146 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 147 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 22: Transactions with Related Parties G4-9, G4-17 21.5. For those purposes, the definition of Related Parties applicable to the Company is consistent with International Accounting Standard number 24 (IAS 24). 22.1. The Company has a policy that defines the specific procedure to assess, approve and disclose transactions with Related Parties, including outstanding balances and relations between them, except for transactions that have a specific regulation, 21.5 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 22.1 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. As of January 1, 2012, the BVC voluntarily and in advance decided to adopt international accounting standards. The standards were adopted fully. So the preparation, presentation and dissemination of all the Company’s accounting and financial information is carried out under these principles which include IAS 24. The BVC consolidated financial statements fully address enrollment criteria stipulated in international accounting principles. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: No. Even though Article 31 of the By-laws and Article 3.2.2.1 of the Code of Good Governance stipulate the BVC's obligation to include transactions with related parties in its financial statements and in general in the accounting and financial information reported to its stakeholders and to the general public, given that the recommendation requires a specific assessment, approval and disclosure procedure and inasmuch as these aspects are not fully defined, this recommendation is not fully met. The organization will be working on these aspects in 2016. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation January 1, 2012 Date of implementation N.A. Amendment dates N.A. Amendment dates N.A. 148 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 149 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 22.2. The Company's policy on transactions with related parties addresses aspects included in recommendation 22.2. 22.3 The policy does not require express authorization from the Board of Directors for recurring related transactions inherent to the Company's line of business carried out in virtue of sign-up contracts or general master contracts whose terms are perfectly standardized, are applied in a mass scale, and carried out at market prices, set generally by the acting provider of the good or service in question, and whose individual count is not relevant for the Company 22.2 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A YES. Describe briefly: 22.3 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Pursuant to Article 31 of the BVC’s By-laws, the General Shareholders Meeting is required to approve relevant transactions carried out with economically related parties, except for businesses that meet the following conditions: (i) That are made at market rates, generally by the provider NO. Explain: of the good or service concerned; and (ii) That have to do with operations of an ordinary nature of the issuer, that are not material. Even though Article 31 of the By-laws and Article 3.2.2.1 of the Code of Good Governance stipulate the BVC's obligation to include transactions with related parties in its financial statements and in general in the accounting and financial information reported to its stakeholders and to the general public, given that the recommendation requires a specific assessment, approval and disclosure procedure and inasmuch as these aspects are not fully defined, this recommendation is not fully met. The organization will be working on these aspects in 2016. NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation N.A. Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Amendment dates N.A. Amendment dates March 26, 2015 150 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 151 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 23: Member of the Board of Directors Retribution G4-51, G4-52 23.2. If the Company adopts remuneration systems based on the recognition of a variable component related to the Company’s 23.1. The Company has a remuneration policy for its Board of Directors that was approved by the General Shareholders Meeting good performance in the medium and long term, the remuneration policy must include limits to the amount that the Board of Diand is revised every year which identifies all the retributive components that it is able to satisfy. These components may be fixed or rectors can distribute, and if the variable component is related to the Company’s benefits or other management indicators at the variable. They can include set fees for a Board member, fees for attending Board and/or committee meetings, and other additional close of the year being assessed, it must consider the reservations listed on the Statutory Auditor's report which could bring down remuneration of any type earned in the course of the year, whatever the cause, in money or in kind, a well as obligations contracted the period's results. by the Company in matters of pensions or life insurance payments or other concepts for both former and current members, as well as insurance premiums for civil liability (D&O Policies) contracted by the Company for Board members. 23.2 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: Yes. It is important to clarify that the BVC does not compensate Board of Directors members under variable remuneration systems. Payment of fees is based on attendance to Board and Committee meetings. 23.1 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A YES. Describe briefly: NO. Explain: NO. Explain: The amount of fees paid to Board members is set by the General Shareholders Meeting. To date, BVC Board of Directors members are compensated based on their attendance to every meeting of the Board of Directors and its committees. On January 27, 2016, the Board of Directors approved a remuneration policy which must be approved by the General Shareholders Meeting. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation N.A. Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates N.A. 152 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 153 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 23.3. Proprietary and Independent members of the Board of Directors are expressly excluded from retribution systems that include 23.4. For each period assessed and in the framework of the remuneration policy, the General Shareholders Meeting approves a stock options or variable retribution based on the absolute variation of the stock price. maximum Board of Directors cost for all the approved retributive components. 23.4 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A 23.3 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. It should be noted that the legal system applicable to the BVC sets forth express prohibitions in matters that coincide with the objective proposed by this measure. In effect, Article 8 of Decree Law 1172 / 1980 establishes that administrators at Brokerage Firms are prohibited from acquiring listed stocks. In addition to that, Article 10 of Law 27 / 1990 and Article 5.3.1.3 of the BVC's General Regulation stipulate that the Exchange's legal representatives shall not trade listed securities, neither directly nor through intermediaries. They must have prior express authorization from the Board of Directors and it must be for reasons other than speculation. NO. Explain: On March 26, 2015, BVC shareholders approved the fees for Board members at 4 minimum monthly legal salaries in force for their attendance to NO. Explain: every board or committee session. On January 27, 2016, the Board of Directors approved the general remuneration policy for the board, which will be presented to the General Shareholders Meeting. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation N.A. Date of implementation June 27, 2007 Amendment dates N.A. Amendment dates July 25, 2012 154 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 155 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 24: The BVC CEO and Senior Management G4-34, G4-35 23.5. The Board of Directors' actual cost during the assessed period, which includes all the retributive components paid to Board members as well as reimbursement of costs, is known by shareholders and published on the Company's website with the disaggre24.1. The Company’s governance model establishes an effective separation between its management or government (represented gation and detail level approved by the Board. by the Board of Directors) and the regular course of business (under the Senior Management and headed by the Company's CEO). 23.5 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 24.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Fees paid to Board of Directors members in 2013 were published in the Management Report and made available to shareholders, and posted YES. Describe briefly: permanently on the BVC's website. Yes. Article 28 of the By-laws defines the corporate objectives of the entity and describes the structure of the administrative bodies that comprise it. These include the General Shareholders Meeting, the Board of Directors and Committees, legal representatives and the statutory auditor. Similarly, Articles 46 and 55 of the By-laws establish an effective separation between Senior Management and the Board of Directors. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation November 28, 2003 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 156 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 157 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 24.3. As a general rule, Senior Management Members are identified, assessed and designated directly by the Company's CEO, as they are his or her direct collaborators. Alternately, the Company may opt to have Senior Management members be designated by 24.2. Overall, the Board of Directors’ policy consists of delegating the regular course of business on the Senior Management team, the Board of Directors at the recommendation of the CEO. Regardless of who makes the final designation, candidates to key execoncentrating its activity on the general functions of strategy, supervision, governance and oversight. cutive positions in the Company are known and assessed by the Board of Directors Remunerations and Nominations Committee, which will give its opinion. 24.2 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 24.3 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Pursuant to Article 46 of the By-laws, the BVC Board of Directors' primary function is to exercise strategic and organizational tasks in the ComYes. Pursuant to Articles 50 and 58 of the By-laws, one of the CEO's functions is to appoint and remove Company employees whose naming and pany. Similarly, it specifies that the Company shall have a CEO and two alternates which shall act separately and have powers and attributions as removal do not correspond to the Board of Directors or the General Shareholders Meeting. One of the Corporate Governance Committee's functions deemed by the Board of Directors. In turn, the CEO and other legal representatives may partially delegate their functions in branches or to emplois to periodically assess the activities of these employees, based on compliance of the goals and indicators, and to make recommendations to the yees that they consider pertinent, without being inhibited to exert themselves on the delegated functions. Finally, it indicates that the Company's Board of Directors. CEO shall make decisions as necessary for the preservation of company assets, supervise employee activities and impart order or instructions as required for the Company's good progress, all pursuant to Articles 55, 56 and 58 of the By-laws. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 158 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 159 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 24.4. The Company has a clear policy regarding delegation of functions approved by the Board of Directors and/or a system or powers that describes the level of power of the CEO and other Senior Management members. 24.5. The Board of Directors, acting through the Remuneration and Nomination Committee or whichever fulfills its duties, shall initiate the yearly performance evaluation for the Company’s CEO and shall be aware of other Senior Management members' performance. 24.4 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 24.5 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Pursuant to Articles 50, 56 and 58 of the By-laws, it is the duty of the Board of Directors to designate, remove and assess the Company's CEO Yes. As provided by Article 4.1.4.7 of the Code of Good Governance, the Corporate Governance Committee must perform a periodic review of the misand to set his or her remuneration, as well as establish the criteria to partially delegate the CEO's functions on other Company employees. sion of the CEO of the BVC and his or her remuneration, supporting the Board of Directors in the evaluation of his or her management and reviewing the succession plans thereof and assess and prepare recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning the Company’s Senior Management. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 160 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 161 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 24.6. The Company has a remuneration policy for its CEO and other Senior Management members, approved by the Board of Directors, which identifies all the retributive components that can be effectively satisfied, tied to compliance of long-term objectives and risk levels. 24.7. If the Company CEO's retribution includes both a fixed and variable component, its technical design and calculation will keep the variable component from surpassing the maximum limit set forth by the Board of Directors. 24.6 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 24.7 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: Yes. The BVC has implemented rules to set fees for Senior Management and the CEO through various corporate documents. On January 27, 2016, YES. Describe briefly: the Board of Directors compiled the remuneration policy for the CEO and other Senior Management members. Yes. The BVC CEO's remuneration is established by the Board of Directors. However, the CEO's remuneration may not be paid in stock or other securities issued by the Company. Compensation or incentives for the CEO through shares, share options or other securities issued by the BVC are also forbidden pursuant to Article 4.2.1.1 of the Code of Good Governance. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 162 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 163 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE I. CONTROL ARCHITECTURE 25.2. In the case of Conglomerates, the Parent Company’s Board of Directors will ensure the existence of a Control Architecture with Measure Number 25: Control Environment G4-14, G4-45 a scope that is consolidated, formal and encompasses all the subsidiaries, establishing responsibilities for policies and guidelines on this matter at the conglomerate level, and defining clear reporting lines that provide a consolidated vision of the risks to which 25.1. The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for the existence of a solid Control Environment in the Company that adapts the Conglomerate is exposed and the control measures needed. to its character, size, complexity and risks and complies with the budgets set forth in recommendation 25.1. 25.2 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A 25.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Pursuant to Articles 46 and 50 of the By-laws, the Board of Directors is the administrative body responsible in the Company for ensuring the existence of an adequate internal Control Environment. In addition, The Board of Directors periodically monitors the Company's risk management by reviewing the reports submitted by the Audit and Risk Committee. Similarly, the Board of Directors is also responsible for establishing the policies for managing the risks inherent to the Company, periodic monitoring of these risks, and the development and operation of ordered, transparent and secure markets with proper price setting. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: The BVC's Board of Directors has established a specific work plan to be implemented in 2016 that includes a consolidated Internal Control Architecture that encompasses all the subsidiaries, provides defined roles and responsibilities, and is formally established. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation N.A. Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Amendment dates N.A. Amendment dates March 26, 2015 164 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 165 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 26: Risk Management G4-14, G4-25 26.2. The Company has a risk map understood as a tools to identify and monitor financial and non-financial risks to which it is exposed. 26.1. In the Company, risk management objectives are stipulated in recommendation 26.1. 26.2 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 26.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. The BVC has a Risk Map for every process. Furthermore, it has a Corporate Risk Map which was reviewed and updated in 2014. It unified the risk methodologies of the Anti-Money Laundering / Combating the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) and the Operative Risk Management System Yes. Risk identification objectives, risk assessment and measuring the degree of exposure to risks, effective risk management, risk monitoring, (ORMS). periodic report to the Board of Directors and Senior Management regarding risk administration are all included in several company documents, particularly in Title VI of the Code of Good Governance, the Internal Control Policy and the Internal Auditing By-laws. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation September 10, 2007 Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates July 9, 2015 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 166 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 167 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 26.3. The Board of Directors is responsible for defining a risk management policy and setting maximum exposure limits to each risk 26.4. The Board of Directors is aware of and periodically supervises the Company-s effective exposure to the maximum limit risks factor identified. defined and proposes corrective and monitoring actions in case of deviations. 26.3 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 26.4 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Pursuant to Articles 46 and 50 of the By-laws, the Board of Directors is also responsible for establishing the policies for managing the risks YES. Describe briefly: inherent to the Company, periodic monitoring of these risks, and the development and operation of ordered, transparent and secure markets with Yes. The Board of Directors is responsible for defining the maximum risk exposure limits and assessing risk reports, as well as analyzing and assesproper price setting. Similarly, the Board of Directors sets the policy to manage risks inherent to the Company. sing the Company's risk control systems and tools. The Board of Directors' Audit and Risk Committee assesses and makes recommendations on these aspects, coming before the Board of Directors to recommend the Company's risk policy and improvement initiatives on infrastructure and internal control system and risk management systems. The aforementioned in the development of the provisions of Articles 46 and 50 of the By-laws, Title VI of the Code of Good Governance and other corporate regulations that govern the internal control system. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation April 7, 2001 Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 168 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 169 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 26.5. In the framework of the risk management policy, Senior Management owns the processes and is responsible for risk adminis26.6. The Company has a risk delegation policy, approved by the Board of Directors, that establishes the risk limits that can be tration, in other words, for identifying, assessing, measuring, controlling, monitoring and reporting risks, defining methodologies, directly administered by each level in the Company. and ensuring that risk administration is consistent with the strategy, the risk policy defined, and the maximum limits approved. 26.6 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 26.5 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. The BVC has an Internal Control Policy, approved by the Board of Directors, a Financial Risk Administration Manual, a ORMS Manual, a SARLAFT Manual, and an Anti-fraud Program Manual, documents approved by the Board of Directors which establish the limits, responsible parties and Yes. The Company has a department whose fundamental goal is to manage its risks. This dependence has clearly defined roles and responsibilities delegation criteria in managing the Company's risks. and the internal reporting instances which include regularly and periodically submitting reports directly to the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. The aforementioned pursuant to Article 58 of the By-laws, Title VI of the Code of Good Governance, the BVC's Financial Risks Administration Manuals of the ORMS, SARLAFT and its Internal Control Policy. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation September 09, 2009 Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates N.A. Amendment dates March 18, 2015 170 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 171 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 26.7. Risk Administration in the Conglomerates must be done at the consolidated level, in such a way that it would contribute to 26.8. If the Company has a complex and varied structure of businesses and operations, it shall have a position for a Chief Risk Offithe cohesion and control of the companies that comprise it. cer (CRO) with competence at the Conglomerate level in the case of integrated companies in situations of control and/or corporate group. 26.7 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A 26.8 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: NO. Explain: NO. Explain: Even though the BVC has an Internal Control Policy, approved by the Board of Directors, that includes the minimum general guidelines that must Although the BVC has a Corporate Risk and Quality Manager, and a department dedicated exclusively to managing the Company's financial and be observed by administrators and employees of the Exchange, it only encompasses the parent company and subsidiaries that are supervised by non-financial risks, the activities developed from this office do not encompass the totality of the companies that make up the BVC's corporate group. the SFC. Because the recommendation requires that risk administration is carried out in a consolidated manner between all the companies that comprise the conglomerate, and inasmuch as these aspects are not fully defined and do not include the totality of the subsidiaries and controlled entities of the BVC, this recommendation cannot be described as fully met. The organization will be working on these aspects in 2016. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation N.A. Date of implementation N.A. Amendment dates N.A. Amendment dates N.A. 172 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 173 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 27: Control Activities G4-14, G4-45, G4-57 27.2. The Board of Directors is responsible for supervising the efficacy and suitability of the internal control system. The Board of 27.1. The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring the existence of an adequate internal control system that adapts to the Directors may delegate this responsibility on the Audit Committee without losing its responsibility for supervision. Company and its complexity, and consistent with the Risk Management in effect. 27.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 27.2 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Articles 46 and 50 of the BVC's By-laws stipulate that one of the Board of Directors' duties is to ensure the existence of an adequate internal Yes. Pursuant to Articles 46 and 50 of the By-laws, the Board of Directors must monitor and ensure the efficacy and suitability of the BVC's internal control system and approve its implementation and oversight. In this regard, the Board must, along with other activities, know and evaluate the control system. Article 4.1.4.14 of the Code of Good Governance assigns to the Audit and Risks Committee the responsibility of monitoring of the relevant reports regarding the Internal Control System that are presented by the various control agencies of the company and the Audit and Risks Exchange's internal controls and oversight with respect to risk management, assessment of accounting procedures, review of risk management Committee, and provide the necessary orders so that the recommendations and corrective measures are adopted. system audits, verification of the audit function, and the relationship between the Board of Directors and the Statutory Auditor. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation April 07, 2001 Date of implementation April 7, 2001 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 174 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 175 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 28: Information and Communication G4-42, G4-58, G4-DMA 27.3. The Company applies and demands the principle of self-control, understood as the “capacity of people that participate in the different processes of considering control as an inherent part of their responsibilities, fields of actions, and decision-making”. 28.1. The Company's culture, philosophy and risk policy is communicated from the top down and horizontally, as are the approved exposure limits, so that the entire organization can consider risks and control activities in its endeavors. 27.3 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 28.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. The Internal Control Policy is compulsory for BVC administrators and employees and their subordinates, as established by the Board of DirecYes. The BVC disseminates its culture, philosophy and risk policy through its Company Risk Culture Plan. This is contained in the Risk Culture Plan tors. Among its principles, it has established Self-control, defined as the capacity of each and every employee, regardless of their hierarchical level, document, which includes topics such as Operating Risk Quality, ISMS information on business continuity, and AML/CFT through different methoto evaluate and assess their work, to detect deviations, and to make necessary corrections in the exercise and compliance of their functions and dologies like trainings and workshops. responsibilities. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation September 9, 2009 Date of implementation September 9, 2009 Amendment dates N.A. Amendment dates N.A. 176 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 177 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 28.2. In the Company there is a bottom-up reporting mechanism (up to the Board of Directors and Senior Management) which is 28.3. The Company’s communication mechanism and information report allow i: Senior Management to involve the entire company accurate, comprehensible and complete, supporting and enabling informed decision-making and risk and control management. and describe their responsibility to manage risks and define controls, and ii. Company personnel to understand their role in managing risks and identifying controls, as well as their individual contribution regarding the work of others. 28.2 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 28.3 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. The bottom-up reporting mechanism is described in both the Internal Audit Charter and the Internal Control Policies. In the first, both the InterYes. The Company's communication and reporting mechanism involves different levels of decision making and risk management. The Risk Culture nal Audit Manager and Internal Audit personnel are responsible for submitting quarterly reports to the Board of Directors about the overall progress Plan provides clarity on these concepts and allow people to acquire skills and retain knowledge about their own role in managing risks and idenof tasks or matters that may be relevant concerning the tasks. In the second (Article 4.5.1) each department or process supervisor or leader at all tifying controls. levels must, as a regular part of their responsibilities, implement continuous supervision processes of employee activities to ensure that they are fulfilled according to plan, and any deviations that arise are detected and corrected on time. Senior Management and the Risk Manager coordinate and manage information reports needed by the Audit and Risk Committee and/or Board of Director through an Internal Risk Committee. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation November 4, 2009 Date of implementation September 9, 2009 Amendment dates December 17, 2015 Amendment dates N.A. 178 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 179 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 29: Monitoring the Control Architecture G4-14, G4-45 28.4. The Company provides internal anonymous reporting lines, or “whistleblowers”, that allow employees to anonymously report illegal or unethical behaviors, or anything that can get in the way of the Company's risk administration and control culture. A listing 29.1. In the Company, the Board of Directors is responsible through the Audit Committee of supervising the effectiveness of various of these reports is submitted to the Company's Board of Directors. components of the Control Architecture. 28.4 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 29.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Article 50 of the By-laws establishes that one of the Board of Director's duties is to implement ethical control policies and plans for Company Yes. Pursuant to Article 50 of the BVC’s By-laws and Articles 4.1.4.14 and from the Code of Good Governance, the Audit and Risks Committee is a administrators and employees, which can include anonymous reporting systems. In this manner, the Company's Ethics and Conduct Manual devebody that supports the Board of Directors’ and Risks Committee is a body that supports the Board of Directors’ functions regarding the monitoring lops the incident reporting procedure through the Ethics Hotline. of the internal controls of the Exchange and its oversight responsibilities with respect to risk management, assessment of accounting procedures, review of risk management system audits, and, verification of the audit function, and the relationship between the Board of Directors and the Statutory Auditor. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 180 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 181 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 29.2. In the Company, monitoring tasks aimed at providing assurance of the Control Architecture's efficacy primarily involve Inter29.3. The Company’s internal audit function has an Internal Audit Charter approved by the Audit Committee which expressly desnal Audit, in collaboration with the Statutory Auditor, in matters inherent to its competency, and particularly, regarding financial cribes the scope of its functions in this matter, which should encompass the topics indicated in recommendation 29.3. information generated by the Company. 29.2 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 29.3 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Title VI of the Code of Good Governance stipulates that the BVC's Internal Control System is structured on the basis of interactions between the Yes. The topics indicated in recommendation 29.3 are expressly stipulated in the BVC's Internal Audit Charter, approved by the Board of Directors. Statutory Auditor and Internal Audit. One of the Statutory Auditor's functions is assessing whether the BVC's actions are in line with current reguListed under the Responsibility section for the Internal Audit Manager and Internal Audit staff are the following functions and scope: The Internal lations, especially accounting, bookkeeping and safeguarding Company books, papers and assets. Part of the Internal Audit's functions is to assess Audit Manager must appear at least once a year before Audit Committee and Senior Management to ratify the independence of Internal Audit actithe efficacy of the Company's strategic definitions and to monitor the implementation of corrective and preventive actions adopted to fix problems, vities in the organization, prepare a flexible Internal Audit plan with assurance and/or consultation tasks using appropriate risk-based methodoand recommend actions or adjustments necessary to strengthen the Company's internal control. logy, including any identified concern of risk or control, and present said plan to the Audit Committee for revision and approval, and evaluate key business risks, including risk management by responsible parties, and reporting mechanisms. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation October 5, 2007 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates October 5, 2015 182 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 183 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 29.4. The internal audit's leading manager maintains a relationship of professional independence from Senior Management at the 29.5. In the Company, the Board of Directors is responsible to appoint and dismiss the Internal Audit manager, at the suggestion of Company or Conglomerate that contracted it by a functional dependence exclusive to the Audit Committee. the Audit Committee, and the market is notified of any dismissal or resignation. 29.4 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 29.5 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Pursuant to Article 50 of the By-laws, the Internal Auditor is named directly by the Board of Directors, which guarantees its independence from Yes. Pursuant to Article 50 of the By-laws, the Board of Directors is responsible to appoint and dismiss the Internal Audit Manager, at the suggestion Senior Management from a functional viewpoint. Moreover, the Internal Audit Charter stipulates that the Internal Audit Manager is functionally of the Audit and Risk Committee, and the market must be notified of any dismissal or resignation. articulated to the Board of Director's Audit and Risk Committee. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 184 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 185 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 29.6. The Statutory Auditor at the Company or Conglomerate maintains a clear independence from them, and this quality must be 29.7. If the Company acts as Parent Company of a Conglomerate, the Statutory Auditor is the same for all companies including reported in the respective audit report. off-shore companies. 29.6 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 29.7 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Pursuant to Articles 61, 62, and 63 of the By-laws, the Statutory Auditor must be a suitable individual and not own stock at the Company or any of its subordinates, and may not be an employee, partner, spouse or relative of any BVC employee. These provisions are assessed by the administration and Audit Committee in the process to select and hire a Statutory Auditor, which is submitted to the General Shareholders Meeting for consideration. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: While the BVC prefers to have the same Statutory Auditor firm doing the work in all the companies that make up the BVC's corporate group, as of December 31, 2015, not all its companies met this criteria. It is expected that the policy to unify the Statutory Auditor into one single firm will materialize by 2016. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Date of implementation N.A. Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates N.A. 186 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 187 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 29.8. The Company has a policy to designate the Statutory Auditor, approved by the Board of Directors and disseminated among 29.9. In order to avoid excessive relations between the Company and the Statutory Auditor firm and/or its teams and maintain its Shareholders, which includes the provisions set forth in recommendation 29.8. independence, the Company has established a maximum contract period of five (5) to ten (10) years. In the case of the Statutory Auditor, for an individual not connected to a firm the maximum contract period is five (5) years 29.8 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 29.9 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Articles 61 and 62 of the BVC's By-laws indicated that the Statutory Auditor (both principal and alternate) must be a legally suitable individual. Yes. Pursuant to Article 6.1.1.2 of the Code of Good Governance, and without prejudice to the right of Company shareholders to elect the Statutory They also indicated that the Statutory Auditor's principal and alternate must be public accountants or associations or firms of public accountants, Auditor, the Company will attempt when possible to rotate individuals within the Statutory Auditor's firm every five (5) years at a minimum. Also, which comply with the pertinent legal requirements. Furthermore, concerning the election period, the By-laws stipulate that elections will take plathey must all agree that any individual that has rotated may only retake the tax audit for the Exchange following a minimum period of two (2) years. ce at the same time as Board of Director members elections, without prejudice to the General Shareholders Meeting of dismissing the Statutory Auditor at any time. Additionally, the General Shareholders Meeting Regulation states that the Board of Directors can submit options to name the Statutory Auditor. In presenting these options, the Board of Directors must indicate in writing the reasons why it recommends a particular candidate. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 188 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 189 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 29.10. As part of the maximum contract period, the company promotes rotation of the Statutory Firm's partner assigned to the 29.11. In addition to the existing ban on hiring Statutory Auditing professional services, other than the Company's financial auditor, Company and its work teams at the half-point of the period. At the end of the period, the firm is mandated to rotate. and other functions contemplated in current regulations, the Company extends this limitation to individuals or entities related to the Statutory Auditor firm. Entities include companies in its own group as well as companies with a large number of partners and/ or administrators in common with those of the STATUTORY AUDITOR firm. 29.10 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 29.11 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Pursuant to Article 6.1.1.2 of the Code of Good Governance and without prejudice to the right of Company shareholders to elect the Tax Auditor, YES. Describe briefly: the Company will attempt when possible to rotate individuals within the Statutory Auditor's firm every five (5) years at a minimum Also, they must Yes. Article 62 of the By-laws stipulate that the company may not contract the statutory auditing services with entities or professionals that directly all agree that any individual that has rotated may only retake the tax audit for the Exchange following a minimum period of two (2) years. or indirectly provide services to the Company other than tax auditing. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation April 7, 2001 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 190 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 191 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE V. TRANSPARENCY AND FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION 29.12. In its public information the Company discloses the monetary amount of the Agreement with the STATUTORY AUDITOR as well as the proportion represented by fees paid by the Company vs. the total Revenue of the firm related to its Statutory Auditor Measure Number 30: Disclosure of information policy G4-9, G4-17, G4-18, G4-19, G4-20 activity. 30.1. The Board of Directors has approved a disclosure of information policy which identifies the information described in the recommendation at a minimum. 29.12 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 30.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. A comprehensive analysis of the various proposals for the Statutory Auditor election can be found on the Corporate Governance microsite. Yes. Title III of the Code of Good Governance provides a full, comprehensive description of the procedure for preparing and disseminating information, including rules on timeliness, access to content and classification of financial and non-financial information. Furthermore, said Title regulates http://www.bvc.com.co/gobierno/administracion/editor/homeFiles/PROCESOELECCIONRF2015.pdf the information to be brought to the shareholders meeting and information that the Company must make public regularly as part of its corporate purpose. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 192 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 193 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 31: Financial Statements G4-9, G4-17, G4-18, G4-19, G4-20 30.2. In the case of Conglomerates, disclosure of information to third parties regarding the Company is comprehensive and com31.1. In the event that the Statutory Auditor's report contains reservations, a statement on it and the actions the Company intends plete, thus allowing external entities to form an opinion based on the Conglomerate's actual situation, organization, complexity, to take to resolve them shall be made by the Audit Committee's President and brought to the attention of the shareholders gatheactivity, size and governance model. red at the general meeting. 30.2 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 31.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. The BVC prepares, presents and publishes consolidated financial information with the entities that comprise the economic group. These finanYes. Pursuant to Article 3.2.3.1 of the Code of Good Governance, information brought to the attention of shareholders during the exercise of the cial statements fully comply with the provisions that regulate the way these consolidated financial statements must be prepared, addressing interright of inspection includes the Statutory Auditor’s ruling on the Financial Statements. If it contains reservations, these shall be listed along with national accounting standards. This information is prepared on a quarterly basis at a minimum, and is included periodically in the results report. action plans proposed by Management to correct them. They shall be subject to a ruling by the Audit Committee Chairman and brought to the shareholders at the meeting. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 194 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 195 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 31.3 Transactions with or among Related parties, including transactions between Conglomerate companies, which due to objective 31.2. When the Board of Directors addresses the reservations and/or emphases of matters submitted by the Statutory Auditor parameters like volume of the transaction, percentage of assets, sales or other indicators are considered significant by the Comand believes that it must abide by them, this position is adequately explained and justified in writing to the General Shareholders pany, are listed in detail in the public financial information, as well as mentioned for off-shore operations. Meeting, specifying the content and scope of the discrepancy. 31.2 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 31.3 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes Article 4.1.4.15 of the Code of Good Governance establishes as a function of the Audit and Risk Committee that ... in the event that the ruling isYes. Pursuant to Articles 3.2.2.1 and 3.2.2.1 of the Code of Good Governance, the BVC includes transactions between related parties in its financial sued by the Statutory Auditor contains reservations and/or unfavorable opinions, a statement on its contents and scope must be made and brought statements, as well as any off-shore operations. This information is posted on the BVC website. to the attention of shareholders through the Exchange website, verifying compliance with the recommendations by the Exchange management so that it can lead the process of responding to the observations included in the report. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 196 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 197 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 32: Information to the markets G4-9, G4-17, G4-18, G4-19, G4-20 32.2. The Company’s website was designed to be user-friendly and simple to use, providing users access to information pertaining 32.1. In the framework of the information disclosure policy, the Board of Directors or the AUDIT COMMITTEE shall adopt any measuto corporate governance. res needed to guarantee that all financial and non-financial information about the Company is transmitted to financial and capital markets, as required by existing legislation, in addition to any information deemed relevant for investors and clients. 32.2 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: 32.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A Yes. The BVC's website is user-friendly and simple to use, allowing shareholders quick access to consult the website in both English and Spanish. YES. Describe briefly: To access corporate governance information, shareholders can go to the Investor Relations menu and enter the corporate governance microsite. Yes. Article 50 of the By-laws stipulates that it is a function of the Board of Directors to Supervise the financial and non-financial information of At the following link: http://www.bvc.com.co/gobierno/mostrarpagina.jsp the Company which because of its condition of issuer and in the framework of information disclosure and communication policies, it must publish periodically . Moreover, Title III of the Code of Good Governance indicates the periodicity and information to be made available to shareholders with all the financial and non-financial information, important events, and other relevant issues for shareholders and other interested parties. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation June 27, 2001 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates March 26, 2015 198 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 199 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 32.3. The Company’s website includes, at least, links pertaining to recommendation 32.3. 32.4. The Company uses documents that can be downloaded, printed and shared to disseminate information to the markets. 32.3 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: 32.4 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A Yes. The BVC considers its website as one of its main communication channels for shareholders, and keeps it updated with pertinent information. YES. Describe briefly: Yes. On its website, the BVC publishes all the information pertaining to Title III of the Code of Good Governance This information is presented in formats that can be downloaded, printed and shared with electronic devices for safekeeping and storage. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 200 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 201 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Measure Number 33: Annual Report of Corporate Governance G4-38, G4-39, G4-40, G4-41, G4-42, G4-43, G4-44 32.5. When a Company is of great size and complexity, it publishes a detailed report on its website on an annual basis, explaining the organization, methods and procedures of its Control Architecture, with the aim of providing accurate and secure financial and 33.1. The Company prepares an annual corporate governance report. The Board of Directors is responsible for its content upon non-financial information, safeguard the organization's assets and the efficiency and safety of its transactions. Information on the receiving a favorable revision and report from the Audit Committee, which is presented along with the rest of the end-of-year doControl Architecture is complemented with a risk management report. cuments. 33.1 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 32.5 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. Among its functions, the Audit Committee is responsible for revising the corporate governance report, pursuant to Article 4.1.4.15 of the Code of Good Governance. This report is published as one of the chapters in the Annual Management Report. Yes. Every year, the BVC publishes a Management Report and dedicates an entire chapter to describe the various activities aimed at developing the Company's Internal Control. Furthermore, pursuant to Section 3 of Article 3.2.2.2 of the Code of Good Governance, the BVC makes available to its shareholders the Company's Internal Control and audit structure. Moreover, Section 2 of the same Article indicates that the Risk Management Biannual Report is published every six months. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates March 18, 2015 202 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 203 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 33.3. The Company’s corporate governance annual report contains end-of-year information that describes how the corporate go33.2. The Company's Annual Corporate Governance Report is not a mere transcription of the corporate governance regulations invernance recommendations adopted by the company were met, and the main changes that resulted therefrom. cluded in the By-laws, Rules of Procedure, Code of Good Governance and other company documents. Its aim is not to describe the Company's governance model, but to explain the reality of its operations and relevant changes during the period. The Company's Annual Corporate Governance Report is structured in line with the plan described in recommendation 33.3. 33.2 Implement the Measure YES X NO N/A 33.3 Implement the Measure YES NO X N/A YES. Describe briefly: YES. Describe briefly: Yes. The corporate governance annual report provides a detailed, comprehensive explanation of the BVC's governance model and any changes that occurred during the period. NO. Explain: NO. Explain: Most of the recommendation's requirements are included in the Management Report's corporate governance chapter. However, given the scope of the requirements for information of this measure, the BVC is working to ensure that the 2016 Management Report includes all of these issues in full. N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: N/A. Specify the regulations that prevent adopting the recommendation: Date of implementation December 14, 2005 Date of implementation N.A. Amendment dates March 18, 2015 Amendment dates N.A. 204 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 205 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE nological nature that given their complexity, took a lon3.9. State of Compliance of the Regulations Specifically, regarding software, in compliance with its interc. Compliance with Regulations for ger amount of time. about Intellectual Property, FATCA and nal policies, the Exchange regularly reviews the licensing of the Processing of Personal Databases the Processing of Personal Databases: all the programs used by the Company. In turn, the BVC requib. Claims Regarding Compliance with the G4-DMA res its contractors to ensure that they own any software that In 2015, the Exchange complied with Decree 1377 / 2013, Code of Good Governance they may use to provide a service or that it has been licensed regulatory decree of Law 1581 / 2012, and its Policy for a. Intellectual Property by the software owners in the name of the respective conthe Processing of Personal Databases, which forms part of No claims concerning compliance with the BVC's Code of tractor. This is done in order to prevent unauthorized use or the General and Specific Policies of the Information SecuGood Governance were filed in 2015. The BVC has General and Specific Policies of the Information damages to third parties. rity Management System. Security Management System , which is the document that c. Unlawful or Unethical Actions establishes the guidelines and requirements for the manaThe BVC also has a procedure for software and media 3.10 Code of Good Governance Reports gement and use of the BVC's Information Assets, in order to management with the purpose to establish the different G4-49, G4-50, G4-53 The BVC reinforced the use of the ethical hotline and media ensure the honesty, confidentiality and availability of the insteps required to manage the inventory of software, methrough which the BVC's employees could expose said conformation in accordance with the Company's strategies and dia and version licenses of the applications developed a. Petitions, Claims or Proposals Submitted by ducts with justification that in their opinion may involve a vioregulatory requirements. These Policies establish that the inand/or acquired by the BVC. Shareholders and Other Stakeholders lation of the ethical principles and rules of conduct establiformation security management process is in compliance with shed in the Company's Ethics and Conduct Manual, following the applicable legal and regulatory requirements, including Regarding intellectual capital, in addition to the constant Pursuant to articles 8.1.1.1 and 8.1.1.2 of the Code of the respective procedure in Article 2.2 of said manual. Law 1266 / 2008 Habeas Data, External Bulletin 048 / 2006, use of the registered commercial brands, the BVC constantly Good Governance, petitions, claims or proposals submitExternal Bulletin 052 / 2007, External Bulletin 038 / 2009, verifies the validity of all the brands granted (at the end of ted by the shareholders and other stakeholders must be issued by the Financial Superintendence and Statutory Law the year, the Company had 72 registered brands) in order to provided with a reasoned written response within fifteen 1581 / 2012 Personal Data Protection. analyze the feasibility of applying for the respective renewal (15) business days following the filing of the petition, within the legal term to do so. claim or proposal. This document also contains policies for the management of software, intellectual property and copyright within the BVC, During 2015, the Exchange started the procedures to obtain In compliance with the above and according to the inforall in accordance with current legislation. the registration of ten brands that identify new products and/ mation in the Company's Centralized System of Complaints, or services and it continued the constant monitoring of the Petitions, Claims and Suggestions, it is confirmed that duThe aspects of the BVC's “General and Specific Policies of procedures carried out before the Superintendence of Indusring 2015, a total of 35 complaints and claims, 12,090 inthe Information Security Management System” include: i) the try and Commerce. quiries and petitions and 23 suggestions were submitted. guidelines and requirements necessary for the management The average response time was two days for complaints or and use of the BVC's information assets, (ii) the management b. Compliance with the Provisions of the Foreign Account claims and one day for requests and queries. process of information security, which is in accordance with Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) the applicable regulations, and iii) the policies for the admiMeanwhile, 14 incidents and 12 requirements occurred nistration of the software, intellectual property and copyright In compliance with the FATCA, the Exchange is registered with terms longer than those described in the Code of within the BVC, all according to current legislation. with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) as a participating Good Governance (15 days), related to requests of a techFFI with a Model 1 IGA. 206 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 207 CHAPTER 4 Iinternal Control and Quality 4 INTERNAL CONTROL AND QUALITY 4.1 Internal Control and Control Environment: 4.2 Quality and Information Management: Data Security • Control, monitoring and regular revision of the correct asG4-14 G4-14 signment of roles and profiles for internal and external Protection of client data is paramount for the BVC. Therefore, users of the various Information Systems. In order to strengthen internal control at the Exchange, in Quality Management in 2015, it continued to execute different initiatives aligned 2015, activities and initiatives were carried out to strengwith its strategic objectives related to strengthening the Data • Improvement of the definition of security controls in line then its principles based on the Fundamental Legal Bulletin, The BVC has a continuous improvement policy that enables Security System in light of continuous and increasingly sowith the levels of information classification. Part I, Title I, Chapter IV, of the Financial Superintendence of constant management of improvements and initiatives in phisticated latent threats. Colombia. These initiatives include the design, implemeneach of the Company’s processes, facilitating fulfillment of Communication tation, and update of strategic guidelines, procedures, and client expectations regarding the services provided. ThereAs part of the continuous improvement initiatives, work has controls, promoting continuous improvement. The main adfore, the quality management process in 2015 was oriented been done to raise awareness among the Exchange’s emploThe Exchange has strong mechanisms in place for commuvances and achievements in each of their components are toward the development of methodologies to integrate and yees on best security practices applied to everyday tasks in nication between Company stakeholders, enabling inforpresented below: strengthen control activities inside the Company with the focompliance with the legal and regulatory frameworks that gomation to effectively and transversely flow in all directions, llowing highlights: vern the Company. adopting measures and controls such as the Expanded Control Environment Presidency Committee, the “Results Meeting” with all em• Unification of the management process for risk events and This is a continuous improvement process in which the foployees, Primary Committees by processes and general non-compliant products to maximize the resources involThe BVC continues to strengthen process management as llowing areas have been addressed: correspondence. These measures are used to inform all ved in analyzing and improving solutions for the findings. its main tool for minimizing risks and meeting the levels employees and the market in general on the level of attainof quality required in the services offered to the different • Grouping of findings by common topics, regardless of the • Support in all of the Exchange’s projects on the definition ment as regards business objectives, strategic decisions, stakeholders in accordance with the current organizatiosource of their generation. of security measures to implement controls and actions and new challenges. nal structure. that mitigate operational security risks. • New prioritization scheme for the execution of corrective 4.3 Risk Management: actions (short term) in addition to preventative actions In order for human resources to have the level of skills requi• Constant support in the identification of security measuG4-2 (medium and long term). red to do their jobs, the Company consolidated the Position res for the implementation of new technological trends and Remuneration Assessment Model, as well as the Emplo• Improvements to the governance scheme and proceduthat assist the business areas in improving their products The BVC’s risk management is based on strategic business yee Performance Management Model, by aligning them with res associated with the Ongoing Improvement Process, and/or services. analysis and the processes that comprise it. Therefore, the the Company’s strategic and process objectives and the emroles and responsibilities of process leaders and sources, Exchange constantly develops control mechanisms and mitiployees’ own objectives as individuals. as well as Service-Level Agreements for the execution of • Optimization of internal processes for adequate admigation actions to minimize risks and the respective impact in each of the stages. nistration of users and profiles in the different informathe event they occur. This methodology was implemented at all levels of the orgation systems. nization and its understanding and application is monitored Furthermore, in November, the BVC received a monitoring visit In addition, cross-cutting strategies have been established on an ongoing basis in order to create a culture among emfor recertification in the ISO 9001:2008 standard by ICONTEC, • Training for employees on the division of functions and and implemented to optimize mitigation actions and controls ployees based on the fulfillment of objectives aligned with the certification agency, which pointed out the Organization’s the development of the information security awareaccording to a comprehensive risk management methodolothe Company’s needs. level of maturity as regards its Quality Management System. ness plan. gy. The following strategies are notable: 210 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 211 4 INTERNAL CONTROL AND QUALITY • Strengthen risk analysis with improved breakdown of the ket in Colombia (Banco de la Republica, Deceval, Central Regarding training activities, during the risk and quality tracauses so as to identify root causes. Counterparty Risk Clearing House, the FX Clearing House ining month, the ML/TF prevention procedures and policies and SET ICAP FX), the project was continued to prepare the were disclosed to all of the Exchange’s employees, as well • Establish new criteria to measure risks for which there is market to combat situations of crisis arising from systemic as the induction of new employees and training on specific insufficient historical information, and more specific imor specific failures that exceed each entity’s individual processes, thereby promoting the culture of ML/TF prevention pact quantification criteria. response capacity. of the Comprehensive System for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing. • Quantify opportunity costs associated with materializaTests were conducted for the fixed income, equity and derivation of risks. tives markets, as well as the Integrated Latin American Market, Control Activities which proved the functionality of the strategies in place. Ninety-seven percent of risks are within pre-established leIn order to comply with the guidelines provided by Managevels of acceptability. In 2015, the level of risk subject to maMoney Laundering and Terrorism Financing Prevention ment through the policies and procedures related to the Internagement was reduced by 7.24% due to them belonging to System SIPLAFT nal Control System, the BVC has developed various initiatives, the Exchange’s critical processes, and in 2016, work on improthe following of which are notable: ving the monitoring of these risks will be continued. In compliance with the regulations for the prevention and control of money laundering and terrorism financing (ML/TF), • Strengthening of reports and disclosure of information As regards the Risk and Quality Awareness Plan, campaigns were activities were carried out aimed at implementing and strengby aligning the accounting process with the needs of developed based on awareness and training campaigns aimed thening controls to mitigate these risks. Given the above and stakeholders and international standards, enabling atat all levels of the Company and third parties involved to raise in development of the continuous improvement program, the tainment of the required levels of data security, in order awareness regarding the importance of internal control and its risks associated with ML/TF were updated on the risk maps for to ensure the reliability of the Company’s financial starole in the prevention, detection and management of the risks the Exchange’s different processes. tements in a way that reflects its real situation, in acand impact they have on the Company and the general public. cordance with the principle of disclosure and control of With the aim to strengthen the Exchange’s risk maps, ML/TF financial information. Continuity risk management was consolidated under the Operative Risk Management System (ORMS), facilitating the comprehensive • Constant strengthening of the Corporate Governance MoAware of its importance in the securities market and its responmanagement of risks and contributing to decision-making in del, which reflects Senior Management’s commitment to sibility to all stakeholders, the Colombian Securities Exchange the processes. the generation of value and trust for the market through started a project in 2015 to update and improve its Business management with integrity and transparency. Continuity Management System with the aim to strength its As regards the Know-Your-Customer process, the strengthepreparation and response capacity to disruptions, emergencies ning of client enrollment controls is ongoing and a campaign • Strengthening of the controls associated with the manaor crises that could affect its capacity to provide products and/ was carried out to update client information. gement of physical security through the identification of or services in the times and conditions required by the market. process improvements and the establishment of controls Throughout the year, the regulatory reports were sent to the such as updating the CCTV system and training for the Additionally, together with the entities that are part of the Financial Analysis and Information Unit (FAIU) on time and the Company’s security guards. value chain of the securities and foreign currency marML/TF requirements of the control bodies were met. 212 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 213 4 INTERNAL CONTROL AND QUALITY Monitoring 4.4 Auditor’s Report: Internal Control Status G4-14, G4-57 As part of the activities established to verify the performance Control 86,5 of internal controls, all their components were monitored on a 4.4.1 Independent Assessment of the Internal Control environment permanent basis through the Balanced Scorecard and process System (ICS) Risk assssment 83,1 management indicators, which are monitored by the Company’s Management and Board of Directors. Pursuant to Part I, Title I, Chapter 4, Section 4.6. of the FunControl activities 84,1 damental Legal Bulletin of the Financial Superintendence, Furthermore, the monitoring was complemented with indein addition to the constant monitoring of Senior manageAccounting control 80,7 pendent assessments conducted by internal and external ment and the self-assessment of each area, a regular incontrol bodies with regards to the levels of compliance with dependent assessment of the Internal Control System (ICS) Information 82,9 regulatory requirements. must be carried out by the Internal Auditor appointed by the BVC for this purpose. In 2015, said evaluation was conComunication 85 The recommendations provided by the control bodies and the ducted pursuant to the scope and coverage defined in the improvements proposed by Management were included in the Bulletin and the results were delivered to Management at Monitoring actitivities 80 work plans of the processes for their respective management. the end of the year. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Affiliates and Subsidiaries The independent assessment encompasses the results of reviews performed as part of the audit plan and the status Awareness-raising and training activities were held for emplothereof at the end of the year. The main conclusion of the Au4.4.2 Management of Internal Auditing b. Audits of Critical Processes based on assessing the yees of Derivex in order to strengthen the culture of internal ditor’s report was that the elements of the ICS, namely, control effectiveness of the most relevant risk controls in control as well as the prevention, control, and monitoring of risks. environment, risk management, control activities, informaIn 2015, Internal Auditing developed a work plan with a riskcore processes. tion and communication and monitoring, showed an average based approach, using models aligned with international stanContingency infrastructure tests were conducted with Infovaleffectiveness level of 81.21%. dards and considerable support from the Enterprise Risk Assesc. Audits of Quality and Compliance based on assessing mer, which proved the functionality of the strategies in place. sor (ERA) tool, used for the comprehensive management and the BVC’s processes to establish their effectiveness and documentation of work, and the ACL tool used for data analysis. conformity with planned provisions, ISO 9001:2008 requirements and the requirements established by the OrThis plan, approved by the Audit Committee of the Board of ganization itself. Directors, developed the following actions and obtained the following results: d. Audits of information Technology (IT) which include assessments of regulatory compliance in matters of ina. Assessment of Management Systems based on reformation security and internal technological control, viewing the effectiveness of the BVC’s risk and corporate and specialized, complementary reviews to ensure a thogovernance systems, as well as the independent assessrough perspective of fundamental aspects of governanment of the Internal Control System. ce, IT management, and security. 214 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 215 4 INTERNAL CONTROL AND QUALITY These audits were executed with the support of an ina. Substantial increase in current risk coverage of audits The Exchange has an Ethics Hotline available to all emploved in 2015 related to any of the aforementioned conducts ternational auditing firm through co-sourcing, an apin terms of number of areas, risks, and controls. yees, suppliers, and clients as a mechanism for anonymous were channeled through the Co-existence and Anti-Fraud proach in which the team of in-house auditors has the reporting of unethical conduct and fraud. The reports receiCommittees in line with established procedures. support of specialist IT auditors, which enables a more b. Optimization of management of closing findings by comprehensive review of applicable technology-relaeach of the processes (continuous improvement) to ted matters and better coordination of IT auditing with render it more user-friendly, understandable, and atinternal operational and financial auditing. tuned with realities without jeopardizing the timeliness and effectiveness required by the actions taken e. Other special assessments aimed at specific issues of to close the breaches detected. This activity was carelevance, such as technological contingency tests. rried out together with Risk and Quality Management. The audit reports were generated and delivered with fin4.5 Ethics Hotline and Anti-Corruption Principle: dings and recommendations, and the closing plans were G4-57, G4-58, G4-LA16, G4-DMA coordinated with those responsible for each department. The progress of the plans was reviewed regularly. AccorRegarding the anti-fraud program, in accordance with the 10 ding to all the auditors’ reports (at least 90 days since principles promoted by the UN Global Compact, the BVC proissued), as at December 31, the average percentage of hibits any violation of the laws and regulations, as well as any progress attained in each area with respect to said closing illegal, unethical or dishonest conduct by its executives, maplans was 94.90%. nagers and employees. The Auditor submitted quarterly reports to the Board of To this end, the BVC has a Code of Good Governance, an Ethics Directors and the Audit Committee to monitor the progress and Conduct Manual, an Anti-Fraud Program Manual, and an of the plan and provide feedback on the most significant internal control system to ensure the tools necessary to miniresults. mize and control any risk of fraud and corruption, which are included in the BVC’s Corporate Risk Management. Finally, it is important to stress that Management procured the resources and information required to carry out the auThe anti-fraud program was updated in 2015 in order to estadit independently and without limitations. blish the fraud risk management framework as a mechanism to promote the development of procedures and controls that 4.4.3 Improvement of Work Practices prevent, detect, and manage the occurrence of fraud in a timely manner, encourage employee commitment to combating In order to improve work practices and thus the effectivefraud, and promote transparency in Management’s actions. In ness of results, Internal Auditing took the following priaddition, the risk maps were updated and as part of the awamary actions: reness plan, employees received training on the program. 216 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 217 CHAPTER 5 Sustainability 5 Sustainability 5.1 Sustainability Focus and Vision recommendations that was approved by the WFE General Asnora Suki. Additionally, in May and September, events were report of annual progress was sent within the integrated report sembly in Doha on October 20, 2015. held with the media about understanding and use of the comin GRI4 format. In its commitment to labor rights, the BVC has Concerns about climate change have increased the risks that panies’ sustainability reports. focused on the development of its employees as talent mainvestors assess when making their investments. The process Our commitment to sustainability, better information disnagement, and in relation to environmental principles, it has is no longer limited to financial indicators and now the enclosure standards and investor relations was reinforced in In 2015, the BVC developed a project with Bloomberg to encarried out impact investments through Fondo Inversor, which vironmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria cannot be 2015 with the inclusion of sustainability criteria as one of sure the availability of its ESG information terminals of Coaims to resolve social and environmental challenges through separated from financial analysis in investment decisions. It the requirements of IR Recognition, which is the guidance lombian issuers, achieving that 26 companies, representing sustainable and economically profitable business models. is increasingly common for investors to request further inforfor the Colombian securities market adopted voluntarily by 65% of the capitalization of the Colombian market, reported mation and measurements with ESG criteria to measure the the BVC issuers. their ESG information for all global investors. Finally, in the anti-corruption principle, the Company has a non-financial risks. Code of Good Governance, an Ethics and Conduct Manual, and The IR Recognition program ended 2015 with 31 listed As a signatory of the UN Global Compact since 2012, the BVC a strong Internal Control System, which provide the necessary Sustainable investment is no longer philanthropy. Sustainabicompanies, out of which 26 (including the BVC as an isreinforces its commitment to this initiative. In 2015, the second tools to minimize and control any risk of fraud or corruption. lity is and will continue to be the new standard. Therefore, glosuer) are writing their sustainability reports according to bal markets have increasingly incorporated more regulations, the latest standard of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI4, (mandatory or voluntary) guidance and products (ETFs, green which also follows the WFE Guidance and Recommendabonds, derivatives, etc.) related to sustainability. Investors are tions. Another very important achievement for the BVC in requesting more and better information to identify the possi2015 was it becoming the first securities exchange of Latin ble risks that may affect their portfolios in the short, medium America and the third in the world to make its integrated and long term. report according to GRI4. In 2015, Bolsa de Valores de Colombia was not unaware of In its interest to coordinate sustainability topics in the local this global trend and it continued to actively work on the procapital market, the BVC has been working to raise awaremotion and development of sustainability and responsible ness and the networks necessary to adapt these topics to investment standards in the Colombian securities market bethe Colombian context, and together with the Global Retween its market participants and the different stakeholders. porting Initiative (GRI), it has held conferences and training sessions for various stakeholders such as market particiAs part of the BVC’s commitment to sustainability, the Exchanpants and the media. ge voluntarily participates in UN initiatives. Since 2012, it has participated in the UN Global Compact and since 2014, in the In 2015, several events were held such as the 4th Sustainable Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) Initiative, being the second and Responsible Investment Conference in February with the Exchange in Latin America to become a member of the latter. participation of a distinguished groups of experts, such as the Since the start of 2015, the BVC has also been part of the SusHead of BlackRock’s Corporate Governance and Responsible tainability Working Group of World Federation of Exchanges Investment Team, Zach Olesiuk, the Managing Director and (WFE), which together with Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) Head of Green Bonds at JP Morgan, Marilyn Ceci, and the Head developed an ESG Guide with reporting and measurement of Sustainable Financial Product Strategy at Bloomberg, Leo220 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 221 5 Sustainability Economic Value Generated and Financially Distributed (Millions COP): G4-EC1 5.2 Corporate Social Responsibility: The consolidated social impact of Inversor in 2015 was: G4-SO1 Employment Employment Characteristics Valor Economico Generado y Distribuido / 2015 2014 VAR $ VAR $ Generated and Distributed Economic Value 5.2.1 Inversor Private Equity Fund Valor agregado generado / Generated Value Added Inversor is an impact investment fund that channels its in19% of employees earn the miniIngresos operacionales / Operating Revenues 117.275 80.478 36.797 46% mal monthly legal salary in force. otros ingresos / other revenues 5.103 5.461 -358 -7% vestors' resources to leverage growth, expansion or SME conCompanies in the Inversor portfolio have created an average of 211 di42% of workers is formally emIngresos por método de Participación 5.596 6.263 -667 -11% solidation plans that have a profitable business model with rect jobs and are constantly working ployed. to improve the working conditions of Valor agregado generado 127.974 92.202 35.816 39% growth potential and that generate a high social and enviEmployees' income has increased their employees. by an average of 34%. ronmental impact. In 2015, Inversor increased the size of the fund by 15% from 2014, ending the year with COP 23,910 Varlor Agregado Distribuido / Distributed Value Added million thanks to the capitalization by FOMIN, BVC, Fundación Population with Barriers to Participation by Women Remuneraciones a empleados / Employment Employees Remuneration Bolivar Davivienda and Old Mutual. It also incorporated a new Nomina / Payroll 44.214 22.750 21.464 94% investment in the Fruandes Company and continued to assess Capacitación / training 416 297 119 40% its investments with the GIIRS (Global Impact Investing Rating System) methodology. Therefore, the investments of Fondo 77.7% of Gaia's employees are Bienestar / Welfare 143 211 -68 -32% either in a condition of vulneraOtros Personal / Others Employee 4.816 2.207 2.608 118% Inversor at the end of 2015 were: 37.9% of the jobs is held by bility or face a barrier to employment access. 49.7% of the executive positions is Total remuneraciones a empleados / held by 49.588 25.466 24.123 95% Total Employees Remuneration INVESTMENT % Shareholding Total Pagos al gobierno (Impuestos) / Population # % 17.375 15.024 2.351 16% WAYA 47,67% Total Payments to the Government (Taxes) GAIA VITARE 45,00% Socioeconomic Levels 1 and 2 139 65,8 Pagos a proveedores / Payments to Suppliers 28.355 20.861 7.494 36% GRONCOL 28,15% Single Parent 55 26,0 Inversiones en comunidad y medio ambiente / 60 336 -276 -82% Community and Environment Investments FRUANDES 17,13% Indigenous/Afro-Colombian 11 5,2 Costos Operacionales / Operating Costs 2.569 1.581 988 62% Varlor Agregado Distribuido / Value Senior Citizen (Pre-Senior Citizen) 21 9,9 97.948 63.268 34.680 55% GIIRS Rating 2014 2015 % Var. Added Distribution Dependent Senior Citizen 39 18,4 WAYA 153,7 143 -6,9% Valor agregado retenido / Retained Added Value Disabled Person 2 0,9 GAIA VITARE 134,4 144 +7,1% Diferencia Entre Valor Agregado Generado y Dependent Disabled Person 13 6,1 GRONCOL 111,2 156 +40,2% Distribuido / Difference Between Generated and 30.026 28.934 1.092 4% Distributed Economic Value FRUANDES N/A 89 Displaced Person 16 7,5 • * Data are consolidated in the IFRS financial statements BVC 6These figures do not include Fruandes, which was recently added to the portfolio. 222 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 223 5 Sustainability The consolidated environmental impact of Inversor in 2015 was: WAYA Hotel: GAIA VITARE: GRONCOL: Environmental Impact • Through Gaia, more than 6,300 tons of electrical and electronic waste have been managed, 69% of which has been reused and 31% of which has been properly disposed. • Through Groncol, approximately 700 tons of organic waste have been reused. • Pollution and atmospheric CO2 have also been reduced Gaia Vitare is a company dedicated to the management, (See graphs). The hotel, located in La Guajira, Colombia, achieved sales of disassembly, treatment and reuse of Waste Electrical and Captured Particle Material (Kilos) COP 9,286 million in 2015, increasing 16.7% from 2014. In Electronic Equipment (WEEE). In 2015, its sales amounted GRONCOL is a company dedicated to the design, installalines of impact, the results of Hotel Waya are as follows: to around COP 2,050 million. In lines of impact, the results tion and maintenance of green walls and roofs. It ended Accumulated 71% of the captured particle mate2010-2014 rial is obtained through of Gaia Vitare are as follows: 2015 with sales of around COP 10,300 million, showing 346,8 Kilos green ceilings In employment, it has achieved greater development of em84.3% growth from 2014. In 2015, Inversor experienced 263,4 ployees with training and wellbeing plans, as well as improIn employment, it has achieved greater strengthening of a decrease of shareholding in Groncol from 29.1% to 7.709 vehicles vement of employee classification. Out of which, 56% is now the health and safety processes, as well as greater impro28.15% due to the inclusion of new partners in the com187,3 annual emissions formally employed, 42% is comprised of women and 73% is vement of employee classification. Out of which, 25% pany because of the acquisition of Metroverde as part of its considered vulnerable. In suppliers and communities, 47% of is now formally employed, 46% is comprised of women vertical integration process. 76,2 the hotel's purchases is made locally and 14 local suppliers and 82% is considered vulnerable (senior citizens, sinwere trained. It is also working on the identification of pogle mothers and people from low socioeconomic levels. In lines of impact, the results of GRONCOL are as follows: 27,7 0,1 4,7 tential partners of tourism services with the communities of In communities, talks were given to the neighboring comIn employment, it achieved the formal employment of an 2.010 2.011 2.012 2.013 2.014 2.015 2.016 2.017 2.018 the area. In the GIIRS rating, Hotel Waya obtained a rating of munities about the company's activity and environmental important group of laborers (33%) and the improvement of Captured CO2 ( tons) 143/200 points in 2015, which is a decrease of 6.9% from impact. In the 2015 GIIRS rating, Gaia Vitare improved its the working conditions of others (55%). Additionally, it has Accumulated the score obtained in 2014. score by 7.1% from 2014, achieving 144/200 points. improved employee classification. Now 32% is formally 83% of the captured par2010-2014 ticle material is obtained employed, 27% is comprised of women and 75% is con16.901 Kilos through green ceilings sidered to be vulnerable (senior citizens, single mothers 12.626 and people from low socioeconomic levels). In suppliers, 10.372 people it achieved the incorporation of Metroverde and its em9.059 annual emissions ployees, which belong to the community, within the work plans and impact assessment of Groncol. In the 2015 GIIRS 3.3889 vehicles annual assessment, Groncol obtained a significant 40.2% impro3.434 emissions vement in its rating with 156/200 points. 1.254 56 252 2.010 2.011 2.012 2.013 2.014 2.015 2.016 2.017 2.018 Figures as of November 2015 a doesn't include Fruandes 224 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 225 5 Sustainability 5.2.2 Donations: G4-DMA 1,200 million as debt. Fruandes ended 2015 with sales amounting to COP 3,080 million, showing 32% growth from 2014. The evolution of the donations that the BVC has made from 2010 to 2015 is provided below: The impact of Fruandes lies in the development of three straEvolución Donaciones BVC / Donations Evolution (Millones $ COP) tegies focused on: generation of employment in industrial • Between 2010 and 2015, the BVC donated a $152 production, its supply chain and the environmental impact $71 cumulative value of COP 1,409 million to 27 generated throughout its supply chain. $77 foundations. $63 $44 $52,5 • The largest donation was made to the Fondo In terms of employment generation, it has 38 employees, Inversor of COP 950 million. 76% of which is comprised of women. In its supply chain, the • In addition, the BVC makes donations every year company has achieved important work in education, culture, to nine or ten foundations whose objectives are FRUANDES: association and good practices, benefiting small producers of $200 $150 $150 $150 $150 $150 aligned with the BVC's CSR policies. organic fruit in different regions of the departments of Antioquia, Cundinamarca, Tolima, Huila and Nariño. Fondo Inversor Donations 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Throughout 2015, the BVC made donations for a total value of COP 202.5 million to entities such as: 10. Global Compact : The BVC has been a signatory of this 1. Fondo Inversor : This fund supports and strengthens UN initiative since 2012. The Compact encourages compacompanies that transform the social and environmental nies to align their strategies with the principles in the areas problems of Colombia through their business models of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. 1. 10. 9. Casa de la Madre y el Niño: This non-profit foundaCOP 1 COP 150 2. Techo para mi País: Donation of four houses that tion is dedicated to providing a home for abandoned Million Million will be built with together with BVC employees. children and pregnant women, offering wellbeing, 9. 2. specialized care, guidance and training. COP 3 COP 30 In 2015, Fondo Inversor made an investment in a company Million Million dedicated to the production and sale of organic agricultu8. Fundación Ellen Reigner de Casas: This foun3. Fundación Empresarios: This entrepreneurial Donations 3. initiative helps create equality through dation supports patients of the National Cancer 8. ral products, mainly dried fruit and granulated brown sugar, BVC COP 2.5 high-quality basic education. Institute and other institutions that care for COP 3 COP 202.5 Million where the international market represents around 95% of its low-income cancer patients. Million Million sales. The company aims to grow and enter new markets, ex7. 4. 7. Fundación Color Esperanza: This is an organization COP 3 COP 4 panding its production capacity through the construction of a dedicated to promoting and carrying out social programs Million Million 4. Fundación CRAN: This foundation's mission is to 6. 5. help children and adolescents grow in a caring, new plant, strengthening of its supply chain and development for human potential, development and the defense of COP 3 COP 3 nurturing family and social environment where Colombian children, families and communities. of new lines of business. Million Million they can exercise their rights and be happy. 6. Fundación Pulgas: The Nutri-Pulgas Project fights childhood malnutrition through a product called Super Galletas , which In 2015, Inversor invested COP 100 million, which represents won the National Social Innovation award in May 2015 as part 5. Fundación Formemos: The program educates displaced children 17% of the shareholding and additionally, it invested COP of POSTOBÓN and SOCIALAB's Todos Podemos challenge. and rural Colombians from vulnerable communities. 226 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 227 5 Sustainability 5.3 Environmental Management: In September 2015, the BVC started a campaign to reduce its market by generating content, tools and opportunities to Major Results: G4-DMA, G4-EN3, G4-EN6 consumption of plastic and paper, aiming to generate greater bring Colombians in general and industry professionals to awareness among its employees regarding the environmental the local securities market and expand or increase their Academic Program: In line with the principles of the UN Global Compact and the impact of the excessive consumption of said resources on our knowledge of it. Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative (SSE), the BVC is working planet. To reduce consumption of plastic, the BVC gave out mugs a. Academic Program for Individuals: The BVC offers diffeon the development and application of environmental sustaifor coffee and for paper consumption, the campaign focused on The strategy is developed through two pillars: rent training options for individuals through its BVC Tranability policies that complement its philosophy as an environreducing the number of printed pages and increasing efficiency. ining Centers. Within the content offered during 2015, mentally and socially responsible company. So in 2015, as part 1. Academic Program: In-person and online academic individuals had a range of 20 programs related to topics of its commitment to the environment, the Exchange developed programs for individuals, financial market profesincluding financial and investment concepts in the equicampaigns focused on the reduction of energy, plastic and pasionals, academic programs in partnership with Coty, derivatives and fixed income markets. A total of 111 per consumption with the aim to generate savings in resources, lombian and foreign universities, and a free talks courses were taught with the participation of 1,781 Cohaving a positive impact on its environmental management. program for education and promotion of the local lombians in 15 cities of the country and an overall satissecurities market. faction level of 4.7 out of 5. In terms of energy consumption, the BVC completed the replacement of the whole lighting system with LED at its head office Additionally, in this line, programs were developed with inb. Specialized Market Training Programs: This initiative in Bogotá, achieving a 2.7% decrease in electricity consumpternational certification entities. These programs are for the covers a proposal of specialized academic programs for tion from 2014. preparation of local certifications and research in association financial and securities market professionals. In 2015, with universities about relevant topics for the development 106 professionals participated in this initiative, with an of the local market. overall satisfaction level of 4.6 out of 5. Consumo KVA/ KVA Consumption 2. Contests and Simulators: Practical tools for investment c. Online Programs: Through the website: www.bvcvirtual. simulation or the involvement of academia in the recom, anyone interested can access online academic pro250.000 search of local market problems. grams teaching investment principles and the fundamental concepts of the local securities market. In 2015, 12 248.868 200.000 The initiatives carried out in both pillars have been impleprograms were offered, which had 575 participants. mented through areas called “BVC Training Centers”, as well 204.711 199.336 194.016 Also, in 2015, the BVC was recognized by Hewlett-Packard Coas the website: www.conozcalabvc.com, a channel exclusid. International Partnerships: In 2015, the BVC offered 150.000 lombia for its participation in HP Planet Partners, a program for vely for reporting all the educational initiatives carried out three programs on derivatives in partnership with the the return and recycling of original HP LaserJet toners. by the BVC. University of Illinois aimed at professionals of the finan100.000 cial and securities market system, as well as university 5.4 Financial Education Program: The education program is also leveraged with strategies teachers, with 32 participants. 50.000 G4-DMA through social networks, allowing us to improve interaction with different audiences. The BVC currently has 36 centers in In 2016, the BVC will expand its network of international 0 The objective of the BVC's Education Department is to work 17 cities in Colombia, carrying out ongoing activities to propartners and it will offer programs in partnership with the 2012 2013 2014 2015 on the promotion and mass use of the Colombian capital mote the securities market. London School of Business & Finance (LSBF) for profes228 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 229 5 Sustainability sionals of the local market, and with international teage firms. In this way, people with limited knowledge or they can start their university studies without preference Market promotion through the digital strategy: chers on topics including derivatives, options, risk, corlimited experience of this kind of investment vehicle can of degree or university. porate governance and investment strategies. have a real experience of making investment decisions In 2015, we continued to work on interaction with individuals but without the risk because simulated amounts are d. Market Architects Contest: In partnership with the Sethrough social networks. Through this channel, the BVC promoe. Financial Education Talks Program: In addition to the used. In 2015, 4,534 people opened demo accounts on curities Market Self-Regulatory Authority, the BVC held tes academic content, provides information on activities of the courses, the BVC adds to its scope with talks on the cathis simulator. the sixth Market Architects Contest, which through a reeducational program and responds to the main queries of peopital market, which aim to provide information on the search project, aims to increase the knowledge of unple regarding products and services of the securities market. entities' role and financial consumers' rights, duties and b. Millionaire Exchange Contest: The Millionaire Exchandergraduate and postgraduate students about the Coprotection plans, among others. The program also incluge Contest allows undergraduate and postgraduate stulombian capital market, as well as enabling teachers and The social network profiles of the BVC's financial education des activities such as cinema forums, seminars or acadedents to invest virtual money in real time in the Colombia professionals to show the studies or research conducted program and its scope in 2015: mic talks led by the BVC Training Centers in the country. derivatives and securities market through an e-trading on the market. During this sixth contest, a total of 57 In 2015, 45,747 Colombians participated in the program. platform provided by the BVC. In 2016, the contest achieprojects were submitted. Facebook: “Conozca la BVC”; 33,507 followers. ved the participation of 8,642 students from 118 univerf. Certifications: In 2015, the BVC signed an agreement with sities in 127 municipalities of Colombia. Twitter: “@ConozcalaBVC”;10,800 followers. the Chartered Institute for Securities & Investment (CISI). This institution, with its headquarters in London and offiThe contests that will be carried out in 2016 will not Participantes Educación / Education Participants YouTube: ConozcalaBVC”; 2,748 subscribers. ces in Sri Lanka, India, Singapore, Dubai and Ireland, has only keep awarding cash and education prizes for the the mission to establish conduct and ethics regulations students with the best performances, but each contest Additionally, the education program's website for participants in the securities and investment industry, will also allow one student with low income and an exwww.conozcalabvc.com was visited by over 720,000 and to provide certifications for these professionals that cellent academic performance to carry out his or her Colombians in 2015. can be requested in the English market as well as in other professional studies through the collaboration of the European securities markets. Said agreement shall allow same participants of the contest and the contributions Comportamiento Redes Sociales / Social Media Performance 67.914 80.000 professionals of the local market to access the preparation of the BVC. 70.000 54.519 and submission of these certifications through the BVC. 40.000 60.000 45.747 c. School Millionaire Exchange Contest: In 2015, the third 33.507 2014 50.000 32.071 2015 Contests and Simulators: and fourth Millionaire Exchange Contests for schools 40.000 34.938 30. 000 were carried out. In 2015, this contest, which was initiaSeguidores / followers 19.641 30.000 16.374 a. Simulators: In 2014, through its website: www.conozlly aimed at grades ten and eleven, included grade nine, 17.736 17.620 20.000 8.882 calabvc.com, the BVC launched the first simulator conachieving the participation of 6,373 students from 187 15.645 5.125 6.399 8.569 2.526 20.000 8.567 1.961 nected to the BVC's stock trading system. This simulator schools in 47 municipalities of Colombia. The aim of this 10.000 3.178 2.367 2.768 4.000 allows people who are interested to create investment contest is to allow the participants to make simulated in0 10.800 8.973 accounts with a virtual amount on an e-trading platform vestments in stocks that are part of the COLCAP Index. Participantes Charla Concurso Bolsa Línea académica 10.000 Totales / Total Educación Millonaria y (cursos) / 2.748 that shows the information about offers and closures of participants Fnanciera simuladores Academic Line / Financial / Millionare (Courses) 1.942 the securities market with a 20-minute delay and that The contest gives cash prizes to the five students who Education Burse Contest & 0 simulates the platforms offered by the current brokeraachieve the best returns at the end of the game, so that Workshops Simulators Facebook Twitter Youtube 230 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 231 CHAPTER 6 Commitment to Shareholders 6 COMMITMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS 6.1 BVC Scale: G4-9 +55.936 +742 +5.103 112.378 2005 2008 2012 2014 2015 Revenues $52.609 $53.018 $81.906 $85.939 $122.378 EBITDA $30.997 $33.473 $42.315 $34.266 $39.339 Net. Profits $23.841 $9.835 $29.618 $27.804 $27.787 +5.992 -7.808 +9.378 Assets $78.411 $96.485 $135.887 $136.204 $166.344 53.036 Liabilities $18.550 $13.365 $25.652 $26.420 $42.353 Equity $59.862 $83.120 $100.235 $109.784 $123.991 RoE 40% 12% 27% 25% 22% EPS $0,55 $1,59 $1,33 $1,25 Div. Yield 4,0% 4,8% 4,2% 5,2%* P/E 33,8 18,7 15,8 13,6 % Trading Revenues 70% 60% 52% 39% 24% Ingresos Servicios Ingresos Otros Ingresos BVC continues to focus on generating value to its shareholders in a sustainable way through Información/ Emisores/ Gagancias a diversified, harmonious and profitable growth 2005/2005 trasaccional Issuers Filiales / Ingresos/ 2015/2015 y registro/ Market Data /Other Gains Revenues Subsidiary Other REvenues Trading & OTC REvenues Services Revenues A Story of Diversification and Growth Millones de pesos / COP Millions * The Financial Reporting From 2012 THIS reported in IFRS./ * The financial imformation in 2005 and 2011 reported in COLGAAP. *EBITDA: Operating Income + Depreciation + 1% 1% Amortization *Dividend yield calculated on the closing price on 31/12/2015: COP$17.0 8% 4% 24% 17% Servicios Transaccional y Registro / Trading & OTC Services Ingresos /Revenues 2005 COP$ 52.609 Información/ Market Data Ingresos / Revenues 2015 6.2 BVC Shareholders: COP$ 122.378 4% 49% 9% G4-13 Emisores/ Issuers Ingresos Filiales/ subsidiaries' Revenue 70% At the end of 2015, Bolsa de Valores de Colombia S.A. had 1,395 The following table presents the twenty (20) main shareholders Otros Ingresos/ Other Revenues 13% Ganancias/ Other Gains shareholders, with a total of 18,672,822,217 ordinary shares with of Bolsa de Valores de Colombia S.A. at December 31, 2015, whithe right to vote. ch represent 68.95% of the shareholding of the BVC. 234 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Annual Report 2015 235 6 COMMITMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS % Acciones is that it has a minimum of 91 million stocks, equivalent to 0.48% 0,2% No. Accionistas / Shareholders % Share of the Exchange's subscribed capital. 5,6% 6,8% 1 Bancard International Investment Inc 9,9393% By stock ranking, the BVC shareholders were distributed as follows 31,0% 2 Fondo De Pensiones Obligatorias Porvenir Moderado 9,5759% at the end of 2015: 16,4% 1395 Accionistas / 3 Universidad de Medellin 6,7084% Shareholders 4 Amber Global Opportunities Master Fund Ltd 6,4901% BVC Distribución de Accionistas / Shareholders' Distribution 19,4% 5 Inversiones Cfns S.a.s. 4,3200% No. de Accionistas / No. % Acciones / 20,5% Dec 2015 of Shareholders Shares 6 Bmo Investments Ii (Ireland) Pcl 4,0263% Menos de / Less Than: 1% 1377 33,03% 7 Fondo De Pensiones Obligatorias Colfondos 3,7933% Fondos de Inversion Extranjera Firmas Comisionistas / Moderado Entre / Between: 14 34,25% / Foreign Investment Funds Brokerage Firms 8 Corporacion Financiera Colombiana S.a. 3,3634% 1% 5% Entre / Between: 4 32,71% 8 Fdo De Pensiones Obligatorias Proteccion Moderado 2,9973% 5% 10% Sector Real / Real Sector Universidades / Universities Total 1395 100,00% 10 Valores Bancolombia S.a. Comisionista De Bolsa S A 2,9091% Fondos de Pensiones / Personas Naturales / 11 Fundacion Fdi Gip Pacifico 2,1524% Pension Funds By type of shareholder, at the end of 2015, foreign investors Individuals 12 Grandeur Peak Emerging Markets Opportunities Fund 2,0569% stood out as the largest group of shareholders of the BVC with 31%, followed by the real sector represented by liquid assets of 13 Banca de Inversion Bancolombia S.a Corp Financiera 1,7793% local companies, and the pension funds. 6.3 Growth of BVC Stock: 14 Londoño Y Restrepo S.a. 1,6824% G4-9 15 Bbva Valores Colombia S.a. Comisionista De Bolsa 1,4143% Numero de Acciones % Acciones / Accionista / Shareholder / Number of Shares Shares In line with the performance of the markets managed by 16 Global X/Interbolsa Ftse Colombia 20 Etf 1,3395% Fondos de Inversión Extranjera / Foreign 5.791.078.965 31,01% the Exchange in 2015, the price and volume of BVC stock 17 Kapitalforeningen Emerging Markets Long-Term Econo 1,2580% Investment Funds was affected. The uncertainty of the markets during 2015, 18 Fondo Bursatil Ishares Colcap 1,1627% Sector Real / Real Sector 3.856.893.393 20,66% which locally were considerably affected by the drop in Fondos de Pensiones / oil prices, the depreciation of the peso against U.S. dollar 19 Inversiones Lovar S.a 0,9987% 3.603.894.110 19,30% Pension Funds and the Colombian checking account deficit, had a strong Firmas Comisionistas / 20 Servivalores Gnb Sudameris S.a. 0,9830% 3.050.004.205 16,33% impact on the performance of local stocks, including BVC's Brokerage Firms Universidades / Universities 1.254.891.780 6,72% stocks. It is worth noting that according to Article 54 of Law 510 / 1999, under no circumstances may a beneficial owner have a share of Personas Naturales / 1.080.604.143 5,79% Individuals With this market environment, the BVC share price pre10% or more of the subscribed capital of an exchange. AdditioCarteras Colectivas / 35.455.621 0,19% sented a 19% decrease, ending 2015 at COP 17.0, caunally, according to Article 1.5.1.6. of the General Regulations of Investment Funds sing an equal decrease in the market capitalization of the Bolsa de Valores de Colombia S.A., for a stock brokerage firm to be Total 18.672.822.217 100,00% Company, which ended 2015 at COP 317,438 million. admitted as a member of the Exchange, one of the requirements 236 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Annual Report 2015 237 6 COMMITMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS $ 35.000 Volumen Negociado (Millones COP) $ 25 In 2015, as a market maker of BVC stock, the Credicorp Capital Brokerage Firm helped to improve the formation of prices, generating greater / Traded Volume (COP Millions) stability and a smaller buy/sell spread with an average of 1.23% in 2015, representing a 5.05% reduction from the 2014 average. Since the 26.583 $ 30.000 21,0 Precio Acción BVC (COP$) / BVC Stock prince start of the program in November 2014, the market maker program of BVC stock uses the incentives system with the market maker's own funds. $ 20 18,5 18,7 17,8 18,0 $ 25.000 16,5 16,8 17,0 17,5 16,1 16,5 5,0% 15,8 Inicio de Formador de Liquidez / $30 Start of the market maket $ 15 $ 20.000 24,9 25,0 23,9 4,0% $25 13.158 23,0 21,7 21,7 22,0 $ 15.000 20,9 11.000 21,0 21,0 10.946 $ 10 19,9 3,0% 18,7 $20 8.495 8.783 20,7 20,9 17,5 6.822 $ 10.000 2,40% 2,36% 17,0 16,5 18,5 15,8 5.140 18,0 4.588 17,8 4.455 $5 16,8 2.846 2,0% 16,1 16,5 $15 $ 5.000 1.634 1,63% 1,71% 1,25% 1,28% 1,15% 1,11% 1,51% 1,03% 1,07% 1,52% $0 $0 1,0% 0,81% 1,19% 1,22% 1,20% 1,26% 1,19% $10 Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 0,90% 1,06% 0,95% 0,92% 0,83% 0,84% 0,0% $5 In 2015, the BVC's stock trading volume decreased 26% from 2014, ending at COP 104,448 million with a daily average Jan-2014 Feb-2014 Mar-2014 Apr-2014 May-2014 Jun-2014 Jul-2014 Aug-2014 Sep-2014 Oct-2014 Nov-2014 Dec-2014 Jan-2015 Feb-2015 Mar-2015 Apr-2015 May-2015 Jun-2015 Jul-2015 Aug-2015 Sep-2015 Oct-2015 Nov-2015 Dec-2015 of COP 432 million. However, the BVC's stock continued to form a part of its main indexes, such as COLIR, COLEQUTY and COLSC. The stock exited the COLCAP Index in July 2015 and entered again in the rebalancing of October 2015 after the exit $0 -1,0% of the Terpel stock from said index. Bid Offer Spread Precio Accion BVC/ BVC Stock Price ($COP) $ 400.000 Capitalizacion Bursatil (Millones COP)/ Market Cap (COP Millons) 6.4 Corporate Group: works to manage and regulate trading systems and the 392.129 G4-9 listing of transactions on securities other than stocks and 349.182 345.447 336.111 332.376 $ 300.000 317.438 mandatory convertible bonds. 326.774 313.703 308.102 308.102 300.632 295.031 For Bolsa de Valores de Colombia, 2015 was a year of $ 200.000 great changes at the corporate level, and continued to exOn June 18, the BVC completed the acquisition of 51% of pand as a corporate group with the incorporation of two the shareholding of Sophos Banking Solutions, a leading new subsidiaries. company in the implementation of technology consulta$ 100.000 tion solutions and services for the financial and securiOn March 17, 2015, the Exchange acquired a 50% share ties sector, operating in Colombia, Chile and Mexico. It has $0 of the share capital of ICAP SECURITIES, a company oversome of the best-known financial institutions and brokeJan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 seen by the Financial Superintendence of Colombia that rage firms among its clients. 238 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Annual Report 2015 239 6 COMMITMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS Regarding long-term investments, in 2015, the BVC increased its share in Cámara de Compensación de Divisas de Colombia 6.4.1 Subsidiaries: S.A. CCDC by 4.74%, ending 2015 with 29.74% of the shareholding of this company. Financial Invesbolsa Indicators VAR 2015 2014 VAR % 2015 2014 2015 2014 VAR % 2015 2014 VAR % 2015 2014 VAR % % Revenue 36.449 26.627 37% 17.916 14.483 24% 1.556 1.306 19% 4.891 4.138 18% EBITDA 12.915 7.904 63% 8.916 6.434 39% 35 -1.472 102% 1.540 1.306 18% -2 -2 15% Subsidiaries Long Term Investments: Net Profit 7.981 4.678 71% 5.565 4.244 31% 349 -40 976% 784 764 3% 56 45 23% Sophos Technology Assets 15.945 12.423 28% 10.752 7.763 39% 2.470 2.225 11% 2.857 2.556 12% 149 203 -27% Solutions S.A. (Chile) 99.8% Liabilities 6.781 22.790 -70% 4.444 2.775 60% 206 343 -40% 997 920 8% 0 0,3 53% 51% 22,98% Equity 9.159 6.240 47% 6.309 4.988 26% 2.264 1.881 20% 1.860 1.636 14% 148 202 -27% Sophos Technology Solutions S.A. de CV (México) EBITDA 35% 30% 19% 50% 44% 12% 2% -113% -102% 31% 32% 0% 99.9% Margin 50% 27,64% Net Margin 22% 18% 25% 31% 29% 6% 22% -3% -836% 16% 18% -13% RoE 87% 75% 16% 88% 85% 4% 15% -2% -828% 42% 47% -10% 38% 22% 68% RoA 50% 38% 33% 52% 55% -5% 14% -2% -889% 27% 30% -8% 38% 22% 68% 50% 29,74% Infovalmer provides price Sophos offers consultancy provision services of fiservices, implementation 0,07% nancial instruments for the of core banking, manufac100% whole of the capital market turing of tests and software and other assets, as well as Invesbolsa is an mainly for companies of the In March 2015, SET ICAP portfolio and risk manageinvestment vehicle financial and stock market In 2015, 405,434 tranSecurities became a ment tools and indexes. In that can invest in sector. At the end of 2015, sactions were carried out subsidiary of the BVC, October 2015, it announced the share capital Performanit presented a 29% growth (+23.9% YoY) through which manages trading Invesbolsa 100% ce in sales from 2014, where SET-ICAP FX for a value of systems and the listing its joint venture with LUZ of companies in Soluções Financeiras, one of which the BVC 2015 revenue by country is led by USD 227.9 trillion (+2.5% of fixed-income assets. the main risk management is authorized to Colombia with 78%, Mexico YoY) and with a daily aveAt the end of 2015, the companies in Brazil. With invest according with 14% and Chile with rage of USD 942 million traded volume was COP this agreement, Infovalmer to the legal regulaSubsidiaries: are part of the BVC’s consolidated financial statements in IFRS Joint Venture: 8%. By line of business, (+3.4% YoY) 6.5 trillion. will offer the MITRA risk mations in Colombia 44% of sales is from sofBVC’s Direct Shareholding: 90,91%;Through Invesbolsa: 9,09% nagement system in Colomas well as abroad. tware manufacturing, 35% BVC’s Direct Shareholding: 49,82%;Through Invesbolsa : 0,18% bia; having local knowledge from consultancy services 50% to support the operation of and 21% from test manuthe platform and to provide Long Term Investments and Joint Venture: these companies have an impact on the facturing. customer service. consolidated financial statements in IFRS through the equity method. BVC’s Direct Shareholding : 49,95%;Through Invesbolsa: 0,05% 240 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Annual Report 2015 241 6 COMMITMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS 6.5 Dividend Distribution Policy: G4-9 6.4.2 Long-term and Joint Venture Investments: At the meeting held on March 26, 2015, the BVC's General Shareholders Meeting approved the forecast distribution of profits of the 2014 period in the following terms: Indicadores financieros Bolsa de Valores de Colombia S. A. $COP 2015 2014 VAR % 2015 2014 VAR % 2015 2014 VAR % 2015 2014 VAR % Profits Distribution Porjec as of December 31 de 2014 Operating Profits before Income Tax 34.173.491.748 NOTES: Revenue 67.695 69.969 -3,2% 9.953 8.695 14% 8.919 7.069 26% 49 216 -77% Minus EBITDA 35.975 39.749 -9% 2.215 1.665 33% 2.358 1.878 26% -716 -849 16% 1. It is proposes that cash dividends will be paid Income Tax and Complementaries 7.727.439.096 in two payments: $0,45 (per share) on April Net Profit 21.413 25.636 -16% 2.178 1.363 60% 1.436 1.247 15% -799 -958 17% Income Tax for Fairness CREE 2.790.518.075 30th, 2015, and $0,44 (per share) on June 30th, Assets 90.745 90.814 -0% 30.038.629 16.191.121 86% 6.337 5.520 15% 1.807 1.974 -8% 2015. Net Profits of the Year 23.655.534.577 Liabilities 18.480 22.612 -18% 30.002.229 16.156.685 86% 1.036 714 45% 877 300 193% Plus 2. Dividends will be paid to whoever has the quaEquity 72.264 68.202 6% 36.401 34.222 6% 5.301 4.806 10% 930 1.674 -44% Reserves Release Decree 2336 of 1995 46.293.474 lity of shareholder at the time to be enforceaEBITDA ble to pay, in accordance with Article 455 of the 53% 57% -6% 22% 19% 16% 26% 27% -0% -1448% -393% -269% Margin rrespond to the profits generated by the application Commercial Code. Net Margin 32% 37% -14% 22% 16% 40% 16% 18% -9% -1614% -443% -264% of market price valuation system according with the Article 1° of the Decree 2336 of 1995. 3. The dividends of 2014 are considered for shaRoE 30% 38% -21% 6% 4% 50% 27% 26% 4% -86% -57% -50% Reserves Release 0 reholders, incomes with no income tax nor winRoA 24% 28% -16% 0% 0% -14% 23% 23% 0% -44% -49% 9% dfall profits. Profits before Obligatory Reserves 23.701.828.051 4. Considering that it will be proposed to the AsMinus sembly that dividends will be paid in two (2) CRCC clears and settles BVC transactions Legal Reserves 0 payments, the ex-dividend period will haCCDC manages the clearing ppens the four (4) trading days preceding the of the standardized derivatives market, (The Company has 50% of the capital in reserves) Deceval manages, clears, and settlement of transacacting as a counterparty and eliminating date of the dividend payment: settles and guards securities tions in foreign currency Reserve Decree 2336 of 1995 84.483.646 the risk of default. In 2015, CRCC cleared traded through the BVC. It between the brokers of foDerivex manages the standarand settled a total of 966,393 contracts • Between April 24th, 2015 to April 30th, also provides services of correign currency. In 2015, CCDC dized derivatives market for Profits before Occasional Reserves 23.617.344.405 in standardized derivatives (+9.0% YoY). 2015 ex-dividend date for the dividend porate events. In 2015, it was cleared an settled a total energy commodities. In 2015, The value of the open position ended at performance the custodian of securities volume of USD 274.6 trillion a volume of COP 1,045 million Occasional Reserves for Projects 7.058.470.201 payment on (April 30th, 2015) COP 25.4 trillion (+191.3% YoY), through 2015 for COP 381.3 trillion (-9.6% (-1.6% YoY) with 429,929 (+40.7% YoY) was traded in 38 members of the derivatives market. Total Profits to Distribute 16.558.874.204 • Between June 23th, 2015 to June 30th, YoY). Also at the end of 2015, transactions (+22.6% YoY) 18 contracts (45.5% YoY) and In non-standardized derivatives (OTC) it managed securities for COP and ended with a liquidity with an energy volume of 5.84 Ordinary Dividend 16.558.874.204 2015 ex-dividend date for the dividend it cleared and settled NDFs of dollars in 115.9 trillion (+9.6% YoY) and saving of 83.8% (+4.1% YoY). Gwh (+47.5% YoY). payment on (June 30th, 2015) par value for USD 81.5 trillion (+4.1% it made 272,028 DVP transacIn technology, in October Total Profits to Distribute in Cash 16.558.874.204 YoY) and in OIS and IBR, COP 19 trillion, tions (+50.2% YoY). 2015, the CCDC changed to a a new line of business started in October new C&L platform. 2015.. Shares Outstanding 18.672.822.217 Dividends per Share 0,89 242 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Annual Report 2015 243 6 COMMITMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS Accounts receivable of the BVC with related parties and their terms at December 31, 2015 and 2014: Accounts receivable 2015 Third Party Total Between Between Between Between Between Unexpired 0 30 31 60 61 90 91 180 180 360 days days days days days Derivex 607 30 28,8 28,8 28,7 217,5 273,4 Cámara Riesgo Central de Contraparte 4,9 4,9 Sophos Banking 1.181 1.180,9 Total 1.793 30 34 29 29 1.398 273 6.6 Special Report as per Article 29, Law 222 / 1995: G4-9, G4-EC4 the following conditions: (i) they are between entities of Accounts receivable 2015 the same group subsidiaries; (ii) they are with entities (asBetween Between Between Between Between Third Party Total Transactions with Related Parties sociates or joint ventures) in which there is a significant Unexpired 0 30 31 60 61 90 91 180 180 360 influence of the reporting entity; and iii) they are with a days days days days days They correspond to any transfer of resources, services member of the key personnel of the management of the reDerivex 155.3 90,0 21,4 21,4 22,5 or obligations between related parties. The transactions porting entity. Transactions with related parties are made at Total 155.3 90 21 21 22 between related parties for the BVC are those that meet the fair value or market price at the time of the transaction. Accounts payable of the BVC with related parties and their terms are as follows: At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the balances of transactions between companies or related parties amounted to: Accounts receivable 2015 1. They correspond to the dividends receivable that exist at the time of purchase and to which rights are granted when obtaiThrid Party Total Between Between Between Between Between ning the fair values of the net assets acquired. Unexpired 0 30 31 60 61 90 91 180 180 360 2. A loan of COP 160 million paid out in 2015 with an interest rate of DTF +2.5% and with a term of 18 months was included días días días días días in the accounts receivable of Derivex. Otros 5,3 5,3 Total 5,3 5,3 2015 2014 Accounts receivable 2015 Accounts Accounts Entity Relationship Accounts payable Receivable Accounts payable receivable investment returns Commercial Investment Incomes Thrid Party Total Between Between Between Between Between business Activities Unexpired 0 30 31 60 61 90 91 180 180 360 Derivex S.A. Join Venture 607,1 153,3 days days days days days Cámara de riesgo Central de Contraparte Associated 4,9 Others 1,8 1,8 Sophos Banking Subsidiary 1.180,9 Total 1,8 1,8 Others Shareholders 5,3 1,8 1.792,9 5,3 155,3 1,8 244 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Annual Report 2015 245 6 COMMITMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS Transactions with related parties and their effects on the income statement are presented below: At the end of 2015, the BVC did not receive economic aid 6.8 Circulation of Invoices: from any government body. G4-9 2015 2014 Society Relacionship Transaction Effect on P&L Effect on P&L (Income) / (Income) / 6.7 Important Events after the Period: Bolsa de Valores de Colombia states that in 2015, it did not Expens Expense G4-9 obstruct the free circulation of invoices issued by its supDeceval S.A. Associated Securities custody 38,6 pliers or contractors and ensured the free mobility of those Cámara Central de Riesgo Contraparte Associated movable property renting (21,2) Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC S.A. and Depósito Centragenerated in the entity as a result of the sale of goods and Cámara de Compensación de Divisas Associated movable property rentin (9,3) 22,3 lizado de Valores de Colombia DECEVAL S.A. announced the services related to its activity. face-to-face courses (1,8) (0,6) signing of a Memorandum of Understanding with the aim to IT Service (97,8) (80,6) execute, make decisions and/or take the action required to Set Icap Subsidiary movable property renting (24,0) (18,0) reach an agreement regarding a possible transaction of corSpecial communication services 43,9 porate integration. Administrative services (3,6) (1,7) IT Services (221,4) To advance with the Memorandum of Understanding, the Expenses refund (2,5) Boards of Directors of the two companies designated an Inmovable property renting (12,2) (12,2) Derivex S.A. Joint Venture tegration Committee comprised of some of their members, Interest loan (2,7) Administrative services (31,5) (30,5) which is duly authorized to select the legal advisors of the Legal services (32,0) (32,2) transaction and the two international investment banks, one for the valuation and the other for the Fairness Option. Clearing and settlement services (43,5) Variable charges custodians (0,0) Icap Securities Subsidiary The BVC and DECEVAL coincide in their strategic objective to Administrative services (6,1) Market data screens (10,0) work for the development and growth of the capital market to position it as an international example, creating value for the face-to-face courses (0,1) (2,1) market and for all its stakeholders. Data bases and reports (156,4) (119,3) IT Services (76,3) (57,5) Infovalmer Subsidiary CAO renting (24,0) (18,0) To achieve it, they have established as strategic objectives a Administrative services (125,3) (107,5) unified strategy to optimize processes in the value chain, an Financial services (10,0) improvement in the cost/benefit ratio for current or potential Portfolio valuation 10,8 users and maximum efficiency in the structure of the market. IT assessment 82,2 Administrative services (13,4) With the possible transaction, business opportunities are Sophos Banking Subsidiary System Apps 257,4 increased through the diversification of instruments for the Surveys, research and projects 290,9 investor community, as well as financing options and risk management tools for the private sector. Total (198,8) (504,9) 246 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Annual Report 2015 247 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET CHAPTER 7 Commitment to Clients and The Market 248 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 249 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET 7.1 Performance of the Markets in 2015 : context, the price of oil presented a -30% drop in the WTI creased the inflation rate up to 6.77% at the end of 2015. securities lending transactions and COP 8,139 million to G4-DMA reference in 2015. This figure was considerably higher than the upper limit of Global Colombian Market (MGC) transactions (See Graph the Central Bank's target range (4%), resulting in the Cen1). This was how the average daily trading in cash transacInternational Environment In the midst of this adverse situation for the emerging tral Bank starting the contractive cycle in monetary policy, tions (purchase and sale) showed a decrease of 18.90%, economies, Latin America was one of the regions that increasing its benchmark interest rate on four occasions dropping from COP 165,547 million in 2014 to COP In 2015, the improved economic performance that had generated the greatest uncertainty for international infrom 4.5% to 5.75%. 134,252 million in 2015 (see Graph 2). been forcasted did not materialize. The divergence bevestors. The drop in the terms of trade as a result of the tween the economic blocks continued to expand: Growth lower prices of raw materials translated into an economic In terms of foreign investment, Colombia showed a signiof the developed countries, which maintained a moderate performance that was considerably lower than expected ficant decrease. Foreign direct investment suffered a reGraph 1: Volumen Renta variable/ but steady pace mainly led by consumption, contrasted at the beginning of the year. This led to a strong depreduction of capital flows of USD -3,664 million from 2015, Equity Market Volume 2011 2015 with a weaker than expected Chinese economy and with ciation of the region's currencies and forced the central where investment in oil and mining was the most affected, the slowdown and uncertainty in emerging economies. banks to implement contractive monetary policies to condropping USD -4.299 million. However, other sectors of tain inflation. In this situation, the capital markets had a foreign investment did show an increase of USD 635 miIn the developed countries, the U.S. economy stood out negative performance where the stock market indexes for llion in revenue from the previous year. In turn, portfolio 80 as the main engine of growth, demonstrating that the lethe region, measured by the local MSCI EM Index, suffered investment also showed a negative performance, reducing 70 COP$ Billones / COP$ Trillions 26 thargic performance of the winter season was fleeting. a -8% drop, while the Sovereign Bond Index of the Latin the amount entering the country by USD -7,970 million 27 This performance led to the Federal Reserve deciding to American economies calculated by Bloomberg dropped from the previous year. 60 increase its benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points -18% during the year. 50 at the December meeting. In Europe, the continued stagIn this situation, the local capital market had a considera8 9 nancy of growth and inflation led to the ECB deciding Local Environment bly lower performance than in previous years, where the 40 to implement a monetary stimulus plan (QE); a decision equity market was the most affected (annual variation of 46 41 41 40 7 which added to a weaker euro, helped to counteract fears Despite Colombia not being exempt from the Latin Amerithe Colcap Index -23.75%). Additionally, in the fixed inco30 of deflation and, albeit weakly, to drive growth and prican situation of inflation and slowdown, the local economy me market, the increase in price levels, together with the 32 ce levels. The stimulus plans were maintained in Japan, had a better performance than expected and achieved increase in the risk perception toward Latin America cau20 which is reflected positively in the labor market, despite some of the highest growth rates in the region (estimated sed an increase of 117 bps in the 10-year benchmark rate inflation remaining below the Central Bank's target (2%). variation of the GDP of 3.0% in 2015). The drop in oil priof the government debt securities, which led to the de10 ces had a negative effect on the terms of trade and convaluation of the Coltes Index by -0.34% during the year. 0 In turn, the emerging economies continued to be affected siderably increased the checking account deficit (7% of 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 by the weakness of the Chinese economy, the slow growth the GDP for the third quarter of 2015), which produced a 7.2. Equity Market: of the developed economies and the drop in the demand strong depreciation of the local currency (annual variation G4-DMA for raw materials. The oil market in particular continued of -34% against the U.S. dollar). Contado/ Cash Equities to present a surplus where the new fracking technology The total volume of transactions in the equity market in Repos & TTVs/ Repos & Sec. Lending allowed small U.S. producers to stay in the market despite The transmission of the depreciation of the Colombian 2015 was COP 39.69 trillion, COP 32.45 trillion of whithe low prices of crude oil, while the agreements with Iran peso to imported goods and products, together with ch correspond to cash transactions (purchase and sale), fostered expectations of a greater supply in 2016. In this effect of the El Niño phenomenon on food production, inCOP 6.75 trillion to repo transactions, COP 0.48 trillion to 250 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 251 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET Graph 2: Volumen promedio Diario/ Average There was a total of 619,197 transactions during the year In terms of participants, foreign investors continued to be quality market to implement best international practices. Daily Trading 2011-2015 on the spot market, 23,177 repo transactions, 1,711 securithe main actors in the local market with a 32% share, foAmong these, the following initiatives stand out: ties lending transactions and 103 Global Colombian Market llowed by the brokerage firms with 17%, individuals with (MGC) transactions for a total of 644,187 transactions in the 15%, the Real Sector with 12% and the pension and sevea. Changes to the methodology of equity market trading: transactional systems of the BVC's equity market. rance pay funds with a 12% share. Additionally, in 2015, COP$ Millones / COP$ Billions 188.212 200.000 the net purchasers of the market were foreign investors • Implementation of 13 continuous auctions of 29 minutes 165.707 167.538 180.000 165.547 In 2015, the COLCAP Index presented a negative variation and the ADR program with net positions of COP 1.49 trillion throughout the trading session for non-liquid instruments 160.000 140.000 134.252 of 23.75% (see Graph 3) in line with the regional and global and COP 0.97 trillion, respectively. • New ranges for price control for the entry of orders in trading. 120.000 situation. Part of this behavior is due to external factors such 100.000 as the drop in the price of commodities, the slowdown of the In turn, market capitalization presented a negative varia• Decrease of the price reporting criterion, which went 80.000 Chinese economy and the changes to U.S. monetary policy. tion of 23.50%, ending with COP 279 trillion at December from 66,000 real value units (approx. COP 15,065,000) to 60.000 Locally, an impact was observed in tax reform, devaluation 31 (see Graph 4). 23,000 real value units (approx. COP 5,250,000). 40.000 of the Colombian peso and a slower growth rate in the Co20.000 0 lombian economy. b. Changes to short-sale regulations: 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Capitalización Bursátil / Market Capitalization 2011 2015 • Clarification of the conditions for carrying out short-sale transactions, giving tools to the market to structure 600 diverse strategies. Graph 3: Índice COLCAP / COLCAP Index 2009 2015 484 500 c. Implementation of the custodian figure: COP$ Billones / COP$ Trillions 404 416 2.000 364 400 279 • The custodian model incorporated operating and protecUnidades de índice / Index Units 1.800 300 tion efficiency for end investors of third-party portfolios, 1.600 complying with Decree 1498, which stipulated that mu200 tual funds (MF) must exclusively delegate the security 1.400 safeguarding activity, clearing and settlement of transac100 tions and management of equity rights to a custodian. 1.200 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 In 2016, the BVC will continue to work on projects that 1.000 allow improved market quality in terms of infrastructure and product development. Therefore, the notable main 800 Main Initiatives 2015 initiatives include the incorporation of adjustments to abril/12 enero/13 abril/13 enero/14 abril/14 octubre/12 octubre/13 octubre/15 enero/09 abril/09 julio/09 enero/10 abril/10 julio/10 enero/11 abril/11 julio/11 enero/12 julio/12 julio/13 julio/14 enero/15 abril/15 julio/15 octubre/09 octubre/10 octubre/11 octubre/14 securities lending transactions, the implementation of In 2015, the BVC implemented a series of initiatives that aimarket regulations that generate trading efficiency and med to contribute to the construction of a liquid and good improvements to the clearing and settlement model. 252 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 253 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET Integrated Latin American Market (MILA, for the • The issue of Decree 2241 by the Ministry of Finance Volumen negociado de Deuda Pública y Deuda Privada (SEN y BVC) / Public and Private Debt Traded Volume (SEN and BVC) Spanish original) and Public Credit, which broadened the type of Securities that can be listed and traded on the systems 1.800 1.566 1.551 COP$ Billones / COP Trillions 1.469 In 2015, transactions were carried out for USD 37 million for listing foreign securities; specified regulations 1.600 1.370 1.283 1.356 1.400 1.196 through the MILA infrastructure, which represents a deregarding recognition of public offerings authorized 1.069 1.072 1.200 943 crease of 69.49% from 2014, when transactions amounabroad; and confirmed that every kind of investor is 1.000 ted to USD 118 million. In 2015, the securities traded authorized to invest in foreign securities listed on the 800 most were those of Chile for USD 20 million (54.05%), MILA for both the primary and secondary markets. 600 277 followed by Colombian securities for a total of USD 14 mi400 170 200 109 90 85 llion (37.84%) and Peruvian securities for USD 3 million • The custodian model was activated in the MILA. The0 (8.11%) (see Graph 5). refore, the settlement of this kind of transaction may 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 be carried out through the local custodian accounts. Deuda Pública / Public Debt (SEN) Deuda Pública / Public Debt (BVC) Deuda Privada / Private Debt Volumen Negiciado a través de la Infraestructura MILA / Traded Volume Through MILA Infraestructure 2011-2015 • The MILA DAY event was held in Frankfurt and London, In this scenario, taking into account the SEN and MEC traThe share of MEC in this market also presented different where investment alternatives in Latin America were ding systems, the secondary market of treasury securities behavior according to the type of transaction. The greapresented to investors and infrastructure suppliers. presented a reduction in the total traded volume of 5.03% test drop in SEN volumes with respect to MEC of 33.62% from 2014, amounting to a total of COP 2,623.12 trillion. resulted in the share of MEC increasing from 40% to 47% 120 112 In 2016, the BVC will keep working on the development By type of transaction, the most important reduction was in the purchase and sale market in 2015. Meanwhile, the 100 and consolidation of the MILA as the most important intein the cash market with a decrease of 25.29% from the growth in the funding market volumes in SEN, which inMillones de US$ / US$ Millions 80 gration initiative of the region which is part of the Pacific 2014 volumes and COP 1,134.37 trillion of traded volume, creased by 44.37% in 2015, caused a decrease in the sha66 62 53 Alliance. while the funding market increased 19.68%, amounting re of MEC from 47% in 2014 to 36% in 2015. 60 to COP 1,488.63 trillion. 40 20 21 7.3 Evolution of Volumes in the Fixed Income Market: 20 14 8 8 8 3 3 G4-DMA Volumen negociado de Deuda Pública por Tipo de Operación (SEN y MEC) / Public Debt Traded Volume by Transaction Type (SEN and MEC) 0 6 7 0 1.200 1.137 Sobre Valores Sobre Valores Sobre Valores The behavior of the fixed income market in Colombia was 946 COP$ Billones / COP Trillions Chilenos Over Colombianos Over Peruanos 910 Chilean Securities Colombian Securities Over Peruvian marked by uncertainty about the decisions on monetary 1.000 Securities 674 696 670 709 policy in the United States, the increase in local inflation 800 638 647 656 614 613 608 604 levels, the increase in the benchmark rate of the Central 600 432 588 530 542 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Bank, the greater perception of risk among investors toward 329 331 400 the Colombian economy and the reduction in the foreign 200 The main initiatives that were implemented to promote investment flows to the local market of treasury securities. 0 the MILA include: MEC SEN MEC SEN MEC SEN MEC SEN MEC SEN 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Compraventas / Spot Market Fondeo/ Repo Market 254 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 255 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET Regarding the secondary private debt market operated of a project to facilitate the trading and listing of sell buyTaking into account the conclusions of the Private Debt throughout the BVC, the traded volume amounted to COP back transactions to be cleared and settled in the CRCC. Forum and the considerations of the participants of the 85.34 trillion, 5.67% less than the COP 90.46 trillion of Visionary Program, “The Roadmap to Empower the Private 2014. By type of transaction, it became evident that the cash To facilitate the trading of this kind of transaction, a new Debt Market in Colombia” was disclosed to the market to market as well as the private debt funding market presented type of trading was created in the transaction system, and make known the specific initiatives that the Visionaries drops in the traded volume of 6.88% and 3.06%, respectiadditionally, the listing of OTC transactions was activated team will be working on in the upcoming months. vely. through the listing mechanism with confirmation of MEC. Affiliates can carry out this kind of transaction on public c). MEC PLUS Renovation Project Volumen negociado de Deuda Pública por Tipo de Operación debt securities issued by the Colombian government in / Public Debt Traded Volume by Transaction Type the categories of fixed-rate treasury securities in ColomThe Fixed Income Trading System Renovation Project was bian pesos, real value units and short-term TES, and they started in the second half of 2015, which aims to change COP$ Billones / COP$ Trillions 250 221 must comply with the requirements established by the the version of all the components of the application and 200 CRCC to activate their trading on the transaction system. include new functions in the system. 150 104 100 This new function was implemented from January 18, From a technological perspective, the project includes the 66 67 62 58 56 42 2016. update of the version of the MEC PLUS application with 50 29 28 the aim to ensure its compatibility with the Windows XP 0 b). Visionaries Private Debt Program and Windows 7 operating systems. Additionally, the pro2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ject will implement new functions on the trading platform, Compraventas / Spot Market Fondeo/ Repo Market The Visionaries Private Debt Program is a BVC initiative which are in response to requests from the market agents that brings together representatives from the different and aim to facilitate trading on the private debt market. BVC Initiatives for the Fixed Income Market professional groups of the Colombian financial sector and These new functions include: issuers of the fixed income market to analyze and develop In 2015, the BVC developed the following initiatives with the different initiatives with the aim to promote the private • Change in the trading methodology of serial auction aim to promote the public debt funding market and the privadebt market in the Colombia. of non-standardized private debt to enable two point te debt market, as well as improving the infrastructure that it trading. offers its clients to make their trades. The Visionaries Program was launched in August as part of the Private Debt Market Forum in Colombia organized • Valuation and trading by IRR for securities indexed to a). Sell Buy-back Transactions Project for Clearing and by the BVC. The research document: “Private Debt Market: the IBR for three months. Settlement in the CRCC Evolution and Diagnostics” was presented at this forum by the BVC, followed by a discussion panel with represen• Reinvestment of term deposits through trading to plaWith the aim to offer new options for the affiliates to efficiently tatives from financial market professional groups, which ce primary securities. manage the risks in the treasury security funding operations, in analyzed the inhibiting factors that need to be removed 2015, the BVC worked together with the Central Counterparty in order to develop the private debt market in Colombia. • The BVC plans to start this project in the first quarter of 2016. Risk Clearing House (CRCC) on the design and implementation 256 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 257 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET ded was COP 120.8 trillion, exceeding the landmark of COP substantially decreased, going from 96,047 to 35,779 conThe current development strategy of the BVC derivatives 100 trillion trades a year for the first time with a 26.9% tracts; a drop of 62.7%. market is focused on two large areas. On the one hand, it increase from 2014 (see Graph 1). The number of transacis based on bringing the successful products in the overtions carried out was 64,599, showing an annual increase When analyzing the traded amount by type of underlying asset, the-counter (OTC) market to the standardized market, and 7.4 Derivatives Market: of 43.6%. Likewise, the increase in the daily trading aveit can be observed that the exchange rate futures were the most on the other, on completing the product offering that will G4-DMA rage stands out, which went from COP 393,248 million to dynamic in the year with trades of COP 65.5 trillion, that is 54.5% allow the BVC to compete in the global scenario. COP 500,865 million. Three new historical records of daily of the total. Throughout 2015, trades were made on futures conMarket Performance trading were also made in 2015 with a maximum of COP tracts on specific reference treasury securities (TES) for COP 50.8 In terms of the first area, 2015 was a very important year 2.3 trillion on February 26. Regarding market participants, trillion, 42.3% of the total traded. It is notable that in 2015, the new in the diffusion strategy of OIS futures on the overnight For the BVC derivatives market, 2015 was a record year. For the continuity in third parties' share of the traded volume OIS futures on the IBR had an exceptional performance in the first IBR as an ideal product to c counteract changes in the mothe first time since its launch in 2008, more than one mistands out, who maintained 34% of the total volume in year they were launched with trading volumes of more than netary policy that the Central Bank started in the second llion futures were traded, amounting to 1,043,000 futures 2015. Despite the previous results, the open interest level COP 3 trillion, 2.5% of the total transacted in 2015. Finally, the half of the year. The great challenge for a rising market is with a 10.84% increase from 2014. The total amount trafixed-income futures, which include contracts on stocks and to provide education to the market participants and thecontracts on the COLCAP Index, had trades for COP 0.9 trillion, refore, a large part of the year's efforts were dedicated 0.7% of the total. to an intensive and personalized training process on the Evolución mercado de Futuros BVC / BVC´s Futures Market Evolution product. These results are explained by the high volatility experienced Volumen en Billones COP / Volume COP Trillions Número de contratos / Number of contracts by the exchange rate throughout the year, the impact of the inRegarding the second area, in 2015, the BVC standardi140.000 $16 terest rates on the TES as well as the IBR because of the change zed options market project was started, which is hoped to 120.000 $14 in the monetary policy of the Central Bank and the reduction be successfully completed before the end of 2016. This $12 in the appetite of investors for equity as a result of the drastic market will allow us to keep completing the hedging and 100.000 change in oil prices. investment tools for participants of the BVC derivatives $10 80.000 market in the volatile environment, which is expected to $8 60.000 Finally, when analyzing the issued notional amount, obtained continue in the upcoming years. $6 by multiplying the open interest of the futures market by the 40.000 $4 closing price of 2015 of each one of the underlying assets of In terms of the current portfolio of standardized futures, 20.000 the contracts, the investors have open positions for a value of efforts were based on continuing to adapt their charac$2 COP 4.3 trillion, which represents a 48.4% increase from the teristics to the participants' needs. Therefore, the tra$11 20 -1 end of 2014. It is worth highlighting that the OIS futures on the ding hours were coordinated for the futures of stocks as 11 20 3 11 20 5 IBR rate ended 2015 as the futures line with the greatest issued well as the representative exchange rate with the trading 11 20 -7 11 20 -9 11 20 1 12 20 -1 12 20 3 -1 12 20 5 12 20 -7 12 20 -9 12 20 1 13 20 -1 -1 13 20 3 13 20 5 13 20 -7 13 20 -9 20 13 20 1 14 20 -1 14 20 3 14 20 5 14 20 -7 14 20 -9 14 20 1 15 -1 -1 notional amount with COP 2.8 trillion, 65.6% of the total. hours of the underlying asset market. Changes were made 20 -1 15 20 3 15 20 5 15 20 -7 15 20 -9 15 -1 1 to the criteria to establish the closing prices of the TES Renta Variable / Equities Tasa de interés / Interest Rates Divisas / FX Monto / Volume New Initiatives and Products futures and work was carried out on improving the methoCifras 31/12/2015 Información Mensual I Data 31/12/2015 Monthly Information Fuente / Source: BVC dologies to value said futures with the aim to attract one 258 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 259 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET of the most important industries in the capital market, the Electronic media products are divided into two lines of instruments include those of PFBancolombia, Grupo Sura asset management industry. business: the Electronic Access Services (EAS) and back 7.6 Commercial Broker Management: and Grupo Argos. office and trading terminals. Revenue from these products G4-DMA Finally, aware of the importance of the adequate commuended 2015 at COP 4,195 million. Economic Research Areas nication of the derivatives market, the Monthly Derivatives Strengthening of the Derivatives Market Report was launched, which visibly increases the amount The custodian EAS were implemented in 2015. Through Coverage of all the instruments that are part of the COLand quality of the information on the trades on this market. these services, BVC affiliates connected to EAS can create, IIn 2015, the derivatives market exceeded all the historiCAP Index was maintained, generating timely and goodSimilarly, a whole new range of commercial tools was dechange or delete transaction packets. Likewise, through cal records for this product. A total operating volume of quality information that facilitates the investors' decisionveloped for the different products, elements which allowed this service, the user can transfer the packets created to COP 120.7 trillion was achieved with 26.9% growth from making. The first panel was carried out between national a new website to be made available to the market, which the selected custodian and consult the status of them. 2014. The historical records were also exceeded with and foreign analysts to demonstrate the current quality of increases the disclosure of information (http://www.traderthree foreigners operating during the year, a total voluthe Colombian teams. In 2015, we had been working for sbvc.com.co/). me of 1,048,199 futures, a daily trading record of COP 2.2 more than three years to promote the knowledge and high trillion and a daily average amounting to COP 500,866 quality standards of the Economic Research Areas with the 7.5 Data and Electronic Media Evolución Ingresos / Revenues Growth 2004 2015 million. The volume operated by third parties amounts to second Economic Research Areas Awards in partnership G4-DMA COP 44.1 trillion with 47.0% growth from the previous with the Portafolio Newspaper. The survey, which establiyear. All these goals were achieved with the sales reinforshed the best economic research teams of Colombia, was Information 12.000 cement of the brokers' sale desks focusing on clients of extended by the BVC to more than 300 companies that COP$ Millones / COP Millions the real sector and institutional sector. The OIS futures invested in the equity and fixed income markets in 2014. 10.000 Data products are divided into four lines of business: marmarket started trading in June and amounted to a total The display of the media by the winners of this last awards 8.000 ket information, licensing, information screens and dataof 6,072 contracts traded for a value of more than COP 3 event demonstrates the positioning and prestige that this bases and reports. Revenue from these products ended 6.000 trillion. Currently, it is operated by Colombia's main bank initiative has achieved. 2015 at COP 7,456 million. 4.000 treasuries, pension and severance pay funds and trusts. 2.000 Launch of Information Screens The new e-BVC service was implemented in 2015. This Securities Lending service consists of a multi-platform that is accessible In August, the new e-BVC information screens were launthrough the internet and mobile devices that permits the 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 In 2015, the managed pension funds stand out as the ched; a platform which allows the management of informa20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 visualization of the information of the three markets mamarket's main sources of securities lending, managing to tion of the fixed income, equity and derivatives markets in naged by the BVC (stock, derivative and fixed income) in trade a total of COP 69,839 million, which corresponds real time. Its users have mobile versions available in App real time, differed and/or at the end of the day. Likewise, Similarly, the custodians connected to these EAS can acto 15% of the total market with growth more than five Store and Google Play, so they can be used on cellphones e-BVC allows access to different added-value tools such cept, reject or leave in Pre-Match the packets sent by the times greater than the previous year. The increase in the and tablets. The sale of this new platform was achieved as technical analysis, macroeconomic calendar and portaffiliates and consult the status of each one of them. size and term of the transactions made by the managed with the sales forces of the main brokerage firms, which folio simulators. pension funds allows the BVC to use them for the prehave equipped their teams with a complete information The sum of revenue from information and electronic meparation of more complex figures, a key element for the system that includes international data schedules, techElectronic Media dia for 2015 amounted to COP 11,651 million, represendevelopment of the derivatives market. The most traded nical analysis tools and valuation of equity portfolios on ting a 14.5% increase from 2014. 260 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 261 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET In 2015, the custodian figure was incorporated as a new Through Issuer Management, Bolsa de Valores de Colomelectronic data capture system is included, which allowed Paagent in the capital market. This regulation required the bia (BVC) is committed to supporting the growth and detrimonio Autónomo Estrategias Inmobiliarias to hold the first transfer of assets of the mutual funds (MF) to be guarded velopment of the securities market by channeling savings round of the securities issuance process through the BVC for by this new agent. The BVC has become a fundamental to productive investment, thus converting the BVC into an COP 251,867 million. axis for the implementation of said figure, not only in the effective means for business financing. In addition, it proadaption of the clearing systems and fulfillment of the motes the dynamism and quality of the Colombian capital Market Makers transactions on the equity and fixed income markets for market by achieving best practices in the area of informathe inclusion of this new agent in the value chain, but also tion disclosure and investor relations by the securities isAt December 2015, there were already four instruments with in the development of the electronic access systems, fasuers, as well as having a sufficient and attractive offering market makers operating on the Colombian market: (i) ICOLCAP, cilitating the automation of the custodians' internal proof issuances for investors or those looking to participate (ii) BVC, (iii) Empresa de Telecomunicaciones de Bogotá S.A. E.S.P. cesses. By September 2015, they had migrated a total of: in the Colombian capital market. (ETB) and (iv) EEB, which as a result of the use of this mechanism, 286 MF of 44 administrators through the three custodians increased their liquidity and reduced their bid-offer spread. authorized by the Financial Superintendence of Colombia: Access to Corporate Financing Corpbanca Investment Trust, BNP Paribas Securities ServiLikewise, the brokerage firms that are currently acting as marces and Cititrust. The last two constituted two important In 2015, different issuers accessed the public securities ket makers of these issuers are: Credicorp Capital Colombia S.A. connections for the BVC in 2015. market in search of financing and obtained resources of (BVC, ETB and EEB) and BTG Pactual S.A. (ICOLCAP). COP 6.2 trillion with terms of 20 years for the debt issuanMigration to FIX 4.4 ces made, as well as a financed amount of more than COP In line with the objective to promote the liquidity of the 69 trillion in the 2011–2015 period. securities market, the stock trading methodology was alTo promote volume in the equity and derivative markets, the tered, eliminating the suspension of the trading period for BVC started the migration of its affiliates to the new FIX 4.4 Out of the companies of the real sector that accessed the non-liquid instruments and permitting the instruments in communications protocol. This protocol permits greater speed market in 2015, the issuances made by Interconexión this category to be traded during 13 consecutive daily and stability in the routing platforms for national and internaEléctrica S.A. E.S.P. (ISA) and Empresas Públicas de Medeauctions, each one lasting 30 minutes. tional clients, providing access to stock trading algorithms in llín E.S.P. stand out, which individually amounted to COP the different markets, among other possibilities. Throughout 500,000 million, as well as those made by Organización IR Issuer Recognition the year, the BVC has supported its affiliates in the migration Terpel S.A. and Promigas S.A. E.S.P., which individually process, achieving by the end of 2015 that 89% of the appliamounted to COP 400,000 million. cations used was certified under this new protocol. In addition to the above, it is worth highlighting the execu7.7. Issuers and Listing Services: tion of several listing services, which include the offering the same screen. At the end of 2015, more than 110 e-BVC G4-DMA of the shareholding of Ecopetrol S.A. in Empresa de Enerscreens had been delivered to the local market. gía de Bogotá S.A. E.S.P. EEB (6.87%) and in ISA (5.32%). Strategic Objective Custodian Migration Within this same group of successfully developed listing services, the design, implementation and management of an 262 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 263 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET the public securities market together with its participants. Thelombian issuers and to strengthen and make the stock market se initiatives include the promotion of the regulation for the known nationally and internationally. known and recurring issuers and as a result, External Bulletin 20 / 2015 was issued. The program continued to provide personalized assistance to the member companies, it held a series of events directed at 7.8. Colombia Capital: these same companies together with the issuers now listed on G4-DMA the BVC, it provided online training on the securities market and it incorporated new companies interested in accessing the This is the training program for future issuers of the Colombian public securities market. Securities Exchange, which aims to expand the offering of CoOn the other hand, in line with the aim to assist potential issuers in their process of preparation to appear on the securiP r o y éctese ESO ES TENER VISIÓN With the aim to make Colombia a more eligible market for indexes of total disclosure in the region, while in 2010 the siinvestment, in 2012, the BVC launched the IR Issuer Recogtuation was the opposite”. nition initiative, which promotes the adoption of best practices in information disclosure and investor relations (IR) Additionally and in line with the BVC's commitment to sustaiamong issuers. In 2015, for the third consecutive year, the nability and responsible investment, in 2015, it promoted the BVC recognized the effort made by the securities issuers that publication of sustainability reports by the issuers who had revoluntarily committed to this initiative. On this occasion, IR ceived the IR Recognition. Recognition was awarded to 31 companies, 29 of which also received it in 2014: Additionally, Corporación de Ferias y ExIssuers Committee posiciones S.A. and Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial S.A. were welcomed and awarded the IR Issuer Recognition as Comprised of 12 of the most active issuers on the market, the the two new issuers committed to this initiative: Issuers Committee has positioned itself as a formal discussion forum where queries, suggestions and other relevant topics of In 2015, a study financed by the State Secretariat for Economic the securities market are analyzed and as a result, regulatory Conviértase en emisor BVC Affairs of the Swiss Confederation and the World Bank was preand operating amendments are promoted and coordinated y haga parte del grupo de visionarios que proyectan su futuro. sented, which was published by the CESA School of Business with the BVC and the authorities. www.colombiacapital.com.co SER EMISOR BVC ES TENER VISIÓN and the Private Council on Competitiveness, and highlighted the work of the BVC to drive the aforementioned initiative. In In 2015, the work groups formed within said committee worEl crecimiento their study, the researchers highlight that “the most active comked on several regulatory proposals that it had been coordide todo un país panies in Colombia on the securities market display the highest nating with the authorities to promote greater development of 264 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 265 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET ties market, it launched the Being a BVC Issuer Means Having of the Colombian capital market. Said regulatory initiatition agreements and established the system applicable to Vision campaign. Government Entities that Attended Colombia Inside Out 2015: ves include implementation of the risk model applicable the recognition of public offerings authorized abroad. to monetary transactions, updating of the regulation apVice-president of Colombia 7.9 Colombia Inside Out 2015: plicable to short sales, consolidation of the accreditation In line with the previous objective, through its CEO, the ExG4-DMA Ministry of Finance of known and recurring issuers, strengthening of the inchange currently participates in the Commission of Experts frastructure of the securities market, creation of the Pacifor the Promotion of the Financial Integration of the Pacific Ministry of Mines In May 2015, the BVC held the COLOMBIA INSIDEOUT event fic Alliance Commission and extension of the assets that Alliance. This aims to recommend to the Colombian Goverin New York and London for the fourth time, which continues Central Bank may be subject to trading in the Integrated Latin American nment the measures and policies for the integration of the to successfully promote the Colombian capital market abroad Market (MILA, for the Spanish original). member countries of the Pacific Alliance and it will serve as Financiera de desarrollo nacional and strengthen investors' trust in Colombia. COLOMBIA INSIa place for dialog between the public institutions and the DEOUT put business leaders, securities issuers and top-level The risk model applicable for repo transactions, simultaprivate sector in aspects related to making, executing and National infrastructure agency government representatives face to face with global invesneous trades and securities lending transactions was immonitoring policies to promote financial integration. tors, providing them with a closer look at the broad range of plemented through the development of methodologies investment opportunities, economic perspectives, challenges nance, Mauricio Cárdenas, and Minister of Mining and Enerfor the eligibility and acceptance of securities for these Work will be continued on the implementation of risk and key sectors of Colombian growth. gy, Tomás González, as well as the General Manager of the transactions and their inclusion in BVC Regulations in models applicable to the repo transactions, simultaneous Central Bank, Jose Darío Uribe, who played an essential role compliance with Decree 2878 / 2013. It also implementrades and securities lending transactions on private debt This Colombia InsideOut event was attended by the Colomin presenting firsthand the most ambitious infrastructure ted methodologies for eligibility in short sales, ensuring and in clearing and settlement of simultaneous trades in bian Vice-President, Germán Vargas Lleras, Minister of Fiplan in Latin America for a value of USD 30 trillion, as well as greater future use of this kind of order. the Central Counterparty Risk Clearing House. This is in Companies that Attended Colombia InsideOut 2015: the challenges of the energy sector and macroeconomics of addition to regulatory alignment in the region on specific Colombia. The event also had the participation of the Peace Taking into account the importance of the development topics such as the tax systems and regulations applicable Avianca Holdings Grupo Aval Commissioner, Frank Pearl, who presented the opportunities of market infrastructure through an integrated business to the institutional investors. Banco de Bogotá Grupo Bancolombia the peace process brings for model by the infrastructure providers, the issue of Decree BVC Grupo EEB 032 / 2015 was promoted. This decree makes viable the 7.11 Technological Development and Evolution: This fourth COLOMBIA INSIDEOUT event had the participation possibility of greater integration of the Central CounterG4-DM Celsia Grupo Éxito of 19 issuers and around 400 one-on-one meetings took place party Risk Clearing House (CRCC, for the Spanish original) Cementos Argos Grupo Nutresa between the companies, the Colombian government and the with the infrastructure providers, establishing whether the As a basis for the operation of BVC services and processes, Conconcreto Grupo Sura managers of global portfolios in New York and London. latter could be beneficial owners of the clearing house up technology must be kept in a constant process of evoluto an equivalent value of 100% of its share capital. Simition to respond quickly, fully and safely to the dynamic Ecopetrol Isa 7.10 Advances in the Regulatory Agenda Focused on larly, corporate governance aspects of the infrastructure market demand as well as the requirements of the OrgaEmgesa E.S.P Promigas Market Developments: providers are strengthened in this regulation. nization's processes. Therefore, in 2015, the BVC made ETB Terpel G4-DMA progress in the consolidation of its technology strategy With the aim to make the MILA more attractive for invesbased on three pillars: Quality to Achieve Excellence in Grupo Argos In terms of regulations, 2015 was characterized by the tors and other markets, the BVC promoted the issue of DeService, Speed for Opportunity in Solutions and Innovaconsolidation of important advances in the development cree 2241 / 2015, which extended the securities that can tion for Continuous Business Development. be listed on the foreign listing systems through integra266 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 267 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET Application architecture coverage • Design and implementation of the technology solu1. Management of Customer Relations tions required for the strategic business projects such Client as the custodian model, e-BVC, the new equity trading Functions Client Knowledge and Management BVC Portal methodology, the risk model for fixed income, the simultaneous fixed income trades by the CRCC and fulfillment of the over-the-counter transactions by Set 5. Listing Services Icap Securities. 3. Clearing and Settlement 2. Trading Awarding Systems¡ Back Office Systems • Update of all the servers that comprise the stocks and derivatives trading platform, as well as the communiTrading Systems 6. Cross-cutting Services 4. Information Management cations servers (MC) that permit the connection of the Business and Disclosure affiliates to the fixed income system. Functions Operation Management Services Supervision Services Notification Systems • Update of the infrastructure and high availability system of Market Integration Systems Business Intelligence Services the clearing house (BDU). Market Information Systems Guarantee Systems • Update of the monitoring software to expand coverage and preventative identification of failures. 7. Financial 9. Regulations and Compliance 11. Resource Management • Migration of the server operating system to new software licensing systems that represent a significant reduction in Accounting Systems Auditing Systems Management Systems costs and improvements in the support model. Support Functions 8. Risk Management 10. Human Resources Management 12. Other Functions • Start of the project to consolidate databases, which has Support and Risk Systems HR Systems as its main objective to optimize the administration, opeManagement Systems ration and monitoring processes of them, reducing the risks of unavailability and information security. One of the main challenges to ensure technological evolution, The BVC has a technology infrastructure comprised of increase capacity and reduce the risks related to disuse has • Start of the design to unify the trading platforms for equidifferent platforms to support the business services and been to keep the physical and application infrastructure of ty, derivatives and fixed income to facilitate use and acoperating processes, which is shown in the following grathe BVC up to date. To achieve this objective, in 2015, we focess by clients and to simplify the infrastructure manageph of functional coverage. cused our efforts on the following actions: ment and maintenance processes. 268 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 269 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET Additionally, definitive solutions were developed for releunder the international FIX 4.4 standard for the equity and • Implementation of the process of incident management With the support of the Projects Office, in 2015, the BVC focused vant events that occurred in 2015 affecting the availability derivative markets, providing greater ease of connection and and technology requirements supported by collaboration its efforts on improving the efficiency and competitiveness of the of the trading and electronic access services (EAS) systems. optimization of the other EAS services, improving their pertools that allow a single point of registration, tracking and market, the diversification of the Company's revenue and process As a result, the update and redefinition of the trading plaformance and connectivity. monitoring to be maintained, as well as the creation of a optimization through the following projects: tforms' contingency infrastructure stands out, allowing the specialized third-level support team that adopted quick impact to be reduced in the event of their failure. There was The recent trend in the use of access systems for the entry of methodologies for software development. In 2015, around a. Markets Operating under Better International Practices: also the activation of electronic access to the trading system orders is presented in the following graph: 6,000 requests were registered with a 98% level of response and closure. The custodian figure was implemented in the clearing and Órdenes por Mecanismo de Acceso / Order Routing by Platform settlement process of equity and fixed-income transactions • Automation of test cases for the equity and derivatives trafor mutual funds (MF) and foreign investors. The technologi100% ding platform with a 28% increase in efficiency from the cal developments and the regulatory and procedural chanmanual process. ges were activated by the BVC on April 19. From July 21, the 90% Participation / Market Share % CitiTrust, BNP Trust and CorpBanca Securities custodians 80% • Implementation of a cloud upload testing tool to restarted to clear and settle the transactions made by the MF 70% lease internal infrastructure resources and facilitate for the 56 entities that manage them. 60% management. 50% Markets with cutting-edge technology that meets interna40% • Optimization of the monitoring and control of activitional standards, facilitates access and improves reliability, 30% ties and documentation of projects through collabocertification times and service availability: 20% ration tools. 10% • In January, the incorporation of Mexico into the MILA was made 0% • Building of infrastructure maps, failure scenario mapping official through the operative, legal and technological activaand definition of technology contingency strategies. tion of the interconnection of the BVC to the BMV (Mexican 04/2015 05/2015 06/2015 07/2015 08/2015 09/2015 10/2015 11/2015 12/2015 01/2016 Stock Exchange) and Indeval (Central Securities Depository). • Finally, the first phase of the Technology Services Management FIX 4.4 Pantalla Trader / Trader Workstation SAE FIX-ML/ Electronic Access Services Model was executed based on best international practices ITIL• In April, the FIX 4.4 access protocol was made available 2011 (Information Technology Infrastructure Library), as well as to the market for Market Data and routing of orders for In line with this strategy, during 2015, more than 200 disOn the other hand, to achieve the expected quality and speed for the analysis of workloads and technical capacity of the technoequity and derivatives. plays were made in production with an average quality the IT services, a strong process structure and trained work team logy team. Based on these results, in 2016, adjustments will index of 96%. Out of which, 26% was executed as part is required. Therefore, in 2015, actions were made to optimize be made to the processes for the management of IT services. • In July, the BVC finished updating the hardware of the fixed of the IT infrastructure maintenance and improvement processes through the use of collaboration tools, automation of income trading system – MEC Plus with the replacement of program, 33% was focused on resolving petitions and inoperating tasks and strengthening of the use of support tools and 7.12 Development and Evolution of 210 communications monitors and the implementation of cidents, and 41% on the implementation of strategic bumethodologies for the life cycle of software development. Among the PMO Projects in 2015: tools for their remote monitoring, inventory control and ausiness projects. these, the following actions stand out: G4-DMA tomatic invoicing. 270 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 271 7 COMMITMENT TO CLIENTS AND THE MARKET • In August, the implementation of a new version of the MEC Plus tions on treasury securities in January 2016 and for other system was implemented, which adjusts the valuation by IBR instruments in the third quarter of the same year. and the operation of the serial auction of non-standardized private debt to the market's needs and facilitates the automatic • Additionally, in July, the BVC and CRCC came to an agree• In July, the BVC activated e-BVC, a new product renewal of term deposits of the trading to place primary secument on the system to implement a clearing house for that permits the integration of information of the rities. It is forecast that the new version will enter production in the equity market. From December, activities were started three markets (equity, fixed income and derivatives) the first quarter of 2016. on the design of the first phase of the project comprised through the same screen. e-BVC represents a flexible, of repo and securities lending transactions and that is scalable and profitable solution that through the use • In September, the BVC started the construction of a new forecast by the CRCC to enter production in 2016. The of cutting-edge technology allows the distribution of clearing and settlement model for the equity market, whisecond phase of the project covers cash transactions and market information to users through HTML and diffech aims to optimize the flow of payments. The new model the CRCC plans to start its operation in 2017. rent mobile devices. will be implemented in the second quarter of 2016. • In September, a new mechanism and strategy for the fixed • In September, the implementation project of the options income market was activated, which allows the listing of market was started with underlying stocks, stock indexes, transactions in the event that the MEC PLUS trading sysexchange rate and treasury securities. tem is not available because of SW failures. • In December, the study was started to update the X-Stream • In December, the first phase of the business continuity platform for the equity and options markets with the aim project was completed, which together with the Ernst & d. Efficient processes: to implement added-value services that generate efficiency Young Consulting Firm delivered an analysis of the sysfor the market. The BVC plans to finish the project in 2017. tem's current situation, updated the business impact In December, the BVC completed the project to optimize analysis, constructed the BIA and prepared a plan to close electronic access services, which aims to ensure operational b. Safer Markets:: gaps. In 2016, the BVC will carry out the second phase, excellence and improvement of the customer experience. which consists of implementing the plan to ensure a bu• From March, a new function was started that will allow siness continuity system that is in line with the highest the self-realization and listing of fixed income sell international standards. buy-back transactions trades to be cleared and settled by the CRCC. This new function will be activated c. Diversified Revenue: in January 2016. • In June, the implementation of the clearing and settlement services was completed for transactions involving fixed inco• In July, the technological implementation of adjustments me securities from other trading and listing systems. With the to the fixed income risk model was started for the eligiabove, in the same month, the transfer of transactions of SET bility, acceptance and guarantee of simultaneous trades, ICAP Securities was started for fulfillment through the BVC. repos and securities lending transactions based on Decree 2878 / 2013. The new model will be activated for transac272 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 273 CHAPTER 8 Commitment to our Employees 8 Commitment to Clients and the Market 8.1 Talent Management: G4-DMA b. Labor Rights Principles: c.Results of the 2015 GPTW Survey Compared to 2014: G4-11 G4-DMA a. Our Talent Management: G4-DMA The public commitments and the BVC’s objectives regarding At the BVC, we firmly believe in our commitment to drive the growth of our employees and their talent in order to develop a hilabor rights are in line with public law policies, such as Decree gh-performance corporate culture, adding value to the BVC strategy. We base ourselves on five different areas of management to Law 2663 / August 5, 1950, which adopted the Colombian Laensure the results shown below: bor Code and seeks justice in the relations that arise between employers and employees. Culture Management Additionally, in its commitment to respect and promote the Principles of Labor Rights and to ensure that its employees Work Environment Index ✓ Strategic Strategy ✓ Defined roles have the necessary mechanisms for appeal, in accordan✓ Tactical ✓ Maps of critical positions ✓ Operational ✓ Job descriptions ce with Resolution 652 / 2012, the BVC formed the Work Processes Structure Co-Existence Committee to monitor, assess and prevent pos110 Developed and motivated employees sible cases of labor harassment in the Company. 100 through: ✓ Balanced Scorecard ✓ Training plans ✓ Individual performance objectives 90 84,1 83,7 ✓ Development plans 70, 20, 10 There is not a trade union in the Company, because the 81,6 79,0 Employees Measurement ✓ Area indicators 80 74,8 ✓ Individual performance management ✓ GPTW Survey necessary mechanisms have been ensured so that there is ✓ Training programs 70 honest, transparent and two-way communication between the employees and Senior Management. The BVC has wor60 We have established a set of strategic, tactical and operational processes, which allow us to run talent management: ked to protect its employees from abuse through clear and 50 publicly known procedures and policies to ensure dignified working conditions. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Skills Management Strategy The BVC ensures its employees’ right to freedom of assoRecognition Management Talent Management ciation for collective bargaining and dialog with the ComThe organizational culture is managed through action Performance Management pany’s Senior Management. It rejects all forms of forced laplans in all departments according to the needs establiCulture Management bor inside as well as outside the Company. It is opposed to shed in the BVC's strategy and the work climate survey. Processes Structure Occupational Health any form of child labor and supports policies that promote Every year we have training programs that strengthen Administration of Work Policies Payroll and Administration of Personnel the effective abolition thereof in the world. It rejects any leadership and skills. Additionally, we disclose policies Communications Management kind of discrimination, specifically in contracting, job opand programs to consolidate a high-performance and Wellbeing Management portunities and decisions regarding employee promotion. recognition culture in line with corporate values, resulEmployees Measurement Payment Management It also works to ensure observance of the law and to proting in us maintaining satisfactory and outstanding reQuality Management vide workers with an ideal environment for their personal sults in work climate. Strategic Processes Tactical Processes Operational Processes and professional development. 276 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 277 8 Commitment to Clients and the Market Skills Management / Talent Management More than 100 workshops of BVC Brand leadership since 2013 for employee training Train • In 2015, we had workshops to develop the teamwork skill, where 100% of the teams defined and implemented action Leadership, BVC Brand: plans to focus on their development as high-performance Inspiring Leaders Plan Inform Position teams and achieved an average of 50% improvement in variaSupport process in performance management bles such as interpersonal relations, effective decision-making, BVC Strategy Management of performance Talent management, trust, team observation, responsibility for results and willingobjectives empowerment, delegation and Organizational skills ness to make synergies. development plans 70,20,10 New BVC Skills Model BVC Values Model Skills: Redefine the BVC skills BVC Values: Inspiring Leaders • Coverage of development plans for 100% of the population model in line with the 2025 Salary Policy Recognition: The value of your since 2013. MEGA Idea Recognition Program ideas is transformed into actions • USD 200,000 invested in Training Abroad since 2011 and 7 BVC Values: Corporate Values Primary groups Pride: InstaproudValue Model aligned with the MEGA proposal used employees benefited Inspiring Leaders Plan Recognition Program BVC Payment Policy Value proposal used Payment workshops Actions to Achieve Human Resources Objectives Actions to Achieve Human Skills Management Resources Objectives Talent Management • In 2015, we worked on employee empowerment, measuring: Recognition Management A. The level of development of the person's capacity; and B. The degree of demand of the challenges required for emIn 2015, we continued the El Valor de tu Acción II recognipowerment or in the role. tion program in which we invested around COP 60 million. Now more than 90% of the employees uses it and has had • The plans were implemented throughout the year and 93% the opportunity to give and receive a special recognition. of the people is in the challenge quadrant with balanced levels of demand and development thanks to an environment conducive to empowerment. 278 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 279 8 Commitment to Clients and the Market d. Training: e. Occupational Health and Industrial Safety Report: The BVC CEO’s Office is responsible for steering efforts to pro• Children’s Christmas Party G4-LA11, G4-DMA G4-LA5 vide its employees with the best work environment, equip• Allowance of 75% for Prepaid Health Care with MedPlus ment, materials and facilities, and the highest levels of wein the “Cereza” Plan for the employee, spouse and children We have a corporate training program that applies to all The support of the Health and Safety Management System llbeing, safety and comprehensive protection. In addition, it levels of the Company. We have carried out training on starts with the CEO’s Office. It achieves its effective developensures that the Health and Safety and Environmental Mana• We celebrate BVC Health Week once a year coaching, leadership, empowerment, effective communication, ment when a clear understanding of its importance is achiegement System has the economic resources necessary for its • Corporate partnerships to purchase tickets for games and teamwork, development plans and supporting leaders. ved at all the levels of the Organization. proper implementation and development. recreational and cultural events by deduction from payroll The Company's Training Committee meets once a year and The system is directed, controlled and assessed by the Leader The following activities were carried out in 2015 to promote • Second language training: English with an allowance of analyzes the training requests that it has received from the and/or Corporate Professional of Talent and Culture, who acts with the occupational health of the BVC’s employees: up to 85% of the cost employees. Since 2010, the BVC has invested more than the authorization of the Company’s Legal Representative and is • Update of the legal requirements in the Occupational Heal• Funeral insurance for employees and their immediate faCOP$ 445 million in academic programs to support the deveresponsible for its coordination, development and monitoring. th and Safety Management System, Decree 1072 / 2015. mily with 100% of the cost covered by the BVC lopment of its employees' professional profile. Specifically in 2015, it made an investment of COP$ 98 million which incluIn its managerial policy, aware of its responsibility as an em• In order to decrease possible emergency contingen• Financial assistance for every 5 years with the BVC ded support for master's degrees, postgraduate courses and ployer, the BVC highlights the importance of its employees cies, bimonthly sessions were organized by depart• The BVC subsidizes courses that are not work-related. We training abroad. through the promotion, development and maintenance of ments together with the Red Cross with recommendahave financial aid for specialized training (up to 50% of their all-round wellbeing, strengthening their pride in their tions for prevention. the cost of the program in Colombia and up to USD 25,000 Capacitaciones en Liderazgo / Leadership Training work and improving their health. • An annual evacuation drill was prepared with the Occupaper year for a maximum of two years with USD 50,000 in Cop (Millones / Millions) tional Risk Insurance Company (ARL for the Spanish original). training abroad), courses on quality of life and wellbeing 160,0 The BVC is committed to minimizing any risk factors that may 152,1 and corporate training activities. We are promoting e-learcause occupational accidents or diseases, because it consi• Health Week was celebrated, during which we carried out ning in English and in 2014, 42 employees were enrolled. 140,0 ders safety, quality, care of the environment, productivity and 100 medical check-ups, 96 hearing tests and eye exams, customer satisfaction to be essential factors for the success and 99 blood tests. Millones de Pesos / COP Millions 120,0 and survival of the Company, and it is committed to devoting 100,0 98,5 its efforts to their continuous improvement. f. Well being G4-DMA 79,6 80,0 The BVC considers that any occupational accident and disease The BVC has a benefits program called Sintonizados Contigo 68,5 66,4 can be prevented, and it shall assume responsibility for the (In Tune with You), which in 2015 had a total investment of 60,0 50,1 personal injuries of its employees and damages to property COP$ 120 million. The program is divided into three groups 40,0 that the failure of this premise may lead to. As an essential for benefits as follows: body for the development of the activities of the Health and 20,0 Safety and Environment Management System, it regularly seFor Everyone: lects the Occupational Health and Safety Peer Committee. The $• When employees’ children are born, the BVC gives them members of which work to ensure strict observance of the rean early learning toy set 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 gulations provided in the subprograms that this body covers. 280 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 281 8 Commitment to Clients and the Market • In December, we give you two business days of vacation In 2015, only two requirements on labor practices were presen8.3 BVC Payment Policy: ted, which were received through the ethics hotline. These two G4-51,G4-52, G4-54, G4-55 • On your birthday, we give you half a day so you can leave incidents were resolved through alternative mechanisms of conearly flict resolution, such as the two-way validation of requirements, The BVC’s full payment policy covers analysis of positions and • On your five-year work anniversary, you have three addidefinition of action plans that promote teamwork, respect and the complexity of finding them on the job market, equality tional days of vacation camaraderie, monitoring of the teams and final recommendaand competitiveness analysis, attraction, motivation and retions to Senior Management through the annual report. taining talent. • Fifteen additional days of maternity leave • Eight additional days of home office for paternity leave • “You have three flextime options of hours that you can BVC Payment Model applied by levels: agree with your supervisor: 7:00 am 4:45 pm • 8:00 am – 5:45 pm and 9:30 am – 7:15 pm (Pico y Placa Grupos de Política de Compensación Total por Niveles/ To Choose from: [Peak and (license) Plate] traffic mitigation policy)” TOTAL COMPENSATION POLICY GROUP BY LAVEL • Recreational vacations for children aged up to 12 years • Flextime hours on Fridays in June and July during the Directores, líderes, in June and December Summer Festival from 7:00 am to 3:00 pm non-stop Gerentes de Profesionales y Negocios y Vicepresidentes / Auxiliares / • Permissions approved by Leader for personal needs Cargos / Position Definiciones / Definitions Gerentes / • Extreme sports activity for employees’ adolescent Vice Presidents Directors, Leaders, Business children aged up to 18 years Professionals and Managers Assistants 8.2 Labor Practice Claim Mechanisms: • Cookery courses G4-LA16 • Christmas decoration courses Curva del mercado que se toma Percentil 75 In accordance with Resolution 652 / 2012, the formation como referencia para la definición de • Participation in Compensar’s Inter-company Soccer Percentil 75Q3 / Mediana / la política de CT / Market Reference Mediana / Median and operation of the Work Co-existence Committee has 75Q3 Percentile 75 Median Tournament Curve for thedefinition of the compenPercentile been established, which is a preventative measure and a sation policy • Bogotá Half Marathon claim mechanism for labor practices in alleged cases of work Referencia del Mercado / harassment. The committee is an amiable compositeur that Market Reference • Go-kart tournament helps to protect employees from the psychosocial risks that Sueldo Base Anual (Fijo + prestaciones) • Paintball can affect health in the workplace. The Committee met on 13 + Compensación Variable / Comp3 occasions in 2015. Annual Base Salary (Fixed + Benefits) • Extreme sports + Variable Compensation For Life Balance: With the aim to ensure transparent communication, the BVC has an ethics hotline through which employees can report si• For the special day of your wedding, the Company grants tuations in the co-existence sphere that they consider should COMP 3: Includes the guaranteed annual income plus the potential variable salary that can be received for reaching the goals you three days leave be analyzed by the Committee. set for the year. 282 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 283 8 Commitment to Clients and the Market 8.4 BVC Employee Profile: b. 2010-2015 Evolution of Employees by Contract Type G4-LA1, G4-LA10, G4-10 Empleados por Tipo de Contrato / Employees per Contract type a. 2010-2015 Evolution of Number of Employees 209 200 197 188 180 Número de Empleados / Number of Employees 176 Permanent 159 250 234 150 Temporary 223 215 217 Apprentice 202 200 183 100 150 50 42 37 22 100 19 17 11 2 2 4 3 3 3 0 50 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 0 c. Personnel Turnover d. The structure is comprised of the following levels: 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Rotación de Personal / Personnel Turnover Rate 30% Número de Personas / Distribucion por genero / Gender Distribution 26% 26% Nivel de Cargo / Position Level Number of People 24% 25% 200 Presidente / CEO 1 21% 20% Vicepresidente / Vice President 5 126 124 123 108 107 108 113 Gerente / Manager 15 96 99 94 15% 100 87 89 Director / Head of 32 10% 10% Líder / Leader 33 7% Profesional / Professional 117 0 5% Auxiliar / Assistant 11 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Aprendiz SENA / SENA Intern 3 0% Total 217 Mujeres / Women Hombres / Men 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 284 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 285 8 Commitment to Clients and the Market e. The structure is comprised of the following levels: CEO's Office Auditor VICE-PRESIDENCY OPERATIONS AND PROJECT LEGAL COMMERCIAL CORPORATE IT OF MARKETING AND CLIENT SERVICES MANAGEMENT VICE-PRESIDENCY VICE-PRESIDENCY VICE-PRESIDENCY VICE-PRESIDENCY PRODUCTS MANAGEMENT OFFICE GENERAL COUNSEL Market Intermediary Planning and IT Management Management – Commercial Trading Management Finance Corporate Project Management Legal Management Planning and Control Equity Management Management Market Corporate Compliance and IT Management Management Issuer Management Management Guarantees Services Derivatives Human Resources Market Corporate IT Management Listing Services Management Management Solutions and Management Fixed Income Risks and Quality Architecture Corporate Marketing and Customer Service Management NO. OF Advertising and Stock Market Media and Public AREA EMPLOYEES Management Information Relations Corporate Vice-Presidency of Marketing and Products 27 Market Education Management ManagementInvestor Information Center Commercial Vice-Presidency 16 Relations and Social Responsibility Operations and Client Services Management 31 Data and Corporate Vice-Presidency 35 Electronic Media Management Project Management Office 24 IT Vice-Presidency 76 Research and Analysis Legal Vice-Presidency 8 Management TOTAL 217 286 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 287 9 COMMITMENT TO PROVIDERS CHAPTER 9 Commitment to Providers 288 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 289 9 COMMITMENT TO PROVIDERS 9.1 Supply Chain and Purchase Management: 9.2 BVC Purchase Process : G4-12, G4-13, G4-EC9 G4-12, G4-13, G4-EC9, G4-DMA In 2015, the supply chain of Bolsa de Valores de Colombia Acumulado/ Accumulated (BVC) consolidated its opportune purchase management, Proveedores Nuevos/ New Suppliers Necesidad de Compra/ achieving scale economies in the acquisition of goods and Purchase Need Proceso de compras de la BVC services and resource optimization. It has achieved effecticertificado por CIPS Chartered ve resource management through solid purchase, storage 1.254 Institute of Purchasing & Supply / 1.117 and inventory management processes, contributing to the BVC’S Purchasing Process certified Pago y Liquidación/ Definición y Cotización/ achievement of the BVC's operational and strategic targets. Payment by CIPS Definition and Quotation 161 In 2015, it made purchases for a value of COP 13,880 mi14 llion from national suppliers and COP 3,532 million from Nacionales Extranjeros/ Nacionales Extranjeros/ foreign suppliers, representing an 11.7% increase from Local Foreign Local Foreign 2014 2014 2015 2015 Selección/ the previous year. At the end of 2015, the BVC registered Evaluación/ Selection 1,415 suppliers in its database; mostly national and some Evaluation suppliers from countries such as the USA, Mexico, Spain, • *Figures from BVC Stand alone Primera Bolsa de Valores England and Australia. The information presented in this financial statements in IFRS del mundo certificada con CIPS / chapter corresponds to the BVC without its subsidiaries. First Stock Exchange in the world Ejecución/ certified by CIPS Contratación/ The main goods and services that the BVC acquires are conExecution Hiring centrated in the Technology Department, which is consideCompras por año/ Purchase per year red to be a strategic area of the business and covers items including datacenter services, perimeter security, personnel 13.436 13.880 outsourcing, software and hardware, telecommunications and information screens. The fundamental aspects that are Adquisición de bienes y servicios / Goods and Services Acquisition considered in the supplier selection process by the Acquisitions Department are: legal incorporation of the company, Plan de Compras / Purchase Plan 3.532 2.149 experience, financial statements, compliance with the processes established in SARLAFT and especially, not presenNational purchases by the BVC remain under the system of the decentralized hybrid model with the advice and support of the COP 2014 Otras divisas/ COP 2015 Otras divisas/ ting any negative report in the credit bureaus or on internapurchase advisors of the Acquisitions Department for all the Organization's departments that request goods and/or services, fully Other currencies Other currencies tional security lists. complying with the established purchase policies and procedures. 2014 2015 290 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC BVC Annual Report 2015 291 10 GRI CHAPTER GRI Content Index 10 GRI CONTENT INDEX Omissions In exceptional cases, External Assurance if it is not possible Indicate if the Standard Disclosure BOLSA DE VALORES DE COLOMBIA S.A. BVC PAgE to disclose certain has been externally assured. If yes, BVC Annual General Standard Disclosures GRI Context Index for “In accordance” Comprehensive No. required information, include the page reference for the Report 2015 provide the reason for External Assurance Statement in GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES omission (as defined the report. on p. 13). Omissions In exceptional cases, External Assurance if it is not possible Indicate if the Standard Disclosure Yes, External Auditor Letter in PAgE BVC Annual Report the nature of ownership and legal 2.1 BVC The Securities General Standard Disclosures to disclose certain has been externally assured. If yes, G4-7 form. 17, 18 Not applicable IFRS Consolidated Financial Exchange of Colombia No. required information, include the page reference for the Report 2015 Statements 2015 provide the reason for External Assurance Statement in omission (as defined the report. on p. 13). Report the markets served (including geogra18, Yes, External Auditor Letter in 2.2 BVC Brands STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-8 phic breakdown, sectors served, and types of Not applicable IFRS Consolidated Financial 2.3 Main Products and Services customers and beneficiaries). 20 Statements 2015 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, 149, Yes, External Auditor Letter in chair, or equivalent senior position) about the G4-1 relevance of sustainability to the organization 2 Not applicable IFRS Consolidated Financial Letter to Shareholders 193, Statements 2015 and the organization’s strategy for addressing Report the scale of the organization, inclu195, 6.1 BVC Scale sustainability. ding: 234, 6.3 Growth of BVC Stock Total number of employees; Total number 237, 6.4 Corporate Group 1.1. Strategic Orientation of operations; Net sales (for private sector 10, organizations) or net revenues (for public Yes, External Auditor Letter in 6.5 Dividend Distribution Policy Yes, External Auditor Letter in 1.2 Perspectives and Future Vision G4-9 239, Not applicable IFRS Consolidated Financial 6.6 Special Report as per Article Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and 11, sector organizations); Total capitalization G4-2 opportunities. Not applicable IFRS Consolidated Financial 1.3 Monitoring the 243, Statements 2015 29, Law 222 / 1995 13, Statements 2015 Strategy in 2015 broken down in terms of debt and equity (for 6.7 Important Events after 211 4.3 Risk Management private sector organizations); and Quantity of 244, the Period products or services provided p. 26 247 6.8 Circulation of Invoices ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Yes, External Auditor Letter in 2.1 BVC The Securities Exchange G4-3 Report the name of the organization. 18 Not applicable IFRS Consolidated Financial of Colombia a. Report the total number of employees by Statements 2015 employment contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. Yes, External Auditor Letter in c. Report the total workforce by employees and Report the primary brands, products, and G4-4 services. 18 Not applicable IFRS Consolidated Financial 2.2 BVC Brands supervised workers and by gender. Statements 2015 d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. 8.4 BVC Employee Profile e. Report whether a substantial portion of the Yes, External Auditor Letter in Global Compact: Principles 1 and Yes, External Auditor Letter in G4-10 organization’s work is performed by workers 284 Not applicable IFRS Consolidated Financial 2 of Human Rights, Principles 3, 4, Report the location of the organization’s 2.1 BVC The Securities Exchange who are legally recognized as self-employed, Statements 2015 G4-5 headquarters. 18 Not applicable IFRS Consolidated Financial of Colombia 5 and 6 of Labor Rights Statements 2015 or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. Report the number of countries where the f. Report any significant variations in emploorganization operates, and names of countries Yes, External Auditor Letter in yment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural G4-6 where either the organization has significant 20 Not applicable IFRS Consolidated Financial 2.3 Main Products and Services operations or that are specifically relevant to Statements 2015 industries). the sustainability topics covered in the report. 294 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 295 10 GRI CONTENT INDEX Omissions Omissions In exceptional cases, External Assurance In exceptional cases, External Assurance if it is not possible Indicate if the Standard Disclosure if it is not possible Indicate if the Standard Disclosure PAgE to disclose certain has been externally assured. If yes, BVC Annual PAgE to disclose certain has been externally assured. If yes, BVC Annual General Standard Disclosures General Standard Disclosures No. required information, include the page reference for the Report 2015 No. required information, include the page reference for the Report 2015 provide the reason for External Assurance Statement in provide the reason for External Assurance Statement in omission (as defined the report. omission (as defined the report. on p. 13). on p. 13). 8.1.b Labor Rights Principles Report the percentage of total employees a. List memberships of associations (such as G4-11 covered by collective bargaining agreements. 277 Not applicable No Global Compact: Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 of Labor Rights industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: Holds a position on the governance body; Yes, External Auditor Letter in 9.1 Supply Chain and Purchase Participates in projects or committees; Provides 2.1 BVC The Securities Exchange 290, G4-16 substantive funding beyond routine membership 18 Not applicable No of Colombia G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. Not applicable IFRS Consolidated Financial Management 291 Statements 2015 9.2 BVC Purchase Process dues; Views membership as strategic; This refers primarily to memberships maintained at the organizational level. a. Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions 235, 6.2 BVC Shareholders a. List all entities included in the organization’s Yes, External Auditor Letter in consolidated financial statements or equivalent Changes in the share capital structure and 9.1 Supply Chain and Purchase G4-13 other capital formation, maintenance, and 290, Not applicable IFRS Consolidated Financial Management documents. 291 Statements 2015 b. Report whether any entity included in the 24, alteration operations (for private sector 9.2 BVC Purchase Process organizations) organization’s consolidated financial statements or 149, Yes, External Auditor Changes in the location of suppliers, the G4-17 equivalent documents is not covered by the report. 193, Not applicable Letter in IFRS Consolidat 2.6 Annual Report Profile structure of the supply chain, or in relaThe organization can report on this Standard Dis195, ved Financial Statements 2015 tionships with suppliers, including selection closure by referencing the information in publicly available consolidated financial statements or 198 and termination equivalent documents. 164, 4.1 Internal Control and Control Environment a. Explain the process for defining the report 24, 166, content and the Aspect Boundaries. Report whether and how the precautionary Yes, External Auditor Letter in 4.2 Quality and 149, 174, b. Explain how the organization has impleG4-14 approach or principle is addressed by the Not applicable IFRS Consolidated Financial Information Management G4-18 193, Not applicable No 2.6 Annual Report Profile organization. 181, Statements 2015 4.4 Auditor's Report mented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. 195, 210, Global Compact: Principle 10 of Anticorruption 198 214 List externally developed economic, environ193, mental and social charters, principles, or other 2.1 BVC The Securities Exchange List all the material Aspects identified in the G4-15 18 Not applicable No G4-19 process for defining report content. 195, Not applicable No 2.4 Material Aspects and Coverage initiatives to which the organization subscribes of Colombia or which it endorses. 198 296 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 297 10 GRI CONTENT INDEX Omissions Omissions In exceptional cases, External Assurance In exceptional cases, External Assurance if it is not possible Indicate if the Standard Disclosure if it is not possible Indicate if the Standard Disclosure PAgE to disclose certain has been externally assured. If yes, BVC Annual PAgE to disclose certain has been externally assured. If yes, BVC Annual General Standard Disclosures General Standard Disclosures No. required information, include the page reference for the Report 2015 No. required information, include the page reference for the Report 2015 provide the reason for External Assurance Statement in provide the reason for External Assurance Statement in omission (as defined the report. omission (as defined the report. on p. 13). on p. 13). a. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Boundary within the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization If the Aspect is not material for all entities Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged 2.5 Reputation and Satisfaction within the organization (as described in G4-24 by the organization. 23 Not applicable No Survey Results G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: 193, 2.4 Material Aspects and G4-20 ––The list of entities or groups of entities 195, Not applicable No Coverage included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is 198 not material or ––The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is Report the basis for identification and selec23, 2.5 Reputation and Satisfaction G4-25 tion of stakeholders with whom to engage. Not applicable No Survey Results material 166 Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency a. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect of engagement by type and by stakeholder 2.5 Reputation and Satisfaction Boundary outside the organization, as G4-26 group, and an indication of whether any of 23 Not applicable No Survey Results follows: the engagement was undertaken specifically Report whether the Aspect is material as part of the report preparation process. outside of the organization; If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the 2.4 Material Aspects and G4-21 entities, 21 Not applicable No Coverage Report key topics and concerns that have been groups of entities or elements raised through stakeholder engagement, and for which the Aspect is material. In addition, how the organization has responded to those 2.5 Reputation and Satisfaction describe the geographical location where the G4-27 key topics and concerns, including through its 23 Not applicable No Survey Results Aspect is material for the entities identified; reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that Report any specific limitation regarding the raised each of the key topics and concerns. Aspect Boundary outside the organization REPORT PROFILE Report the effect of any restatements of in2.4 Material Aspects and G4-22 formation provided in previous reports, and 21 Not applicable No Coverage Yes, External Auditor Letter in the reasons for such restatements. Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar G4-28 year) for information provided. 24 Not applicable IFRS Consolidated Financial 2.6 Annual Report Profile Statements 2015 Report significant changes from previous 2.4 Material Aspects and Yes, External Auditor Letter in G4-23 reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect 21 Not applicable No Boundaries. Coverage G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 24 Not applicable IFRS Consolidated Financial 2.6 Annual Report Profile Statements 2015 298 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 299 10 GRI CONTENT INDEX Omissions In exceptional cases, External Assurance if it is not possible Indicate if the Standard Disclosure PAgE to disclose certain has been externally assured. If yes, BVC Annual General Standard Disclosures No. required information, include the page reference for the Report 2015 provide the reason for External Assurance Statement in omission (as defined the report. on p. 13). Omissions In exceptional cases, External Assurance if it is not possible Indicate if the Standard Disclosure Yes, External Auditor Letter in PAgE BVC Annual to disclose certain has been externally assured. If yes, G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 24 Not applicable IFRS Consolidated Financial 2.6 Annual Report Profile General Standard Disclosures Statements 2015 No. required information, include the page reference for the Report 2015 provide the reason for External Assurance Statement in omission (as defined the report. on p. 13). Provide the contact point for questions regarG4-31 ding the report or its contents. 24 Not applicable No 2.6 Annual Report Profile 3.3.d.Process of Appointment and Selection Report the process for delegating authority 35, of the Board of Directors for economic, environmental and social topics G4-35 from the highest governance body to senior 39, No and Committees a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the 157 3.4 Basic Activities of the executives and other employees. organization has chosen. Directors and Management of t b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen Exchange option (see tables below). c. Report the reference to the External Report whether the organization has G4-32 Assurance 24 Not applicable No 2.6 Annual Report Profile appointed an executive-level position or Report, if the report has been externally positions with responsibility for economic, 3.4.c Assessment of assured. G4-36 environmental and social topics, and whether 40 No the BVC CEO (GRI recommends the use of external assurance post holders report directly to the highest but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ governance body. with the Guidelines.) a. Report the organization’s policy and current Report processes for consultation between practice with regard to seeking external assuranstakeholders and the highest governance body ce for the report. on economic, environmental and social topics. If 3.3.g. Remuneration Policies of b. If not included in the assurance report G4-37 consultation is delegated, describe to whom and 37, 62 No the Board and BVC CEO accompanying the sustainability report, report any feedback processes to the highest governance the scope and basis of any external assurance body. Yes, External Auditor Letter in provided. G4-33 c. Report the relationship between the organiza24 Not applicable IFRS Consolidated Financial 2.6 Annual Report Profile Statements 2015 tion and the assurance providers. a. Report the composition of the highest goverd. Report whether the highest governance body nance body and its committees by: or senior executives are involved in seeking Executive or non-executive; Independence; assurance for the organization’s sustainability Tenure on the governance body; Number of 34, report. Yes, External Auditor Letter in each individual’s other significant positions and G4-38 commitments, and the nature of the commit69, IFRS Consolidated Financial 3.3 BVC Governance Structure 203 Statements 2015 ments; Gender; Membership of under-repreGOVERNANCE sented social groups; Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts; Stakeholder representation a. Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest 30, governance body. 34, 3.2 Board of Directors G4-34 Identify any committees responsible for deciNot applicable No 3.3 BVC Governance Structure Report whether the Chair of the highest gover30, 69, nance body is also an executive officer (and, if 3.1 Report on Corporate sion-making on economic, environmental and 40, 157 G4-39 so, his or her function within the organization’s No Governance Practices social impacts. management and the reasons for this arrange104, 3.4.c Assessment of the BVC CEO ment). 203 300 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 301 10 GRI CONTENT INDEX Omissions Omissions In exceptional cases, External Assurance In exceptional cases, External Assurance if it is not possible Indicate if the Standard Disclosure if it is not possible Indicate if the Standard Disclosure PAgE to disclose certain has been externally assured. If yes, BVC Annual PAgE to disclose certain has been externally assured. If yes, BVC Annual General Standard Disclosures General Standard Disclosures No. required information, include the page reference for the Report 2015 No. required information, include the page reference for the Report 2015 provide the reason for External Assurance Statement in provide the reason for External Assurance Statement in omission (as defined the report. omission (as defined the report. on p. 13). on p. 13). a. Report the processes for evaluation of a. Report the nomination and selection processes the highest governance body’s performance for the highest governance body and its commitwith respect to governance of economic, tees, and the criteria used for nominating and environmental and social topics. Report selecting highest governance body members, 35, whether such evaluation is independent or including: 95, Yes, External Auditor Letter in not, and its frequency. Report whether such 3.3.e. Functions of the Board 3.3.c. The Board of Diectors and 36, G4-40 Whether and how diversity is considered; 102, IFRS Consolidated Financial the Committees G4-44 evaluation is a self-assessment. No of the Directors and Senior Whether and how independence is considered; Statements 2015 b. Report actions taken in response to 203 Management 141, Whether and how expertise and experience relaevaluation of the highest governance body’s ting to economic, environmental and social topics 203 performance with respect to governance of are considered; Whether and how stakeholders economic, environmental and social topics, (including shareholders) are involved including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. a. Report the highest governance body’s role in a. Report processes for the highest governance 37, the identification and management of economic, body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 61, environmental and social impacts, risks, and and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest 68, opportunities. Include the highest governance 41, Yes, External Auditor Letter in are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a 3.3.g. Remuneration Policies of body’s role in the implementation of due diligenG4-41 minimum: 71, IFRS Consolidated Financial the Board and BVC CEO 141, 3.5 The Audit Committee´s Statements 2015 ce processes. Cross-board membership; Cross-shareholding with 72, G4-45 b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is 164, No Annual Report to the Board of suppliers and other stakeholders; Existence of 144, 174,, Directors used to support the highest governance body’s controlling shareholder; Related party disclosures 203 identification and management of economic, 181 environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. 34, Report the highest governance body’s and 91, senior executives’ roles in the development, 93, approval, and updating of the organization’s 3.3.a. Amendments to G4-42 purpose, value or mission statements, strate94, No the BVC By-law 131, Report the highest governance body’s role in gies, policies, and goals related to economic, 3.5 The Audit Committee´s reviewing the effectiveness of the organizaenvironmental and social impacts. 177, G4-46 tion’s risk management processes for econo41 No Annual Report to the Board of 203 Directors mic, environmental and social topics. 30, 3.1 Report on Corporate Governance Practices Report the measures taken to develop and 34, 3.3.a. Amendments enhance the highest governance body’s collective 41, to the BVC By-law Report the frequency of the highest G4-43 knowledge of economic, environmental and social No 3.5 Audit Committee's Annual 3.5 The Audit Committee´s 73, governance body’s review of economic, topics. Report to the Board of G4-47 environmental and social impacts, risks, and 41 No Annual Report to the Board of 74, Directors Directors Principles 1 and 2 opportunities. 203 of Human Rights Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the orga3.3.d.Process of Appointment and G4-48 nization’s sustainability report and ensures 35 No Selection that all material Aspects are covered. 302 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 303 10 GRI CONTENT INDEX Omissions Omissions In exceptional cases, External Assurance In exceptional cases, External Assurance if it is not possible Indicate if the Standard Disclosure if it is not possible Indicate if the Standard Disclosure PAgE to disclose certain has been externally assured. If yes, BVC Annual PAgE to disclose certain has been externally assured. If yes, BVC Annual General Standard Disclosures General Standard Disclosures No. required information, include the page reference for the Report 2015 No. required information, include the page reference for the Report 2015 provide the reason for External Assurance Statement in provide the reason for External Assurance Statement in omission (as defined the report. omission (as defined the report. on p. 13). on p. 13). 3.7 Shareholders' Rights 54, 55, 3.8 Compliance Report how stakeholders’ views are sought 3.3.g. Remuneration Policies of Report the process for communicating critical with the Authorities and taken into account regarding remunera37, the Board and BVC CEO G4-49 concerns to the highest governance body. 58, 88, No Global Compact: Principle 10 of G4-53 tion, including the results of votes on remuneNo 3.10 Code of Good 56 90 Anti-corruption ration policies and proposals, if applicable. Governance Reports 3.7 Shareholders' Rights Report the ratio of the annual total compensaReport the nature and total number of critical 3.8 Compliance tion for the organization’s highest-paid indiviconcerns that were communicated to the 54, with the Authorities dual in each country of significant operations G4-50 No G4-54 to the median annual total compensation for 283 No 8.3 BVC Payment Policy highest governance body and the mechanis55 Global Compact: Principle 10 of m(s) used to address and resolve them. Anti-corruption all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. a. Report the remuneration policies for the Report the ratio of percentage increase in highest governance body and senior executives annual total compensation for the organizafor the below types of remuneration: tion’s highest-paid individual in each country Fixed pay and variable pay: G4-55 of significant operations to the median 283 No 8.3 BVC Payment Policy ––Performance-based pay percentage increase in annual total com––Equity-based pay pensation for all employees (excluding the ––Bonuses highest-paid individual) in the same country. ––Deferred or vested shares Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive 36, payments 3.3.f. Board of Directors SelfETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-51 Termination payments 152, No Assessment 283 8.3 BVC Payment Policy Clawbacks 3.6 Values, Principles, Standards Retirement benefits, including the difference Describe the organization’s values, principles, and Regulations of the BVC between benefit schemes and contribution G4-56 standards and norms of behavior such as 54 No Global Compact: Principle 10 of rates for the highest governance body, senior codes of conduct and codes of ethics. Anti-corruption executives, and all other employees b. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest gover4.4 Auditor's Report Report the internal and external mechanis174, nance body’s and senior executives’ economic, 4.5 Ethics hotline and ms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful environmental and social objectives G4-57 behavior, and matters related to organizational 214, No Anti-corruption Principle 216 Global Compact: Principle 10 of integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. Anti-corruption Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remune36, 3.3.f. Board of Directors SelfReport the internal and external mechanisms for 4.5 Ethics hotline and G4-52 ration and whether they are independent of 152, No Assessment reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful 177, Anti-corruption Principle management. Report any other relationships 283 8.3 BVC Payment Policy G4-58 behavior, and matters related to organizational No Global Compact: Principle 10 of integrity, such as escalation through line manage216 which the remuneration consultants have Anti-corruption with the organization. ment, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. 304 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 305 10 GRI CONTENT INDEX SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Omissions Omissions DMA and Indicators In exceptional cases, if it External Assurance DMA and Indicators In exceptional cases, if it External Assurance is not possible to disclose Indicate if the Standard Disclosure has is not possible to disclose Indicate if the Standard Disclosure has PAgE BVC Annual PAgE BVC Annual List Specific Standard Disclosures related to certain required information, been externally assured. If yes, include the List Specific Standard Disclosures related to certain required information, been externally assured. If yes, include the each identified material Aspect, with page No. provide the reason for page reference for the External Assurance Report 2015 each identified material Aspect, with page No. provide the reason for page reference for the External Assurance Report 2015 number (or link). omission (as defined on Statement in the report. number (or link). omission (as defined on Statement in the report. p. 13). p. 13). CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Material Aspects: Economic Performance Coverage of the OrganiYes, External Auditor Letter in IFRS 2015 IFRS Financial Statements G4-EC3 zation´s Defined Benefit Consolidated Financial Statements Book, Notes: 16, 17 y 19. Plan Obligations 2015 3.9. State of Compliance of the Regulations about Intellectual Property, FATCA and the Processing of Personal Databases 206, 7.1 Performance of the Markets in 2015 250, 7.2. Equity Market 7.3 Evolution of Volumes in the Fixed Financial Assistance Re251, G4-EC4 ceived from Government 247 Income Market 254, 7.4 Derivatives Market 258, 7.5 Data and Electronic Media 260, Yes, External Auditor Letter in IFRS 7.6 Commercial Broker Management G4-DMA DMA Consolidated Financial Statements 7.7. Issuers and Listing Services 262, 2015 7.8. Colombia Capital Material Aspects: Procurement Practices 264, 7.9 Colombia Inside Out 2015 265, 7.10 Advances in the Regulatory Agenda 266, Focused on Market Developments Yes, External Auditor Letter in IFRS 7.11 Technological Development and 9.1 Procurement Management and 267, Evolution G4-DMA DMA 290 Consolidated Financial Statements Supply Chain 271 2015 7.12 Development and Evolution of the PMO Projects in 2015 Global Compact: Principle 10 of Anticorruption Proportion of spending 290, Yes, External Auditor Letter in IFRS on Local Suppliers at 9.1 Procurement Management and G4-EC9 Significant Locations of Consolidated Financial Statements Supply Chain 291 2015 Operation Direct Ecnomic Value GeG4-EC1 nerated and Distributed 222 No 5.1 Sustainability Focus and Vision CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Not applicable. By the Material Aspects: Energy nature of the Company as a Financial Implications trading platforms adminisand other Risks and trator of the capital market, G4-EC2 Opportuniities for the this indicator it won´t be 5.3 Environmental Management Organization´s Activities Global Compact: Principles 1 and 2 Due to Climate Change measured because it is not G4-DMA DMA 228 No of Human Rights. Principles 7, 8 and relevant or interfere the 9 Environmental core business 306 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 307 10 GRI CONTENT INDEX Omissions Omissions DMA and Indicators In exceptional cases, if it External Assurance DMA and Indicators In exceptional cases, if it External Assurance is not possible to disclose Indicate if the Standard Disclosure has is not possible to disclose Indicate if the Standard Disclosure has PAgE BVC Annual PAgE BVC Annual List Specific Standard Disclosures related to certain required information, been externally assured. If yes, include the List Specific Standard Disclosures related to certain required information, been externally assured. If yes, include the each identified material Aspect, with page No. provide the reason for page reference for the External Assurance Report 2015 each identified material Aspect, with page No. provide the reason for page reference for the External Assurance Report 2015 number (or link). omission (as defined on Statement in the report. number (or link). omission (as defined on Statement in the report. p. 13). p. 13). 5.3 Environmental Management Energy Consumption Global Compact: Principles 1 and 2 G4-EN3 within the Organization 228 No of Human Rights. Principles 7, 8 and 9 Environmental Not applicable. By the nature of the Company as a Not applicable. By the trading platforms adminisnature of the Company trator of the capital market, as a trading platforms this indicator it won´t be Energy Consumption administrator of the measured because in its G4-EN4 Outside the Organizacapital market, this G4direct business process no Direct Greenhouse Gas tion indicator it won´t be emissions of greenhouse EN15 (GHG) Emissions (Scope 1) measured because it is gases are made. The not relevant or interfere Information provided by the core business the Company is related to reductions in greenhouse emissions by the use of viNot applicable. By the nadeo conferencing and the ture of the Company as a reductions of air travel trading platforms administrator of the capital marG4-EN5 Energy Intensity ket, this indicator it won´t be measured because it is not relevant or interfere the core business 5.3 Environmental Management Reduction of Energy Global Compact: Principles 1 and 2 G4-EN6 Consumption 228 No of Human Rights. Principles 7, 8 and Not applicable. By the na9 Environmental ture of the Company as a trading platforms adminisNot applicable. By the natrator of the capital market, ture of the Company as a this indicator it won´t be trading platforms adminismeasured because in its Reductions in Energy Retrator of the capital marEenergy Indirect direct business process no G4-EN7 quirements of Products ket, this indicator it won´t G4and Services Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions of greenhouse be measured because it EN16 Emissions (Scope 2) gases are made. The is not relevant or interfere Information provided by the core business the Company is related to reductions in greenhouse Material Aspects: Emissions emissions by the use of video conferencing and the reductions of air travel Currently unavaible. The Company did not have the information at the G4-DMA DMA time of the publication of the report, which will be included in the next year´s report 308 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 309 10 GRI CONTENT INDEX Omissions Omissions DMA and Indicators In exceptional cases, if it External Assurance DMA and Indicators In exceptional cases, if it External Assurance is not possible to disclose Indicate if the Standard Disclosure has is not possible to disclose Indicate if the Standard Disclosure has PAgE BVC Annual PAgE BVC Annual List Specific Standard Disclosures related to certain required information, been externally assured. If yes, include the List Specific Standard Disclosures related to certain required information, been externally assured. If yes, include the each identified material Aspect, with page No. provide the reason for page reference for the External Assurance Report 2015 each identified material Aspect, with page No. provide the reason for page reference for the External Assurance Report 2015 number (or link). omission (as defined on Statement in the report. number (or link). omission (as defined on Statement in the report. p. 13). p. 13). Not applicable. By the Not applicable. By the nature of the Company as a nature of the Company as a trading platforms administrading platforms administrator of the capital market, trator of the capital market, this indicator it won´t be this indicator it won´t be measured because in its measured because in its G4Emissions of Ozonedirect business process no Other Indirect Greendirect business process no Depleting Substances emissions of greenhouse G4EN20 (ODS) gases are made. The house Gas (GHG) emissions of greenhouse EN17 Emissions (Scope 3) gases are made. The Information provided by Information provided by the Company is related to the Company is related to reductions in greenhouse reductions in greenhouse emissions by the use of emissions by the use of video conferencing and the video conferencing and the reductions of air travel reductions of air travel Not applicable. By the nature of the Company as a trading platforms adminisNot applicable. By the trator of the capital market, nature of the Company as a this indicator it won´t be trading platforms adminismeasured because in its trator of the capital market, G4direct business process no NOx, SOx and other Sigthis indicator it won´t be emissions of greenhouse EN21 nificant Air Emissions measured because in its gases are made. The direct business process no Information provided by G4Grennhouse Gas (GHG) the Company is related to emissions of greenhouse EN18 Emissions Intensity reductions in greenhouse gases are made. The Information provided by emissions by the use of the Company is related to video conferencing and the reductions in greenhouse reductions of air travel emissions by the use of video conferencing and the reductions of air travel CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUBCATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Material Aspects: Employment G4Reduction of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 8.1 Talent Management EN19 Emissions 177, Global Compact: Principles 3, 4, 5 G4-DMA DMA No and 6 of Labor Rights 276 310 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 311 10 GRI CONTENT INDEX Omissions Omissions DMA and Indicators In exceptional cases, if it External Assurance DMA and Indicators In exceptional cases, if it External Assurance is not possible to disclose Indicate if the Standard Disclosure has is not possible to disclose Indicate if the Standard Disclosure has PAgE BVC Annual PAgE BVC Annual List Specific Standard Disclosures related to certain required information, been externally assured. If yes, include the List Specific Standard Disclosures related to certain required information, been externally assured. If yes, include the each identified material Aspect, with page No. provide the reason for page reference for the External Assurance Report 2015 each identified material Aspect, with page No. provide the reason for page reference for the External Assurance Report 2015 number (or link). omission (as defined on Statement in the report. number (or link). omission (as defined on Statement in the report. p. 13). p. 13). Total Number and Rates Not applicable. By the of New Employee hires nature of the Company as a 8.4 BVC Employee Profile G4-LA1 and Employee Turnover 284 No Global compact trading platforms adminisby Age Group, Gender trator of the capital market, and Region this indicator it won´t be measured because in its Benefits Provided to FullWorkers with High direct business process no time Employees that are Yes, External Auditor Letter in IFRS Incidence or High risk of 2015 IFRS Financial Statements G4-LA7 Diseases Related to their emissions of greenhouse G4-LA2 not Provided to Temporary 147 Consolidated Financial Statements gases are made. The or Parttime Employees, by 2015 Book, Note: 15 Occupation Information provided by Significant of Operation the Company is related to reductions in greenhouse Currently unavailable. The emissions by the use of Return to Work and Retencompany will analize this video conferencing and the G4-LA3 tion Rates after Parental criteria and study the feasareductions of air travel Leave, by Gender bility if is possible to have it for the next year´s report Health and Safety Topics Not applicable. The G4-LA8 Covered in Formal AgreeCompany has no union Material Aspects: Occupational Health and Safety ments with Trade Unions 8.1.f Well being Material Aspects: Training and Education Global Compact: Principles 1 and 2 of G4-DMA DMA 281 No Human Rights , Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 8.1.d. Training Global Compact: Principles 1 and 2 of Labor Rights G4-DMA DMA 280 No of Human Rights , Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 of Labor Rights Percentage of Total Workforce Represented in 8.1.e. Occupational Health and Currently unavailable. The Formal Joint ManageAverage Hours of TraiCompany did not have the Industrial Safety Report ment-Worker Health and ning per Year per emploinformation at the time of G4-LA5 280 No Global Compact: Principles 1 and 2 G4-LA9 yee by Gender, and by publication of the report, Safety Committees that Help Monitor and Advise of Human Rights , Principles 3, 4, 5 Employee Category which will be included in on Occupational Health and 6 of Labor Rights the next year´s report. and Safety Programs Programs for Skills Management and Lifelong Not applicable. By the G48.4 BVC Employee Profile Learning that Support the nature of the Company as a 284 No Global Compact: Principles 3, 4, 5 LA10 Continued Employability trading platforms adminisand 6 of Labor Rights of Employees and Assit trator of the capital market, Them in Managing Endings Type of Injury and Rates this indicator it won´t be of injury, Occupational measured because in its Disease, Lost Days, and direct business process no Percentage of EmploG4-LA6 Absenteeism, and Total emissions of greenhouse yees Receiving Regular 8.1.d. Training Number of Work-Related gases are made. The G4Performance and Career Global Compact: Principles 1 and 2 Fatalities, by Region and Information provided by 280 No LA11 Development Reviews, by of Human Rights , Principles 3, 4, 5 By Gender the Company is related to Gender and by Employee and 6 of Labor Rights reductions in greenhouse Category emissions by the use of video conferencing and the reductions of air travel 312 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 313 10 GRI CONTENT INDEX Omissions Omissions DMA and Indicators In exceptional cases, if it External Assurance DMA and Indicators In exceptional cases, if it External Assurance is not possible to disclose Indicate if the Standard Disclosure has is not possible to disclose Indicate if the Standard Disclosure has PAgE BVC Annual PAgE BVC Annual List Specific Standard Disclosures related to certain required information, been externally assured. If yes, include the List Specific Standard Disclosures related to certain required information, been externally assured. If yes, include the each identified material Aspect, with page No. provide the reason for page reference for the External Assurance Report 2015 each identified material Aspect, with page No. provide the reason for page reference for the External Assurance Report 2015 number (or link). omission (as defined on Statement in the report. number (or link). omission (as defined on Statement in the report. p. 13). p. 13). Material Aspects: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms SUBCATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 4.5 Ethics hotline and Material Aspects: Product and Service Labeling Anti-corruption Principle. G4-DMA DMA 216 No Global Compact: Principle 10 of Anti-corruption G4-DMA DMA 21 No 2.4 Material Aspects and Coverage Number of Grievances 4.5 Ethics hotline and AntiNot applicable. By the About Labor Practices Ficorruption Principle. nature of the Company G4216, Type of Product and as a trading platforms adled, Addressed, and ReNo Global Compact: Principle 10 of Service Information LA16 solved Through Formal 282 Anti-corruption ministrator of the capital Requered by the OrgaGrievance Mechanisms 8.2 Labor Practice Claim Mechanisms market, this indicator it nization´s Procedures won´t be measured befor Product and Service cause all the products are SUBCATEGORY: SOCIETY G4-PR3 Information and Lebeelectronic and transacling, and Percentage of tional with international Significant Product and Material Aspects: Local Communities standards which comply Service Categories Subthe current regulations ject to Such Information and are approved by the Requirements G4-DMA DMA 228 No 5.4 Financial Education Program Financial Superintendence of Colombia Not applicable. By the Percentage of Operanature of the Company tions with Implemen5.2 Corporate Social Responsibility as a trading platforms ted Local Community Global Compact: Principles 1 and 2 G4-SO1 Engagement, Impact 223 No of Human Rights. Principles 7, 8 and administrator of the capital Total Number of market, this indicator Assessments, and Deve9 Environmental Incidents of Non-Comit won´t be measured lopment Programs pliance with Regulators because all the products and Voluntary Codes are electronic and transacG4-PR4 Concerning Product and tional with international Not applicable. By the Service Information and standards which comply nature of the Company as a Labeling, by Type of the current regulations trading platforms adminisOutcomes and are approved by the trator of the capital market, Financial Superintendence this indicator it won´t be of Colombia without such measured because in its prior approval there is no Operations with Signifidirect business process no product cant Actual and Potential G4-SO2 Negative Impacts on emissions of greenhouse gases are made. The Local Communities Information provided by the Company is related to reductions in greenhouse Results of Surveys 2.5 Reputation and Satisfaction emissions by the use of G4-PR5 Measuring Customer 23 No Survey Results video conferencing and the Satisfaction reductions of air travel 314 Bolsa de Valores de Colombia BVC Informe de Gestión 2015 315
