UN Global Compact COP 2016 BELGICAST COP 2016 2 INTRODUCTION It is my pleasure to start this new report stating that we have given an important boost to our activity during the year 2016 on Social Responsibility. This fourth CSR progress report will inform you about our team efforts within our multinational organization TALIS and, at the same time, local performances achieved by BELGICAST. Both the meanest action as the most ambitious and spectacular, are all welcome as part of the footprint of this company. Indeed, we leave trace Our activity has effects that go beyond the economic sphere and enter the realm of the human, social, both locally and globally, in the environmental environment and in the context of a global market increasingly committed to principles of transparency and integrity. These traces answer the question of how we do our work? And being aware of this fact is essential for the performance of our project, moreover, it will also help us not lose focus of the long-term and wide-angle view. For a company like BELGICAST, and for a multinational group as TALIS, who develop their activity giving the society the necessary tools for water control, the Corporate Social Responsibility is implicitly integrated into our reason for being, since we provide solutions throughout the world for the supply of drinking water, for treatment, desalination and for irrigation. That is why, as in previous years, I take this introduction to communicate to our customers, our suppliers, our social environment and all our colleagues that BELGICAST, a brand of TALIS, renews its commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and its ten principles. Best regards, Ignacio Ispizua Managing Director BELGICAST COP 2016 3 CONTENTS 1) BELGICAST, TALIS: a global for a global market..........................................4 2) Process of implementing the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) plan...4 3) The Ten Principles: actions, best practices, and indicators..........................6 • Human Rights • Labour • Environment (CEO Water) • Anti-corruption The constant irrigation of large agricultural areas is of immense importance for feeding the world’s population. The functional range of TALIS BELGICAST valves extends from obtaining the water from surface waterways, the ground water or specially installed water storage facilities to distributing the water to the spray-irrigation systems. BELGICAST COP 2016 4 1) BELGICAST, TALIS: A GLOBAL PORJECT FOR A GLOBAL MARKET Nowadays projects bocome international and teams are formed with colleagues from different countries across TALIS units. A commercial agreemnt in Madrid can conclude a supply agreement to Egypt involving Spanish, German and French origin valves. Our products must be adapted to the needs and requirements of certification standards in different countries on different continents. We generate opportunities when we crossed the activity of our teams. We can share our ideas and experiences with other colleagues who may have similar challenges thousands of kilometers away trough the TALIS intranet. Moreover, thanks to our internal magazine TALIS Insight, we share news, interviews with colleagues, different points of view. TALIS, with our nine strong brands, is global and unique. Together we are stronger. CSR is the same. BELGICAST possibilities are local but coordinated with other brands of TALIS Group, the possibilities for action are multiplied together since our knowledge, our will and our abilities. This year, TALIS has started its activities in corporate social responsibility in a coordinated way. 2) THE PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTING THE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) PLAN BELGICAST is comprised of 165 employees. With an average age of 41 years, BELGICAST team has accumulated 15 years experience in the water sector. The process of implementing the Corporate Social Responsibility Plan is based on the distribution of tasks, assigning goals, teamwork and feedback by way our indicators and audits. The evolution turns in 6 steps we represent below and defined in themselves. Steps by which we integrate CSR in the activity of the Company, based on a commitment to society and ourselves, which is based on the risk assessment of not doing so, drives us to define the objectives and implement tasks in different departments, measure our results and conclusions and communicate with transparency to our stakeholders. BELGICAST COP 2016 5 We have determined GRI indicators for monitoring in the four subjects in which the principles of the GLobal Cmpact are grouped and have included, for efficiency reasons, the rates we report on ISO 14001 audit for Environment and OHSAS 18001 for Security. As an overall assessment, indicate that BELGICAST is audited annually as a company registered in RePro with the number 300200. These are the results of CSR, safety and environment in the last audit in January 2016. Auditoría RePro Results of the audit as of 20/01/2016 Auditor: Achilles South Europe, S.L.U. Company area Section score Average Average score suppliers Section score CSR 75,0% 5 CSR 55,4% Quality Management 69,6% 45 Quality Management 58,1% Occupational Risk Prevention 51,7% 5 Occupational RIsk Prevention 63,1% Enviroment 79,5% 5 Enviroment 60,0% Technical Resources 83,3% 20 Technical Resources 76,1% Human Resources 72,2% 20 Human Resources 71,1% Total Percentage Average 68,0% Final score: 7,27 Total Percentage Average 63,9% BELGICAST COP 2016 6 3) THE TEN PRINCIPLES: ACTIONS, BEST PRACTICES, AND INDICATORS Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. As in previous years, BELGICAST recognises, respects, and promotes the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and encourages others to become familiar with the United Nations document: https://www.un.org/en/documents/udhr/ In BELGICAST we are aware that it is not enough with clear statements but mere soundbites. Thus, TALIS and BELGICAST try to collaborate with the organizations involved and act effectively towards human rights. For example, we have replaced the cost of Christmas gifts for customers for a contribution to UNICEF, we continue to work with the “Behargintza Mungia,” which is the agency for employment and economic promotion of the City of Mungia, we monitor our suppliers to respect the rights humans…. These are just some examples of actions developed at BELGICAST. However, today we would like to highlight the collaboration agreement between TALIS and the NGO Just a Drop, we will go deeper into this agreement later on, within the COP-Water. BELGICAST COP 2016 7 GRI IndicatorsHuman Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and BELGICAST includes in their purchase contracts the mandatory to contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or observe the ILO principles and respect for the environment. Of the that have undergone human rights screening. top 40 suppliers of raw material (90% of the purchase volume) 82.5% includes human rights clauses. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business Every new customer of TALIS (BELGICAST) must sign the certification partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. of anti-corruption included in the business relationship contract. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning BELGICAST participates in the training of TALIS Group on Ethics Guide, aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the principle and values. 100% of the employees carry out the training at percentage of employees trained. the beginning of the employment relationship. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. There have been no incidents of discrimination. HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to BELGICAST recognizes freedom of association in its ethical guidelines exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be voilated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Not applicable incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Not applicable incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies Not applicable or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people Not applicable Principle 1: and actions taken. Businesses EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local The minimum salary paid in BELGICAST is 198% of the minimum should support minimum wage at significant locations of operation. salary in Spain. and respect the LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 100% protection of internationally LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management– The safety table is formed by the management of the company, the EHS proclaimed huworker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on manager, the industrial manager, warehouse managers, HR manager man rights occupational health and safety programs. and the representation of employees. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Absenteeism. 5,71%. No fatalities. number of workrelated fatalities by region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in Have not been performed. place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Every health and safety topic is treated with trade union. 100% LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Percentage by gender: Men: 79% / Women: 21% employee category according to gender, age group, minority group Percentage by gender in management: Men: 82% / Female: 18% membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee In BELGICAST there is no wage gap between employees of the same category, by significant locations of operation. gender category. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and BELGICAST takes no stand on public policy or engages in Lobbying. lobbying. BELGICAST is Euskalit cooperation partner, the Basque Foundation for Excellence, whose mission is to share ideas and experiences contribute to competitiveness and sustainable development. PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and All our product components are according to the water regulations in services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant each country. products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and No incidents voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer No complaints. privacy and losses of customer data. BELGICAST COP 2016 8 GRI Indicators.Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and BELGICAST includes in their purchase contracts the mandatory to contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or observe the ILO principles and respect for the environment. observe that have undergone human rights screening. the ILO principles and respect for the environment. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business Every new customer of TALIS (BELGICAST) must sign the certification partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. of anti-corruption included in the business relationship contract. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning BELGICAST participates in the training of TALIS Group on Ethics Guide, aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the principle and values. 100% of the employees carry out the training at percentage of employees trained. the beginning of the employment relationship. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. There have been no incidents of discrimination HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to BELGICAST recognizes freedom of association in its ethical guidelines Principle 2: exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be voilated Businesses or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. should make sure that they HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Not applicable are not complicit incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective in human rights abolition of child labor. abuses. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Not applicable incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies Not applicable or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people Not applicable and actions taken. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and BELGICAST takes no stand on public policy or engages in Lobbying. lobbying. BELGICAST is Euskalit cooperation partner, the Basque Foundation for Excellence, whose mission is to share ideas and experiences contribute to competitiveness and sustainable development. BELGICAST COP 2016 9 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. In BELGICAST we try to extend the participation of all workers in all areas. Thus, as examples include: • Communication systems for porposals of improvement. • The Intranet as a technical tool available to the employee to share knowledge. • The quarterly magazine TALIS Insight for the entire group, including articles written by employees. • The TALIS Award, with prizes for 35 employees of the group in levels bronze, silver and gold. • The new figure of the Training Delegate, which gives the representation of BELGICAST eployees the tool to participate in decission making process on training plans. • Sales meeting with all the sale force of the TALIS Group, held this year in BELGICAST. BELGICAST COP 2016 10 GRI IndicatorsLabour Standards LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 100% LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including BELGICAST applies, at least, the advance notice required by law. whether it is specified in collective agreements. HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and BELGICAST includes in their purchase contracts the mandatory to contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or observe the ILO principles and respect for the environment. that have undergone human rights screening. Principle 3: HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business Every new customer of TALIS (BELGICAST) must sign the certification Businesses partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. of anti-corruption included in the business relationship contract. should uphold HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning BELGICAST participates in the training of TALIS Group on Ethics Guide, the freedom of aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the principle and values. 100% of the employees carry out the training at association and percentage of employees trained. the beginning of the employment relationship. the effective recognition of the right to collective HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. There have been no incidents of discrimination bargaining; HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to BELGICAST recognizes freedom of association in its ethical guidelines. exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be voilated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and BELGICAST takes no stand on public policy or engages in Lobbying. lobbying. BELGICAST is Euskalit cooperation partner, the Basque Foundation for Excellence, whose mission is to share ideas and experiences contribute to competitiveness and sustainable development. HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and BELGICAST includes in their purchase contracts the mandatory to contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or observe the ILO principles and respect for the environment. that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business Every new customer of TALIS (BELGICAST) must sign the certification partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. of anti-corruption included in the business relationship contract. Principle 4: Businesses HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning BELGICAST participates in the training of TALIS Group on Ethics Guide, should uphold aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the principle and values. 100% of the employees carry out the training at the elimination percentage of employees trained. the beginning of the employment relationship. of all forms of HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Not applicable forced and comincidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the pulsory labour; elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and BELGICAST takes no stand on public policy or engages in Lobbying. lobbying. BELGICAST is Euskalit cooperation partner, the Basque Foundation for Excellence, whose mission is to share ideas and experiences contribute to competitiveness and sustainable development BELGICAST COP 2016 11 GRI IndicatorsLabour Standards HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and BELGICAST includes in their purchase contracts the mandatory to contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or observe the ILO principles and respect for the environment. that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business Every new customer of TALIS (BELGICAST) must sign the certification partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. of anti-corruption included in the business relationship contract. Principle 5: Businesses HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning BELGICAST participates in the training of TALIS Group on Ethics Guide, should uphold aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the principle and values. 100% of the employees carry out the training at the effective percentage of employees trained. the beginning of the employment relationship. abolition of child HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Not applicable labour. incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and BELGICAST takes no stand on public policy or engages in Lobbying. lobbying. BELGICAST is Euskalit cooperation partner, the Basque Foundation for Excellence, whose mission is to share ideas and experiences contribute to competitiveness and sustainable development. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by Total number employees 176.33. Rate of new employees: 17.01 ; age group, gender, and region. Rate per gender: Men: 21.55 / Women: 1.27 ; Rate per region: Mungia: 19.03 / Madrid: 0 / Toledo: 7,36 / Gojain: 8,57 ; LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Percentage by gender: Men: 79% / Women: 21% employee category according to gender, age group, minority group Percentage by gender in management: Men: 82% / Female: 18% membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee In BELGICAST there is no wage gap between employees of the same category, by significant locations of operation. gender category. HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and BELGICAST includes in their purchase contracts the mandatory to Principle 6: contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or observe the ILO principles and respect for the environment. Businesses that have undergone human rights screening. should uphold HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business Every new customer of TALIS (BELGICAST) must sign the certification the elimination partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. of anti-corruption included in the business relationship contract. of discrimination in respect of HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning BELGICAST participates in the training of TALIS Group on Ethics Guide, employment and aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the principle and values. During this year is running a campaign specific occupation. percentage of employees trained. training on the prevention of corruption, monopoly and conflict of interest.The campaign, which started last year, was aimed at 100% of the workforce procurement, sales and administration. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. There have been no incidents of discrimination HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Not applicable incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and BELGICAST takes no stand on public policy or engages in Lobbying. lobbying. BELGICAST is Euskalit cooperation partner, the Basque Foundation for Excellence, whose mission is to share ideas and experiences contribute to competitiveness and sustainable development. BELGICAST COP 2016 12 Environment: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. In fiscal year 2014, BELGICAST joined the “CEO Water Mandate,” and subsequently integrated Principles 6, 7, and 8, relating to the “Environment.” “COP-Water” The “CEO WATER MANDATE” is a commitment to action based on six core elements: 1) Direct operations Our main task is to producing valves. Each valve must be pressure tested with water. Being responsible and efficient with water consumption is an inexcusable duty. To do this, our hydraulic test machine uses a water supply system in closed circuit which ensures minimal consumption, thus we have achieved to get more than 150 valves average tested per liter of water consumed. Moreover, we have replaced Halide lighting by LED lighting which, regulates its intensity depending on the brightness of the day, representing an optimization of energy. 2) Supply chain Our Purchasing Department makes the efforts to get our suppliers involved in the sustainability of water resources. Every supply contract agreemnt between any supplier and TALIS-BELGICAST includes the declaration of respect for the principles of the ILO and environmental respect. Our suppliers are included in our list of stakeholders, and receive timely information on our progress reports. BELGICAST COP 2016 13 3) Collective action: This year the TALIS Group has signed a cooperation agreement with the NGO Just a Drop. Each year TALIS will provide 50,000 euros to finance a water supply project in the third world. Through our TALIS Insight magazine, the CEO of the group, Dr. Ansgar Noon, launched a proposal to the entire workforce to chose the project in which we should intervene. The result was Kenya. Thanks to “Just a Drop” and the TALIS support, both financial as providing water control materials, two dams to supply drinking water to 3,650 people, who were dreprived of it, will be built. In addition, construction will be linked to a program of true sustainable agriculture and community development. TALIS will report in detail on the development of this project and its final results. 4) Public policy As every two years, BELGICAST TALIS have participated in the SMAGUA water exhibition, and also int the Singapore International Water Week. We found very interesting possibilities as an information resource and development offered by these channels of participation. 5) Community engagement As in previous years, we maintain contacts with Euskalit, Basque Foundation for Excellence, which is a partner of BELGICAST. In Euskalit we share experiences and knowledge to contribute to the competitiveness and sustainable development. In addition, our local community institutions can count on advice from our technicians for any problems or before any doubt as to the water distribution network. 6) Transparency The commitment to give clear accounts includes our involvement with regard to water resources, both in consumption and measures taken. BELGICAST was the first company in its sector to conform to the ISO14001. BELGICAST COP 2016 14 I Environment Indicators BELGICAST has adopted an internal procedure, the FPMA -01-2 Monthly Quantification of Environmental Factors, which tracks information on a monthly and annual (cumulative) basis on all aspects identified as environmental risks, including more than thirty indicators such as gas, electricity, water, CO2 emissions, button cells, fluorescent tubes, cutting fluids, oils, cloths, etc. Naturally, this is a living document, audited annually in ISO 14001. BELGICAST COP 2016 15 Anti-corrupction: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The policy of zero tolerance on corruption, extortion and bribery is assumed within TALIS, and therefore BELGICAST, and confidence in the integrity of our staff is absolute. However, as in previous years, we are aware that hidden risk situations may appear in complicated contexts and difficult to detect. To achivieve this, we maintain our system whereby our staff, especially the new additions, are trained to detect the risks of being involved in corrupt practices in the development of their professional activity. In addition, any doubt, we have the advice of our Compliance Department of TALIS. These courses are compulsorily. Finally, we take this opportunity to thank our new customers signing corruption clauses that request to maintain responsible commercial relationship. GRI IndicatorsAnti-Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related All our sales offices are included in the TALIS anti-corruption training to corruption. program. Principle 10: SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies 100% of the administration staff included in the program. Businesses and procedures. should work SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. There have been no corruption incidents against corruption in all its SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and BELGICAST takes no stand on public policy or engages in Lobbying. forms, including lobbying. BELGICAST is Euskalit cooperation partner, the Basque Foundation extortion and for Excellence, whose mission is to share ideas and experiences bribery. contribute to competitiveness and sustainable development. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, No financial contributions to political parties or related institutions politicians, and related institutions by country. performed www.talis-group.com TALIS is the undisputed Number One for water transport and water flow control. TALIS has the best solutions available in the fields of water and energy management as well as for industrial and comunal applications. We have numerous products for comprehensive solutions for the whole water cycle – from hydrants, butterfly valves and knife gate valves through to needle valves. Our experience, innovative technology, global expertise and individual consultation processes form the basis for developing longterm solutions for the efficient treatment of the vitally important resource BELGICAST Internacional, S.L. “water”. B° Zabalondo 31 48100 Mungia (Bizkaia) Nacional Tel: 94 488 91-00 Nacional Fax: 94 488 91-30 Export Tel: +34 94 488 91-20 Export Fax: +34 94 488 91-25 10-2016A E-Mail: belgicast @ talis-group.com Internet: www.talis-group.com www.belgicast.eu Note: Specifications may be changed without notification at any time. Copyright: No copying without express written permission of BELGICAST. BELGICAST is a Registered Trademark.
