COASTAL BEAUTY TRAVELS & TOURS CO.,LTD No.79, Hninsi St, Ahlone Tsp, Yangon, Ph:( +95)1-2302031 E-mail : coastalbeautytraveltours@gmail.com, www.coastalbeautytravels.com Dear, our stakeholders, This is our company first time by becoming a member of UN Globe Compact in Jan 2015. I am absolutely delighted that our tourism company named “Coastal Beauty” has agreed and confirmed to cooperate with the United Nations Global Compact closely for developing both our company and UN Global Compact. Our company is completely fascinated by the UN Global Compact’s ten universally-accepted principles in the areas of Human Rights, labour, Environment and anti-corruption into our business operations. Thus our company will hope indeed these ten principles can change the world better and safer for human beings. We will also try our best to blend the UN Global Compact’s ten principles into our business strategies, plans, cultures and to our day-to-day operations. Sincerely, Mr. Nay Paing Soe Managing Director Coastal Beauty Travels&Tours Page 1 of 8 COASTAL BEAUTY TRAVELS & TOURS CO.,LTD No.79, Hninsi St, Ahlone Tsp, Yangon, Ph:( +95)1-2302031 E-mail : coastalbeautytraveltours@gmail.com, www.coastalbeautytravels.com Human Rights Principles Principle (1); Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle (2); Make sure that they are not complicit human rights abuses. (i);Assessment, policy and goals The tourism industry is responsible for numerous violations of human rights taking place all over the globe. Our tourism industry believe in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights are the common standard of achievement for all people and all nations. The situation in Myanmar has been particularly alarming: government-run tourism companies in Myanmar have long been accused of being complicit in human rights in the past, such as forced labor. This also led to boycott of the tourism industry that was in effect for at least 10 years but was lifted once the government started its democratic reforms in 2011. Despite the challenges and potential harmful effects of tourism on human rights, we also recognize the potential of the tourism industry to promote and enhance human rights. As private sector company, we also consider it our duty to contribute our share. Action to support human rights should be a complement to and not a substitute for action to respect human rights. Special attention will be paid to the rights of vulnerable groups, including women, children, people with disabilities, indigenous peoples, migrant workers, older persons etc. Furthermore, our coastal beauty fully endorses the UN Guiding principles on business as well as Human Rights Page 2 of 8 COASTAL BEAUTY TRAVELS & TOURS CO.,LTD No.79, Hninsi St, Ahlone Tsp, Yangon, Ph:( +95)1-2302031 E-mail : coastalbeautytraveltours@gmail.com, www.coastalbeautytravels.com (ii);Implementation Human Rights issues are very important both for the individual and for the organizations. That’s why our tourism company made a plan to train our employees and created some topics to train them such as “ Friendship has no bound”. Our tourism company’s training session has been done for significant management level employees last year to support Human Rights without discrimination as to race, color, sex, language, and religion. We continue to keep ourselves in our operations that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. We will keep distributing Human Rights related knowledge to our business partners, suppliers, and clients to understand, respect and support Human Rights. For upcoming years, Human resources, other policies, and procedures related to Human Rights will be reviewed and updated and will be kept discovered, resolved and protected. (iii);Measurement of outcomes As a result of the 1st year, we had got more friendship and more partners who participates in our organizations. We have no significant cases of Human Rights violations. We keep ourselves that we are not complicit in any of Human Rights abuses. For coming years, we will measure our progresses by; reviewing our implementation results by senior management -Internal audits of Human Rights performance -Continued investigations of incidents of Human Rights abuses -Resolutions of Human Rights related issues. Page 3 of 8 COASTAL BEAUTY TRAVELS & TOURS CO.,LTD No.79, Hninsi St, Ahlone Tsp, Yangon, Ph:( +95)1-2302031 E-mail : coastalbeautytraveltours@gmail.com, www.coastalbeautytravels.com Labour Principles Principle (3); Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle (4); the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle (5); the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle (6); the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. (i);Assessment, Policy and Goals Our tourism company will uphold labour standards and should also focus on non-discrimination, equal opportunities and treatment (including for men and women), and freedom to express workplace concerns. All employers have the right to freedom of expression and opinion to be able to make a free decision, workers need a climate free of violence, pressure, fear and threats in our company. An important part of the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining is the principle of good faith . This is important for the maintenance of the harmonious development of labour relations .Forced labour not only constitutes a violation of fundamental human rights, it also deprives societies of the opportunity to develop skills and human resources, and to educate children for the labour markets of tomorrow .our company also need to determine whether forced labour is a problem within their business sector and for their operations. It is important to handle that. Children have the same human rights as adults. But by virtue of their age and the fact that they are still growing and gaining knowledge and experience, they have some distinct rights as children. These rights include protection from economic exploitation and work that may be dangerous to their health, safety or morals and that may hinder their development or impede their access to education Page 4 of 8 COASTAL BEAUTY TRAVELS & TOURS CO.,LTD No.79, Hninsi St, Ahlone Tsp, Yangon, Ph:( +95)1-2302031 E-mail : coastalbeautytraveltours@gmail.com, www.coastalbeautytravels.com (ii);Implementation By being an employee in our tourism company, we will train you how to issue international and domestic air ticketing, how to book worldwide and domestic hotel reservations, how to apply visa application, how to rent car rental service and so on. As a part of staff social welfare program, our tourism company will take all staffs on special holiday such as (labour day and national days) to the beaches for free and salary will also be increased and pay (or) add * bonus* and loans with no interest. Our company also give scholarships for being loyal employees. For instance, we will attend the Computer class and English Class on weekends. Our company will also provides the medicine fee for a staff who feel under the weather. Our tourism company is non-discrimination and equal opportunities and treatment for staffs and also win-win relationship for both company and staffs. (iii);Measurement of outcomes Our company has no known cases of discrimination in respect of hiring and employment practices whether based upon race, religion, age, nationality, ethnic origin, sex, political opinion, and there is no abuse of child labour. It treats its employees with dignity and respect, and not use corporal punishment or threats of violence. For upcoming years, labours and human resources related policies and goals will be reviewed and updated and also keep promotes staff welfare policies. Environment Principle (7); Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle (8); Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmentally responsibility; and Page 5 of 8 COASTAL BEAUTY TRAVELS & TOURS CO.,LTD No.79, Hninsi St, Ahlone Tsp, Yangon, Ph:( +95)1-2302031 E-mail : coastalbeautytraveltours@gmail.com, www.coastalbeautytravels.com Principle (9); Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. (i);Assessment, policy and goals; Being a tourism company, the nature of our operations makes us no direct significant environmental impact or bad impact on was environment was relatively very small. Our tourism company always tries to provide its employees with a safe and healthy workplace, and ensure reasonable access to drinkable water and adequate lighting and ventilation and fire safety. There are many our policies guidelines include; to maintain the environment clean, healthy, safety, and enjoyable and to prevent accidents and cases of work-related ill health in working environment, and provide adequate control of health and safety risks arising from work activities and to monitor safe and healthy working conditions and to reduce energy usage and to use renewable energy, recycled paper, to implement efficient consumption of natural resources, and to protect the environment. (ii);Implementation In our tourism company, we never use fossil fuels such as coal and gas. We just use lights daily a little. We reuse papers and reduce daily using water. We also provide environment as we can such as cleaning all of rooms in company. Drinkable water are provided for easy access. For upcoming years, we will plan to give awareness raising trainings to all employees on environment protection. We will plan to reduce waste materials and consumption of resources such as energy, fuels, water, electricity, and paper, etc. we will learn environment management systems and procedures for evaluating progress, minimizing negative impacts and transferring good practices. Page 6 of 8 COASTAL BEAUTY TRAVELS & TOURS CO.,LTD No.79, Hninsi St, Ahlone Tsp, Yangon, Ph:( +95)1-2302031 E-mail : coastalbeautytraveltours@gmail.com, www.coastalbeautytravels.com (iii);Measurement of outcomes In our company, electricity power expenses are reduced after deploying energy saving LED lights, and LCD monitors in place of old CRT monitors. For next years, our tourism company will try its best to comply with applicable environment laws, regulations and standards as well as implement an effective system to identify and eliminate potential hazards to the environment. Our company will continue to deploy efficient use of energy, renewable energy, and prevent waste materials output, and protect the natural resources and green environment. Anti-Corruption Principle (10); Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. (i);Assessment, policy and goals Our tourism company accepts this principle that corruption is violation of vital principles of social and economic life. For business companies, corruption creates unfair conditions for trade and finance. We absolutely appreciate this anti-corruption. Our tourism company will not tolerate in any form of corruption or bribery including any kind of illegal payment offer. Our company will undertake that none of its employees or managers will offer, pay, promise, authorize, or give anything of value to any employees. Within the company, our company has below policies towards corruptions, bribery and extortion. Employees will not be allowed accepting any form of bribery from customers, suppliers, and business partners. Employees must obey applicable local and regional legal laws and respect international legal frameworks against corruption. Page 7 of 8 COASTAL BEAUTY TRAVELS & TOURS CO.,LTD No.79, Hninsi St, Ahlone Tsp, Yangon, Ph:( +95)1-2302031 E-mail : coastalbeautytraveltours@gmail.com, www.coastalbeautytravels.com (ii); Implementation Over the past years, our company never accepted any unfair bribery from our customers and suppliers. As a result of fair communications on customers, our company could increase our several customers. For coming years, our company will try its best for obeying the rule of anti-corruption and increasing customers more than last year. Our policies and implementations towards corruption, bribery and extortion will be reviewed and amended based on priority and necessity. (iii); Measurement of outcomes Our tourism company has not been involved in any legal with its business suppliers and partners, related to corruption and bribery. As a result of regular system practiced within the company, corruption risks were almost minimized. For upcoming years, our company will keep its commitment to be in compliance with its policies, and applicable regional laws. All its outcomes will be measured, reviewed, and necessary actions will be further carried out. Page 8 of 8
