UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014-2015 Who we are NRS International is a family-run company that designs, manufactures and partners with humanitarian organizations and bilateral donors to provide quality and cost-effective solutions that are used during emergencies, in public health campaigns, and in emerging markets. Responding to the growing demands of vulnerable populations, we aim to improve the everyday lives of people in need through providing aid essentials. Headquartered in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, a global humanitarian hub, we are the parent company to three subsidiaries:  NRS Relief offers core relief items;  TANA Netting provides long-lasting insecticidal nets to combat malaria;  Flexiway Solar Solutions delivers fit-for-purpose solar solutions. Our products are manufactured H. Sheikh Noor-ud-Din & Sons Pvt. Ltd. (HSNDS) based in Lahore. Our Yearly Progress We remain committed to upholding the ten principles, as well as the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs). This year we made a commitment to creating our first public Annual Report. From 2014 to 2105 we served a combined 75 million beneficiaries—and as we continue to expand our businesses we have consciously ensured sustainability practices were considered. We not only created a stand-alone Corporate Social Responsibility Department but also engaged an external consultant to streamline our Human Resources Department and build internal transparency on policy and procedures. We also invested in new employee spaces, created new products to help vulnerable communities, as well as, streamline manufacturing to increase margins and reduce waste and energy consumption. Becoming a Responsible Company Over the past forty years, NRS International has focused on creating products that serve the public and alleviate suffering, while simultaneously building sustainable employment opportunities in Pakistan. In 2009, we created the Bilqees Sarwar Foundation, our charitable arm, to improve public health care. Our commitment to sustainable business practices underscores our commitment to our employees, our products and production, and to the global community. Our vision  To design and manufacture sustainable products that will improve the lives of vulnerable populations around the globe.  To create job opportunities in Pakistan in order to promote economic empowerment. Charitable Activities through Bilqees Sarwar Foundation Our charitable arm, the Bilqees Sarwar Foundation, focused its efforts mainly on community based organizations working to support Syrians. BSF consciously partners with smaller organizations based within a country to ensure that success and to build capacity of local NGOs. This year alone, BSF supported the following activities;  Opened one hospital in Pakistan;  Sponsored a mobile healthcare project which provided care to over 5000 Syrian refugees in Lebanon;  Provided over 500 lights to midwives in East Africa;  Donated 5,000 long lasting misquote nets to refugees and internally displaced people in S. Sudan;  Contributed to the Mayo Hospital in Pakistan through the opening of a Female Ward and donation of new equipment;  Donated over 1,700 core relief and solar products to Nepalese earthquake victims;  Supplied 75 lights to refugee students in Lebanon;  NRS International joined the Global Business Coalition for Education to better understand the global response and provide support;  Donated two temporary shelter tents for advocacy;  Provided financial support to the Christina Nobel Foundation Children’s Foundation. Commitment to Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) In 2015 NRS International’s Managing Director signed the CEO Statement of Support for the WEPs. We review our day-to-day practices, and policy in accordance with empowering, advancing and investing in women worldwide, starting with our own employees. Recognizing that women’s inclusion drives development and is necessary for success; we view the WEPs as a corporate priority. We are co-chair’s of the WEPs under the UN Global Compact UAE Network in the MENA region. Example of WEP Activities Female Unit at HSNDS HSNDS always employed women and would recruit women through their existing male employees. For example, men were encouraged to bring their sister or wives to work if they were seeking employment. Because NRS International is a family business at its core, it valued employing families, as well as, different generations. However, as the volume of production increased and the factory expanded they created a stand-alone Female Unit and examined how to create “women-friendly spaces” (ie. good lighting, separate latrines and pray rooms incorporated female perception in the design) to increase female employment. They hired female Managers to ensure that women would feel comfortable going to work. Our goal in our sustainability journey under WEPs is twofold; 1) to recruit, retain and train more female employees, and 2) create more human-cantered products and product lines that use gender perspectives. We have considered the four gender related COP Self-Assessment questions and the 7 WEPs principles in our submission below. Our advancement towards UN Global Compact is outlined below. For the purpose of this report we have indicated a distinction between NRS International (which encompasses NRS Relief, TANA Netting, and Flexiway Solar Solutions subsidiaries) and HSNDS (our factory in Lahore, Pakistan). Principle Assessment, Policy, & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Goals for 2016 Human Rights Internal Code of Conduct explicitly Our Legal Office ensures that our Nominated a new Health & Safety Create web based portal for HSNDS mentions the respect and business adheres to the protection Officer at NRS International who is employees to apply for 1.) Business should support and protection of internationally of human rights and we apply responsible for ensuring all NRS scholarships for their children. respect the protection of proclaimed human rights. these principles in dealing with Internationals policies and internally proclaimed human joint ventures partners, agents, procedures are in line with Host two trainings for all staff on rights Prioritize innovation to create costcontractors, and in our day-to-day government standards and WEPs. effective products that alleviate operations. protects employees. 2.) Make sure that they are not suffering and builds resiliency in Host International Women’s Day complicit in human rights developing communities. All employees receive regular We developed a new LLIN treated celebration and WEPs Training for abuses medical check-ups. hammock to protect forest staff. Provide free and subsidized quality dwelling communities in the health care to all HSNDS Reopened the Bilqees Sarwar Greater Mekong Sub Region. Read New creation of Management employees and the greater Hospital. more here. Committee will include WEPs in community through our free decision making. hospital, in Lahore, Pakistan. New Employee Handbook which Management training by Human outlines CSR strategy. Resources Department over new Integrate WEPs metrics. policies and procedures. Learning and Development Host International Human Rights opportunities for all staff, More human-cantered products Day event in coordination with the regardless of grade. and product lines. UN Global Compact UAE Network. CSR strategy that includes a HSNDS employs 284 women, of responsibly to our employees which 232 are permanent staff which focuses on diversity, and members, 40 are contractors, and women’s empowerment. 12 are in management. While we currently employ more men in Dedicated Female Units at HSNDs. Pakistan, 4.26% more women are represented in the Management Gender perspectives activated Team. added new product lines. NRS International employs 43 staff Refurbished and expanded Female members (56% are women) who Unit to recruit new staff in speak 19 different languages and Pakistan. represent over 14 countries. Launched our new Solar Street Hosted the first annual Power. Read more here. International Human Rights Day event increase awareness to the Field tested a solar midwife with refugee crisis around the world Concern Worldwide, in a postunder the Business Action Pledge Ebola midwife project. for the Refugee Crisis. Labour Principles At NRS International and HSNDS Management implements an open At HSNDS’s female unit, we Complete GHS implementation. we fully implement and adhere to door policy for monitoring, continue to empower our female 3.) Business should uphold the local labour laws. reporting and eliminating all forms employees and currently employ Reopen Female Unit and provide freedom of association and of harassment and/or abuse. 284 women (232 are permanent more professional training to the effective recognition of We prioritize diversity and staffs, 40 are contractors, and 12 female staff. the right to collective inclusion in our workforce. We took robust efforts to improve are in management). bargaining the safety measure polices at Our Human Resources Offices has a HSNDS and host regular trainings At NRS International, we employ 4.) The Elimination of all forms of zero tolerance for child labour and on compliance, health, and safety. 43 staff (56% are women) who forced and compulsory labour supports the elimination of all speak 19 different languages and forms of forced and compulsory All employees are grouped purely who represent over 14 countries. 5.) The effective abolition of child labour. on merit. labour HSNDS held a series of safety At HSNDS we have robust safety Introduced new maternity policy trainings. 6.) The elimination of and security procedures. that goes above the standard set discrimination in respect of by UAE Ministry of Labour law. employment and occupation At HSDNS, we support the upholding of the freedom of Ongoing staff training on GHS to association and the recognition of ensure employees protection, the right to collective bargaining awareness and training against according to the local laws. hazardous chemicals usage, handling, disposal, harmonized Implement Globally Harmonized system of labelling and data System of Classifications and sheets. Labelling of Chemicals (GHS). Fully banned employment under the age of 18. New polices encompasses Employee Safety, Wellbeing, and Grievance polices. Introduced a new centralized access control to ensure safety of employees. Introduced new movement activated solar lighting around the premise to improve visibility and security of premises. Environmental Principles At both NRS International and Both HSNDS and NRS International TANA Netting reduced production Senior management has prioritized HSNDS, we continuously review began introducing Systems, waste by an additional 4-5% this emissions as our highest 7.) Business should support a and improve our efforts to Applications & Products (SAP) year. manufacturing priority. precautionary approach to minimize our impact on the software to streamline our environment challenges environment and improve margins production. TANA Netting reduced emissions Hire a new Environmental . by 14% per individual product. Executive under the Corporate 8.) Undertake initiatives to Exploring partnerships for an Social Responsibility Department. promote greater energy recovery project for TANA environmental responsibility Netting and NRS Relief. Reduced printing costs by 30%. Continue to implement the SAP incrementally for the next 2 years. 9.) Encourage the development Continued implementation of an and diffusion of internal water recycling and Initiate a life cycle assessment on environmental friendly purification system, which was NRS Relief products. technology previously outsourced, and now recycles all production waste water. Implemented new secured printing for staff members and new ENERGY STAR® printer using solid ink sticks. Anti-Corruption Principles Both NRS International and HSNDS Our teams perform due diligence Senior Management and Legal Implementation of new Human strongly condemn any form of when vetting new business Office conducted a series of Resource Employee policy and 10.) Businesses should work corruption and have a series of ventures, operational systems, and background checks and financial procedures. against corruption in all its policy and procedures to ensure new agreements, to ensure audits. forms, including extortion and employee and company viability and transparent business SAP has been integrated into bribery. compliance. practices. Legal Office conducted two financial and inventory services for trainings for new staff and agents. our charitable arm, Bilqees Sarwar Our Code of Conduct prohibits Foundation. promising, offering, and/or giving Staff and Line Managers have been anything of value directly or trained on policies, covering, indirectly, (e.g. through an bilberry and corruption, disclosure intermediary such as agents, of material interests, coercion, business consultants etc.), in order conflicts of interest, confidentially. to obtain an improper advantage and/or to influence official action. New Whistleblowing Policy details the projection afforded to Human Resource Department employees when making protected ensures Professional Business discourses. Practices and Standards both internally and externally. Other certifications include; NRS International: ISO 9001:2008 Certification from 30 May until 30 May 2016 for Sales, Business Development, Supply Chain Management, and Warehousing of Relief Supplies HSNDS  ISO 9001:2008 Certification from 11 September 2013 until 12 August 2016 Manufacturing and Export of Tents, Plastic Sheeting/Plastic Tarpaulins, Synthetic Blankets, Water Contains and Insecticidal Mosquito Netting  ISO 14001:2004 Certification from 24 April 2015 until 23 April 2018 Manufacturing & Export of Tents, Plastic Sheeting/Plastic Tarpaulins, Synthetic Blankets, Water Containers and Insecticidal Mosquito Netting  SA 8000:2008 Certification from 30 March 2014 until 29 March 2017 2018 Manufacturing & Export of Tents, Plastic Sheeting/Plastic Tarpaulins, Synthetic Blankets, Water Containers and Insecticidal Mosquito Netting
