C om muni c a ti on on Pr og r e s s Re por t 2 0 1 6 Communication on Progress Report Communication on Progress Report in respect Assessment, policy and goals of Aspen’s application of the United Nations Aspen’s adherence to fundamental human rights is enshrined in Global Compact’s 10 Principles for 2016 its Code of Conduct, available online, which confirms that “Aspen supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed Group Chief Executive’s statement human and employment rights” and confirms its commitment to Aspen’s commitment to the UN Global Compact respecting fundamental human rights and treating all employees Aspen became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact and others with fairness, equality and respect to foster an open, (“the UN Global Compact”) with effect from 31 July 2013 and is transparent, and trusting environment which is free from currently an active participant in this Compact. I am pleased to prejudice, discrimination, bias, harassment and/or violation. reaffirm Aspen’s support of the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and Implementation anti-corruption. The Aspen Code of Conduct, which requires the formal acceptance by every new Aspen employee, further provides that Regional ethics officers, appointed for each business in terms of all employees are responsible for ensuring that Aspen upholds its Aspen’s ethics management programme, are required to annually commitments in respect of human rights. report on the application of these 10 principles in their regions and serve as a monitoring resource to ensure these are consistently All Aspen suppliers and service providers are required to agree to, applied. The regional ethics officers are also engaged with the key or acknowledge, the Aspen Code of Conduct for suppliers and business leaders in their relevant operations to ensure that they service providers when entering into new commercial agreements understand these principles and recommendations and with Aspen, thereby ensuring that human rights are respected implement the processes and controls necessary to support them. within Aspen’s value chain. The Company Secretary & Group Governance Officer monitors adherence to the Group’s Code of Conduct and Ethics Measurement of outcomes management principles and had overarching responsibility on Aspen encourages employees and external stakeholders to report reporting on the application of the 10 principles throughout any breaches or suspected breaches of its Code of Conduct, the Group. including any possible human rights abuses or infringements in terms of Aspen’s whistle-blowers’ standard operating procedure. In its capacity as a participant of the UN Global Compact, Aspen An independently monitored whistle-blowing hotline, Deloitte’s looks forward to building on its existing reputation for respecting Tip-Offs Anonymous, is operated to ensure that these incidents basic human rights, engaging in fair labour practices, being are brought to the Company’s attention and these tip-offs can be environmentally responsible and having a zero-tolerance made on an anonymous basis. All reported incidents are formally approach to corruption. recorded and reported to the Social & Ethics Committee for consideration. My thanks must again go to the Social & Ethics Committee for providing guidance on the implementation of policies and There have been no reports of human rights abuses or procedures applicable to the Group as a whole in respect of the infringements during the past year (2015: nil). application of the letter and the spirit of the 10 principles set out in the UN Global Compact and monitoring the Group’s performance There are a number of other human resource and ethics-related in respect of this application. policy documents, procedures and statements applicable throughout the Group, which confirm Aspen’s commitment to This Communication on Progress Report describes Aspen’s protecting basic human rights. These include, among others, the actions to continually improve the integration of the UN Global applicable grievance procedures, the Group’s whistle-blower Compact and its principles into its business strategy, culture and procedure and respective recruitment and selection policies. daily operations. Aspen also commits to sharing this information with its stakeholders using its primary channels of communication. Refer to page 64 of Aspen’s Integrated Report for the 2016 financial year for further information regarding the Group’s Section 1 – Human rights principles commitment to respecting human rights and promoting equality. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited Communication on Progress Report / 1 Communication on Progress Report continued Section 2 – Labour principles higher) and provides each employee with all legally mandated Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of benefits; association and the effective recognition of the • it complies with the laws on working hours and employment right to collective bargaining; rights in the countries in which it operates; and Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and • it is respectful of its employees’ right to join and form compulsory labour; independent trade unions and freedom of association. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of All employees are free to belong to trade unions and relationships employment and occupation. with trade union representatives, considered to be key stakeholders, are managed in a proactive and responsible manner by site human resources managers. Formal processes are in place Assessment, policy and goals to foster a culture of transparency and constructive engagement The use of child labour, forced labour and/or compulsory labour is with trade union representatives in each territory. strictly prohibited by the Aspen Code of Conduct. This code also specifically confirms its commitment to the elimination of Measurement of outcomes discrimination in respect of employment policies and practices. Aspen encourages employees and external stakeholders to report Freedom of association and the effective recognition to the right any breaches or suspected breaches of its Code of Conduct, to collective bargaining is also assured in terms of this code. including any possible human rights abuses or infringements in terms of Aspen’s whistle-blowers’ standard operating procedure. Implementation An independently managed anonymous tip-offs hotline is also The Aspen Code of Conduct, which requires the formal operated to ensure that these incidents are brought to the acceptance of every new Aspen employee, provides that all Company’s attention. All reported incidents are formally recorded employees are specifically responsible for ensuring that Aspen and reported to the Social & Ethics Committee for consideration. upholds: • freedom of association and the effective recognition to the right During the year, no incidents of discrimination, forced labour or to collective bargaining; compulsory labour were found to exist in the Group (2015: nil). • the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; These aspects are monitored in respect of all business units. In • the effective abolition of child labour; and addition, there were no reported incidents in the Group where the • the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment rights of indigenous people were violated. Furthermore, no policies and practices. businesses in the Group have been considered to be at risk of violating human rights which protect child labour, forced or All Aspen suppliers and service providers are required to agree to, compulsory labour. or acknowledge, the Aspen Code of Conduct for suppliers and service providers when entering into new commercial agreements Employees across the Group are free to exercise their rights to with Aspen. In terms of this code each Aspen supplier or service belong to trade unions and collective bargaining councils – at yearprovider warrants, to the best of its knowledge, that in relation to end approximately 23% of the Group’s employees were members the performance of its obligations to Aspen: of a trade union and approximately 40% were represented by • it does not employ, engage or otherwise use any child labour; collective bargaining councils. • it does not use forced labour in any form (prison, indentured, bonded or otherwise) and its employees are not required to Refer to page 64 of Aspen’s Integrated Report for the 2016 lodge papers or deposits on starting work; financial year for further information regarding the Group’s • it provides a safe and healthy workplace, presenting no hazards commitment to respecting employee rights. Also refer to pages to its employees. Any housing provided by the supplier to its 61 and 62 for further information on Aspen’s efforts around employees is safe for habitation. The supplier provides access employee health, wellness and safety. to proper sanitation, clean water, food, and emergency healthcare to its employees in the event of accidents or incidents at the supplier’s workplace; Section 3 – Environmental principles • it does not discriminate against any employees on any ground Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary (including race, sexual orientation, religion, disability or gender); approach to environmental challenges; • it does not engage in or support the use of corporal Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater punishment, mental, physical, sexual or verbal abuse and does environmental responsibility; and not use cruel or abusive disciplinary practices in the workplace; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of • it pays each employee at least the minimum wage, or a fair environmentally friendly technologies. representation of the prevailing industry wage (whichever is the 2 / Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited Communication on Progress Report 2016 Communication on Progress Report continued Assessment, policy and goals • implementing robust waste management control systems to Consistent with its commitment as a responsible corporate citizen safeguard raw materials, packaging materials and finished to contribute to sustainable development, Aspen’s Code of goods against unauthorised use and to ensure that these waste Conduct confirms that it exercises a systematic approach to products are disposed of in accordance with required health, safety, quality and environmental management in order to specifications in a controlled manner; achieve continuous performance improvement and compliance to • promoting extended producer responsibility in a pragmatic relevant legislation, regulations and guidelines. manner and ensuring compliant waste management principles and practices are implemented throughout the supply chain Aspen recognises the importance of supporting global initiatives until the final disposal of waste material by an approved and aimed at protecting the environment and conserving natural accredited waste management service provider; and resources. Aspen’s environmental management philosophy, • enhancing environmental training and awareness for our available online, advocates containment of the carbon footprint employees and contractors to encourage responsible across the supply chain in a technically and economically feasible environmental practices in the workplace which, in turn, manner. This is further promoted in the Group’s responsible support the preservation of the broader environment within corporate citizenship philosophy. which the Company operates. The Aspen environmental management protocol also Implementation acknowledges that the responsible management of the Aspen’s Board monitors the status of environmental risks through environment is an integral part of the sustainability of Aspen’s review of material environmental management performance operations and confirms that environmental management, indicators at scheduled intervals. The Social & Ethics Committee protection and conservation will be incorporated into Aspen’s assists the Board in monitoring the adequacy of environmental value chain and be promoted by the following principles: management systems in the Group and the extent to which these • ensuring compliance with relevant environmental regulations comply with relevant legislation. and legislation governing the responsible manufacture and supply of Aspen’s products; Designated business unit executives are responsible for ensuring • carrying out of environmental risk assessments to identify compliance with all relevant environmental legislation and actual and potential environmental impacts emanating from our implementation of Aspen’s environmental management operations; philosophy, as appropriate. Under the direction of the Group • conducting environmental risk assessments and/or audits to Strategic Operations Executive, the Group SHE Department evaluate the level of environmental compliance and the monitors the alignment of business unit environmental effectiveness of the applied environmental management management systems to the Group standards, develops and system; promotes Aspen’s environmental management protocol, and • promoting the efficient use of resources such as energy, water, monitors environmental legislative compliance across the Group’s paper and production materials with due regard to the scarcity manufacturing facilities. of natural resources and the environmental impact resulting from the utilisation and application of such resources in The Aspen Code of Conduct for suppliers and service providers conducting our business activities; also requires that Aspen’s suppliers and service providers • containment and reduction of our carbon footprint in our undertake responsibility for conducting business in compliance operations and in the broader supply chain in a technically and with applicable environmental laws and regulations when economically feasible manner through structured systems of performing their obligations to Aspen and ensuring that they environmental monitoring, reporting and management; conduct their business in an environmentally conscious manner • monitoring and measuring the quality of air emissions and and, insofar as is feasible, from renewable resources, while waste water discharge against benchmarked standards and minimising the resources used and waste generated by them. legal requirements through accurate and effective systems of measuring, reporting and controls; Measurement of outcomes • the engagement of external experts or consultants to seek Refer to the Aspen Integrated Report, specifically pages 67 to 71, independent assurance on the levels of environmental for the full details in respect of the Group’s efforts to protect the compliance and/or for value-added advice on technically environment and to conserve natural resources. complex matters pertaining to environmental management; • responsible management of waste through the selection of effective and feasible methods of waste disposal which are aligned to the waste hierarchy; Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited Communication on Progress Report / 3 Communication on Progress Report continued Section 4 – Anti-corruption principles by the Company Secretary & Group Governance Officer and is noted by the Social & Ethics Committee on a periodic basis. This Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all register is also made available for inspection by the Board or any its forms, including extortion and bribery. member of senior management on request. Assessment, policy and goals Aspen does not make payments or other contributions to political Aspen has a zero-tolerance approach to unethical behaviour and parties, organisations or their representatives or take part in party is committed to ensuring that the Group and its employees uphold politics. Employees are free to participate in the political process in Aspen’s laudable reputation. The Group Code of Conduct governs their private capacity provided it does not constitute a breach of the conduct of all Aspen’s employees throughout the Group and is the principles set out in the Code of Conduct and/or the relevant aligned with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and employee’s obligations to Aspen under contracts of employment Development recommendations regarding corruption. and does not negatively influence their productivity or the credibility of the Group. Aspen fosters honesty, integrity and fairness in all aspects of its business and expects the same in its relationships with all those Aspen endeavours to promote a culture of openness and with whom it does business. transparency throughout the Group and employees and other stakeholders are encouraged to report unethical conduct and Aspen is committed to the fight against bribery. As a result, it is other transgressions of which they become aware. unacceptable for any employee or agent of Aspen to directly or indirectly offer, pay, solicit or accept bribes in any form. An independently monitored whistle-blowing hotline, Deloitte’s Tip-Offs Anonymous, has been made available to employees Implementation across the Group’s businesses, whereby employees can report A formalised ethics management programme has been suspected fraud and/or activities which are considered to be implemented at all of the Group’s businesses. This programme is transgressions of the Group’s Code of Conduct. Tip-offs training managed by the Company Secretary & Group Governance Officer and awareness sessions are conducted periodically to promote under the direction of the Social & Ethics Committee and is utilisation of the facility where necessary. The tip-offs service has aimed at: also been extended to key customers and suppliers in the South • assisting the Audit & Risk Committee and the Social & Ethics African business. The implementation of this service to selected Committee in assessing the Group’s ethics profile, risks and suppliers and customers at Aspen’s International businesses is in opportunities; and progress. The details in respect of this hotline are available on • assisting the Social & Ethics Committee to monitor Aspen’s website. implementation and compliance with the Group’s policies which guide expected ethical behaviour. The Board has adopted a formal policy to regulate conflicts of interest and trading in the Company’s securities. Aspen’s induction programme educates new employees on the ethics, values and the business philosophy of the Group. All new Measurement of outcomes employees are given a copy of, and are required to sign, an All logged tip-off calls and internal reports with regard to possible acceptance of the Code of Conduct on commencement of their incidents of fraud, theft and corruption were reported to the employment with the Group. The Code of Conduct is available to responsible functionaries within Aspen. Corrective action has all employees on the Group’s intranet and is also contained in the been implemented where necessary to improve controls and to employee handbook. prevent recurrence of any incidents found to be in breach of Aspen’s stated policies and Code of Conduct. The Group conducts its business in a highly regulated environment, however, one in which the potential for unethical Quarterly reports detailing the tip-offs received, how these tip-offs marketing and promotional practices remains inherent. Aspen have been investigated, and the corrective measures taken, are endorses the ethical marketing of medicines and adheres to the submitted to the Audit & Risk Committee and Social & Ethics principles contained in the marketing codes to which it subscribes. Committee as appropriate. There have been no material incidents The Group has a written policy on gifts and benefits in terms of of fraud, theft or corruption during the year. which employees of the Group, including directors, are prohibited from accepting or giving gifts or hospitality that are not of a A review of the effectiveness of the Group’s ethics management nominal value or participating in events sponsored by current or programme was performed during the year and the programme prospective customers or suppliers. Any employee who receives a was found to be effective in all material respects. gift or other benefit exceeding the local currency equivalent of USD100 is required to disclose this in writing to the Company Refer to pages 1 and 2 of Aspen’s Social & Ethics Committee Secretary & Group Governance Officer. Some types of gifts, Report available online for more information on its approach to benefits or entertainment are prohibited even if the value falls unethical conduct, including corruption, and the Group’s ethics below this threshold. A Group-wide register of gifts is maintained management programme. 4 / Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited Communication on Progress Report 2016
