Calvert Investments, Inc. United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate Annual Joint Communication on Progress December 2016 CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Calvert Investments, Inc. (Calvert) is pleased to share our 2016 advance approaches to responsible business across sectors, United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communications answer questions of vital importance to the investment on Progress (COP) report. As a signatory to the UNGC and an industry, and further develop our leadership in creating endorser of the UN CEO Water Mandate, Calvert recognizes the the best practices of responsible investing. This year, we importance of advancing environmental, social and governance published the second study in the series, The Financial and (ESG) issues such as water stewardship, human rights, climate Societal Benefits of ESG Integration: Focus on Materiality, change goals and anti-corruption. Since our biggest impacts which found in a market environment that increasingly come from the influence of our funds on other companies precludes alpha generation based purely on an analysis of and the world rather than from our own internal operations, financial metrics, properly integrating ESG information into we have chosen to demonstrate our progress through these investment analysis can uncover risks and opportunities impacts for both the UNGC ten principles and the six elements the market has not yet valued. of the UN CEO Water Mandate in this combined report. ■■ Calvert is also developing an initiative in collaboration Our commitment to these values is evident in the Calvert with Professor George Serafeim to enable investor support Principles for Responsible Investment (Calvert Principles), for the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals developed last year. The Calvert Principles are closely aligned (SDGs). Our objective is to produce new research and tools with the UNGC ten principles and serve as the fundamental that inform our investment analysis and help the broader investment community advance the SDGs. Our project will basis for our investment decisions and our engagement and enable investors to scrutinize company behavior integral advocacy to make the companies and the world around us to the UNGC principles and UN CEO Water Mandate from better. As a responsible investor, Calvert seeks to invest in a new perspective. By promoting corporate activities companies that provide positive leadership in the areas of that will achieve these goals in a manner that improves business operations and overall activities that are relevant shareholder value, this perspective enables companies and to improving societal outcomes, including those affecting investors alike to come one step closer to representing the future generations. ideals of the UN’s initiatives and the Calvert Principles. During my tenure as Calvert’s President and CEO in 2016, we ■■ I have also become a founding member of the Sustainable have made significant changes in how we run the business and Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Investor Advisory our business model, all designed to strengthen how we serve Group. Comprised of leading asset owners and asset our clients and reinforce our commitment to responsible and managers, the group is committed to improving the impact investing. quality and comparability of sustainability-related disclosure to investors, enabling investors to develop a ■■ This year we made two key additions to the Calvert more comprehensive view of company performance. As Responsible Index Series, which offers the definitive one of fourteen members encouraging companies to investable universe of companies with strong sustainability disclose material ESG information and participate in SASB’s profiles that collectively have the potential to meet or standard-setting process, Calvert is playing an instrumental exceed the performance of the common broad-market role in expanding the growth of sustainable investment benchmarks. In considering how to grow our responsible and practices to become the foundation of corporate life in indexes to provide investors with cost-effective access a better future. to the growth potential of companies that seek to solve today’s pressing issues, Calvert launched the Calvert Global Since joining Calvert in January 2015, I have focused a significant Water Research Index in April and the Calvert Global Energy Research Index in October as the latest installments to our part of my efforts on instilling a firm-wide commitment to growing suite of responsible indexes. take responsibility for our individual and collective actions and have worked to strengthen our governance functions and ■■ In 2016, we built upon our existing partnership with enhance our valuation governance and compliance oversight George Serafeim, Jakurski Family Associate Professor of mechanisms. The objective of these efforts has been and Business Administration at Harvard Business School, to continues to be to positively impact corporate behavior, society, conduct joint research on a variety of topics that will and the financial returns of our shareholders’ holdings. 2 Calvert Investments, Inc.: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — Annual 2016 Joint Communication on Progress Calvert’s senior management team, under my leadership, research with Eaton Vance’s investment capabilities, worked diligently to resolve substantial challenges that occurred distribution strengths, and management resources, I am prior to my taking control in 2015, as previously disclosed confident that Calvert will meaningfully become a better and publicly in September 2016. During this period, we cooperated more impactful company that remains committed to the ideals with an SEC investigation and we self-reported other matters to of the Calvert Principles, the UNGC and UN CEO Water Mandate. the SEC, both dating to periods prior to my tenure. In presenting our annual progress on these initiatives, The confidence and trust of our clients is the highest priority for shareholder advocacy and changes to our business, I would our firm. We are deeply apologetic about these two situations like to reiterate Calvert’s continued support for the UNGC and and believe that the previous missteps are truly regrettable. By its important work as well as for the ten principles, which restructuring key leadership, instituting stronger governance are closely aligned with our own business model. The UNGC policies and responsibly addressing these unfortunate errors, it principles are a guide for all corporations to follow and we use is my intention to position Calvert to continue to make great them as we advocate for corporate responsibility. I would also strides in the area of responsible investing while avoiding a like to reiterate our continued support for the UN CEO Water repeat of Calvert’s past mistakes. Mandate and its six core elements. We have highlighted our progress and how we are addressing the six core elements I am extremely pleased that Calvert will be joining forces through our responsible investments within the environment with Eaton Vance, a leading global asset manager. In the section below. transaction, substantially all of the business assets of Calvert will be acquired by Calvert Research and Management, a new Sincerely, subsidiary of Eaton Vance. We expect the deal to close shortly. Eaton Vance’s decision to make Calvert the centerpiece of its expansion into responsible investing should place Calvert in a strong position to deliver superior long-term performance John Streur to clients while positively impacting corporate behavior and President and CEO society overall. By combining Calvert’s expertise in sustainability Calvert Investments, Inc. CONTACT INFORMATION: CONTACT: Reed Montague TITLE: Senior Sustainability Analyst EMAIL: reed.montague@calvert.com COMPANY: Calvert Investments, Inc. Calvert Investments, Inc.: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — Annual 2016 Joint Communication on Progress 3 ANNUAL PROGRESS AND OUTCOMES This past year, Calvert has made progress toward achieving the goals of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and UN CEO Water Mandate. For the UNGC, we discuss our progress across the ten principles in four issue areas: human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. For each area, we assess our approach to each principle and discuss a variety of shareholder engagements, stakeholder partnerships, and research initiatives that Calvert has conducted to support the principles and advance our vision of an equitable and sustainable world. The details on our progress for the UN CEO Water Mandate are in the environment section. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment and Policy: Standing Rock Sioux Nation. Subsequently in November, Calvert traveled to North Dakota as part of a unified effort to show As a leader in the field of responsible investing, Calvert’s solidarity and to directly engage and learn from the Standing investment approach and many of our engagement activities Rock Sioux Nation as well as support efforts to protect the are designed to support sound human rights approaches. We Tribe’s drinking water and sacred sites. Meeting with Chairman expect companies to exhibit solid human rights records and David Archambault II and the youth at Standing Rock, Calvert policies, a philosophy reflected by our investment decisions and gained insight into the challenges facing the Tribe and made the actions we take to encourage positive social change and a strong case for those supporting this cause to consider the support public policies that can help advance corporate human role that financial institutions play in funding the Dakota rights. This approach is firmly rooted in the beliefs underlying Access Pipeline. After meeting with various members of the the Calvert Principles for Responsible Investment (Calvert Standing Rock community and press, Calvert was able to shift Principles), which outline our human rights commitment in a negative perceptions regarding financial companies toward an manner closely aligned with these UNGC two principles. understanding of why engagement with them matters. Implementation and Measurement of Outcomes: During two different press events in North Dakota, which Calvert has long been committed to the rights of Indigenous Calvert attended, the President of the EMA and actress Shailene Peoples. As such, we supported the Standing Rock Sioux Nation Woodley stressed to audiences the importance of how money and their peaceful efforts to halt construction of the Dakota impacts our world. Within a week of traveling to North Dakota, Access Pipeline, bringing together the largest gathering of there was increased attention by the press discussing the tribes in decades, along with environmentalists and others, in financial institutions involved with the Dakota Access Pipeline. a united stand against the pipeline. In October, Calvert issued Visiting the Standing Rock camp enabled Calvert to engage a joint resolution with the Board of Trustees/Directors of the with Indigenous Peoples in a way that facilitated increased Calvert Social Funds calling for a more collaborative approach communication with the greater business community. Calvert to the pipeline, recognizing how the Standing Rock Sioux Nation has also committed to further research corporate practices is using its traditional wisdom to implement sustainability on engagement with Indigenous Peoples by sector and then solutions while seeking to protect its sacred lands and source of share findings related to best practices and opportunities clean drinking water. for improvement publicly. This research will define effective Indigenous Peoples’ engagement and highlight or define best Shortly after the resolution went public, Calvert established practices for relevant high impact industries, providing another a coalition between First Peoples Worldwide, the Oneida avenue for Calvert to continue to support Indigenous Peoples’ Foundation and the Environmental Media Association (EMA) in rights. We expect to focus on this work in 2017. order to learn from one another as each sought to support the 4 Calvert Investments, Inc.: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — Annual 2016 Joint Communication on Progress Calvert has been active with the Corporate Human Rights Investment (PRI) and 50 other investors representing $3.9 Benchmark (CHRB) since 2013, serving on the Steering trillion in assets this year to send targeted letters to a series of Committee and playing a critical role in its formation. This year companies in the agricultural, packaged food, soft drink and we made a financial contribution to support the ongoing work of restaurant industries. Calvert plans to follow up directly with CHRB. Earlier this year, CHRB began the first ever global ranking General Mills, Seven & I Holdings, ConAgra, Kroger, PepsiCo, and of corporate commitment to and performance on human rights. Starbucks, asking these companies to implement the UN Guiding After a two-year development process that involved a rigorous Principles on Business and Human Rights and manage their set of consultations in order to establish the most comprehensive supply chain labor risks and opportunities in accordance with assessment framework, the initiative will rank the 500 largest relevant international standards. Specifically, we are requesting companies globally to drive consideration of human rights further that the companies adopt and enforce supplier codes of conduct into investment processes and encourage company progress. in support of a living wage, ensure training and oversight to CHRB is beginning with a pilot project to rank and benchmark 100 govern human rights risks, conduct mapping for traceability companies in the extractives, apparel and agricultural products and risk assessments, evaluate suppliers for labor performance, sectors, with the rankings of those companies scheduled for collaborate with external stakeholders, request corrective action release in the first quarter of 2017. After that, CHRB will focus on plans when necessary, and set targets and regularly disclose ranking the information technology and telecommunications reporting on all these efforts. Completing these requests will sectors. We believe improving corporate disclosure deepens the allow these companies to improve relationships with stakeholders, understanding of critical human rights issues across sectors improve their ability to preserve their reputation, and implement and allows investors to evaluate individual companies through cost savings through efficiency and risk management practices, a more informed investment decision process. Calvert is strengthening their overall long-term financial stability. pleased to support such endeavors that aid investors in better Engagements are ongoing and we look forward to sharing understanding human rights. our progress in 2017. Calvert had previously filed a resolution requesting a human rights risk assessment at The Kroger Recognizing that supply chain labor practices have become Company on the company’s process to identify and analyze the significant risks for global agricultural supply chains, Calvert is human rights risks related to its operations and supply chain and currently collaborating with the UN Principles for Responsible is filing that proposal again for the 2017 proxy season. LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment and Policy: health and general well-being of workers and their families and that the minimum wage should be indexed by tracking its Calvert closely follows the International Labour Organization’s value to inflation. Thus, the wage can be adjusted to align with core labor standards, which align with the UNGC labour increases in consumer prices to meet basic needs for living. As principles and are important components in our investment such, Calvert filed resolutions with Panera Bread and Chipotle advocacy decisions. As a key function of our work on labor Mexican Grill requesting that the companies institutionalize issues, we have chosen to highlight promoting living wages, their commitments to increase the minimum wage and support eliminating corporate health and safety risks, and other critical the notion of indexing. In response, Panera agreed that offering labor rights issues. The Calvert Principles also incorporate competitive benefits and compensation is an important business these key UNGC labour principles and guide the selection of imperative. The company pledged to engage leading noncompanies in our Index Funds. governmental organizations, academics, and others to inform its remuneration strategies, conduct associate research that gets Implementation and Outcomes: at the most impactful levers for retail recruitment and retention, One of the most critical labor issues Calvert advocated on and share the findings and any policy and associated benefit behalf of in 2016 was in support of the principle of minimum changes as part of their 2016 sustainability report, which will be wage reform. Calvert recognizes that a sustainable economy published in 2017. The completion of these objectives for a major must ensure a minimum standard of living necessary for the Calvert Investments, Inc.: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — Annual 2016 Joint Communication on Progress 5 restaurant chain will be a significant leap forward for the livable The report also seeks to expand beyond the S&P 100 Index to a wage movement. larger universe of companies and achieve more granular data to distinguish more clearly between leading and lagging practices. Calvert has begun data collection for its 2017 diversity report, the Data analysis began in late 2016 with a publication release date comprehensive analysis of corporate board diversity practices slated for the end of the first quarter 2017. known as Examining the Cracks in the Ceiling, conducted in partnership with George Serafeim, Jakurski Family Associate While the report seeks to assess the landscape of corporate Professor of Business Administration at Harvard Business School. diversity, Calvert also continues to engage company This year, we have updated our survey instrument to better management on diversity issues. We filed a board diversity distinguish successful elements of corporate diversity strategies resolution with Discovery Communications for the second and interventions, what we call “Diversity 2.0.” Calvert’s first year in a row and the company announced that it would add generation diversity report assessed corporate commitments a woman to its board of directors in December. One of the to diversity through the adoption of policies and programs companies we followed up with from previous engagements, and by the representation of diverse leadership throughout Garmin, also recently appointed a female to its board of the corporate ranks. Diversity 2.0 seeks to capture successful directors. Lastly, we also engaged with Norwegian Cruise Lines implementation of efforts to empower and develop a diverse this fall and were pleased to learn that a board search was workforce and efforts towards creating a corporate culture that underway. The company subsequently announced it was adding fosters the conditions under which all employees can prosper. a woman to its board of directors. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment and Policy: companies are actively engaging in the transition away from fossil fuels towards a more sustainable economy through the There is no question that climate change is among the greatest reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the expanded use of threats facing our planet today. As the global energy system renewable energy sources. shifts to sources of renewable and cleaner fuels and energy efficiency measures to recognize the urgency for progress this crisis presents, Calvert seeks to support investment opportunities Shareholder Advocacy on environmental sustainability and engages with corporations Calvert has little exposure to companies with direct ownership to strengthen their values and practices on environmental of fossil fuel assets and our advocacy around these areas is a protection. Calvert’s overall responsible investment approach key priority. In 2016, Calvert filed or co-filed six shareholder is closely aligned with the UNGC’s three environment principles proposals related to climate change and energy concerns. through the Calvert Principles, which preclude companies that The electric utility industry is one of the largest sources of demonstrate poor environmental performance, contribute greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in the country. The industry is significantly to local or global environmental problems, or include exposed to significant risk as state and federal climate change risks to the operation of nuclear power facilities, and seek to regulations move forward and as advances in renewable energy promote corporate leaders that focus on the advancement of threaten to disrupt the traditional utility business model. environmental sustainability and resource efficiency. Three shareholder proposals garnered significant shareholder support, sending the message that forward-looking companies Implementation and Outcomes: should be taking steps to adapt to a low carbon future such As described in the CEO Statement, Calvert launched the Calvert as by producing and delivering more clean energy and energy Global Energy Research Index in October as the latest addition efficiency within their service areas. We asked First Energy to the Calvert Responsible Index series. The Calvert Global Corporation, Dominion Resources, Southern Company and Energy Research Index focuses on companies that produce, Ameren to address challenges to their business model due to distribute or develop renewable energy, provide technology changes in technology and customer interest in renewable for renewable energy and create energy-efficient products or energy and energy efficiency and stricter environmental processes as well as companies in energy-intensive industries regulations. This involved requests to adopt time-bound goals that manage their energy use in a sustainable manner. These to reduce GHG emissions and produce reports on how the 6 Calvert Investments, Inc.: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — Annual 2016 Joint Communication on Progress companies could protect shareholder value, reduce the risk of Other Initiatives stranded assets and decrease their climate change impacts Taking the initiative to engage our shareholders and the global through renewable energy adoption. In a resolution with OGE community, Calvert partnered with global explorer Robert Energy Corp requesting increased sustainability disclosure, the Swan and the 2041 Foundation to raise awareness on climate company agreed to publish a sustainability report that will change and build a broad culture of sustainability. Robert Swan demonstrate its environmental, social and governance (ESG) became the first man ever to walk to both the North and South policies and programs, including workplace issues, safety Poles and witnessed firsthand the effects of environmental performance, and efforts to improve operational performance damage on the Polar icecaps. This shaped Swan’s lifetime and reduce resource use. goal — to work for the preservation of the Antarctic as the last great wilderness on Earth. The 2041 Foundation, named for Beyond the electric utilities industry, Calvert championed the the year of the re-negotiation of the moratorium on mining in cause of the environment on resolutions for other high risk Antarctica, is dedicated to educating young leaders on risks of companies. We co-filed resolutions with Amgen and Dilliard’s climate change. Each year Robert Swan leads a large group of and filed with HD Supply Holdings on climate change, emissions young people from around the globe to Antarctica to observe reductions and renewable energy. At Dilliard’s and HD Supply, and learn from firsthand experience about the challenges facing we asked the companies to adopt time-bound quantitative our environment. During the spring 2016 voyage to Antarctica, company-wide goals to reduce total GHG emissions. Dilliard’s Calvert sponsored four women from India, Afghanistan, Iran agreed to report to CDP, formerly the Carbon Disclosure and the Pine Ridge Lakota Reservation in South Dakota. By Project, for 2016, while Amgen will disclosure current and partnering with the 2041 Foundation, Calvert is making a future renewable energy projects in its sustainability report, greater impact to engage and inspire the next generation of along with an assessment of next steps on renewable energy. leaders to build resilient communities responsibly, and in doing So far, Amgen is making progress on climate change through so, to preserve Antarctica. efficiency, process changes and renewable energy growth. Our engagement with HD Supply is ongoing. This past year Calvert established a strong partnership with the Environmental Media Association (EMA), known for its Calvert began outreach in early October to twenty-two outreach with members of Hollywood and the media. Joining companies to learn more about their energy efficiency and forces, Calvert and the EMA share a mission to challenge climate change policies. The companies were chosen based on business practices that are harmful to our environment. At the Calvert’s internal research, including a comprehensive review 2016 Environmental Media Awards in Los Angeles, CA, Calvert of company and environmental criteria including absolute GHG extended its reach to a new audience of Hollywood’s elite when emissions, energy efficiency initiatives, external recognition and it presented the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) commitments, and revenue. We engaged with these companies with the EMA Corporate Sustainability Award. Engaging with throughout the fall in order to help encourage actionable next the EMA allowed Calvert to reach a new audience of celebrities, steps to address climate change. Thus far, Calvert filed three young entrepreneurs and others who expressed a strong resolutions with Nucor, CenterPoint Energy, and Danaher and curiosity in how they can line up their investments with their co-filed two resolutions with Air Products & Chemicals and AES values. We are also in the process of collaborating on a new Corporation. In addition, Calvert had conversations with several event in spring 2017 to develop an impact summit, combining other companies about strategies to reduce GHG emissions. A leaders from government, non-governmental organizations and notable example of this engagement was with Alliant Energy, business as a way to build awareness and involvement from a public utility holding company in Wisconsin. Calvert reached young people across the country. out to the company to discuss its reliance on coal and related carbon risk. The company was open to a discussion and made Calvert is also collaborating with the AHC Group to put on a a convincing case of its sustainability efforts. In 2008, Alliant speaker series on carbon and innovation in spring 2017 that committed to reduce carbon emissions by 40% relative to 2005 will engage directly with business leaders across multiple data and measurements, by the year 2030. Alliant had already sectors. Through these events, Calvert and the AHC Group hope achieved a reduction of 22%, and the company seems to be on to improve business practices at these companies that harm track to meet its target through additional measures that include the environment and reduce their carbon footprint. As part replacing a bigger share of electricity generation from coal to of this effort, Calvert plans to motivate these companies by gas and wind energy. When asked about what sustainability benchmarking them against their peers. means to them, Alliant outlined a holistic approach that not only included carbon emissions and affordable rates but also water risks, waste, and the regional economy. Calvert Investments, Inc.: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — Annual 2016 Joint Communication on Progress 7 UN CEO Water Mandate 2016 Annual Communication of Progress Calvert supports water sustainability and the core six elements of the UN CEO Water Mandate through its shareholder advocacy efforts and policymaking initiatives. We highlight our actions and outcomes across the six CEO Water Mandate work elements as it relates to investments — our most significant impacts. DIRECT OPERATIONS Investment Criteria Education As a sustainable and responsible investment company, Calvert Calvert regularly publishes articles on its website and elsewhere follows the Calvert Principles for Responsible Investment to generate public awareness on water scarcity and efficiency, (Calvert Principles), which guide all of Calvert’s indexed develop industry insights and best practices for investing in investment strategies and many of its actively managed ones, water-related companies, and shares the impacts of our advocacy. as our most powerful and direct tool for reducing waterrelated risks and capitalizing on water-related sustainability For example, in September 2016, the United Nations Principles opportunities. As one of the central Calvert Principles revolves for Responsible Investment (PRI) published A Practical Guide around ideals to manage water scarcity and ensure equitable to ESG Integration for Equity Investing for asset owners and and efficient access to clean water sources for all, Calvert strives investment managers implementing ESG integration techniques to achieve these goals directly through its investment activities. in their investment process, detailing what ESG-integrated By seeking companies that align with these values, the rigorous analysis looks like and how it is practiced by leading firms. The application of the Calvert Principles to the investment process PRI guide includes a case study co-authored by Calvert President identifies companies that are well-positioned not only to and CEO John Streur on the Calvert Global Water Research Index enhance long-term value for shareholders but also to provide describing how it utilizes the four building blocks of ‘Smart innovative solutions to critical global water problems as water Beta’ to integrate ESG research into the traditional investment becomes an increasingly demanded resource. making process and select innovative water solution providers. Calvert’s proprietary research system identifies financially The Calvert Global Water Research Index, launched in April material indicators of water efficiency and water impact among 2016, is an embodiment of the Calvert Principles. Offering a less firms in sectors with high water intensity, such as food products, concentrated portfolio with larger and more stable companies paper or semiconductors, and includes organizations that offer compared to peer indices, the Calvert Global Water Research particularly innovative solutions to the global water challenge, Index provides a comprehensive approach to investing in water as defined by the United Nations Sustainable Development that addresses both supply and demand sides of the system, recognizing that there are many firms outside the traditional Goals. When combined, the requirements of this investment water sector contributing to the alleviation of water challenges criteria create alpha generating, risk mitigating, and opportunity from a variety of perspectives. Through its investment criteria, seeking investments that enhance the welfare of Calvert’s the Calvert Global Water Research Index highlights leadership in investors while simultaneously contributing to making the water efficiency in the most water-intensive sectors, identifies world a better place. We also published an article on the Calvert premier water utilities, infrastructure, and technology providers, website, which explored how the global food sector — which and rewards companies that are dedicated to improving water uses 70% of the world’s freshwater resources — faces increased quality, protecting water ecosystems, implementing integrated financial risk from shrinking water supplies. resource management, and achieving access to clean drinking water and sanitation services. When combined with Calvert’s To complement Calvert’s written educational efforts, Calvert active approach to tackling water problems head on, the Calvert staff spoke at a meeting addressing an audience of corporate Global Water Research Index demonstrates the successful sustainability professionals from food manufacturing, retailing integration of our operations with the mission of the UN CEO companies, and agricultural producers on water risks, water Water Mandate. disclosure, and efforts to mitigate these risks. 8 Calvert Investments, Inc.: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — Annual 2016 Joint Communication on Progress At the Socially Responsible Investing (SRI) Conference, the exposure to water risks and plans to address them. Most of largest gathering of the responsible investment industry, these companies did so by completing the CDP water survey. with over 700 attendees, our President and CEO John Streur Companies improving disclosure of water risks and their efforts and another Calvert representative highlighted our two new to address such risks include Dr. Pepper Snapple, Hormel Foods responsible indexes, the Calvert Global Water Research Index and Kraft Heinz. and the Calvert Global Energy Research Index, and our actively managed strategies to industry attendees. Calvert additionally participated in a stakeholder dialogue with Gap, organized by Ceres, to help the company build on its work Shareholder Advocacy related to water conservation and quality and its programs to help women in its supply chain. Gap has taken important Calvert joined more than 60 North American and European steps within the Sustainable Apparel Coalition to address water investors in sending letters to executives at 15 major food and and has a program called Personal Advancement & Career beverage companies asking for more transparency, the first Enhancement focused on empowering the women who make step in preparing for business-critical sustainability challenges. the company’s clothes. Gap is thinking through ways to build on Eleven of the companies responded positively to investors, those two initiatives and Calvert joined other stakeholders to with commitments to provide more information about their offer encouragement and advice. SUPPLY CHAIN AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT As a responsible investment asset management company, we In 2016, we focused on water risk disclosure and water policy, encourage the companies we hold to understand their entire filing resolutions with Dean Foods Company, Fresh Del Monte supply chain impacts and to improve watershed management. Produce and Sanderson Farms. The resolutions with the first Supply chain water management practices can play an two major food producers requested that both Dean Foods and instrumental role in promoting water efficiency and mitigating Fresh Del Monte issue a public report assessing water related risks of water scarcity, especially in water intensive industries risks and impacts of both direct operations and key supply such as agriculture. As populations increase and climate change chains and planned actions to mitigate the risks and impacts and drought negatively affect crop yields, food insecurity to long-term shareholder value and the environment. Both persists. As a result, sustainable agricultural supply chains are companies reported to the CDP water survey. Calvert also asked becoming more important to business and society. Proper Sanderson Farms to adopt and implement a water stewardship water risk management policies are the first step to ensure policy designed to reduce risks of water contamination at sustainable agriculture and Calvert’s shareholder advocacy this Sanderson Farms’ owned facilities, facilities under contract year supports this belief. to Sanderson Farms, and its suppliers. Calvert and other shareholders are continuing that dialogue. COLLECTIVE ACTION Calvert has a long tradition of working collectively to achieve resolution with the Calvert Social Funds calling for a more common goals, be it initiating collaborative shareholder collaborative approach to the pipeline that does not impose engagements with other SRI firms or advocating for ecological destruction on Indigenous territory. We have joined public policy on behalf of nonprofit organizations or other with investors and numerous tribal nations in calling for the relevant stakeholders. This is also true of our work on water Dakota Access Pipeline to find alternatives that do not impact sustainability as Calvert continues to exercise leadership in the tribe’s water source. various multi-stakeholder forums to help define, advance, educate, and communicate about water risk and opportunity. Calvert has also collaborated with As You Sow on an This year we supported the Standing Rock Sioux Nation engagement with Morgan Stanley regarding this issue. Morgan as it sought to protect critical water ecosystems from the Stanley is financing three companies — Sunoco Logistics, Energy pollution of potential oil and gas pipelines. In recognition of Transfer Partners, and Energy Transfer Equity — which have the Tribe’s commitment to preserve sacred lands and maintain collaborated to build the North Dakota Access Pipeline, standing its only source of clean drinking water, Calvert championed in stark contrast to its Indigenous rights policy that requires these efforts to avoid water contamination by issuing a joint a project sponsor or borrower to demonstrate, among other Calvert Investments, Inc.: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — Annual 2016 Joint Communication on Progress 9 things, that a project has free, prior, and informed consent assessing how its Indigenous rights policy could be extended to by affected Indigenous Peoples and that the project avoids, financing of companies involved in energy, mining, oil and gas, reduces, or compensates for significant adverse impacts and infrastructure (including pipelines, dams, roads, railroads) on traditional or customary lands under use by Indigenous operations, where such companies are currently or might in the Peoples. However, Morgan Stanley’s policy does not address future be, involved in projects located in Indigenous territories, the broader financing of companies that may become involved even if those projects are not directly financed by the company. in projects located in Indigenous territories. As You Sow and We look forward to engaging with the company in 2017. Calvert thus have requested that Morgan Stanley issue a report COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND PUBLIC POLICY As noted above in the human rights section, Calvert released 2017. This year, due to other priorities, Calvert did not initiate or a resolution with the Calvert Social Funds Board in support of support any public policy issues related to water. the Standing Rock Sioux Nation and its efforts to protect its drinking water, calling on Energy Transfer Partners to engage Calvert supported global explorer Robert Swan as he works collaboratively. Subsequently, Calvert joined the Standing Rock to build an international community and educate young Sioux Nation this November on the ground in North Dakota to leaders on Antarctica as described above in the environment support Indigenous Peoples and water protectors in their quest section. As part of this effort, he leads some young people on to protect the Tribe’s drinking water and sacred sites, banding an annual expedition to see directly the reduction of the ice with other tribes, environmentalists and others to stand firm masses and the impacts of climate change in Antarctica. These against construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline on its current leaders then return to their own communities and continue to planned route. Calvert will continue to look for ways to engage work locally and to support the need for Antarctica to remain the communities involved and seek strategies through advocacy its own wilderness. and other means to support the rights of Indigenous Peoples in TRANSPARENCY Calvert, as a responsible investment company, has always that are able to manage water scarcity and ensure efficient and sought broad transparency on ESG-related risks and equitable access to clean sources. performance data across numerous industries and views water as key to human life and integral to many operations. As part of the Calvert Principles, we continue to seek out companies 10 Calvert Investments, Inc.: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — Annual 2016 Joint Communication on Progress ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment and Policy: disclosure in the media sector, both Sinclair Broadcast Group and Liberty Media received shareholder resolutions asking them Calvert has long recognized the importance of identifying to issue sustainability reports. Liberty Media agreed to develop corruption, a component we have addressed through our website content on sustainability addressing core environmental responsible investment considerations for several years when and social topics. In the healthcare sector, HealthSouth, Acadia assessing a company or reviewing an industry and examining Healthcare and Ensign Group received resolutions asking them how impacts related to corruption are mitigated. The Calvert each to prepare a sustainability report and disclose their ESG Principles incorporate these issues through our resolve to seek risks and opportunities. HealthSouth subsequently established accountable governance and transparency in the companies we an interdepartmental sustainability panel to oversee disclosure invest in as well as avoid those that demonstrate unethical and of the company’s sustainability information. The company harmful business practices. agreed to disclose its sustainability efforts on its website. In follow-up to previous engagement with companies in this sector, Implementation: Amsurg published its first sustainability report after a two-year One of the most effective strategies of deterring harmful engagement, offering new information regarding its internal business practices is to encourage disclosure of sustainability sustainability work. In addition, Brookdale Senior Living produced information that details company performance in every respect, its first sustainability report this year. holding companies accountable to aspects of their operations well beyond the financials. With this understanding, Calvert Structures in place for the institutionalization of sustainability submitted comments to the SEC encouraging mandatory oversight go hand in hand with disclosure to ensure maximum disclosure of sustainability information in company filings. accountability. In this capacity, Calvert filed a shareholder Calvert’s comments focused on “Disclosures on Information resolution with Bed Bath & Beyond to enhance its commitments Relating to Public Policy and Sustainability Matters”. This in this avenue, especially in regards to supply chain management. section was comprised of eight questions regarding the The company agreed to amend its governance documents to significance, costs, and benefits of disclosing sustainabilityreflect board oversight of environmental and social risks. related information. Specifically, Calvert provided input on the importance of adequate sustainability disclosures and helpful As corporations often have significant influence in determining references for drafting a framework or guidance document, the national legislation given their abilities to wield financial utility of line-item disclosure requirements, and the value of leverage, Calvert considers it essential to strive for transparency both external sustainability reports and integrated reporting. in every aspect of corporate political relationships to eliminate The SEC’s request for comments comes as part of global growth possibilities of corruption. In an extension of these beliefs, in sustainability reporting by companies and growing voluntary Calvert co-filed a resolution with As You Sow that asked Pinnacle and mandatory reporting guidelines and rules as corporations West Capital to report on and disclose monetary and in-kind around the world begin to increasingly become cognizant of the expenditures on political activities related to influencing importance of sustainability reporting. legislation, supporting political campaigns or influencing the general public regarding elections and legislation. The proposal Shareholder Advocacy earned support of 34% of the votes cast. Calvert filed a significant amount of shareholder resolutions to strengthen sustainability disclosure. In order to increase further Calvert Investments, Inc.: United Nations Global Compact and United Nations CEO Water Mandate — Annual 2016 Joint Communication on Progress 11 www.Calvert.com For more information on any Calvert fund, please contact your financial advisor, call Calvert at 800.368.2748 or visit www.calvert.com for a free summary prospectus and/or prospectus. An institutional investor should call Calvert at 800.327.2109. An investor should consider the investment objectives, risks, charges, and expenses of an investment carefully before investing. The summary prospectus and prospectus contain this and other information. Read them carefully before you invest or send money. Calvert funds are available at NAV for RIAs and Wrap Programs. Not all funds available at all firms. Calvert mutual funds are underwritten and distributed by Calvert Investment Distributors, Inc., member FINRA, and a subsidiary of Calvert Investments, Inc. #15789 12/22/16
