GOLBAL COMPACT in progress vis ion Creative image, aﬀordabl e quality targeting medsi ze local business. 2016 2018 2017 2016 mission creative team, great rela tion with clients, a qualit y they love and we love 5 SISTER COMPANIES a family business starts 1963 BETA BAYAN PRINT HOUSE BAYAN MEDIA HOUSE BAYAN GROUP OF EGYPT BAYANco. OF EGYPT we SUPPORT we at BAYAN supports the 10 principles of the united nation global compact. in many diﬀerent ways, promoting the higher level of professionalism bayan-group emplements glaobal compact in all bayan-group subsideries companies in SYRIA and EGYPT. equal employment opportunity emplemeted in every space and project at bayan-group, but no underage, child, slave laber involved in any single pice of job. very wrriten working environment in all bayan-group plants with a sence love. safety, healthy environment with never smoking policy. Human rights section A system has been we support and implemented in BAYAN GROUP for checking and respect the recording that all employees are paid a protection of minimum wage and avoid excessive overtime hours. internationally Employment contract stating the terms and proclaimed human conditions of services are availble to all employees rights. and we did activate a monitoring program regarding labor conditions we make sure that and build an annual report. we are not complict in any human right abuses labor rights section No discrimination in Our group respects the Salaries between men or women, only the company freedom of association structure and employment categories reﬂects into the and upholds the salaries eﬀective recognition of Eﬀorts of all Employees are totally evaluated, paid the right to collective and appreciated through a perfect HR. program bargaining My team is a running we don’t allow forced or project in BAYAN Group head oﬃce. in EGYPT it's compulsory labor in any a kind of sponsored school for sales, management, aspect within our and English developing operation or supply employees for free as well as new applicants. chain in any of our plants or activities labor rights section An Employee manual has been published and distributed to all we don't allow Child or employed and new applecart in BAYAN-GROUP detailing every underage labor within right for every employee in BAYAN-GROUP companies. any operation or plant. A value diversity based program evaluating the eﬀorts of each of BAYAN team and promote them to higher positions and salaries. BAYAN HR dep is taking care of every single detail related to workers, and management we don’t allow any team. assessment surveys, in three discrimination within levels used to be distributed every quarter and analyses to any plant, Activity and improve employees skills and eﬃciency by training programs. operation in respect of A well communication system between the Employees and employment and management directly with an open door policy. occupation environmental section due to sensitivity and responsibility toward socity and take a precautionary environment, BAYAN in committed to encourage and approach to support a clean environmental and to implement appropriate environmental measure with in production and distribution. challenges. Reducing the power consumption in our plants by emplimenting a new lighting sysytem in our new managmnet building and our new factory in Aleppo industerial city as well Undertake initiative to as our new plant in EGYPT. promote greater Central heating system installed in our management building environmental with a ﬂoor heating will be generating a great working responsibility. environment minimizing the Electric and fuel consumption. environmental section Each employee can and should check energy using of his own; encourage the as this turkish made system has installed to monitor the energy devalopment and use in each department for lighting, computers, heating and diﬀusion of cooling system. BAYAN-GROUP is non smoking enviromental friendly zone, all employees in BAYAN GROUP enjoy working in totally nonsmoking environment. anti-corruption section high managment in BAYAN-GROUP have a great we works against rules for anticorruption where you can call it seeking for corruption in all its opportunity in clean areas. forms, including extortion and bribery BAYAN-GROUP wish you the best THANK YOU
