CSR REPORT 2015/2016 VISION AND HARD WORK When Mads Eg Damgaard founded egetæpper in 1938, he had no idea how big a success it would be. He did not lack ambition, however, since he was a man of great vision who was strongly focused on using the latest, most advanced carpet production technology. Today, egetæpper is among the leading European carpet manufacturers. The Group's TABLE OF CONTENTS products are characterised by quality and innovative design, paving the way to success with sustainability initiatives. 5 Sustainability across the board 6 Profile 8 Your opinion matters 10 Selections from the CSR policy 12 Flow in tufting production 14 Management excellence 15 Human rights and fair operating practices 17 Labour practices 18 Environmental issues 20 Consumer issues 21 Local community development and involvement 22 CSR in the future Data 25 G4 indicators 32 Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 34 Consumption statements 35 Objectives and targets Bilag 46 Appendix 1: EMAS declaration 47 Appendix 2: Index of G4 content 49 Appendix 3: Index of EMAS content 50 Appendix 4: Significant environmental impacts and effects 51 Appendix 5: Calculation basis and data sources for CO2 calculations 51 Appendix 6: UN’s 17 global goals SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS THE BOARD ”The world needs companies to take responsibility. Back in 2013, egetæpper adopted a business strategy under 'Sustainable Carpet Design 2020'. The results of this are now beginning to emerge. Rather than resting on our laurels once good results have been achieved, we have raised the bar even higher.” CEO Svend Aage Færch Nielsen The past year has been characterised by sustainability in many two projects will ensure our employees an even better working different ways. Our factory in Gram achieved CSR certification environment going forward, addressing both the physical and in accordance with the DS 49001 standard, thereby joining the psychological challenges at the workplace. factory in Herning, which already holds this extensive certification. This was also the year that egetæpper gained one of the CSR is not a new area for egetæpper to work with. Our many world's largest Cradle to Cradle certifications. This distinguished years' dedicated focus on the environment, labour practices certification covers 34 new products, so that egetæpper has and social initiatives in general is founded on a number of manachieved one of the Group's major sustainability projects four agement systems that we are proud to have implemented over years earlier than planned. the years. These systems help us to document our efforts and are a constant incentive towards even greater sustainability. When our responsibility extends beyond ourselves There is increasing focus on impacts throughout the business Recognition from the world around us value chain, and we are also aware of this at egetæpper. It is In October 2015, we were awarded the CSR Strategy Prize not sufficient that we ourselves manage environmental issues, 2015 by KPMG at the CSR Awards in Vejle, Denmark. In NovemABOUT THE REPORT labour practices and human rights responsibly. We also need to ensure that our business partners act responsibly. We have ber 2015, we won the honorary award for sustainable design given by Danish magazine Mad og Bolig, and in April 2016, we therefore tightened up our supply chain management requirereceived an award in the Clean World category at the Danish ments to include onsite audits of high-risk suppliers, besides Design Awards. In the same month, for the second consecutive Welcome to egetæpper's Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report for 2015/2016. specific requirements of agents, distributors and subsidiaryear Økonomisk Ugebrev Ledelse gave us a shared first place The report adheres to the guidelines in the Global Reporting Initiative (G4), with a few ies concerning compliance with our CSR policy and Code of in the CSR Top 100 of the largest Danish listed companies. This exceptions1, and covers egetæpper's activities during the financial year from 1 May Conduct. We have also set specific requirements for external year we also received a National Pioneer certificate from the 2015 to 30 April 20162. craftsmen and cleaning staff at egetæpper, to ensure that their European Commission for our environmental work over many working conditions and safety measures are in order. This will years. We are incredibly proud and pleased with this recognition The report has been prepared on the basis of activities at our factories in Herning and encourage more and more suppliers to take their social responof our efforts and hope that egetæpper can help inspire other Gram in Denmark.3 Data for CO2 emissions include our factories in Herning and Gram, sibility seriously and develop in a more sustainable direction. companies to follow suit. as well as Bentzon Carpets, Hammer Tæpper and Litspin, and our subsidiaries. Internally within the Group, we have maintained a strong focus These awards show that we are on the right track towards Bureau Veritas has verified all of the environmental data concerning EMAS in Herning on employees' welfare and safety. In collaboration with external achieving the goal of being the carpet manufacturer in the and Gram. The rest of the CSR report has not been verified by any third party. occupational psychologists, we have launched a major welfare world that is best at CSR. We look forward to presenting our resurvey, to ensure that any psychosocial problems are tracked sults in this year's CSR Report and to being part of the solution Questions concerning the report can be addressed to: and resolved. We have also initiated a project to help us achieve to the coming years' major CSR challenges. CSR Manager Jan Ladefoged, jlj@ege.dk, Tel.no.: (+45) 97 11 88 11 the objective of 0 occupational accidents before 2020. These CSR Project Manager Dorthe Aaboe Kallestrup, dak@ege.dk, Tel.no.: (+45) 97 11 88 11 Herning, 1 July 2016 1 This report has deviations from the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 2 The previous CSR Report was published on 25 June 2015. The next report will be published and submitted to the Danish Environmental Protection Agency in July 2017. 3 These factories are registered in accordance with the EU's environmental regulation, EMAS (Eco Management and Audit Scheme), under registration number DK000012. The EMAS verification is undertaken by Bureau ­Veritas Certification. CEO Svend Aage Færch Nielsen CFO John Vestergaard 4 5 PROFILE egetæpper's mission is to design quality carpets with respect for people and the environment. Our vision is to be the trendsetting supplier to the most demanding sectors of the market. Both of these are based on the values of Design, Quality and Respect. This has put egetæpper in the lead when it comes to the design, development and production of unique, high-quality carpets with respect for the environment. Facts about the Group Under the official name of egetæpper a/s the company became We also purchase undyed flat-woven ground tissue from Bentlisted in 1985, since then we have grown steadily. Our main aczon Carpets, which we then dye, add backing to and resell. tivity is the production and sale of tufted carpets, which are sold to five different segments in the commercial market. In Lithuania, we produce woollen yarns at the Litspin factory. The synthetic yarns used in the carpets are purchased via ex• Hotels ternal suppliers. Concurrently with our own production, we ege group – 11 countries • Offices undertake outsourced production for other providers in the ege agencies/importers • The healthcare sector industry. • Institutions • Transport We outsource various maintenance tasks at our factories to external suppliers. This concerns, for instance, cleaning, mainteWe have 35 standard wall-to-wall carpets for the commercial nance of green areas and craftsmanship tasks. sector, and 21 standard carpet tiles. Our advanced dyeing system can also be used to create any special design required for ege worldwide a number of standard products. Overall, we have 4,039 different egetæpper consists of five factories worldwide, of which four patterns for wall-to-wall products, and 467 tile patterns in our are located in Denmark: egetæpper Herning, egetæpper Gram, Exerting our influence... design bank. Typical customers in the commercial market are and Hammer Tæpper and Bentzon Carpets, in which we hold egetæpper applies a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and works hotels, restaurants, shops, offices, airports, schools and institumajority interests. The last factory is in Lithuania. The Group very actively to minimise environmental impacts, which is e.g. documented by our DS tions, hospitals and nursing homes, shipyards and train factories. also has 11 subsidiaries in the countries which are our primary 49001 and ISO 14001 certifications. Since 1996 we have been registered under EMAS, markets, as well as agents and distributors in 57 countries. The which is a voluntary EU regulation to promote environmental initiatives. In 2010, we enIn the residential market, egetæpper concentrates on Denmark, subsidiaries serve as sales offices. Worldwide, egetæpper has dorsed the UN Global Compact, as our commitment to work to ensure the observance where the customers are mainly retail chains. Our carpets for 568 employees.6 Most of our employees, 243 people, work in of ten principles concerning human rights, environmental issues, labour practices and residential use comprise 23 standard products. Herning. The factory in Gram has 65 employees. anti-corruption. Overall this year, we have produced 5,674,278 m2 of carpets at At the strategic level, we are involved in a number of external committees and organisaour production sites in Herning4 and Gram5 in Denmark tions, including: • Bæredygtigt Erhverv (Sustainable Business Denmark) Herning Gram • Sustainable Build Development, production Production of tufted and flat• European Carpet and Rug Association (ECRA) and sale of tufted and flatwoven carpets. This year's • CEN TC 134 (European Technical Committee for standardisation in the floor woven carpets. This year's production in Gram totalled ­industry) production in Herning totalled 2,052,557 m2 of carpets. • Danish Standards 3,621,721 m2 of carpets. • Gulvbranchen (the Floor Industry)/the Danish Construction Association • Carpet Recycling UK • Danish Fashion & Textile (trade association) 4 Production takes place at egetæpper a/s, Industrivej Nord 25, DK-7400 Herning, Denmark. This facility is located in an industrial park under District Plan no. 6.14.1 and within the limits for the Section 15 area. The facility site comprises Title nos. 3e, 4bf and 5a Birk By. The site area is approximately 36 hectares, of which approximately 45,500 m2 Taking a break have been developed. After a few years with major acquisitions and new market launches, there have been no 5 Production takes place at egetæpper a/s, Industrivej 3, DK-6510 Gram, Denmark. This facility is located in an industrial park under Title nos. 1153 and 1505 Gram Ejerlav. The site area is approximately 7.2 hectares, of which approximately 24,000 m2 have been developed. significant changes in the Group this year. 6 This includes all employees at all factories and in subsidiaries. 6 7 ”We have always worked with responsibility at egetæpper. This is part of the culture on which the company is founded. We can also note how many customers and stakeholders are increasingly requiring responsibility. We believe that this will be a parameter of competition in the future.” CFO John Vestergaard YOUR OPINION MATTERS We continuously ask our stakeholders which CSR areas they believe egetæpper should focus on. The requirements and expectations of the surrounding world are thus an important part of our considerations when we determine targets and action plans for our CSR initiatives. We define stakeholders as parties that affect or are affected by The survey was sent out to 227 respondents, of whom 56 took egetæpper's decisions and actions. Stakeholders are groups, the survey. This corresponds to just under 25%. Of the 56 ree.g. customers, employees or local communities that are directspondents, 35 were Danes and 21 from abroad. The result of ly affected by our business activities. They may also be parties the survey is clear: Stakeholders give greatest weight to Envithat make requirements on behalf of other groups, or the environmental Issues, Labour Practices and Human Rights, closely ronment, that are not able to protect their own interests. followed by Fair Operating Practices. Our stakeholders comprise the following groups: Overall, the survey shows good accordance between egetæpper's priorities and stakeholders' wishes. The areas in which • Shareholders/owners there are non-conformances concern egetæpper's perfor• Employees mance exceeding stakeholders' expectations. • Customers • Suppliers Who implements egetæpper's CSR priorities? • Architects/designers egetæpper's Executive Management Board holds the overall • Municipalities/authorities responsibility for egetæpper's CSR policy and strategy. A CSR steering group meets four times a year in order to follow up Stakeholders' priorities are clear on the CSR work and clarify complex CSR issues. The CSR deIn 2016, for the third time, we undertook a major stakeholder partment develops and implements egetæpper's CSR targets survey to find out which focus areas are given most weight and activities. The work of the CSR department is regularly by our stakeholders. The starting point was six focus areas on presented to the egetæpper strategy group, which consists of which we are working via the DS 49001 standard: Human rights, members of egetæpper's Executive Management Board and Environmental issues, Labour practices, Consumer issues, Fair management group, as well as key employees. The responsibili­ operating practices and Local social development and involvety is thus well-founded in organisational terms, with the broad ment. support of all relevant players. 8 9 SELECTIONS FROM THE CSR POLICY NOTICE BOARD egetæpper has an extensive CSR policy with which all employees are familiar. It is an important building brick in the business strategy and is the basis for the Codes of Conduct which our suppliers and partners must follow. Below are the selections from the policy which are relevant in EMAS terms. REDUCED CO2 EMISSIONS ABROAD MORE RECYCLED CARDBOARD IN BOXES egetæpper has established an agreement egetæpper's carpet tiles are delivered in with CO2focus for the purchase of CER cardboard boxes, with approximately 4-5 certificates, helping to reduce CO2emissions m2 per box. This year we have switched to abroad. new cardboard boxes with a higher ratio of recycled cardboard, i.e. 81% recycled The income from egetæpper and other cardboard, compared to the previous 57%. companies' purchase of CER certificates On an annual basis, this means that we use is used to transform waste to biogas in 24,000 kg more recycled cardboard than egetæpper wishes to demonstrate active and long-term reWe will work goal-orientedly on improving the company’s enera biogas plant in Colombia, instead of before. sponsibility for our impact on the world around us. In our CSR gy performance by focusing on an optimized utilization of enersending this waste to landfills. egetæpper work, we aim to ensure that our business model, production gy and a reduced energy consumption. The system has to be in is thereby contributing to reducing processes and carpet products help create a sustainable sociconcordance with ISO50001 and subsequently has to be certiglobal CO2emissions by investing in the ety, both now and in the future. fied according to the same. We will reduce our company's CO2 development of biogas plant in the third world. emissions and thereby reduce our climate impacts. We support For egetæpper, CSR is a means to attract and retain employees, the development of renewable energy by redeeming RECS cercustomers and end-users, stakeholders and suppliers, as well tificates7 via our climate partnership with DONG Energy […] as a framework for the development of cooperation throughout the entire value chain. CSR also reflects the wish to develop new 1.5 Consumer issues: Health and safety of our end-users and even more sustainable products and production methods, We will promote a safe and healthy indoor climate in the buildFREE CARPETS FOR HELP EASTERN as well as new methods for the use and disposal of our carpets. ings in which our carpets are fitted, thereby protecting the EUROPE health and safety of our end-users. Help Eastern Europe is a voluntary charitable The fundamental basis for our CSR policy is that we comply with organisation that collects clothing, shoes and funds for Romania and Eastern Ukraine. all of the legislative requirements, regulations and standards to We will promote sustainable use of our products by means of SPONSORING SPORT This year, egetæpper donated 3,067 m2 of which we are subject, and also with the relevant practices and labelling schemes and certification, and via product informaegetæpper sponsors sport under various carpets, which have been laid in institutions, customs within our industry. We will also respect and promote tion and product declarations describing our products' impact nursery schools, schools and among initiatives. Sportsstar College in Ikast the ten principles for social responsibility in the UN Global Comon the environment in connection with the fitting, use, maintepromotes young talent within such disadvantaged families. We have also sent pact, as well as Danish Fashion & Textile's Code of Conduct. nance and disposal of these products. Furthermore, we will prodisciplines as golf, handball and soccer. For thick carpets to a care home, where they mote sustainable consumption via the development of cradleexample, egetæpper sponsors their egehave been cut into sections and used as huset centre. For Herning Icehockey Club sleeping mats for homeless people. Our CSR policy comprises the seven DS 49001 focus areas, as to-cradle products which, rather than becoming waste, can be we have sponsored the boards in hall 2. well as quality management […] transformed into nutrients or reused […] 1.3. Environment and climate 6. Labelling and certification Via focused activities and by setting environmental objectives, All of egetæpper's products carry the CE label and selected we will work to prevent and reduce the environmental impacts products are certified/qualified within a number of different of our production activities and the use and disposal of our programmes, including LEED, BRE and Danish Indoor Climate products, and continue to improve our efforts in the environLabelling. Our certifications cover many issues, ranging from mental area. safety, health, the indoor climate and the environment, to life cycle analyses, sustainable construction, construction product MOTORIC CENTRE IN GRAM This applies to the external environment around us, the working declarations, cleaning quality and maritime safety. […] Via the ege foundation, we have donated environment at our factories, and the indoor climate in the enAVOIDING FOOD WASTE DKK 1.5 million for a new motoric centre In Herning, we have entered into an agreement vironments in which our carpets are fitted. Our environmental The full policy is available online at in Gram. The idea behind the project is to with the HUSET social drop-in centre, to which management system holds certification in accordance with ISO http://catalogs.egecarpet.com/CSR_policy_UK/ develop outdated gymnastics halls into we will be donating surplus food from our 14001. motoric landscapes with walkways, inserted canteen. HUSET's objective is to create positive levels and climbing nets. This will create social relations in the local community, and some fun playgrounds for children and adults they offer two free meals per day. of all ages. 7 RECS certificates have now changed name to GO certificates, which stands for Guarantee of Origin. 10 11 FLOW IN TUFTING PRODUCTION FROM YARN TO FINISHED CARPETS The pile side consists of Dyeing the carpets Tiling machine Yarn, pre-dyed or natural The natural white ground When tiles are manufactured, white, together with auxiliary tissue is either dyed via an the backing of the finished chemicals for anti-soil impregadvanced computer-concarpet material is impregnanation of the pile. Dyestuffs for trolled dye system called the ted using a patented system, dyeing of natural white yarns, Millitron, or by continuous after which the machine as well as auxiliary chemicals dyeing. automatically cuts out or and acid for pH adjustment of laser cuts the tiles and packs the colour blends. them in boxes. 1. Yarns 2. Tufting Carpets are tufted Backing is glued on Warehouse The yarn is tufted (sewn) The dyed ground tissue is Products in stock are into a thin carpet base in a coated with a latex com­transferred to the warewidth of 4 or 5 metres. This pound that is a liquid, waterhouse after backing has semi-finished product is based rubber, after which been added, after which called ground tissue and is the backing is attached. they are distributed to available either as pre-dyed Rubber or textile backing customers. or natural white for subsemay be used (glued on with quent dyeing. the latex compound). 3. Millitron dyeing Top shearing Distribution The fine tissue is topegetæpper produces mainly sheared to even out the to order, so that most of surface (only for cut pile the finished carpets are carpets). distributed directly to the customer after the backing has been attached. 4. Backing machine 5. Finished carpet 12 13 MANAGEMENT EXCELLENCE HUMAN RIGHTS AND FAIR OPERATING PRACTICES egetæpper's business strategy is called Sustainable Carpet Design 2020. Sustainability thus At egetæpper, these two focus areas are closely related to each other. characterises how we operate our business. On this basis, in 2015 we received the CSR Strategy Respect for human rights starts with the cooperation with suppliers and Prize from KPGM at the year's CSR Awards. We were very honoured to receive this prize. partners all over the world. Via our CSR policy and Code of Conduct we work to promote fair operating practices throughout the value chain. The word Respect is included in both our mission and our to nine of the goals, as a fixed element of the CSR activities. We values, and our CSR strategy is to demonstrate a high degree have concrete objectives and goals for eight of the UN's global Human rights have been put squarely on the map among our working environment and payment of the correct tax, etc. level of responsibility in the development and operation of the goals. The overview of our objectives and targets on pages 35stakeholders. We are therefore pleased that in recent years we Agents, distributors and subsidiaries have therefore received a company, in order to contribute to sustainability throughout the 45 presents the UN goals to which we contribute. have increasingly focused on this area, for instance by making Code of Conduct which is matched to their own conditions. The value chain, while maintaining a high level of respect for our concrete requirements of our suppliers to respect human rights. signatures of all recipients have been obtained as confirmation company and our activities. Tax policy in a business-driven perspective that they will observe the Code's requirements. For us, management excellence also means a transparent tax The key 91 suppliers of materials for egetæpper's products We are in continuous open dialogue with employees, custompolicy. To achieve our long-term financial objective of growth in have received our Supplier Code of Conduct for acceptance Our other partners include cleaning companies and craftsers, end-users and suppliers, etc. We communicate the Group's revenue and earnings before income tax (EBIT), we have a straand signature. These suppliers, mostly European, provide the men whose employees undertake tasks for egetæpper. For development and activities via quarterly accounts, interim retegic objective to increase our geographical market coverage following components: Latex, Fillers, Auxiliary chemicals, Dyes, this group, we have further developed information material ports and annual reports. The 2015/2016 Annual Report preand focus on value-creating sub-segments. We primarily conYarns, Textile backing, Packaging and Transport. which provides information on internal safety rules at egetæpsents information on egetæpper's management organisation, sider the business opportunities in the geographical markets in per, and now also makes requirements of employers to ensure financial results, assets, ownership, net sales and net capital which we wish to operate, and give less emphasis to the tax liaThe suppliers are also risk-assessed according to internationally that employees enjoy decent working conditions, fair pay, obvalue, etc. The Annual Report is available online at bility in the respective countries. We adhere to the international recognised country indexes for anti-corruption measures, proservance of human rights, payment of taxes, etc. One aim is to http://catalogs.egecarpet.com/aarsrapport_2015_2016_UK/. transfer pricing rules, which entail that tax is paid in the country tection of human rights, environmental issues and labour pracensure that everyone on our premises observes safety rules, in which the revenue is generated.8 tices. Only five of the suppliers fall into the high-risk supplier but also to combat moonlighting, enforced labour and poor On the publication of the annual statutory CSR Report, all emcategory. A new aspect is that, on our behalf, this year Bureau conditions for external employees with, for example, foreign ployees and selected stakeholders are informed that the report We wish to ensure that the Group's tax planning takes place on Veritas Certification performed audits of these five suppliers, in backgrounds. All relevant partners have received and signed is now available. This ensures that interested parties can seek the the basis of responsible commercial transactions and activities. order to ensure that they live up to the requirements in our Code the information material. In the new year we will check whether information they require. We provide ongoing internal informaThis includes that: of Conduct. external employees and their employers fulfil these requiretion on our CSR activities via newsletters, the intranet, informaments. tion materials and intro courses, and at annual Group meetings. • We will handle all matters concerning taxation in accordSuppliers are moving in the right direction ance with current legislation. In overall terms, the outcome of the five supplier audits was satIf the safety network does not work… We support the UN's Global Goals for Sustainable • We will pay tax on a correct basis in the countries in which isfactory. There were minor deficiencies, which were rapidly adEven though we do what we can to prevent illegalities and irDevelopment we operate. dressed, and a few serious deficiencies for which we requested regularities in our business operations, there is still a risk that In 2015, the UN adopted 17 new goals which all players at the rectification within a reasonable time. This has entailed, for inthey may occur. On this basis, several years ago we established global level can use as the framework for the task of creating egetæpper's Executive Management Board and Board of Direcstance, that policies have now been developed for everything a whistleblower scheme to enable employees and other stakea sustainable common future. These goals were presented at tors approve overall strategies and policies, and monitor comfrom child labour and enforced labour to the labour practices holders to submit anonymous reports on any experienced or the UN General Assembly and apply until 2030. egetæpper suppliance. Procedures are amended as required on the basis of and environmental conditions of one of the suppliers. Employsuspected problematic issues in the Group. ports this initiative and is already working actively to contribute amended statutory requirements. ees have also received first aid training and held a fire drill. We can thus see that suppliers are moving in the right direction, as The whistleblower scheme is approved by the Danish Data Prowe make specific requirements to them. tection Agency and is a clear signal to employees and the surrounding world that we do not tolerate unethical business pracExpanded focus for the entire value chain to be in sync tices at egetæpper. So far, there have been no cases under the ”When the UN agrees on 17 new global goals Previously, our focus in the rest of egetæpper's value chain whistleblower scheme, to which there is access via our website: to help safeguard our common future, it is was primarily on anti-corruption. This included ensuring that all www.ege.dk. naturally important that companies all over agents, distributors, subsidiaries and managers worldwide are the world help shoulder their part of this familiar with and accept our anti-corruption guidelines. We have UN Guiding Principles coming up task. We are therefore pleased that we are also held e-learning courses to train all relevant employees in In many ways, Danish legislation and collective agreements this area. with employees' various trade unions ensure that egetæpper contributing actively to achieving half of respects human rights and has fair operating practices. Our these goals via our CSR initiatives.” We must acknowledge, however, that this responsibility exenvironmental management system also ensures that we are CSR Project Manager Dorthe Aaboe Kallestrup tends even further. This year, we have therefore developed two constantly seeking to ensure good and secure working condinew types of Codes of Conduct, to ensure that every party with tions internally at egetæpper. We also aim to implement the UN whom we cooperate generally acts responsibly by, for instance, Guiding Principles before 2020, and after a small delay, we will 8 e  getæpper is represented in a number of European countries, as well as Singapore and the USA, with subsidiaries. We trade with subsidiaries on the basis of the OECD respecting human rights, but also to ensure a safe and healthy commence this process in the coming financial year. This imTransfer Pricing Guidelines. The set-up for trading with subsidiaries has been prepared in collaboration with the firms of auditors KPMG and EY. This ensures that we act in accordance with both Danish and local foreign legislation. 14 15 LABOUR PRACTICES Since 2006, egetæpper has been certified in accordance with DS/OHSAS 18001, which is an international management system for occupational health and safety. This ensures that we are constantly focused on even better conditions for our employees. We have resolved all known significant problems related to the Employees getting involved working environment and we annually set new goals in order to When employees get involved, this often increases their job improve these measures. Over a number of years, our primary satisfaction and results. We are therefore very pleased with the focus has been on resolving the challenges presented by the great sense of dedication of many employees who voluntarphysical working environment. In Herning, this concerns noise, ily take part in various committees and groups. We have set dust and climate conditions, while in Gram the issues are a lack up an interdisciplinary Occupational Health and Safety Comof space, time pressures, heavy lifts and noise. We are workmittee which regularly investigates and assesses the need for ing continuously to improve the internal noise level, especially activities that can help safeguard our employees' health and in areas where the level exceeds 80 dB. Employees working in welfare. One result is the offer of weekly physiotherapy sesthese areas have hearing tests, as prescribed by law. When prosions, as well as lectures by a dietician on diet, well-being and duction processes are adjusted, new noise measurements are a healthy body. always performed. As from this year, the focus is also on the plementation will enable us to chart any risks of infringement of human rights and draw psychosocial working environment, with the launch of a major Health and safety work is undertaken by Occupational Health up a plan to prevent and ensure the rehabilitation of the affected parties, should any welfare survey in the spring of 2016. and Safety Groups within their respective areas. In both ­Herning infringements take place. and Gram, there are internal emergency services consisting of a Focus on the good psychosocial working environment fire corps and first-aiders. The employees involved receive speWhat about female managers? In cooperation with external occupational psychologists, we cific training for these responsibilities. At both factories we have Since 2013, egetæpper, like many other companies, has been subject to a Danish Act have undertaken a welfare survey covering all employees. Via defibrillators which we make available to the local community to ensure more women in company management roles. On this basis, we set the target an online questionnaire and subsequent dialogue meetings in via the Danish Defibrillator Network, www.hjertestarter.dk, for of 30% women managers by no later than 2017.9 We currently have 27% female manageach department, employees' general welfare is mapped. In use as necessary. ers at Group level. This is 1% less than last year, which is due to women resigning from ­areas where action is needed, action plans will be drawn up. We positions that could not subsequently be filled by suitable women candidates. We also expect a conclusion to the first welfare survey in mid-2016. To Collective agreements as the basis for the work have the goal to work for more women on the Board of Directors, which currently only ensure that these measures are worthwhile, going forward simiegetæpper is a member of the trade association Danish Fashincludes one woman member, besides a woman employee representative. At the next lar welfare surveys will be performed at regular intervals. ion & Textile. In Herning and Gram, the company is subject to election of members of the Board of Directors in the new year, women candidates may the collective bargaining agreements between the Confederabe proposed. Zero occupational incidents and accidents in the future! tion of Danish Employers (DA) and 3F (the United Federation Even though we have focused on safety for many years, occuof Danish Workers), Dansk Metal (Danish Metalworkers’ Union), Even though the goals serve a worthwhile purpose, it is difficult to achieve them, since pational incidents and accidents still occur. Last year we thereHK Privat (commercial and clerical workers’ union) and Teknisk we are generally a workplace with very little turnover for managerial positions. The pres­ fore set the objective that in 2020 there must no longer be any Landsforbund (the Danish Association of Professional Technient government is aware that issues like these can make it difficult for companies to occupational incidents and accidents at egetæpper. We define cians). We adhere to these collective agreements with regard make rapid changes to the ratio of women and men in managerial positions. This is one this as incidents resulting in at least one day's absence. In the to pay levels, maternity/paternity and parental leave, occupaof the reasons for the relaxation of the requirements in this area. We have maintained coming years we will work to change the mental focus of our tional injury insurance, liability and accident insurance, terms our objectives, however, since in the longer term it makes sense for us to have a ratio employees, so that safety always comes first. The plan is for of notice, etc. We offer all employee groups a 12% occupationof men and women in management which reflects the ratio in the company generally. health and safety representatives and union representatives to al pension scheme, whereby egetæpper pays contributions be trained to help disseminate a new safety culture among their equivalent to 8% and the employee pays 4% of his or her salary. colleagues. We are convinced that the new safety culture will The individual employee can elect to make additional pension lead to fewer occupational accidents, and will have a positive contributions. 9 A  manager is either a person who is responsible for other employees or a person whose position allows so much freedom of action that he or she may act on egetæpper's behalf. effect on job satisfaction and absence rates. 16 17 ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ”Cradle to Cradle is completely in line with egetæpper's values, as an important step This year it is 20 years since we implemented the ISO 14001 towards becoming the world's best carpet environmental management system and achieved EMAS registration. These were both pioneering initiatives which have contributed to manufacturer, in CSR terms. With our egetæpper's profile ever since. Environmental issues were a key factor at 36 Cradle to Cradle CertifiedTM products egetæpper many years before CSR became a buzzword. we ensure that suppliers also make a real effort to achieve a more sustainable world.” ISO 14001 is a recognised environmental management standare both categorised as Level 1 enterprises.11 egetæpper's most CSR Head Jan Ladefoged ard. To achieve certification, the company must fulfil a number significant environmental impacts and effects are stated in Apof different requirements, including drawing up an environmenpendix 4. The scope of egetæpper's environmental and worktal policy, together with its planning, implementation and exeing environment management systems covers all of the Group's cution, as well as inspection and remedial action, and manageactivities in connection with the development, production and ment review. This system, which we implemented in Herning in sale of tufted carpets at the factories in Herning and Gram. 1996, in Gram in 2007 and in Lithuania in 2014, obliges us to The factories have not been subject to inspection during the closely monitor all areas on which our activities have an environfinancial year, but both Herning Municipality and Haderslev Mumental impact. The system ensures that we achieve continuous nicipality confirm that there are no outstanding issues. We did improvement by setting up objectives and action plans. Our asnot have any environmental accidents or environmental nonsessment is that the system is just as relevant today as 20 years conformances during the past year. ago and we are pleased that we have been environmentally aware for so many years that we can now take on some very egetæpper takes the lead within Cradle to Cradle exciting future sustainability initiatives. In February 2016, egetæpper achieved the largest Cradle to Cradle certification, covering 34 new products, in the history cycle, without being to the detriment of people and the environCO2 emissions under control National Pioneer certificate for EMAS registration of Denmark. This marked the achievement of a very significant ment. The product is designed to be part of a biological or techSince 2009, egetæpper has prepared greenhouse gas accounts This year, the European Commission awarded egetæpper a Namilestone. After the achievement of these new certificates, nical life cycle, without generating any waste. The aim is also to for the entire Group. Greenhouse gas accounting provides figtional Pioneer Certificate for being one of the first companies most of egetæpper's product range is now Cradle to Cradle achieve CO2 neutrality and 100% use of renewable energy, and ures for the company's total CO2 emissions.13 This means that we in Denmark to register with EMAS, 20 years ago. EMAS (EcoCertified . We have 35 certified products in total, plus a cerTM 12 the process wastewater must be so clean that it can, in princimonitor how far egetæpper's activities contribute to increasing Management and Audit Scheme) is a voluntary EU scheme tified tile backing used for all carpet tiles from egetæpper. In ple, be used as drinking water. The company is also assessed global warming. It also means that we can make a targeted efwhich aims to encourage environmental activities in every type worldwide terms, this makes us the carpet manufacturer with for compliance with recognised social responsibility standards. fort to reduce CO2 emissions. of company. This extensive scheme obliges the company to the most Cradle to Cradle certificates. involve its employees in efforts to achieve new environmental Reductions are made via energy saving projects such as heat improvements each year and to communicate its eco-friendly Cradle to Cradle is the vision of a world in which the consumprecovery in production and the promotion of renewable ­energy. initiatives to the outside world. EMAS is one of the reasons that tion of resources not only has the smallest possible environEach year, we purchase GO certificates14 (formerly RECS ceregetæpper has produced environmental reports since 1996. mental footprint, but even leaves a positive footprint. Imagine a tificates) from DONG Energy’s wind farm, Horns Rev II. This No other carpet manufacturers have achieved the same level carpet made exclusively from recycled materials. After use, the year, GO certificates were purchased for 7,250 MWh, which is of registration as egetæpper. EMAS thus helps to make us quite carpet is broken down into smaller components, which are used equivalent to 83% of the electricity consumption in Herning unique. for new carpets. The energy for this production comes from offWhen a product is Cradle to Cradle CertifiedTM, it is assessed and Gram during the financial year. The objective is to purchase shore wind turbines, and the surplus heat from production is on the basis of the aforementioned five categories, and can 100% renewable energy by 2020. EMAS data for those with a special interest used to heat municipal buildings. This is the ultimate example of achieve one of five different levels, according to the product's The factories in Herning and Gram hold environmental approvthe Cradle to Cradle philosophy applied to carpets. sustainability. The levels are Basic, Bronze, Silver, Gold and The greenhouse gas accounts help us to monitor the developals in their municipalities.10 In Herning, we also hold environmenPlatinum. The overall score for the five categories is determent in emissions over time. The annual emissions are always tal approval of a CHP station and a Twistset system for postThe aim of Cradle to Cradle is to manufacture products which mined by the lowest allocated level. This means that a product compared with the emissions in a fixed base year. egetæpper's treatment of woollen yarns. The factories in Herning and Gram exclusively comprise materials that can be part of a healthy life with three Gold, one Silver and one Bronze score will have an base year is an average of the years 2006-2008. In Herning and overall Bronze score. Gram during the base year we emitted 2.4 kg of CO2 per m2 of carpet produced. In 2015/2016, we emitted 2.2 kg of CO2 per egetæpper has 14 products with Cradle to Cradle Bronze certim2 of carpet produced. At Group level, egetæpper emitted a 10 On 11.12.2013, Herning Municipality issued a new connection permit for the entire factory, and on 24.03.2014, a new environmental permit was also issued. In both fication and 22 products with Cradle to Cradle Silver certificatotal of 13,165.5 tonnes of CO2. There are further details of the cases, additional self-monitoring requirements as well as additional reporting requirements have been set by Herning Municipality. These have been incorporated into environmental procedures/instructions. tion. greenhouse gas accounts on pages 26-27.15 Environmental approval, Gram: 29 June 1998. Discharge permit, Haderslev Municipality, permission to discharge surface water: 9 January 2009. Connection permit, Haderslev Municipality: 6 September 2006 with an appendix of 14 January, 2015. 11 Municipalities categorise companies on the basis of the company's own systems for its environmental work, as well as the company's observance of statutory require13 CO2 emissions are calculated in CEMAsys, which is an electronic database for energy and climate reporting that is used to calculate the company's CO2 emissions. ments. Companies that work to protect the environment are rewarded with less intensive control and fewer environmental inspections. Level 1 companies are companies 14 Guarantees of Origin. that have put themselves at the forefront in their environmental work. 15  The greenhouse gas accounts are compiled according to the instructions in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GGP), which is the closest equivalent to an international 12 Cradle to Cradle CertifiedTM is a certificate licensed by the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. ­standard for this area. GGP is in line with the basic criteria in the ISO 14064 standard and is a method which produces uniform and systematic figures. 18 19 CONSUMER ISSUES LOCAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND INVOLVEMENT At egetæpper, we are proud to be able to document to our customers exactly We have always considered supporting the local community to be an what our carpets contain and their impact on the environment and climate. We important part of egetæpper's identity. Each year we therefore cooperate have many product certifications to document the effect of our carpets on the with local organisations, educational institutions and authorities to create indoor climate. This makes it easy for consumers to make informed choices. development, development opportunities and sustainable conditions. We focus on product characteristics and we work consistently to reduce any negative The employees of the future start with today's young people. In April 2016, egetæpper invited 200 sick children accomimpacts our carpets may have. Each of our carpets is certified according to a wide Last year, we therefore set the target to create more traineeships panied by a family member to a wonderful concert given range of national and international standards, to ensure that the carpets always meet at egetæpper, up to 2020. This has already resulted in three new by Cisilia and Citybois in egetæpper's own studio, which the highest quality and environmental requirements. Our certifications cover a wide traineeships, which have either been filled, or will be filled within for this occasion had been transformed into a concert hall. range of issues, ranging from safety, health, the indoor climate and the environment, to a short time. We work actively with educational institutions and This event was free of charge for those who attended, and life cycle analyses, sustainable construction, construction product declarations, cleanother stakeholders to create new opportunities for competence refreshments were also served. Since this event was a great ing quality and maritime safety. This means that we adequately fulfil the many different development, including the development of new and existing success, we plan to repeat it next year. requirements that are made, on a worldwide basis. training programmes. We are currently recruiting six industrial operator trainees for a two-year programme that we launched Charitable causes are part of our business We also make a wide range of product details available to consumers. This concerns a few years ago, in cooperation with 3F (the United Federation Via the ege foundation – the Vibeke and Mads Eg Damgaard product and environmental declarations, information on correct installation of our carof Danish Workers), VIA Design, Danish Fashion & Textile, EUC Foundation annual donations to deserving causes are made pets, and how they should be used, maintained and disposed of. Lillebælt and a number of other carpet manufacturers. This profrom the returns to egetæpper's owners. The funds are prigramme teaches trainees to have an overview of the production marily donated to cultural and non-profit making activities in The big account processes and is intended for new employees and also for curthe local community. This year, the ege foundation has supA new initiative is that we seek to calculate the cost to society of manufacturing carrent employees wishing to receive this training. ported such organisations as Den Jyske Sangskole (The Jutpets. This is called Natural Capital Accounting and concerns setting prices for the land School of Singing), The art museum Heart, Carl-Henning environmental impact of manufacturing different products. In egetæpper's case, this Cisilia and Citybois entertained sick children Pedersen & Else Alfelts Museum and Ensemble MidtVest. complex accounting shows how the greatest environmental impacts from manufacFor a number of years, egetæpper has made donations to the In overall terms, this year the ege foundation donated DKK turing carpets are due to the extraction and production of raw materials, rather than KidsAid Foundation, which supports sick and underprivileged 4,529,232 to various different causes. carpet manufacturing. The accounting thus highlights egetæpper's responsibility for children. Physical fitness campaigns for employees are used to influencing the value chain – with special emphasis on suppliers – in a more sustainable collect money for this worthwhile cause. egetæpper donates In the USA, 1% of net revenue goes to the private charitable direction. This is a process that we have already embarked on, and which will be in even DKK 1 for each kilometre that an employee exercises within variorganisation DIFFA (Design Industries Foundations Fighting greater focus in the future. ous categories. This year, we raised a total of DKK 93,076 for this AIDS), which works to prevent AIDS. In the rest of the world, cause. The funds collected have previously been donated to, for 1% of sales of the ege Couture carpet collection goes to the instance, the Danish Hospital Clowns and the children's ward at same organisation. This initiative is still relatively new, but Herning Regional Hospital, but this year we have instead focused we expect an increasing amount to be raised for DIFFA each on offering the children a fun experience and a break from the year. This year, we donated DKK 59,770 to DIFFA. healthcare system by inviting them to an intimate concert with some of their biggest idols from the Danish music scene. ”In many areas, we are facing a succession process, which makes it important to have trainees and apprentices who can show skill and initiative. This ensures that the departments are fused with dynamic energy and can help ensure sustained growth. We therefore call on young people and anyone wishing to upgrade their skills to apply for the apprentice and trainee positions advertised.” HR Manager Annette Agerbo 20 21 CSR IN THE FUTURE Even though we have come far at egetæpper, CSR is a journey without a final destination. It is always possible to do things better, or launch new initiatives. The global development is exerting increased pressure on companies to find new and better solutions. get started on this task next year. We will shortly be launching We are naturally continuing to disseminate the Cradle to Cradle another major project that we have been working on for some philosophy throughout the company, and in future we wish to time: the transfer of surplus heat from egetæpper's producachieve the CSR certification of all of egetæpper's factories in At egetæpper we will continue to stay focused on supply chain nudging the suppliers in the right direction, or by finding suption to the local district heating network. In Herning, enough accordance with DS 49001, just as we will be implementing the management. We use tools such as Natural Capital Accounting pliers that perform better in terms of e.g. environmental factors. surplus heat is expected to be recovered to supply heating to UN Guiding Principles concerning human rights in the business to identify where in the value chain the biggest impacts occur, Internally at the factories, our focus is on certification of our en250 households on an annual basis. In Gram, this is expected to community. These are all exciting, but also demanding, tasks to which enables us to work to reduce these impacts, either by ergy management, as part of the management system. We will cover supply to 110 households. which we are looking forward. 1992 1996 1998 2002 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Future objectives ISO 9001 quality ISO 14001 EN 1307 product INSTA 800 DS/OHSAS BRE Life Cycle LEED sustainable BVD3 construcBVB construction Climate EPD EnvironmenCradle to Cradle Adoption of the Cradle to Cradle to Cradle ISO 50001 Energy certification environmental classification cleaning quality occupational analysis construction tion products products assesspartnership with tal Declaration Silver ­certificate 2020 ­Strategy Cradle Bronze certification of management management health and safety declaration ments DONG Energy in ISO 14025 awarded to Sustainable ­certification of 34 new products certification certification BASTA harmful Barcode Ecoline ­Carpet Design the Ecotrust Calculation of Natural substances First Greenhouse Endorsed the UN Trans-Q, Achilles Modular backing Winner of the Capital Accounting First official CE marking requirements Gas Account Global Compact approval Clean World workplace CSR policy Materials Health prize at the Implementation of the assessment First CSR Report CSR department Declaration for Danish Design UN Guiding Principles set up EPD, Environthe Ecotrust Awards First Environmenmental Product backing Inclusion of other tal Report Declaration on 6 factories in DS 49001 products Winner of the certification EMAS EcoCSR Strategy management Code of Conduct Award at the CSR certification Awards Supply chain management DS 49001 launched ­certification in Gram CSR certification according to DS 49001 22 23 G4 INDICATORS Global Reporting Initiative (G4) is a set of reporting guidelines to ensure that companies use the same types of data every year. This makes it possible to draw parallels and compare companies' performance. DATA This year, we are reporting on 39 indicators. In contrast to previous years, a larger proportion of the indicators is presented solely in tables. Note that eight of the indicators have been moved to the table on page 32. For the first time, we solely present combined figures for Herning and Gram, whereas previously we presented separate figures. All indicators are assessed to be significant for egetæpper, based on the following three questions: • Why is the indicator important for egetæpper? • How do we handle the indicator at egetæpper (management approach)? • How do we evaluate/assess the result?16 ENVIRONMENT G4-EN2: Recycled input materials In Herning, we recycle selected types of yarn, felt and backing, and in Gram we recycle felt and backing. In 2015/2016 we used 1,679,841 kg of recycled input materials. This corresponds to 10.1% of the total consumption of materials. G4-EN6: Energy savings The following energy saving projects took place this year. • In Herning, a heat recovery system was installed at the tiling machine, ensuring a better indoor climate, as well as energy savings via heat exchangers. • Also in Herning, all fluorescent tubes will be replaced with LED light sources. This project is still underway. • In Gram, we have established collection and reuse of the overflow of hot water at 40° C applied to the carpets before they are led into the furnace. This reduces the water heating requirement. • Also in Gram, dampers have been installed at 32 ventilation outlets so that they are closed when not in operation. This reduces the heat loss. • In Gram, automatic start and stop times are set for spray bars, in order to minimise waste. Overall, this has given energy savings calculated at 4,942.5 GJ. 16 We have not published the significance analysis of the indicators in this report. Interested parties are welcome to contact egetæpper for further information on how the individual indicators are handled. 25 G4-EN15: Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) G4-EN17: Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3) Direct emissions of greenhouse gas from sources owned or Other indirect emissions comprise a wide range of activities controlled by egetæpper. These calculations also include fuel Tonnes of CO2 Natural gas, fuel oil and LPG that can be included. At egetæpper we have decided to include Tonnes of CO2 Flights, train, bus and ferry extraction. Personnel transport (diesel/fuel) the following activities: Goods transportation 12.000 Personnel transport (diesel/fuel) For egetæpper this includes: • Transport in leased vehicles 12.000 10.000 • Travel by air, train and ferry 10.000 • Combustion of natural gas for processes and for heat 8.000 • Freight transport production. 8.000 This also includes the element for generation of electricity 6.000 The total volume of CO2 emissions under scope 3 is 4,573 that is sold externally. tonnes. This is an increase by 785 tonnes of CO2 since the base 6.000 • Combustion of fuel oil for heat generation. 4.000 year, corresponding to an increase of 21%. The increase is due • Combustion of petrol, diesel and liquefied gas. to a larger volume of freight transport. 4.000 2.000 This includes internal transport within and between the 2.000 production facilities, as well as the proportion of passenger 0 transport that takes place in egetæpper's own vehicles. Base year 2015/2016 0 Transport in leased vehicles is included under scope 3. Base year 2015/2016 The total volume of CO2 emissions under scope 1 is 7,562 tonnes. The chart shows an overall decrease of 2,356 tonnes of CO2 since the base year, corresponding to a decline of 24%.17 We have thus actually emitted a little more CO2 this year than last year, when there was a decrease of 29% from the base year. G4-EN18: Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions The increase is primarily due to an increase of the tile producCompilation of CO2 emissions per m2 of carpet shows a reduction, which is an extra process compared to wall-to-wall carpets. tion in CO2 per m2 with regard to direct emissions (scope 1). We CO2 per m2 Scope 1 have achieved a reduction from 1.29 kg to 1.17 kg of CO2 per m2. Scope 2 Indirect emissions (scope 2) have been reduced from 0.60 kg to Scope 3 0.30 kg of CO2 per m2. On the other hand, other indirect emis1,50 sions (scope 3) have increased from 0.51 kg to 0.76 kg of CO2 1,25 G4-EN16: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) per m2, due to increased freight transport. Indirect emissions are defined as the emissions related to pur1,00 chased electricity, heat and steam. These calculations also inTonnes of CO2 Electricity clude fuel extraction. District heating 0,75 12.000 For egetæpper this includes: 0,50 10.000 0,25 • Consumption of district heating in Denmark, and electricity 8.000 in our production units. 0 6.000 Base year 2015/2016 The total volume of CO2 emissions under scope 2 is 2,510 tonnes. This is a decrease by 3,066 tonnes of CO2 since the 4.000 base year, corresponding to a decline of 55%. This is significant2.000 ly more than last year, when the decline was 38% compared to the base year. Part of this reduction is due to how Denmark gen0 erally produces more electricity based on renewable energy, Base year 2015/2016 G4-EN27: Initiatives to reduce harmful effects G4-EN31: Investments in environmental protection which automatically reduces CO2 emissions. We have increased the number of Cradle to Cradle CertiUnder G4-EN6, various energy saving projects are described. fiedTM products from one product and one backing to include These projects can be regarded as investments in environmenWe have purchased renewable energy equivalent to 1,479 35 products and one backing, in overall terms. This ensures a tal protection, primarily relating to emissions. The overall investtonnes of CO2 emissions, which can be deducted from the wider overview of the opportunities to substitute constituent ment totals DKK 1,100,723. 2,507 tonnes of CO2 for electricity consumption in scope 2. This substances, and in cooperation with MBDC18 and our suppliers reduces the net emission to 1,028 tonnes of CO2, as shown in we commenced the work of improving our carpet products, the graph. ­including substitution where this is assessed to be appropriate. 17 Changes have been made to the base year for scope 1 and 2, as the factory in Vejle has been sold, and the subsidiary in the USA has been added, together with Hammer Tæpper and Foamtex with regard to the element which concerns trucks and production of carpets for Bentzon and Hammer Tæpper. 18 McDonough Braungart Design Chemistry: an organisation which assesses products' constituent substances for Cradle to Cradle certification. 26 27 LABOUR PRACTICES G4-LA1: Workforce and staff turnover The workforce was previously compiled by counting the numtions, distributed on the number of full-time employees. This The very high number of hours of absence for women, with only safety culture at egetæpper. The aim is zero occupational acber of employees during the year. As from this year, we have decompilation method combines all employees into the number 2 injured persons, is primarily due to one single occupational cidents before 2020. cided to compile the workforce according to the same method of full-time positions, including holiday replacements who were injury. After almost one year's sick leave, the employee has reas applied in the annual accounts: the ATP method. This method not previously included in the CSR report. turned to work on a full-time basis. A major welfare survey has taken place in order to investigate calculates the workforce on the basis of the year's ATP contributhe psychosocial working environment in Herning and Gram, Initiatives to improve the physical and psychosocial and we are currently following up on this survey. Newly-employed Newly-employed Men who have Women who have working environment Men Women men women left ege left ege Safety shoes have been purchased and issued to all production < 30 år 20 9 4 5 7 10 employees, and a process has been launched to increase the 30-50 år 73 56 13 4 12 9 >50 år 115 35 16 5 10 2 Total 208 100 33 14 29 21 Absence due to illness egetæpper's overall objective is maximum 4% absence due to absence and accidents. Below the distribution of absence due illness for the Group, excluding long-term absence, Section 56 to illness on the two factories by function and gender is shown. G4-LA2: Staff benefits All employees are offered the following staff benefits: Men Women Salaried Hourly-paid Total • Health insurance • Employee club (after three months' probationary period) employees employees • Canteen scheme (only in Herning) • Opportunity to rent a summer cottage on Læsø Herning 2,4 3,2 2,1 3,0 2,4 • Bonus (after three months' probationary period) • Employee discount schemes for e.g. gym subscriptions and Gram 3,9 3,4 3,9 4,0 4,0 • Physiotherapy scheme consumer goods Total absence 2,9 G4-LA5: Employee involvement in the Occupational Health G4-LA10: Employee development and Safety Committees total workforce are involved in the formal OHS groups and OHS egetaepper acknowledges the great importance in employee competent employees. We therefore devote a lot of resources At egetæpper we have both Occupational Health and Safety committee. All employees are represented via both union repdevelopment. Skilled employees are vital to achieving a sucto the training and supplementary education of our employees. (OHS) groups and Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) comresentatives and health and safety representatives, depending cessful company, and also contribute to attracting and retaining mittees. Some employees are members of both. 6.8% of the on the area. Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) committees, one at Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) groups, 8 at 2 External training at Gram paid for by egetæpper* Internal training each factory factories Number of employees 5 38 Decision makers who set out the guidelines for occupational Undertake the day-to-day safety and occupational health health and safety, and safety work. and safety work. Number of hours 244 1.463 * E xternal training only contains figures for Gram. Unfortunately we do not have an overview of the extent of external training in Herning this year, as the registration system 14 employees, of whom 9 managers 20 employees, of whom 10 managers is subject to implementation. G4-LA6: Occupational injuries, accidents, absence, and the physical and psychosocial working environment G4-LA12: Employee breakdown by gender and function Women Men Cutting injuries 1 7 Women Men Total Joint injuries 0 5 Managers* 11 30 41 Eye injuries 0 2 Salaried employees 72 57 129 Fall accidents 4 9 Hourly-paid employees 28 151 179 Others 0 5 * Note that managers are included twice in these statistics, since they are also included in the salaried employee or hourly-paid employee groups. Number of occupational injuries resulting in absence 2 13 Lost working hours due to occupational injuries 1.664 1.392 Deaths 0 0 Near misses 3 11 28 29 HUMAN RIGHTS PRODUCT LIABILITY G4-HR4: Risk of lack of respect for the right to exercise G4-PR1: Evaluation of products G4-PR3: Product information freedom of association and collective bargaining vent child labour from taking place in the company in the future. 36 carpet products are subject to a Material Health AssessAccording to egetæpper's internal procedures for product inThere is not assessed to be any risk of a lack of respect for this If we gain specific knowledge of child labour, the cooperation ment by MBDC in the USA, and there is a sound basis for im­ formation concerning products and services, the following inarea. Employees decide for themselves whether they wish to with the supplier is terminated immediately, until the situation proving the products' health impacts. This will be our focus in formation is required: join a trade union. egetæpper adheres to the collective agrehas been resolved. egetæpper is also subject to an obligation the coming year. ements between the Confederation of Danish Employers (DA) to alleviate negative consequences for the children concerned. • Disposal of the product and, respectively, 3F (the United Federation of Danish Workers), egetæpper's services include recommendations for the floor • Content (especially where there is a risk of hazardous envi­ Dansk Metal (Danish Metalworkers’ Union), HK Privat (commerG4-HR6: Risk of enforced or compulsory labour adhesive used to fit carpets. The recommendations are based ronmental and social impacts) cial and clerical workers’ union) and Teknisk Landsforbund (the There is no risk of enforced or compulsory labour at egetæpper. on the adhesive's impact on the interior environment. There are •  Procurement (sourcing) of components in products and Danish Association of Professional Technicians). 30 low-emission floor adhesives on the list of 31 floor adhesives services. Our Code of Conduct sets the requirement vis-à-vis suppliers in total. This is five more than last year, which is, for instance, a • Safe use of products and services. All suppliers for our products have received egetæpper's that we do not accept any type of enforced labour, nor that they result of the influence exerted by egetæpper on the adhesive Code of Conduct for acceptance and signature. This Code of benefit from this. Furthermore, the suppliers are expected not to supplier in terms of increasing efforts to improve the interior enAll products and services comply with these requirements and ­Conduct states that they must respect their employees' right to withhold identification papers, travel documents or other types vironment. procedures. exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. We of personal documents from their employees. A new aspect is are not aware of any non-compliance with this requirement. that we have also drawn up a contractual obligation for external craftsmen and cleaning staff at egetæpper, entailing that their G4-HR5: Risk of child labour employers must ensure that they enjoy decent, unrestricted There is no risk of child labour at egetæpper. We have a total of conditions, fair pay and control of all safety aspects. OVERVIEW OF INDICATORS CONCERNING GRIEVANCES AND SANCTIONS nine young people employed, but none of them work in hazardous conditions or at night. We are not aware of any non-compliance with this requirement. If we gain specific knowledge of enforced labour, the G4 no. Topic Question Response Our Code of Conduct requires our suppliers to accept that we cooperation with the supplier is terminated immediately, until G4-EN29 Environment Sanctions for non-compliance with environmental legislation No sanctions do not tolerate child labour. The suppliers in high-risk areas are the situation has been resolved. egetæpper is also subject to G4-EN34 Environment Grievances due to non-compliance with environmental No grievances audited on-site, to ensure that they fulfil the requirement. At our an obligation to alleviate negative consequences for the parties legislation instigation, one high-risk supplier has drawn up a policy to preconcerned. G4-HR3 Human rights Discrimination cases No cases G4-HR12 Human rights Grievances concerning human rights violations No grievances G4-SO3 Society Risk of corruption and bribery at the factories No assessed risk G4-SO8 Society Sanctions for non-compliance with legislation in general No sanctions SOCIETY G4-PR2 Product liability Sanctions for non-compliance with product health and safety No sanctions legislation G4-PR4 Product liability Sanctions for non-compliance with labelling scheme No sanctions legislation G4-SO4: Implementation of anti-corruption G4-PR7 Product liability Sanctions for non-compliance with marketing legislation No sanctions and anti-bribery guidelines test at appropriate intervals. The following parties receive curAll managers and employees at egetæpper have received full rent information concerning this area: information on our anti-corruption and anti-bribery guidelines. Information material in a number of languages has been develo• 91 suppliers ped and a major test of employees' understanding of the guide• 57 countries with agents/distributors lines has previously been conducted. It is planned to repeat the • 11 subsidiaries 30 31 TOTAL INPUTS/OUTPUTS Explanation of the table All input/output data applies to Herning and Gram, except for energy used to produce FOR CARPET PRODUCTION electricity, which solely applies to Herning. In Herning, consumption of electricity, gas and water is compiled on the basis of suppliers' invoices. In Gram, consumption is read from the meters. The quantities of goods purchased via purchase orders are registered in the warehouse management system and the other manual compilations. Quantities Further clarification of the table can be found on page 33. and volumes of other goods and waste are based on invoiced quantities and volumes. In Herning, the consumption of oil and chemicals for operation and maintenance is equivalent to the purchased quantities. In Gram, however, this is equivalent to purchased goods G4 indicator Input 2015/2016 2014/2015 Note no. less stocks. Wastewater discharges in Herning and Gram are compiled on the basis of G4-EN3: Internal energy consumption Energy consumption Note 1 internal registration of discharges from production. G4-EN5: Energy intensity MWh kWh/m² MWh kWh/m² Electricity and gas consumption and Energy 39.817 7,02 37.248 6,59 Note 1: Total energy consumption is the total consumption of electricity, truck gas and hydrogen for trucks natural gas. Natural gas is used primarily to produce heating and steam for inOwn production of electricity Gas used to produce 1.012 1.960 dustrial processes, and to heat buildings. Natural gas for electricity production Renewable energy Renewable energy 7.250 1,28 6.752 1,19 Note 2 is calculated separately. Since 1996, the CHP plant in Herning has generated electricity that is sold to the local power station. In 2015/2016, the CHP plant's G4-EN8: Water withdrawal Water consumption m³ Litres/m² m³ Litres/m² Note 3 consumption totalled 91,955 m3 of natural gas, resulting in electricity genera92.863 16,37 88.667 15,68 tion of 671,402 kWh. G4-EN10: Water recovery Water recovery m3 % m3 % Note 4 Note 2:  Purchased renewable energy is a share of the total energy consumption. 29.111 31,3% The rest is non-renewable energy. G4-EN1: Consumption of materials Consumption of Tonnes Kg/m² Tonnes Kg/m² Note 5 Note 3: Water comes from the municipal waterworks. There is no shortage of water in materials these areas. Water consumption comprises both production and buildings. In Total consumption of 17.502 3,08 16.570 2,93 Herning, the dyeing plant accounts for 81% of the total water consumption. In materials Gram this amounts to 88%. Raw materials For carpet production 16.671 2,94 15.726 2,78 Note 4: Water recovery shows the proportion of the water discharge we have reused. Renewable materials 573 548 The percentage stated is the percentage of the overall water discharge. Non-renewable materials 16.098 15.178 Note 5:  The consumption of materials for carpet production includes materials for pile, dyeing, backing and twistset. The consumption of materiPackaging Packaging in total 718 0,13 724 0,13 als for operation and maintenance includes oil and various chemicals. Renewable packaging 289 272 Renewable materials are materials that the world is not expected to be depleted Non-renewable packaging 429 452 of (cardboard and wool). Non-renewable materials are everything else. Associated process materials Operation and 113 0,02 120 0,02 Note 6: Recovery: Waste that can be recovered, either for new production or as a maintenance in total component in another product, e.g. yarns or packaging. G4-EN23: Weight of waste and Thermal recovery: All waste that can be incinerated, such as yarn residues, method of disposal Waste Tonnes Kg/m² Tonnes Kg/m² Note 6 carpet residue, sludge from the glueing and dyeing works, and packaging and Recycling Recycling 329 0,06 435 0,08 cardboard bobbins that are not recyclable. Thermal recovery Thermal recovery 1.972 0,35 1.661 0,29 Deposit as land fill: Non-flammable waste and the waste that cannot be Land fill Land fill 0,4 0,00 0 0,00 ­handled in the incineration plant. Destruction: Includes waste oil, chemical and raw material residues, batteries Destruction, hazardous waste Destruction, 30 0,01 21 0,00 hazardous waste and fluorescent tubes. Note 7: Process water is piped to the local water purification plant, while sanitary water G4-EN22: Water discharge Discharge m³ Litres/m² m³ Litres/m² Note 7 is discharged via the sewers. Wastewater is cleaned and neutralised internally Process water and sanitary water Wastewater 65.695 11,58 64.023 11,33 before discharge. The wastewater volume in Herning and Gram is measured G4-EN21: NOX, SOX and significant directly. emissions Emissions Tonnes Kg/m² Tonnes Kg/m² Note 8: In order to calculate greenhouse gases, CO2-e from scope1 regarding producCO2-e CO2-e (greenhouse 6.569 1,16 6.362 1,13 Note 8 tion in Herning and Gram, we use the CEMAsys system, and thereby use the gases) same conversion factor as in the greenhouse gas accounts. In accordance NOX NOX (air emissions) 4,6 4,8 Note 9 with new statutory requirements, egetæpper is no longer required to register SO2, PM SO2, PM (air Note 10 UHC. However, the form still includes the contribution of 29 tonnes of CO2-e for emissions) 2014/2015. Biodiversity m² m²/prod.m² m² m²/prod.m² Note 9: Emissions from motor systems and boilers are based on measurements at the Developed area 69.500 0,01 69.500 0,01 plants. Output m 2 m2 Note 10: SO2 and PM: Not relevant for egetæpper's production. Carpet products 5.674.278 5.653.057 32 33 CONSUMPTION FIGURES OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS Energy consumption in Herning Electricity Energy consumption in Gram Electricity Each year, we set up a number of targets for our CSR work. We after which action plans are prepared to ensure that these tarkWh pr. m2 Natural gas kWh pr. m2 Natural gas have targets for all focus areas in DS 49001. Below, we present gets are achieved. the status of the targets for 2015/2016. This is followed by our 8 8 targets for 2016/2017 and thereafter. The targets are based on The small icons illustrate that this target contributes to sup7 7 our CSR policy and the improvement opportunities available to porting the UN Global Goals for Sustainable Development. The us. Each factory defines its own objectives with related targets, icons can be viewed more clearly in appendix 6 on page 51. 6 6 5 5 4 4 Status for 2015/2016 3 3 ENVIRONMENT 2 2 Objective Target(s) Status 1 1 Prevention of pollution and The ratio of renewable energy for Ongoing. promotion of cleaner technology electricity consumption in Herning We are adhering to plan. This year the 0 0 100% renewable energy and Gram must be 100% by 2020 at renewable energy ratio is 83%. 2013/2014 2014/2015 2015/2016 2013/2014 2014/2015 2015/2016 the latest. Combating and adapting to By 2020 at the latest, energy saving Ongoing. climate change projects will reduce CO2 emissions in Via a climate partnership with DONG 50% reduction of CO2 emissions scope 1 and scope 2 by 50% from the projects have been determined that base year, 2007. will lead to the final target in 2020. We Water consumption in Herning Water consumption in Gram have currently reduced total emissions Litres per m2 Litres per m2 by 35% in scope 1 and 2. Sustainable use of resources Establishment of a return system for Ongoing. 24 24 Reuse and recycling of used carpets used carpets and carpet tiles. Suitable The first phase has been completed. in Herning carpet tiles are cleaned and sold for The second phase to break down 20 20 reuse, while the rest of the returned carpet residues for reuse by other products are reused as alternative fuel means has been launched. 16 16 in the cement industry, or by other We are in dialogue with several means. partners that are working on various 12 12 solution models, and examples of possible uses after recovery have 8 8 been seen. The project will continue in the coming years. 4 4 Sustainable use of resources In the dyeworks in Herning and Gram, Ongoing. 50% reduction of water by 2020 at the latest the total water Despite various water-saving 0 0 consumption consumption per m2 carpet must be initiatives, we unfortunately have not 2013/2014 2014/2015 2015/2016 2013/2014 2014/2015 2015/2016 reduced by 50% in relation to the base seen the expected reduction of water year, 2007. consumption. The overall reduction per m2 is thus only 7%. Prevention of pollution and In collaboration with DONG, a data Ongoing. promotion of cleaner technology collection programme is being The system has been established More valid water and energy data prepared for water, electricity and gas, and the implementation process is which will be implemented before the underway. We expect it to be fully end of the 2015/2016 financial year. implemented during 2016/2017. 34 35 Objective Target(s) Status HUMAN RIGHTS Prevention of pollution and Since 2009/2010 we have worked to Ongoing. Objective Target(s) Status promotion of cleaner technology improve wastewater purification in The average value for COD is 8,617 Fundamental employee rights Phase 1: Perform a risk assessment Completed Improve waste water purification in order to significantly reduce the COD mg/l for the 2015 calendar year, (et al.) of all human rights and implement Nine new Cradle to Cradle certificates Gram content. We currently have permission and we thus do not discharge more Implement the UN Guiding preventive measures. Expected to be achieved, which overall cover 36 to discharge 9,000 mg/l COD with than is permitted. There has been an Principles completed in 2015/2016. new products. Hereunder all those permitted 50% overstepping for increase from last year, however. The Phase 2: Influence first-line suppliers mentioned in the action plan. individual values. In cooperation with increase is due to how we purify and to implement the UN Guiding the University of Southern Denmark reuse wastewater in production via Principles and undertake the Due (SDU) and two chemicals suppliers, ultra filtration and reverse osmosis, Diligence process. Expected to be the aim is to reduce the COD content which gives a higher concentration completed in 2017/2018. to 6,000 mg/l via precipitation, of COD. The project is continuing, Phase 3: Influence first-line suppliers flocculation, electrochemistry, in cooperation with the University to undertake the Due Diligence evaporation and pure chemistry. of Southern Denmark and the two process for their subsuppliers. chemicals suppliers. Expected to be completed in 2020. Sustainable use of resources Recovery of surplus heat from Ongoing. Recovery of surplus heat in Gram furnaces is expected to reduce energy The plant is expected to be in full consumption by 10% in 2012/2013, operation in mid-2016, and the compared to 2009/2010. Calculations assessment is postponed until after LABOUR PRACTICES from DONG show that approximately this. Optimisation and follow-up are Objective Target(s) Status 2,500 MWh/year can be utilised, expected at the end of 2016. Workplace health and safety Replacement of shelves is continuing until they Ongoing. on optimum utilisation. Equipment Replacement of shelves in Herning have all been replaced. In the meantime, there We are adhering to the plan for is expected to be established in is ongoing external inspection, to ensure that all replacement of shelves. Phase 2 has 2014/2015, and the project is shelves are safe. been concluded. Phase 3 is expected expected to be completed by to be concluded in 2016/2017. 2015/2016. The project's completion has been deferred until 2016/2017 Workplace health and safety Alarms must be signposted in order to display Ongoing. Alarm overview in Herning the significance of the various alarms. The Installation is underway and is Sustainable use of resources Before closure of the 2014/2015 Completed. project must be performed before the end of expected to be completed in midRecovery of surplus heat in Herning. financial year, opportunities must be The project is ready for installation. August 2015. 2016. investigated to utilise the surplus heat A contract has been established with and sell it for use as district heating. Herning Fjernvarme (district heating) Workplace health and safety To follow up on the temperature problems at Completed. Calculations from DONG show that for the supply of surplus heating Better air control in the tile the tiling machine, before the end of the 2015 The ventilation at the tiling machine approximately 4,900 MWh/year can to them. A new action plan will be department in Herning calender year, changes must be made to the has been installed and put into be utilised, on optimum utilisation. created for the installation. ventilation. operation. This will give energy savings for the Workplace health and safety Before the end of the 2014/2015 financial year, Completed. district heating plant. Improved safety on changing the changing the cutting iron must be made safer The crane has been installed and is Prevention of pollution and Recovery using flocculation Ongoing. cutting iron at the tile machine in by purchasing and using a crane instead of a in operation. Relevant persons have promotion of cleaner technology chemicals is not possible. Trials Ongoing trials are continuing. Herning truck. Expected to be completed in June 2015. received instructions in using the crane Recovery of dye bath residue for with and the establishment of Workplace health and safety Improvements to office workspaces in the Completed. thermal recovery in Gram biological purification were Improve office workspaces in the maintenance department are expected to be The office has been completed and launched in 2014/2015, but have maintenance department in Gram made in 2014/2015. Expected to be completed was taken into use in October 2015. now been postponed indefinitely. during 2015. The development of improved Workplace health and safety Before the end of the 2014/2015 financial year, Completed. purification methods is taking place Improve ergonomic conditions at an auxiliary tool must be installed to minimise Lifting equipment was installed at the in cooperation with SDU. Purification Millitron and the adhesive furnace lifting and dragging in conjunction with tufting adhesive furnace in mid-2015, and methods are being developed in Herning at Millitron and the adhesive furnace. instructions have been given. within precipitation, flocculation, An auxiliary tool has been installed at the electrochemistry, evaporation Millitron and is expected to be installed at the and pure chemistry. The project adhesive furnace in mid-2015. is expected to be completed in Workplace health and safety Before the end of 2014 the noise level at the Completed. 2019/2020. Minimise the noise level at the new wastewater plant must be investigated. The regulation valve has been noisePrevention of pollution and Before the end of the 2015 calendar Completed. Millitron/washing section in Herning Noise measurements have been performed and insulated and noise measurement promotion of cleaner technology year, trials must be conducted to The trial report concluded that the dye due to a noise level exceeding 80 dB, several has been performed. The conclusion Reduction of dye in carpet plastic reduce the dye in carpet plastic tubes, was dark grey instead of black, which initiatives have been launched. Adjustment of is that water purification does not tubes with the expected annual reduction is acceptable. the pipe column and subsequent new noise generate excessive noise. giving savings calculated at 3,630 kg. measurement are still outstanding. Workplace health and safety Purchase or development of tools to ensure Ongoing. Focus on employee well-being greater focus on employee well-being via The welfare survey has taken place regular job satisfaction surveys, as well as and follow-up on the results has been follow-up on any issues revealed by the surveys. launched. The process will be launched during 2015 and is expected to be implemented before the end of 2016. 36 37 Objective Target(s) Status CONSUMER ISSUES Workplace health and safety Automatic addition of chemicals will be Postponed Objective Target(s) Status Automatic control of chemicals established in the adhesive works. This will Due to the prioritisation of investment Sustainable consumption By 2020 at the latest, develop Ongoing. addition in Gram significantly improve the working environment in various other projects, the project Implement the Cradle to Cradle production processes and product We have achieved 9 new Cradle to and raise the quality level. has not yet been launched. The principles throughout the company design that expand opportunities to Cradle certificates, which together Investigate opportunities for automatic addition project has been postponed until the recirculate all materials in a closed cover 34 new products. in 2014/2015. The establishment target is beginning of 2016/2017. cycle. We are in dialogue with two different expected to be 2015/2016. Establishment has Engage in cooperation with external parties concerning been postponed until 2016/2017 with expected companies that can reuse carpet opportunities for deconstruction and completion in 2017. waste in new ways. reuse of carpet elements. Workplace health and safety Measures must be taken to ensure that there Ongoing. Apply the Cradle to Cradle Towards 2020 we are continuing Adverse incidents and accidents are no adverse incidents and accidents in Safety shoes have been purchased for principles in internal and external our work to implement the Cradle Herning and Gram. We define this as incidents all employees in production. Employee communication, so that employees to Cradle principles throughout the resulting in at least one day's absence. The representatives have attended safety can take ownership of the concept company. target is 0 adverse incidents and accidents by culture courses. There are further and understand the philosophy. 2020 at the latest. plans for changes to the general safety Protection of consumers' By 2020 at the latest Cradle to Cradle Completed culture at the company. health and safety & Sustainable certification of all Ecoline products, tile Nine new Cradle to Cradle certificates Workplace development In Herning, employees are offered voluntary Ongoing. consumption products, Ecotrust backings, all Epoca achieved, which overall cover 34 opportunities supplementary training in Danish, Mathematics A local agreement is in place in Gram Cradle to Cradle certification of flat-woven carpets and Epoca tiles. new products. Hereunder all those Supplementary training offered to and IT during working hours, at full pay. A similar for full pay during training. Solution more products mentioned in the action plan. employees in Gram scheme will be established in Gram before options and teaching models are 2017. being investigated. LOCAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND INVOLVEMENT Objective Target(s) Status MANAGEMENT EXCELLENCE Job creation and development of Hold at least two practical training Ongoing. Objective Target(s) Status competences courses per year with 9th grade lower During the current year we have taken Decision-making processes and Implementation of DS 49001 so Ongoing. Practical training courses for young secondary school pupils (or similar a break from the practical training structure that the factory in Gram, Bentzon In 2015, Gram achieved DS 49001 people with behavioural schools) with diagnoses such as courses, while we rethink the process 100% implementation of DS49001 Carpets, Hammer Tæpper and certification. We are thus adhering to ADHD, Asperger's, autism, etc. The for them. A new and better course has Litspin in Lithuania are included in the plan. practical training will be adapted to now been designed for the practical certification scope by no later than the young people's opportunities, trainees, and we will resume this 2020. aiming to give them an enjoyable practical training in the autumn of practical training experience. 2016. Decision-making processes and Board of Directors Ongoing. structure Within the next 4 years (measured Board of Directors Job creation and development of egetæpper in Herning and Gram Ongoing. More women in management from 2015) increase the ratio of There were no elections to the Board competences currently employs 10 apprentices/ Three new apprenticeships/ female Board members from 25% to of Directors in 2015/216, so there Establishment of apprenticeships trainees. By 2020 at the latest traineeships were established minimum 40% of the members of have been no changes in the Board's there must be 70% more, which is this year, equivalent to 43% of the the Board of Directors elected by the composition. Elections will take equivalent to 17 apprentices/trainees objective. AGM, currently 4 members. place in the new year, and the list of in total. Managers candidates includes both men and 30% of all newly appointed managers women. must in future be women. Managers By 2017, 30% of all managers must be Four appointments were made women. at managerial level, of which one In the longer term, we wish the appointment concerned a woman breakdown between men and women (25%). She was subsequently at management level to reflect the headhunted by another company, and general breakdown between men and a man was thereafter appointed to the women in the company. position. The targets are Group targets, There are currently 27% women but the adopted initiatives will be managers in the ege Group, which is implemented with Herning as the 1% fewer than last year. This reduction starting point, and subsequently at the is due to resignations. other locations. A new HR system has been implemented to help us to achieve these targets in the future. Decision-making processes and Before the end of 2017 an overview Ongoing. structure must be achieved of all employees' A new HR system has been purchased Mapping of employees in order functions, competences and and implemented. The system is to achieve more women in training plans. This will contribute to being implemented on an ongoing management identifying potential new managers basis, in order to achieve the required and ensure relevant follow-up. overview. 38 39 Objectives and targets for 2016/2017 and forward FAIR OPERATING PRACTICES ENVIRONMENT Objective Target(s) Status Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed Promotion of social responsibility Send egetæpper's Supplier Code of Ongoing. Prevention of pollution and The ratio of renewable energy for 2020 in the value chain Conduct to key product suppliers, as Code of Conduct sent to 91 suppliers. promotion of cleaner technology electricity consumption in Herning Implementation of the Code of well as our transport suppliers, and We are still awaiting acceptance 100% renewable energy and Gram must be 100% by 2020 at Conduct require their signed confirmation that from one supplier. Eight suppliers the latest. they will work in accordance with this have preferred not to sign and have Combating and adapting to By 2020 at the latest, energy saving 2020 Code of Conduct; and at the same instead submitted other forms of climate change projects will reduce CO2 emissions in time collect information on their documentation. 50% reduction of water scope 1 and scope 2 by 50% from the labelling schemes and management consumption base year, 2007. systems. We are still awaiting the signatures of Sustainable use of resources Establishment of a return system for 2020 a number of suppliers. The target has Reuse and recycling of used carpets used carpets and carpet tiles. Suitable been deferred until 2015/2016. in Herning. carpet tiles are cleaned and sold for reuse, while the rest of the returned products are reused as alternative fuel in the cement industry, or by other means. Promotion of social responsibility As the Group's other factories are Ongoing. The first phase has been completed. in the value chain included in the scope of DS 49001, The IT department has purchased The second phase to break down Centralised supply chain centralised supply chain management a new ERP system for the entire carpet residues for reuse by other management will be established in an IT system. Group, in which centralised supply means has been launched. A fixed procedure is also being chain management is expected to developed for the inclusion of the be established in the future. The ERP Sustainable use of resources In the dyeing works in Herning and 2020 Code of Conduct in new collaboration project is in the start-up phase and 50% reduction of water Gram, by 2020 at the latest total water agreements. Centralised supply is expected to last for several years. consumption consumption per m2 of carpet must chain management is expected to be This target has been deferred until the be reduced by 50% in relation to the implemented in 2016/2017. system is in place. base year, 2007. Promotion of social responsibility Develop a Code of Conduct for Completed. Prevention of pollution and In collaboration with DONG, a data 2016/2017 in the value chain agents to ensure that they fulfil the The Code of Conduct has been promotion of cleaner technology collection programme is being Development of a Code of Conduct requirements made by egetæpper developed to include agents, More valid water and energy data prepared for water, electricity and gas, for agents concerning protection of human distributors and subsidiaries. All which will be implemented before the rights, labour practices, environmental parties have received and signed the end of the 2015/2016 financial year. issues and anti-corruption. The target Code of Conduct. The introduction has taken longer is implementation in 2015/2016. than estimated, but is expected to be completed in 2016/2017. Prevention of pollution and Since 2009/2010 we have worked to 2019/2020 promotion of cleaner technology improve wastewater purification in Improve waste water purification in order to significantly reduce the COD Gram content. We currently have permission Promotion of social responsibility Prepare a contractual obligation Completed. to discharge 9,000 mg/l COD with in the value chain for egetæpper's subsuppliers Information material has been permitted 50% overstepping for Information to external manpower to ensure decent employment developed and issued to external individual values. In cooperation with conditions and working conditions suppliers of manpower at egetæpper. the University of Southern Denmark for their employees. Initially the All parties have received and signed (SDU) and two chemicals suppliers, focus is on cleaning companies and the material. the aim is to reduce the COD content external craftsmen. The target is to 6,000 mg/l via precipitation, implementation in 2015/2016. flocculation, electrochemistry, evaporation and pure chemistry. Sustainable use of resources Recovery of surplus heat from 2016/2017 Recovery of surplus heat in Gram furnaces is expected to reduce energy consumption by 10% in 2012/2013, compared to 2009/2010. Calculations from DONG show that approximately 2,500 MWh/year can be utilised, on optimum utilisation. Equipment is expected to be established in 2014/2015, and the project is expected to be completed by 2015/2016. The project's completion has been deferred until 2016/2017 40 41 Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed LABOUR PRACTICES Sustainable use of resources Based on calculations from DONG 2017 Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed Recovery of surplus heat in Herning showing calculated savings of Workplace health and safety Replacement of shelves is continuing until they 2016/2017 4,900 MWh/annually from reusing Replacement of shelves in Herning have all been replaced. In the meantime, there surplus heat from the furnace in the is ongoing external inspection, to ensure that all municipality's district heating plant, shelves are safe. systems for reuse of surplus heat will Workplace health and safety Alarms must be signposted in order to display 2016 be installed in Herning. 4,900 MWh Alarm overview in Herning the significance of the various alarms. This corresponds to 250 households' project should have taken place before August annual consumption. The project 2015, but is still in progress and is expected to is expected to be installed and be completed in mid-2016. commissioned during 2016/2017. Workplace health and safety Automatic addition of chemicals will be 2017 Sustainable use of resources Reduction of energy consumption 2016 Automatic control of chemicals established in the adhesive works. This will Online moisture measurement in via online moisture measurement addition in Gram significantly improve the working environment Dyeing and Adhesion in Gram in Dyeing and Adhesion in order to and raise the quality level. avoid over-drying. Expected to be Investigate opportunities for automatic addition implemented at the end of 2016. in 2014/2015. The establishment target is Prevention of pollution and Recovery using flocculation chemicals 2019/2020 expected to be in 2015/2016. Establishment promotion of cleaner technology is not possible. Trials with and the has been postponed to 2016/2017 with Recovery of dye bath residue for establishment of biological purification expected completion in 2017. thermal recovery in Gram were launched in 2014/2015, but have Workplace health and safety Purchase or development of tools to ensure 2016 now been postponed indefinitely. The Focus on employee well-being greater focus on employee well-being via development of improved purification regular job satisfaction surveys, as well as methods is taking place in cooperation follow-up on any issues revealed by the surveys. with SDU. Purification methods are The process will be launched during 2015 and being developed within precipitation, is expected to be implemented before the end flocculation, electrochemistry, of 2016. evaporation and pure chemistry. The project is expected to be completed in Workplace health and safety Measures must be taken to ensure that there 2020 2019/2020. Adverse incidents and accidents are no adverse incidents and accidents in Herning and Gram. We define this as incidents Prevention of pollution and Replacement of the last LPG truck 2016 resulting in at least one day's absence. The promotion of cleaner technology with a modern new electrical truck. target is 0 adverse incidents and accidents by Phasing-out of LPG trucks in Gram This will improve the working 2020 at the latest. environment and environment, and eliminate the risk of having a gas tank Workplace health and safety By streamlining the use of existing boiling 2016/2017 system at the site. Expected to be Better and safer boiling at the vats and setting up a less alkaline boiling implemented at the end of 2016. Dyeing Kitchens in Gram vat, the quality of various boiling processes will be improved, while preventing blocked Prevention of pollution and Before 2020, all lighting in Herning 2020 filters and significantly improving the working promotion of cleaner technology must be replaced with LED lighting. environment. Expected to be implemented in Replacement of all lighting in 2016/2017. Herning with LED Workplace health and safety Improving extraction and ventilation at the 2016 Improve extraction and ventilation Dyeing Kitchen will ensure a better working at the Dyeing Kitchen in Gram environment for the department's employees. HUMAN RIGHTS Expected to be implemented in mid-2016. Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed Workplace health and safety Installation of a 4-metre CADCAM system at 2016 Fundamental employee rights Phase 1: Perform a risk assessment Phase 1: 2016/2017 Minimise manual cutting work at the the 4-metre cutting board will minimise (et al.) of all human rights and implement Phase 2: 2017/2018 cutting table in Gram manual cutting work at the table. At the Implement the UN Guiding preventive measures. Expected to be Phase 3: 2020 beginning of 2016, a system in Germany was Principles completed in 2015/2016. investigated and tested with a selection of our Phase 2: Influence first-line suppliers carpets. Expected to be implemented at the to implement the UN Guiding end of 2016. Principles and undertake the Due Workplace health and safety New electrical hose pumps will replace the air2016 Diligence process. Expected to be New electrical hose pumps in driven pumps at the tank stores, to replace the completed in 2017/2018. Compound (tank stores) in Gram noise level. Expected to be implemented at the Phase 3: Influence first-line suppliers end of 2016. to undertake the Due Diligence process for their subsuppliers. Workplace development In Herning, employees are offered voluntary 2017 Expected to be completed in 2020. opportunities supplementary training in Danish, Mathematics After careful consideration, we have Supplementary training offered to and IT during working hours, at full pay. A similar chosen to use external help for the employees in Gram scheme will be established in Gram before risk assessment in Phase 1. The phase 2017. has therefore been deferred until 2016/2017. 42 43 MANAGEMENT EXCELLENCE LOCAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND INVOLVEMENT Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed Decision-making processes and The implementation of DS 49001 2020 Job creation and development of Hold at least 2 practical training Ongoing structure at the factories in Gram, Bentzon competences courses per year with 9th grade lower 100% implementation of DS Carpets, Hammer Tæpper and Litspin Practical training courses for young secondary school pupils (or similar 49001 in Lithuania will be included in the people with behavioural schools) with diagnoses such as certification scope by no later than ADHD, Asperger's, autism, etc. The 2020. practical training will be adapted to Decision-making processes and Board of Directors Board of Directors 2019 the young people's opportunities, structure Within the next four years (measured Managers: 2017/2018 aiming to give them an enjoyable More women in management from 2015) increase the ratio of practical training experience. female Board members from 25% to Job creation and development of egetæpper in Herning and Gram 2020 minimum 40% of the members of competences currently employs 10 apprentices/ the Board of Directors elected by the Establishment of apprenticeships trainees. By 2020 at the latest AGM, currently 4 members. there must be 70% more, which is Managers equivalent to 17 apprentices/trainees 30% of all newly appointed managers in total. must in future be women. By 2017, 30% of all managers must be women. In the longer term, we wish the FAIR OPERATING PRACTICES breakdown between men and women Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed at management level to reflect the Promoting social responsibility in Send egetæpper's Supplier Code of 2016/2017 general breakdown between men and the value chain Conduct to key product suppliers, as women in the company. Implementation of the Code of well as our transport suppliers, and The targets are Group targets, Conduct obtain their signed confirmation that but the adopted initiatives will be they will work in accordance with this implemented with Herning as the Code of Conduct; and at the same starting point, and subsequently at the time collect information on their other locations. labelling schemes and management Decision-making processes and Before the end of 2017 an overview 2017 systems. structure must be achieved of all employees' We are still awaiting the signatures of Mapping of employees in order functions, competences and a number of suppliers. The target has to achieve more women in training plans. This will contribute to been deferred until 2016/2017. management identifying potential new managers and ensure relevant follow-up. Promotion of social responsibility As the Group's other factories are 2017/2018 in the value chain included in the scope of DS 49001, CONSUMER ISSUES Centralised supply chain centralised supply chain management Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed management will be established in an IT system. CONSUMER ISSUES By 2020 at the latest, develop 2020 A fixed procedure is also being Implement the Cradle to Cradle production processes and product developed for the inclusion of the principles throughout the company design that expand opportunities to Code of Conduct in new collaboration recirculate all materials in a closed agreements. Centralised supply cycle. chain management is expected to be Engage in cooperation with implemented in 2016/2017. companies that can reuse carpet In mid-2016 the development and waste in new ways. implementation of a new ERP system Apply the Cradle to Cradle will commence, and is expected principles in internal and external to handle centralised supply chain communication, so that employees management. The target is therefore can take ownership of the concept deferred until the ERP system is ready and understand the philosophy. in 2017/2018. 44 45 APPENDIX 1: EMAS DECLARATION APPENDIX 2: INDEX OF G4 CONTENT Nr. Topic Kapitel Page G4-1 Management endorsement Sustainability across the board 5 Organisation profile G4-3 Name of organisation Profile 6 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Profile 6 G4-5 The organisation's head office Profile/ege worldwide 6 G4-6 No. of countries in which the organisation operates Profile/ege worldwide 6 G4-7 Ownership structure Management excellence/Reference to the 14 2015/2016 Annual Report G4-8 Markets Profile/ege worldwide 6 G4-9 Key figures for the organisation Profile/ege worldwide 6 Management excellence/Reference to the 14 2015/2016 Annual Report G4-10 Workforce G4-indicators/G4-LA1 28 G4-11 Employees covered by a collective agreement Labour practices/Collective agreements are the basis 17 for the work G4-12 Supply chain Human rights and fair operating practices 15 G4-13 Significant changes Profile/Sometimes we take a break 7 G4-14 Precautionary approach Profile/Pushing ahead 7 G4-15 External obligations Profile/Pushing ahead 7 G4-16 Committees and associations Profile/Pushing ahead 7 Significance G4-17 Financial results Management excellence/Reference to the 14 2015/2016 Annual Report G4-18 Significance analysis G4 indicators 25 G4 indicators, note 16 Stakeholders G4-24 Stakeholder involvement Your opinion matters 8 G4-25 Selection of stakeholders Your opinion matters 8 G4-26 Dialogue with stakeholders Your opinion matters 8 G4-27 Key topics, according to stakeholders Your opinion matters 8 Report structure G4-28 Reporting period About the CSR Report 4 G4-29 Date of the most recent report About the report, note 2 4 G4-30 Reporting frequency Management excellence 14 G4-31 Contact us About the CSR Report 4 G4-33 External verification of the report About the CSR Report 4 G4-34 Organisation structure Management excellence/Reference to the 14 2015/2016 Annual Report G4-56 Values Profile 6 CSR policy Selections from the CSR policy 10 Code of Conduct Human rights and fair operating practices 15 egetæpper's CSR indicators Section Page Finance G4-EC1 Direct financial value Management excellence/Reference to the 14 2015/2016 Annual Report Environment G4-EN1 Materials distributed by weight Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 32 G4-EN2 Reused materials G4 indicators/G4-EN2 25 46 47 No. Topic Section Page APPENDIX 3: INDEX OF EMAS CONTENT G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 32 G4-EN5 Energy intensity Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 32 G4-EN6 Energy savings G4 indicators/G4-EN6 25 Topic Section Page G4-EN8 Water withdrawal Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 32 Reporting period About the CSR Report 2 G4-EN10 Water recovery Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 32 EMAS registration About the CSR Report, note 3 2 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions G4 indicators/G4-EN15 26 Environmental verifier and validation date Appendix 1: EMAS Declaration 43 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions G4 indicators/G4-EN16 26 Communication Your opinion matters 8 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions G4 indicators/G4-EN17 27 Management excellence 14 G4-EN18 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions G4 indicators/G4-EN18 27 Next verification About the CSR Report, note 2 4 G4-EN21 NOX, SOX and other significant emissions Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 32 Declaration Appendix 1: EMAS Declaration 46 G4-EN22 Water discharge Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 32 The ege Group/company profile Profile 6 G4-EN23 Weight of waste and method of disposal Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 32 Significant changes Profile/Sometimes we take a break 7 G4-EN27 Initiatives to limit hazardous effects G4 indicators/G4-EN27 27 Management Statement Sustainability across the board 5 G4-EN29 Sanctions for non-compliance with environmental Overview of indicators concerning grievances and 31 Product description Profile/Group facts 6 legislation sanctions Company location Profile, note 4 and note 5 6 G4-EN31 Investments in environmental protection measures G4 indicators/G4-EN31 27 Employee involvement Labour practices/Employees involved in initiatives 17 G4-EN34 Grievances due to non-compliance with Overview of indicators concerning grievances and 31 environmental legislation sanctions Process description Flow in tufting production 12 Employee conditions The organisation's environmental policy Selections from the CSR policy 10 G4-LA1 Workforce and staff breakdown G4 indicators/G4-LA1 28 Climate policy Selections from the CSR policy 10 G4-LA2 Employee benefits G4 indicators/G4-LA2 28 Scope Environmental issues/EMAS data for those with a special 18 interest G4-LA5 Employees serving on working environment G4 indicators/G4-LA5 28 committees Environmental approvals Environmental issues/EMAS data for those with a special 18 interest + note 10 G4-LA6 Occupational injuries, accidents, absence, and the G4 indicators/G4-LA6 28 physical and psychosocial working environment Reference to applicable statutory environmental Selections from the CSR policy 10 requirements G4-LA10 Employee development G4 indicators/G4-LA10 29 Current environmental cases Environmental issues/EMAS data for those with a special 18 G4-LA12 Employee breakdown by gender and function G4 indicators/G4-LA12 29 interest Human rights Non-conformances Environmental issues/EMAS data for those with a special 18 G4-HR3 Discrimination cases Overview of indicators concerning grievances and 31 interest sanctions Enquiries (environment) G4 indicators/Overview of indicators concerning 31 G4-HR4 Risk of lack of respect for freedom of association G4 indicators/G4-HR4 30 grievances and sanctions and collective bargaining Environmental objectives and targets (environment) Objectives and targets 35-36 G4-HR5 Risk of child labour G4 indicators/G4-HR5 30 41-42 G4-HR6 Risk of forced or compulsory labour G4 indicators/G4-HR6 30 Description of the environmental management system Environmental issues 18 G4-HR12 Grievances concerning human rights violations Overview of indicators concerning grievances and 31 and EMAS Environmental issues/National Pioneer certificate for sanctions EMAS registration Society Significant environmental impacts and effects Appendix 4: Significant environmental impacts and effects 50 G4-SO3 Risk of corruption and bribery Overview of indicators concerning grievances and 31 Consumption statements/Statement period and form About the CSR Report 4 sanctions Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 32-33 G4-SO4 Implementation of anti-corruption and anti-bribery G4 indicators/G4-SO4 30 Energy consumption Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 32-34 guidelines Energy production Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 32-33 G4-SO5 Incidents of corruption and bribery G4 indicators/G4-SO5 31 Renewable energy Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 32-33 G4-SO8 Sanctions for non-compliance with legislation in Overview of indicators concerning grievances and 31 general sanctions Water consumption Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 32-34 Product liability Waste Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 32-33 G4-PR1 Product assessment G4 indicators/G4-PR1 31 Wastewater Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 32-33 G4-PR2 Sanctions for non-compliance with product health G4 Overview of indicators concerning grievances 31 Emissions Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 32-33 and safety legislation and sanctions Appendix 4: Significant environmental impacts and effects 50 G4-PR3 Product information G4 indicators/G4-PR3 31 Noise Appendix 4: Significant environmental impacts and effects 50 G4-PR4 Sanctions for non-compliance with labelling Overview of indicators concerning grievances and 31 Total input/output Total inputs/outputs for carpet production 32-33 scheme legislation sanctions G4-PR7 Sanctions for non-compliance with marketing Overview of indicators concerning grievances and 31 legislation sanctions 48 49 APPENDIX 4: SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS APPENDIX 5: CALCULATION BASIS AND AND EFFECTS19 DATA SOURCES FOR CO2 CALCULATIONS Development, raw materials, production and emissions As previously stated, the result for the year in the greenhouse The CEMAsys calculation programme is generally applied. We evaluate the raw materials used in carpet production not eration plants, where the incineration process is most efficient gas accounts is always compared with a base year, to show the ­CEMAsys complies with international standards and meets the only when we develop new products, but also in the purchasand therefore has the least possible impact on the environment. development over time. If there is extraordinary activity during requirements of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. For electricity, ing phase. Strict requirements are made, which are well in The packaging we use is cardboard or plastic. Plastic packaging the financial year, e.g. due to the expansion of production, the the Energinet.dk declaration and the 125% method are used excess of the statutory requirements, and we undertake thoris made from polyethylene and polypropylene and is therefore emissions related to the extraordinary activities are accounted to calculate Danish emissions. The district heating plants' own ough market investigations in order to select products with considered to have a significant environmental impact, as these for separately and added to or deducted from the base year's emissions are used to calculate egetæpper's district heating low environmental impacts. As yarns, carpet bases, backing plastic products are produced from oil, which is a non-renewagreenhouse gas accounts, so that the greenhouse gas acemissions. Where possible, factors for the individual countries materials and packaging primarily consist of synthetic mateble resource. counts still present a reliable picture compared to the base year. are applied. Transport by air and rail is divided into national and rials, they are considered to have a significant environmental This year we have changed the base year, since in future we international transport. Via Egencia supplies egetæpper with impact. The dyes and chemicals that are considered to be Working environment will include Hammer Tæpper A/S, and the subsidiary in the USA environmental accounts for CO2 emissions from air travel ortoxic are likewise viewed as significant impacts. Based on this The working environment is assessed continuously on the basis concerning air travel and transport. The former factory in Vejle dered via the head office in Herning and Hammer Tæpper. To assessment, we seek to influence the supplier to show greater of workplace evaluations (APV), safety inspections, accidents has also been removed completely from the greenhouse gas calculate goods transport for Herning and Gram, we have apenvironmental responsibility. and near-misses. APV take place every third year, and last took accounts, as it has now been sold. plied the Climate Compass, which is an Internet-based calculaplace in Herning in 2014. Gram undertook APV in 2015. Noise tion model developed by the Confederation of Danish Industry, As a production company, we consume a lot of resources. This is considered to be significant if it is subject to statutory proviThe greenhouse gas accounts are based on a number of data the Danish Business Authority and FORCE. makes it all the more important to systematically reduce our sions or grievances are raised. sources that make it possible to convert our energy consumpconsumption of electricity, gas and water. Our atmosphere is tion to CO2 emissions. affected by emissions of CO2 and NOX, and our water consumpTransport tion affects groundwater levels. Transport of products is associated with certain environmental impacts, e.g. CO2 emissions. APPENDIX 6: UN’S 17 GLOBAL GOALS In connection with production we seek to optimise the utilisation of resources in order to reduce the total consumption of Product information, fitting and applications resources and the overall volume of waste. Before purchase, The environmental management system ensures that our prodnew production equipment is assessed to ensure that, as far as ucts are subject to extensive testing and subsequent declarapossible, the most environmentally-sound technology is used. tions in terms of quality and environmental characteristics. The production processes discharge dust, odours and emisegetæpper recommends that only floor adhesives with the sions to the surrounding environment. These impacts primarlowest possible emissions are used to glue carpets. These are ily affect neighbours to egetæpper's factories. Emissions from called the EC1-classified floor adhesives. Other types of floor process plant where processing temperatures are equivalent to adhesive are considered to contribute with significantly higher or exceed 75° C, and if such emissions are subject to current environmental impacts. statutory provisions, are considered to be significant. Emissions from dyeing, glueing and fixation plant at egetæpper are conOther environmental impacts sidered to be significant. In cooperation with the local municipalities, it has been assessed that the external noise from egetæpper in Herning does Wastewater and waste are also environmental impacts that are not exceed the requirement in the environmental permit from subject to statutory requirements and which are evaluated anHerning Municipality. In Gram, the external noise from egetæpnually with a view to improving and/or minimising them. per does not exceed the requirement from Haderslev Municipality. We therefore optimise waste for recycling on a regular basis. Where thermal recovery is concerned, the external environIn general concerning egetæpper's emissions, the values for ment is affected by greenhouse gases and acidification, beorganic and inorganic substances comply with all of the limit cause CO2, NOX and SO2 are given off during the incineration values laid down in guideline no. 2/2001 from the Danish Enviprocess. However, we choose to incinerate waste at large incinronmental Protection Agency. 19 Environmental impacts and effects are related to the factories in Herning and Gram. 50 51 ege inhouse 0716 – 8054020 – 1st edition egetæpper a/s • Industrivej Nord 25 • DK-7400 Herning Tel. +45 97 11 88 11 • Fax: +45 97 11 95 80 E-mail: ege@ege.dk • www.egecarpets.com
