ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 / 2015 Nations with History Can Build a Civilization Nations With History Can Build a Civilization Banque Misr has chosen Queen Cleopatra as the symbol represented on the bank‘s logo since its establishment in 1920. Queen Cleopatra is one of the most famous female rulers in history. She is an icon of Egypt’s great and ancient civilization. Cleopatra’s rule was marked by prosperity and peace. Over hundreds of years, historians have referred to Cleopatra as “Philopatris”: “She who loves her country”. Cleopatra ruled as part of the Ptolemaic dynasty from 5130 B.C. Ancient Egyptian civilization is renowned for the ground-breaking accomplishments it made in the fields of art and architecture, engineering, medicine, and statecraft. It was one of the earliest civilizations ever to show respect to human rights. Ancient Egyptians were the first to acknowledge man’s right to life; they had even applied the principle of equality to the entire population. Egyptians were equal before the law, without discrimination between the rich and the poor. Ancient Egyptian rulers were known to hold knowledge in high value, equally encouraging men and women to pursue a proper education. 2 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 3 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Ancient Egyptians were pioneers in applying the human resource management techniques in real life. The great historical leaders of Egypt have come up with a system that was able to measure the responsibilities of the workforce, check their absence or presence and rotate them individually or in groups. Furthermore, based on the workers’ presence and performance, a compensation system was developed offering increases in payments to the personnel by using the basic wage multiples, for a fair distribution of salaries among workers in different posts. Scorpion King Open Hood British Museum 4 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 5 Table of Contents Who We Are Banque Misr is the first bank to be wholly owned by Egyptians and the second largest bank in Egypt by total assets Foreword About Banque Misr .......................................... 10 Ownership: Paid-up Capital: State-owned bank Material Topics .................................................. 13 15 billion Egyptian pounds Customers: Shareholders’ Equity: Our Approach More than 6.8 million in Egypt 23.3 billion Egyptian pounds BM Approach ......................................................16 Served by: Introduction by the Chairman.............................18 13,400 employees Total Assets: Our Strategy..........................................................24 331 billion Egyptian pounds Domestic and International Presence.......................26 Through Six Business Divisions: Customer Deposits: Corporate Banking 290 billion Egyptian pounds Retail Banking How BM Operates SME Banking Net Interest Income: Board of Directors...............................................32 Capital Markets Group 8,537 million Egyptian pounds Correspondent Network and Treasury Board and Executive Committees.....................36 Islamic Banking Our Commitment................................................42 Net Fee and Commission Income: BM Service Providers and Suppliers.................49 Across Five Countries: 1,851 million Egyptian pounds Egypt Environmental Sustainability .............................52 United Arab Emirates (UAE) Income Tax Paid: Our People...........................................................53 Lebanon 3.6 billion Egyptian pounds Community Development..................................60 France Technology...........................................................69 Germany Net Profit After Tax: 4.2 billion Egyptian pounds Branches: Over 500, the largest branch network by any Our Activities bank in Egypt and the Middle East Corporate Banking ..............................................70 Retail Banking .....................................................72 Direct Equity Participation: SME Banking ........................................................75 162 multisector companies Capital Markets Group .......................................78 Mutual Funds: Correspondent Network and Treasury...............80 8 Islamic Banking ....................................................82 Automated Teller machines (ATMs): 1,400 Our Financial Performance ‫‏‬Message from the Chairman...............................86 Point of Sale Terminals (POS): Financial Statements.............................................88 12,150 No. of Issued Cards: 3.8 million 6 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 7 “Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses” Scribes and skilled workers not only kept records, they also often played a supervisory role in society. Scribe figure of domain administrator 18th Dynasty Thebes1549-1292 BC “Scribe Figure of the domain Administrator Dersenedj ( Old Kingdom 5th Dynasty, 2400 BC ).” 8 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 9 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH HOW BM OPERATES ABOUT BANQUE MISR our activities Banque Misr (BM) was established in 1920 by the pioneer Egyptian economist Mohamed Talaat Harb Pasha. Harb was the first to introduce to Egypt the economic system of investing in the public’s savings, through injecting them financial performance into economic and social projects, making Banque Misr the first national bank to be wholly owned by Egyptians. Since its foundation, BM has been committed to establishing several companies in various domains, including: textiles, insurance, transportation, aviation, entertainment, and filmmaking. It has also provided continuous support to its other regular banking and investment activities at a steady rate. The bank currently has equity participations in over 162 companies in the fields of: finance, tourism, housing, agriculture, and food, in addition to other companies in the fields of communication and information technology. Banque Misr Head Quarter 1927 10 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 11 In recognition of the bank’s continuous Principals. The bank’s focus on 13,400 efforts to offer the best and most upCorporate Social Responsibility and to-date services to all its esteemed clients, Global Finance, a leading sustainability initiatives comes in line MATERIAL TOPICS with the 10 principles outlined by the employees financial advisory, named Banque Misr UN Global Compact in the areas of: as “The Best Provider of Short-Term human rights, labor, preserving the Investments/Money Market Funds” in environment and fighting corruption. 6.8 the Middle East for the year 2015, for The way we integrate sustainability into our business model, the seventh consecutive year. The bank also worked extensively to both in terms of seeking commercial opportunities and support the communities in which it evaluating risk, is an integral part of our operations. The million Banque Misr has become a regional operates by implementing a number BM Annual Sustainability Report 2014/2015 is the first of pioneer, becoming the first bank in Egypt and North Africa to comply of social initiatives and activities to enhance the general welfare of the community, with a special focus its kind issued by a state-owned bank in Egypt, guided by the framework of the globally recognized Global Reporting Clients with the PCI data security standards, Initiative (GRI). The report will articulate how we view obtaining the global Payment Card on health, human rights, and the sustainability at Banque Misr. Industry Data Security Standard (PCI environment. DSS) certification. Banque Misr is At Banque Misr, we identify sustainability topics that are constantly geared towards expanding its As one of the leading public banks material to the bank and its stakeholders. We define anyone customers’ access to banking services working towards the promotion of who comes into contact with the bank as a stakeholder through applying the most updated the state’s public policy, Banque Misr technologies and efficiently making use including employees, existing customers, prospective closely cooperates with the state’s of all its available resources. Today, the customers, government, partners, suppliers, and nonSocial Fund for Development on bank is proud to offer one of Egypt’s governmental organizations (NGOs). the financing of small projects and largest ATM networks, covering the supporting economic development. entire country. Furthermore, Banque Misr has set a This recognition focuses on action areas that are considered separate unit for small and mediumvital to the success and continuity of sustainability in our Banque Misr’s role in all economic sized enterprises (SMEs) to encourage business and are divided into four main sections: fields is evident due to its geographic more people and businesses to seek outreach. The bank’s 13,400 employees finances for SMEs that strongly The BM Approach discusses Banque Misr’s efforts towards (including 826 outsourced employees) contribute to the state’s GDP. consolidating and disseminating the culture of financial serve a client base of around 6.8 million, inclusion, as mentioned in the introduction given by BM’s with a total paid-up capital amounting Chairman Mr. Mohamed Mahmoud El-Etreby and in the Banque Misr has been supporting to 15 billion Egyptian pounds. introduction of Banque Misr’s financial sector. The BM the national economy since its establishment 95 years ago, and Approach also defines the principles that govern the bank’s The bank’s headquarters is located pledges to continue its sponsorship internal culture and community. at 151 Mohamed Farid Street, Downtown, Cairo, Egypt. The bank and support for national projects, currently owns and operates over companies, and investments to How BM Operates explains the fundamental principles 500 electronically connected local empower the national economy and that govern our business as a whole; including how we and international branches, including investment prospects. keep our employees and facilities safe, how we reduce five in the United Arab Emirates and any potential harmful impact on the environment, how we 1,400 one in France. This is in addition to Ownership : engage with our community, and our collaborations and its regional and global presence in partnerships. Lebanon, Germany and worldwide Banque Misr is a state-owned bank, ATMs through a network of correspondents. with 100% of its shares owned by the BM Activities outlines our key accomplishments, with a Egyptian government. focus on our operations in Egypt and the steps taken to Banque Misr’s ongoing endeavours to support the national economy. lead the industry as a creditworthy financial institution in the local market BM Financial Performance drafts our performance data have yielded fruitful results. for the year based on transparent reports on revenue and To achieve such success, Banque Misr environmental and social data. has at all times complied with the United Nations’ (UN) Global Compact 12 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 13 “Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor” Contrary to popular belief, in the Old Kingdom slaves were not forced to build the pyramids. Instead, 10,000 proficient Egyptian workers were used and taken care of financially and medically. They were honored by the title “Khufu’s friends”. Maquette of the building of the great pyramids Dr. Ragab Museum 14 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 15 Foreword BM APPROACH OUR APPROACH Since its early post-establishment years, Banque Misr has adhered to its founding goal of serving the Egyptian public and securing its welfare. We continue to adhere to this motive through capitalizing on the interests and HOW BM OPERATES demands of the Egyptian masses, who have always been at the center of our operations and decisions. Our role does not solely comprise of profit generation but principally also includes serving as a national financial catalyst, to be relied on to implement and support national and strategic development in various social and economic fields. To meet such objectives, Banque Misr worked hard to meet the Egyptian community’s financial needs. Striving to own the largest branches’ network in Egypt and the our activities Middle East, the bank currently owns and operates more than 500 branches, serving the entire Egyptian population of over 90 million, across the various Egyptian governorates nationwide. This section outlines our success story, maintained over long years and achieved by the main principles financial performance of sustainability, governance, and high standards that underpin all our operations. The section also describes our current role and future goals to keep up with the globe’s speedy and continuous political, economic and environmental changes . 16 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 17 INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN We at Banque Misr (BM) are pleased to introduce our 2014/2015 sustainability report, including our assessment of the challenges we have faced and the progress we have achieved during the past year. As we work to maintain our commitments towards our country, society, and clients, we have continued to ensure that the principles of corporate governance remain uncompromised. BM Annual Sustainability Report 2014/2015 is the first of its kind in Egypt issued by a state-owned bank, guided by the framework of the globally recognized Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The report reflects the bank’s strategy, which places a high emphasis on the importance of creating value for society. We, at BM, believe that for any financial entity to sustain long-term prosperity and create added value for its shareholders, it must first create added value for society. 18 20 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 21 19 In fiscal year (FY) 2014/2015, Egypt rose to 331 billion Egyptian pounds, was able to restore influential regional position, regaining the confidence of the marking an increase of 57 billion Egyptian pounds, allowing Banque Misr to acquire Financial Inclusion: international financial institutions. The approximately 15% of the total assets in Because our commitments stem from convictions not 331 national economic indicators showed a major advance in the real economic the Egyptian banking sector. conveniences, we at Banque Misr believe that financial inclusion is one of the bank’s most important tools to build billion growth, which surged to 4.2% during The bank’s goal is to ensure sustainable customers’ trust and actively engage in society. FY 2014/2015, compared to a weak development through maintaining regular Egyptian pounds economic performance during the direct contact with a diversified range Our deep respect and appreciation for our 6.8 million clients TOTAL ASSETS period from 2010-2014, through which of stakeholders. This strategy enabled and for the environment act as a foundation for creating a the growth rate did not exceed 2.2%. Banque Misr to directly oversee dialogue shared value. that ensure its activities — as a financial This mirrored the positive outcome of institution and a responsible corporate — Financial inclusion is no longer optional. It has become the reform measures taken by the new remain responsive, relatable and relevant a necessity. Its absence not only hinders the development government of the 2014 elected President to the needs and priorities of those we of the countries with low growth rates, it also obstructs Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, who resumed the serve and who underpin the long-term global growth; depriving millions from better work and life political road map to achieve security and growth of our business. opportunities. stability, and adopted a comprehensive economic reform program that aims to Towards A People-Centered We at Banque Misr believe that an increase in the client33,894 improve the business climate and attract more local and foreign investments. Sustainable Economy: based banking system, through including new segments of society, offers a stronger support mechanism for the safety of Since our foundation as the first Egyptian SMEs The global economy has grown significantly over the past two years, national bank in 1920, BM has held prestigious standing among all Egyptian the financial strategy as a whole. It also has a wider positive impact on the overall economic performance of the state, as a significant increase in the amount of savings opens recording a 3.5% increase in 2015, up banks, earned from its strong and enduring new doors for investments. Moreover, it helps mobilize the from 3.4% in 2014. The rise owed to presence in almost all of the state’s major state’s financial resources through official channels, which the developing economies’ growth rates, projects of profound economic and social positively contributes to the economy and helps decrease which went up from 1.8% in 2014 to impacts. poverty and unemployment. 2.4% in 2015. In 2015, BM supported and sponsored In this context, BM has launched a cash transfer service FY 2014/2015 was seen as Egypt’s Egypt’s large-scale national project for that enables both clients and non-clients all over Egypt to profit reaping year. It witnessed the the New Suez Canal, and provided small transfer cash via their phones at any time. Additionally, the accomplishment of several economic loans for another state-initiated project bank has also provided funding to approximately 33,894 and social reforms. It has also served as called “Mashrouak”, (Your Project), small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). a motivation for the Egyptian people to which offers fundings for small start-ups. maintain determination to move forward The bank also agreed to fund a number The bank further aims to open 275 new branches over the and support the state’s economic goals of future projects that were proposed at next three years to cater to its growing number of clients. through actively partaking in financing the Egyptian Economic Development Banque Misr maintains a strong foothold in the regional the nation’s strategic project for the New Conference that took place in the resort and global market with continued growth in the United Suez Canal. town of Sharm El-Sheikh in March, 2015. Arab Emirates, Lebanon, France, and Germany. The bank inaugurated 10 branches in 2014/2015, expanding its The financial indicators reflected a network to over than 500 electronically connected local positive economic performance during and international branches. FY 2014/2015, as the bank’s total assets 20 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 21 and health challenges. The foundation has F ostering Corporate Social Responsibility: initiated, as well as executed, a number of activities in line with this objective. Banque Misr plays a prominent role in BMFCDW contributes positively and developing and providing assistance to constructively through specific projects the Egyptian community through engaging that are carried out either directly by the in several activities to support the foundation or through its associated NGOs development of the community, such as and development-oriented civil society developing slum areas, villages, hospitals, partners. The foundation supervises an schools, and sports centers. array of projects that mostly target youth BM participated in an initiative held by and women, with a focus on development, the Ministry of Housing and the Central education, work-related trainings, creating Bank of Egypt to encourage banks to offer new job opportunities for young men and “We aspire to the highest long-term loans to low and middle-income women and enhancing the competitiveness level of performance and we housing projects. The total amount of loans of the bank’s products and services. All our reaffirm that vision.” offered amounted to 95 million Egyptian employees are highly encouraged to take pounds in June 30, 2015. part in the foundation’s projects. on the financial environment in Misr’s operations. Our values general and the banking business and business strategies will Moreover, BM joined a national campaign Our Employees: in particular. It also aids customer service staff in providing better always reflect our long-standing commitment to the sustainable to replace old taxis in Egypt to improve advices to clients. development of Egypt and the the transportation sector and minimize Over the past 95 years, we have worked world. with our employees to build a financial the pollution caused by the old taxi vehicles, which had a negative impact on institution that rewards creativity, minimizes P reserving the Environment: In conclusion, I would like to risk and maximizes productivity. With tourism and the community in general. In thank all BM staff members their support, we continue to strive for collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, We take into utmost for their outstanding efforts. I deeper and more effective economic, BM offered 300 million Egyptian pounds consideration any potential would also like to emphasize social and environmental changes. for the purchase of 4,600 new taxis. harmful impact on the the necessity of exerting further environment from our efforts to continue providing Stemming from our profound belief in the The bank also signed a financing partnership operations, products, services distinctive banking services to importance of the human element in achieving protocol called “Tanweer” with both the and resources. We immediately maintain our prestigious banking the bank’s strategy, Banque Misr focused Ministry of Education and the Egyptian eliminate conducts that pose status, which we achieved on enhancing employee satisfaction levels Chamber of Commerce to finance the any threat to the environment through the strong and fruitful and attracting skilful calibers, in addition to and/or the country’s natural or cooperation between all our purchase of new computers and laptops for developing the employees’ management and valuable resources. employees within this great schools, in efforts to develop the education leadership skills to create future leaders. institution. system. The bank held a number of training sessions As we strive to enhance service to boost the technical, administrative and excellence and ensure our Mohamed Mahmoud El-Etreby Since its inception, Banque Misr has leadership skills of its employees to qualify long-term success, maintaining Chairman identified social responsibility as one of its them to assume leading positions in their constructive communication prime goals. The Banque Misr Foundation with our customers and staff and future careers. for Community Development and Welfare actively participating in projects (BMFCDW) was established as a separate that cater to the wider society The bank also organized several economic entity managed by a board of trustees to remain at the core of Banque seminars to keep the staff up-to-date on the address deep-rooted social, developmental recent economic changes and their impacts 22 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 23 OUR STRATEGY Sense of Belonging We are dedicated to the aspirations of our community and clients At Banque Misr, we know that in order to succeed in our business and promote effective financial inclusion, We: we must be closely connected to the economic, environmental and social landscape in which we operate. Have a sense of ownership in the bank’s activities and intensively participate in its Throughout its 95 years in business; Banque Misr has adopted sustainable approaches to build long term successes and take lessons of its failures businesses by maintaining a balance of social, environmental and economic considerations in all of its decisions. Have a strong sense of responsibility in terms of performance and risks in relation to both the bank and its clients Our Vision: Our distinctive performance secures us the leadership we deserve. Assume our responsibility towards the economy and society Our Mission: Excellence in fulfilling all of our customers’ banking needs, maximizing shareholders’ value, inspiring employees’ loyalties and playing a leading role in the prosperity and development of Egypt. Teamwork Our Values: The bank maintains very high standards of integrity, customer service, excellence, teamwork, We respect and value our team members accountability and innovation, all of which are embedded in every decision we take and in our interactions We: with both our customers and employees. We at Banque Misr know that we succeed only when our customers Believe the best outcome is achieved when people work together and communities succeed. We do business in an open, direct and sustainable way. Believe great teams are built on mutual trust, shared ownership and accountability Place the team’s success ahead of individual success Our Values Build diverse teams, capable of generating creative ideas and taking balanced decisions Value every person and respect individual differences in mentality, style, culture, ethnicity Accountability and experiences We think beyond the moment and strive for quality We: Are accountable to our shareholders, customers, coworkers and community Contribute to the economic, social and environmental development of Egypt Excellence Sustainable performance and results are our objectives Customer Services We: Our customers are at the center of what we do Add value to shareholders by prioritizing long-term success over short term gains We: Make sure that discipline and perseverance govern all our actions to achieve outstanding Sustain customer satisfaction and trust as a main objective results for our customers Help our clients fulfil their financial goals Work with our clients to reach their current goals, moreover anticipating and planning for Strive to surpass our customers’ expectations their future objectives Innovation Integrity We generate ingenious ideas that are also practical and achievable We are fair, ethical and honest in everything we say and do We: We: Produce new ideas and improve our processes and platforms by embracing updated and Communicate openly better methods Acknowledge, accept and learn Leverage technological innovation Take risk seriously and manage it prudently Provide our clients with suitable solutions to their problems Hold to what we view to be right and ethical Believe that the application of intelligence, reason and science has a positive impact on people and their businesses 24 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 25 BM’s Presence in the UAE Domestic and INTERNATIONAL PRESENCE Banque Misr has a network of five branches in the UAE in the emirates of: Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, and Ras Al Khaimah. The bank has tailored a number of banking services to best fit and satisfy the Egyptian community in the UAE, offering them several state-initiated funds and certificates, such as: Bayt Al Wattan (The Home of the Nation Fund) and Tahya Misr (Long Live Egypt fund). The UAE branches also allow them to purchase the high yield Suez Canal investments certificates. In 2015, Banque Misr renovated its branch in Al-Ain, in the emirate of Abu Dhabi, in efforts to cater to the needs of its growing customers base there. The new branch was provided with all the necessary equipment and skilled staff to ensure the smooth flow of business. The bank also doubled its paid-up capital in the UAE, and granted a subordinated loan to support its capital base. In addition, the bank also restructured the administrative sector of its foreign branches, improving the efficiency of the networks and developing the IT infrastructure and communication system. In addition, the bank also installed 26 new and upgraded ATM machines in various locations in the UAE. The restructuring process enabled the bank to offer comprehensive packages for its various products and services, enabling it to become a regional center for activities in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) states. Banque Misr’s branches in the UAE are further working to provide new products to meet the demands of the UAE’S growing market. BM’s Presence in Lebanon The bank’s board of directors adopts a market-driven expansion strategy. All our branches are electronically connected to facilitate our clients’ financial interactions in any branch across Egypt or through our nationwide In support of its expansion policy regionally and globally, Banque Misr Liban S.A.L. (BML) was ATM network. established in Lebanon in 1929. The bank, located in the heart of Beirut’s commercial center, offers a variety of distinctive corporate and retail banking services. The bank has also upgraded its operating procedures, branches’ layout and ATM machines. In addition, all its branches are supplied with the most up-to-date technologies and modern equipment to provide clients with an BML’s network grew rapidly due to its strategic locations in different Lebanese cities, featuring efficient timesaving experience. The bank also provides easy access to all its products and services. an extensive ATM network and online banking services. The bank survived the political Banque Misr is widely acknowledged as the most prevalent bank in the Middle East and Africa. and economic turmoil in Lebanon. Its customer base continues to expand and diversify to encompass a wide section of the retail banking market, including blue chip institutional clients BM’s geographic privilege; owing to the fact that it owns and operates the largest banking network in Egypt, and SMEs. Over the past five years, BML’s total assets grew by 55%, deposits increased by 65% with over 500 branches and ATM machines, encouraged it to penetrate the international market, launching and the loans and advances to customers surged by 163%. 25 branches in four countries; including five in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) along with others in Lebanon, Germany and France. This success came as a result of several internal reform measures that included re-structuring the senior executive management in 2007 and implementing a comprehensive and integrated As part of the bank’s development strategy, aiming to continue providing the latest financial services to its diverse client base, Banque Misr’s senior management team exerted all possible efforts to develop and enhance plan to expand and develop the bank’s services and operations to match the latest offered in the performance of the bank’s international branches. the global banking industry. These major developments were also made possible by increasing BML’s paid up capital from 30 billion Lebanese pounds to 120 billion Lebanese pounds. 26 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 27 BML has also been committed to enhancing its loans portfolio as well as supporting its provisions Private Banking Industry’s Employers Association and the NUMOV German Nearand Middleand reserves. The bank increased its branches from one in 2002 to 18 in 2015. In addition, East-Association, along with the Union of Arab Banks in Beirut and the German-Arab Chamber the bank remains committed to applying the latest technologies to increase productivity and of Industry and Commerce in Cairo. improve the quality and speed of its services. The bank also achieved significant progress since 2007, including an administrative restructure Furthermore, the bank is dedicated to developing a cohesive set of banking products and and an upgrade of the bank’s computer and risk management systems. Misr Bank-Europe GmbH applies a risk bearing capacity concept and a profit-oriented management. services to meet the objectives of the banking market in the retail, corporate, institutional and private sectors. In this regard, BML established the Misr Liban Insurance Brokers in December, Consciously assuming, actively managing and systematically transforming risk are essential 2010. tools for Misr Bank Europe GmbH’s generation of profit and competitiveness. The bank‘s significant increase in its deposits in 2013 enabled it to move from the Gamma group A comprehensive and forward-looking management of risk is also an important factor in Misr to the Beta group. The British “World Finance” organization also awarded Banque Misr Liban Bank Europe GmbH’s success. The continuous revision of the bank’s risk management systems the prize for the best commercial bank in 2012, in recognition of its outstanding performance. led to a subsequent increase in the exigencies imposed. The bank’s limited allocation of risk The bank also won “The Best Visual” award in the same year for its distinctive and unique capital in the framework of the yearly update to the risk strategy played an important role in website. ensuring the presence of a strong risk management system. The growth of BML’s business comes in light of the application of highest standard of corporate Misr Bank Europe GmbH further offers insurances-covered financing of export receivables to governance, careful adherence to all regulatory requirements and standards, strict risk Egyptian exporters, as well as correspondent bank services to banks in Egypt and the Middle management guidelines and a strong balance sheet. East, along with financing and handling a range of exports from Egypt. Under the leadership of its board of directors, and building on the strength of its qualified The bank’s continuous marketing activities have positively contributed to the increase in the senior management team, as well as the strong backing of the parent bank, BML looks forward letter of credit activities between Egypt and Germany, in addition to the adoption of several initiatives targeting Germany-based small and medium-sized enterprises, which work in to a promising period of steady growth and continued development for all its activities and coordination with companies operating in Egypt. services, to continue its commitment to serving its customers in the best possible ways. The bank’s ongoing efforts have strongly contributed to high growth rates in the secondary BM’s Presence in Germany market and the establishment of a financial asset portfolio, which in turn generates revenue that guarantees the continuation of a steady flow of income and an increase in businesses volume, Banque Misr’s top management decided to replicate its successful experience in international reflecting positively on the bank’s overall financial performance. markets by opening a branch in Germany. The first branch in the country was established in 1992 in Frankfurt under the name of Misr Bank Europe GmbH. The parent bank, Banque Misr, BM’s Presence in France currently owns 69.75% of the branch. Banque Misr’s Paris branch was inaugurated in 1922 in Rue Danielle Casanova, formerly known Misr Bank Europe GmbH is considered the first Egyptian bank in Germany to have a paid-up as Rue Des Petits Champs. The branch includes Egyptian and French financial experts, selected capital of 30 million euros. It also has a full banking license and is a member of the Association according to the finest standards to represent Banque Misr and fulfil its goal of developing its of German Banks. All customers’ deposits are covered by the association’s deposit insurance. international trading and investments between Egypt and France. The branch provides importing/ exporting clients with the highest quality of services and solutions, relying on its extensive The bank’s branch, which is operated by 25 employees only, earned prominent memberships experience, reactivity and personalized services. The Paris branch recorded an increase in net profit of 6% in the period from July 1, 2014 to June 30, 2015 compared with the period ending in a number of local, Arab and International banking organizations, including the Germanyon June 30,2014. based Association of Foreign Banks, the Arab-German Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the 28 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 29 “Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor” Although children in the ancient Egyptian civilization were not allowed to go to schools until the age of six, children were highly encouraged to attend either public schools or special ones that educate children to become priests or scribes. Statue of two men and a boy that served as a domestic icon New Kingdom, Amarna Period 18th dynasty 1353-1336 BC “Detail From the Tomb of King Farouk ( 1500-1200 BC ).” 30 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 31 Board of Directors Mr. Ahmed El-Nahas attended Victoria College in Cairo and furthered his studies in Lausanne, graduating from Mr. Mohamed El-Etreby is a prominent banker with more than 30 years of experience in the banking field. Prior to Ecole Hôtelière De La SSH in 1961. Prior to returning to his native Egypt, he was trained in several Swiss hotels, joining Banque Misr, Mr. Mohamed was the CEO and Managing Director of the Egyptian Gulf Bank from January rounding out the theory learned at school until 1963. Back in Cairo, he joined the Nile Hilton as Captain and 2013 until December 2014. was promoted to positions of increased responsibility in the Food and Beverage Department until 1966, when he became Banquet Manager of the Hotel. A year later, he was sent to the Cavalieri Hilton Hotel in Rome to Mr. Mohamed El-Etreby began his banking career in 1977 with Arab African International Bank (AAIB), followed by undergo a training program, which prepared him for his next assignment as Food and Beverage Manager of the Crédit International D’Egypte bank. In 1983, he joined Misr International Bank (MIBank), currently Qatar National new Kuwait Hilton Hotel. Bank (QNB), where he spent more than 22 years, during which he held several senior banking positions and acquired Ahmed El-Nahas Mohamed El-Etreby multiple experiences in different key areas of banking business. Board Member By 1969, his long experience, familiarity with Hilton International methods and his fluency in Arabic, English, Chairman Committees French and Italian, enabled him to become the first Manager of the newly opened Al Ain Hilton in the Emirate Committees In September 2005, he joined the Egyptian Arab Land Bank as Vice Chairman and Board Member. In 2009, he was G, B of Abu Dhabi. The great success of this hotel led to the construction of the Abu Dhabi Hilton. In June 1972, Mr. E appointed as Managing Director of Arab investment Bank. In 2011, Mr. El-Etreby returned to Egyptian Arab Land El-Nahas was named General Manager of both operations. Mr. El-Nahas was given additional responsibilities Bank as the Chairman. In recognition of his great achievements, Mr. El-Etreby was appointed as the Chairman of as Director in the United Arab Emirates. In this position he oversaw the operation of the Fujairah Hilton, Dubai Banque Misr in January 2015. He is also appointed as the Chairman of Banque Misr Liban (BML) and is a Board Hilton, Abu Dhabi Hilton, Al Ain Hilton, Kuwait Hilton, and Bahrain Hilton. In July 1979, he returned to Egypt as Member of the Cairo Amman Bank, and the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Banque Misr Foundation for General Manager of the Nile Hilton Hotel. He then prepared for the opening of the Ramses Hilton Hotel, which Community Development and Welfare. he headed as General Manager. On July 1980, he was given additional responsibilities, whereby he became Other Current Positions: Director for all Hilton International Hotels in Egypt, namely, Nile Hilton, Isis and Osiris Floating Hotels, Fayrouz Village in Sharm EI-Sheikh, Luxor Hilton Hotel as well as Ramses Hilton Hotel. Board Member, Federation of Egyptian Banks (FEB) In March 1990, he was promoted to Vice President, Egypt, Gulf and Sudan. In 1994 he was promoted to Senior Board Member, Egyptian Mortgage Refinance Company (EMRC) Vice President Middle East and Africa and in October 1997 he became the Area President overlooking 32 Board Member, Egyptian General Company for Tourism and Hotels (EGOTH) Hilton Hotels, 21 of which he himself signed the management agreement. In 1998, he was once again promoted Board Member, General Authority for Investment (GAFI) to become President, Middle East and Africa and Board Member of Hilton International. After 36 years of Board Member, Egyptian Banking Institute (EBI), Central Bank of Egypt service with Hilton, Ahmed decided to retire, So as not to break the ties with Hilton, he has agreed to become Board Member, Faculty of Commerce, Ain Shams University (ASU) a Consultant for five years, helping in different aspects of the business and in particular with development Board Member, Faculty of Economics and Political Science, Cairo University opportunities in the Middle East and Africa. In 1999, he was given the title of President of the Egyptian Hotel Association and in 2002 he was elected as Vice President of the Egyptian Tourism Federation. Then in 2005, he was elected as the Chairman of the Egyptian Tourism Federation (ETF). Mr. El-Nahas has been elected again as Mr. Ahmed Abu El Ezz has over 30 years of diverse experience in Banque Misr, during which he held several Chairman of the ETF for its fourteenth term of 2008 – 2011. senior posts, including occupying the prestigious position of the General Manager of Banque Misr’s main branch. His current post is the Director of Central Operations at Banque Misr. Other Current Positions: Mr. Abu El Ezz had represented Banque Misr as a Board Member in four boards: Banque Misr Exterior, Chairman, Arab International Company for Hotels and Tourism Egyptian Global Fund for Investment and Belton. He also acted on behalf of the bank in a number of important banking conferences and financial gatherings in Kuwait, Bahrain, the UAE, and Egypt. He is also a member of the Board in BML (Banque Misr Liban), Misr Capital Investments, and Banque Misr Foundation for Community Ahmed Abu El Ezz Mr. Mohamed Sherif Sharaf enjoys a banking career of over 40 years, throughout which he occupied several top Vice Chairman Development and Welfare. executive positions, including: Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of ABC Bank-Egypt from 2008 to Committees 2010, Board Member and Chairman of the Audit Committee at Suez Canal Bank from 2006 to 2008, Senior Financial I, E Mr. Abu El Ezz completed a number of intensive training programs including the ”Senior Executive Program for Advisor at Egypt Kuwait Holding Company from 2006 to 2008, and the Executive Chairman of Export Development the Middle East” offered by Harvard Business School (USA). Mr. Abu El Ezz is a certified Board Member of the Bank from 2003 to 2006. Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority (EFSA) and the National Association of Corporate Directors (NACD) Mr. Sharaf graduated with a bachelor’s degree from the Faculty of Commerce at Cairo University in 1968. He held USA. He also holds the “Future Leaders Certificate” from the Egyptian Banking Institute (EBI). several post-graduate studies in economics and computer science at Stockholm University in 1971. He also studied Mohamed Sherif Sharaf business administration at the American University in Cairo in 1979. Other Current Positions: Board Member Committees Other Current Positions: Board Member, Kafr El Zayat Pesticides and Chemicals Co. (S.A.E) R,G,B,A Board Member, Misr Alexandria Fund For Financial Investments Managing Director, Misr Capital Investments 34 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 33 Dr. Ashraf El Sharkawy has more than 30 years of academic and professional experience in the Dr. Ali El-Saiedi has over 50 years of experience in the energy, electricity, and industry sectors. He is the Vice President of the fields of investment, accounting, and finance with a wide-ranging knowledge of banking and Board of Trustees of Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development and Welfare. non-banking financial instruments, regulations on capital markets, mortgage finance, insurance, Dr. El Saiedi was the Minister of Industry and Technological Development (20012004) and the Minister of Electricity and Energy financial leasing, securitization, and factoring. (1999 – 2001). Afterwards, he became a member of the Standing Advisory Group on Nuclear Energy (SAGNE) and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) (2005-2012). He was also a member of the Board of Banque Du Caire (2005-2008). He joined Dr. El Sharkawy is the former Chairman of the Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority (EFSA). Banque Misr’s board of directors since 2005. From 2008 to 2011, he was a Board Member of the Higher Council of Science and Technology as well as the Egyptian Water and Wastewater Regulatory Agency. He has also been serving as a Senior Advisor for the Chairman of the Egyptian Capital Market Dr. Ali EL-Saiedi Ashraf El Sharkawy Authority for six years. Dr. El Sharkawy has contributed to a number of significant legislations and Dr. El Saiedi held several prominent positions prior to his ministerial career. He was the Director of Technical Cooperation at Board Member Board Member financial regulations. the IAEA in Vienna from 1993 to 1999. During the same time, he was also the Chairman of the Board for the Power Generation Committees Committees Engineering and Services Company Egypt (PGESCo) . V, A, R, G, I A.G.R.I He had further served as a Board Member and Financial Advisor for a number of industrial and Dr. El Saiedi’s career in the field of energy, which included local and international positions, began in 1957 when he was appointed investment corporations. Dr. El Sharkawy is a former Board Member in the Central Bank of Egypt at the Egyptian Atomic Energy Authority. In 1968, he was appointed Assistant Professor at the Nuclear Engineering Department (CBE) and had served as a Chairman for its audit committee. He was a partner in Grant Thornton of Kansas State University, United States until 1970. In addition, he assumed several leading positions within the energy sector Egypt. Dr. El Sharkawy also served as Member of the Monetary Policy Committee, the Board of from 1982-1993 including: Secretary of the Supreme Council for Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy, Board Member of the Atomic Energy Authority, Board Member of the Nuclear Materials Authority, Board Member of the Electrical Power Systems Engineering Trustees of the Egyptian Money Laundering Combating Unit, the Board of the Investor Protection Company, and Head of the Nuclear Energy Branch of the Electricity and Energy Council at the Egyptian Academy of Scientific Fund, and the Board of the Real Estate Mortgage Guarantee Fund. He had also headed the Board Research and Technology. In addition, he was the Executive Chairman of the Nuclear Power Plants Authority (1985-1993). of the Egyptian Financial Services Institute, the Board of Trustees of the Egyptian Institute of Directors, and the Egyptian Corporate Social Responsibility Center. He also chaired the National Committee for Localisation of Components of Electric Power Stations and Equipment for Transmission and Distribution of Electricity (1988-1993) which included establishing PGESCo, the first company of its kind in Egypt and Middle East specialized in design and realization of major electric power projects. Dr. El Sharkawy is also the Founder and first Executive Chairman of the Egyptian Audit Oversight Board, where he participated in the preparation of the board’s regulations. Dr. El Saiedi was also part of the Egyptian team in charge of making Middle East a Nuclear Weapons Free Zone. He was also a member at numerous international expert groups, including the IAEA, to set systems and guides to help developing countries to Other Current Positions: use nuclear energy safely, including electricity generation, financing nuclear power projects, and overseas transportation of nuclear wastes. Professor and Head of Accounting Department, Faculty of Commerce, Cairo University Board Member, ASPEC and AMP Dr. El Saiedi earned a B.Sc. in Mechanical Engineering from the Faculty of Engineering at Cairo University in 1957. He also obtained a M.Sc. in Reactor Physics Technology from Birmingham University in 1961 in addition to a PhD in Nuclear Engineering from the Board Member, Incolease University of Illinois in 1968. He also completed a Fellowship at the National Defence College at Nasser Higher Military Academy Board Member, Misr Insurance Company (NHMA) in 1979. Other Current Positions: In a career spanning over 35 years, Mr. Mohamed El-Hamamsy gained wide experience in corporate and project Board Member, Arab Organization for Industrialization management, strategic planning, marketing, finance, human resources, training, and information systems. Board Member, Capital investment Co. Executive Advisor to the Board of Power Generation Engineering and Services Co. (PGESCo). Chairman of the board, Islamic Charity Foundation He is a board member in the Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development and Welfare and Misr Board Member, Egyptian Council for Foreign Affairs. Capital Investments. Mrs. Maha Enayet Alla holds 32 years of diversified experience in the banking sector; After graduating from the American During the course of his career, Mr. El-Hamamsy held various managerial positions in IBM Egypt from 1977 to Mohamed El-Hamamsy University in Cairo in 1982, she joined Chase National Bank (Currently CIB) where she spent almost 26 years; and worked in Board Member 1997, when he became the company’s Managing Director. He later moved to MegaCom SAE, where he held several areas, mainly corporate banking , branches management, and SME banking. She is also a member of the board of Committees the position of a Senior Consulting Partner for two years before he moved to become the CEO of Vodafone BML (Banque Misr Liban), Misr Capital Investments, and Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development and Welfare. A, V, R, G, I, B Egypt. She joined Banque Misr in September 2010. Her professional experience was complemented by intensive training programs Mr. El-Hamamsy received a B.Sc. in Telecommunication Engineering from Cairo University and two M.Sc. with renowned international institutions. Committee Membership Key degrees in management and Arabic Studies from the American University in Cairo. Maha Enayet Alla Other Current Positions: Audit Committee (A) Board Member Corporate Governance Committee (G) Other Current Positions: Committees Head of Business, Banque Misr Committee of Informatics (I) E, I,V, C , Investment Committee (V) Board Member, El Mostakbal for Urban Development Company PCRC, ALCO Executive Committee (E) Senior Credit Committee (C) Deputy Chairman, Board of Trustees, Vodafone Egypt Foundation Higher Risk Committee (R) Compensations and Benefits Committee (B) Board Member, Magdi Yacoub Heart Foundation 34 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 35 1-Audit Committee: CThe investment strategies and decisions in accordance with the committee’s set authorities. The committee handles a number of responsibilities that include: DSettlements and/or the rescheduling of remedial Board and executive Committees AFinancial statements loans in accordance with the bank’s set policies. • Studying annual financial statements before presenting them to the Board of Directors for approval • Ensuring that the bank’s Executive Committee periodically EAllocated provisions and reserves in accordance Audit Committee (A) reviews the value of collateral put up against loans and credit with the Central Bank of Egypt’s (CBE) regulations Responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process, including the risks and facilities and internal policies. BM Board • Studying the Central Bank of Egypt’s observations on the bank controls in that process, and should supplement representations received from and its financial statements following inspections and reporting The Board of Directors is the executive management with further information and assurance from both the The committee ensures the adherence to and internal and external auditors them to the Board of Directors with recommendations principal decision making enforcement of all the CBE regulations and authority at the bank , legislations. It follows up on the financial results Executive Committee (E) BInternal audit system setting the strategic direction and performance indicators of the bank on a • Reviewing the reports compiled by the Inspection Department, and ensuring that the bank Controls all funding operations, contributions made in the including reports on the sufficiency of the internal audit system monthly basis and addresses areas of concern. manages risks effectively. corporate capital and the bank’s credit facilities at the bank The Board is accountable to • Coordinating between the tasks of internal and external The committee approves capital expenditures auditing and ensuring that there are no obstacles preventing stakeholders for financial and communication between the head of the Inspection Department related to the purchase of new branches, IT operational performance. Corporate Governance Committee (G) and auditors systems and procurement, after being studied and Ensures strict adherence to the prudent principles of corporate governance • Reviewing the procedures adopted by the bank’s management approved by the relevant committees. and oversees the strict compliance to all relevant laws and regulations to ensure compliance with the Central Bank of Egypt’s auditing imposed by the Central Bank of Egypt and all other regulatory bodies standards and regulations The committee approves modifications on HR Committee of Informatics (I) policies, incentive schemes, and appraisal systems. CCompliance, money laundering and risk management Monitors the offered services, ensuring their needs are being • Reviewing reports compiled by the head of compliance at the catered for, up to the highest standards, to maximize the return on bank It evaluates the bank’s performance, competitiveness the bank’s investments in the field of informatics and brand positioning with regards to the local DAuditors market and in all countries where Banque Misr has • Providing recommendations to hire auditors and setting their branches and/or subsidiaries. Supreme Investment Committee (V) dues, reviewing issues related to their resignation or dismissal, in accordance with legal provisions and the Central Auditing Evaluates and allocates the investment budget on the bank’s macro Organization law The committees has administrative and financial level • Providing counsel on permission to assign auditors to provide authorities in accordance with the bank’s services to the bank, rather than reviewing financial statements regulations, approved by the Board of Directors. It also has lending authorities in accordance with the Senior Credit Committee (C) EInspection Department approved credit policy. Considers the present credit cases, according to the credit • Reviewing and adopting the annual inspection plan endorsement policy The Board of Directors may delegate additional ‫‏‬2-Executive Committee: authorities to the Executive Committee when deemed necessary to facilitate the bank’s Compensations and Benefits Committee (B) ‫ ‏‬he Executive Committee reviews the overall bank T operations. Oversees all relevant staff compensation and benefit policies, training, and career strategy, prior to submission to the Board of Directors development requirements and ensures the availability of effective staff recruitment for approval. 3-Corporate Governance Committee: and retention schemes within approved budgets The committee reviews and approves: ‫ ‏‬he committee handles a number of responsibilities T Higher Risk Committee (R) that include: Risk taking is an integral part of banking business. The BM strategy should ANewly delivered retail asset and liability products incorporate policies and actions regarding the risks it is willing to take and and/or financial schemes. ‫ ‏‬Defining clear boundaries of responsibility and A the means by which it will manage and mitigate those risks. The Higher Risk Committee ensures all relevant business risks are identified, their impact has been accountability in the bank and ensuring the clarity properly assessed and that there are enough policies and regulations in place to BCredit facilities within the authority granted to the of the rules relating to the existence of: manage all risks effectively committee and in accordance with the bank’s credit policy. ‫ •‏‬A policy to deal with related parties 36 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 37 • An effective system of internal control, risk management The committee focuses on the following areas: 7-Higher Risk Committee: including the results of the different assumptions and compliance with laws and regulations of stress tests (liquidity stress). ‫ •‏‬A workable policy to replace the different functions ‫ ‏‬Macro-economic and market conditions as they A Monitoring the Board of Directors and the executive ‫ •‏‬A clear policy of social responsibility towards both the employees and the customers pertain to the bank. management to make sure they are complementary ‫ ‏‬Emphasizing the independence of the Risk G responsible for the risk management in the bank. Management General Manager through his/her ‫ ‏‬Ensuring the availability of applicable policies, B BThe bank’s investment strategy, taking into account The committee also follows up on the functions of jurisdiction in directly reporting to the Board of systems and the means to verify the following: the implications of accounting standards, taxation risk management through: Directors or the High Committee of the Risks laws, regularity requirements and policies of the bank. AReports and follow ups on the compliance to ‫ ‏‬Senior management and the board of directors’ commitment • without any obstacles. Additionally he/she may to the principles of governance capital strategies, liquidity management, credit and not perform any financial or administrative ‫ •‏‬The application of good practices in the bank, in COverseeing investment exposures across multimarket risks, and operational risk and any other responsibilities that contradict with his/her job as accordance with the Basel Quota asset classes. risks the bank may become exposed to. General Manager of the risk management system ‫ •‏‏‬Staff commitment to the implementation of the industry code of conduct DReviewing Investment risk levels and for each asset ‫ •‏‬The bank’s assessment of the efficiency of governance to BControlling and supervising the development ‫ ‏‬Ensuring all risk management reports are rated H its potential customers as part of the process to approve the class and overall. and evaluation of the general risk management according to: granting of credit to such customers ‫ •‏‬The relevant departments indicating the bank’s adherence ESetting criteria for regular investment reporting. framework in the bank in terms of: credit, ‫ ‏‬The probability of occurrence of those particular risks • to the application of corporate governance rules, founded by investment, market and liquidity risk, as well ‫ •‏‬The completion of the internal control systems of the or added to the bank FEnsuring that investment guidelines are adhered as operational risk with all required policies, bank to manage those risks ‫ •‏‬The application of corporate governance rules in emergency too and that procedures are in place to ensure that procedures, systems and tools used by the situations and crisis management 8Compensations and Benefits portfolios are managed in compliance with investment executive management in the risk control and Committee: 4-Committee of Informatics: policies for each asset class. identification of acceptable risk (risk appetite) for each of the major risks in light of the surrounding ‫ ‏‬anaging the employees’ compensations and M Providing domain expertise, leadership and guidance GMonitoring performance in line with the bank’s environment, economic and financial current and all benefits offered to the bank’s staff under the to the bank to help it achieve its objectives through strategy and objectives. prospective conditions. supervision. the following actions: 6-Senior Credit Committee: ‫‏‬The committee is further in charge of: ‫ ‏‬-Constant reviewing of the bank’s strategies and A ‫ ‏‬Ensuring the application and follow up of the C activities. The committee also monitors the offered ‫ ‏‬eview and approve credit cases in accordance with R related concepts and policies in line with the ‫ ‏‬Reviewing the structure and competitiveness A services, ensuring their needs are being catered to, the bank’s credit policy. regulatory instructions and governance principles. of the income and benefits’ programs offered to up to the highest standards, to maximize the return the bank’s employees to make sure they comply on the bank’s investments in the field of informatics The Senior Credit Committee approves new credit ‫ ‏‬Auditing reports that contain the key risks D with the bank’s strategy to attract and maintain cases extended to corporate borrowers, and joins in faced by the bank; which covers all credit, outstanding human resources and to motivate ‫ ‏‬-Following up on the development of the bank’s B syndicated loans. investment, market, liquidity and operational risk employees to achieve the bank’s goals and services, the flow of its operations and the archiving and boundaries used for follow-up allocations (risk maintain growth. of data, by bridging between the bank’s reporting In addition, the committee conducts periodical exposures) in addition to the standards of the risk requirements and data architecture to ensure that reviews, in addition to restructuring and boosting BMonitoring and evaluating the overall structure management system in terms of acceptable risk all models of data are aligned with the bank’s main of the employees’ income and benefits through: existing credit facilities. percentages and rates. strategy ‫ ‏‬Studying and proposing fundamental aspects or • The committee takes decisions with regards to E‫ ‏‬Reviewing the procedures and policies followed changes related to the philosophy and strategy of the C-Managing the development and distribution of upgrading or downgrading borrowers based on their bank’s income and benefits for setting the maximum limits on risk and risk ‫ •‏‬Making sure the incentive policies granted to managers data and reports provided to the bank’s internal obligor risk rating, and channels critical cases to the concentrations (risk/concentration limits) as well do not lead to the acceptance of excessive risk and external customers along with eliminating risky remedial banking group. ‫ •‏‬Periodically reviewing the public policy programs of operations and protecting data from potential threats as ensuring that reports illustrate the trends in income and benefits and presenting them to the Board terms of investments and concentrations versus of Directors for approval 5Supreme Investment Committee: The committee ensures that the bank is safe-guarded, unauthorized limits. ‫ •‏‬Reviewing the long-term policy programs, such as the risks are properly mitigated, and collaterals are benefits related to the end of service or health care after Assisting the Board of Directors in overseeing the legally binding, valid, and enforceable. Pricing and retirement ahead of submitting them to the Board of F‫ ‏‬Reviewing the size of the bank’s liquidity Directors for approval investment activities from a strategic perspective. fees applied are also given major attention by the and making recommendations to the board on committee to ensure a risk-based return. the comprehensive framework for liquidity risk 38 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 39 “Businesses should encourage the development and disemmination of environmentally friendly technologies” The Ancient Egyptian agricultural community is an inherently sustainable one. Unlike current contemporary practices, like destroying rain forests to produce todays paper, Ancient Egyptian papyrus was considered as a renewable source of paper and other commodities like sandals and baskets, which could be even recycled. Detail from a wall at Temple of Hatshepsut near luxor 1478 1458 B.C. (18th Dynasty) 40 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 41 sustainability aspects are reflected in the BM’s Five Pillars of Good Governance: ‫‏‬OUR COMMITMENT bank’s overall operations through a number of policies: ‫ ‏‬he bank works to ensure the implementation T of the relevant governance policies through: ‫ ‏‬-Governance and Standards 1 -‫‏‬ Clients: Ensuring mutual benefits and ‫ ‏‬ur credibility as a leading financial institution relies on our operational integrity and the transparency of the O 2-Code of Conduct returns for the bank and its clients, excellent information we provide to our stakeholders. Upholding strong corporate governance, adhering to the highest ‫‏‬3-Whistle Blowing customer service, commitment to information ethical standards and effectively managing risk are all vital factors to our continuation as an accountable, 4-Data Protection and accounts’ confidentiality and transparency. transparent and well-managed financial institution. ‫‏‬5-Anti-Money Laundering 6-Remuneration System -‫ ‏‬Employees: Guaranteeing fair treatment, ‫ ‏‬anque Misr’s adopted policies reflect a strong commitment to achieving its objectives and guaranteeing its B 7-Risk Management suitable and safe working conditions, compliance with sustainability fundamentals. We at BM strive to maintain our high standards of service by commitment to the highest level of seeking new opportunities to develop our social and working environments. The bank continues to seek social ‫‏‬Governance and Standards: professionalism and work ethics and and sustainable development opportunities that have a positive impact on the economy and society. encouraging employees to participate in the ‫ ‏‬anque Misr’s board of directors is committed B bank’s different social and charity activities. to establishing and maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance in all ‫‏‬Goals: Encouraging funding projects that ‫ ‏‬r vision of sustainability Ou its operations. Good corporate governance contribute to the sustainable development and/or environmentally friendly projects that is crucial to BM’s long-term success and incorporates three main aspects: sustainability. We believe that a robust and serve a wider societal segment, including transparent corporate governance framework is micro projects with high rates of employment, vital to the sustainable success of Banque Misr. encouraging suppliers to abide by ethics The Economic Dimension: Highly ‫ ‏‬he Social Dimension: Requires the bank’s full T and support the rationalization of water/ emphasizes the ethical conduct of respect for the cultural norms, social values ‫ ‏‬M is run by a dedicated management team that B energy/ paper consumption, recycling and the our employees inside the bank and and differences among employees, in addition operates within a clear governance framework, protection of the environment. includes: corporate governance, fighting to engaging in projects of high social and/or corruption, protection of clients’ rights, developmental impacts. aiming to optimise stakeholder value and respecting stakeholders’ interests. This preserve maximum book value as businesses ‫‏‬Community: Adopting influential tools to comes in addition to the abidance to and assets are divested. With the objective of assist the community’s sustainability and avoid the rule of law in any decision-making continuously improving compliance measures unaccepted social practices. process and developing a robust as a key element in the bank’s control system governance operating model. framework, several channels for staff issues/ ‫‏‬Reports and Follow-ups: The bank’s Soci governance chief submits periodical reports al D code of conduct and petitions have been im introduced and announced to the employees. every six months to the bank’s Corporate en Governance Committee for follow up to ensure Dimensi E‫ ‏‬ffective corporate governance in accordance the implementation of the bank’s sustainability nomic n sio with the highest international standards is at programs and goals in line with the international the core of our identity and operations. We governance principles. These reports are also on work to ensure the responsibility, value-driven included in the Board of Directors’ annual o management and control of Banque Misr statement. c through our system of corporate governance, E which includes three key elements: good Banque Misr Code of Conduct: relationships with stakeholders, performancebased compensations for managers and BM’s reputation for integrity is one of its most Envi employees, and transparent reporting of valuable assets and is guided by the conduct problems. of its directors and employees. BM’s Code of imension Conduct obliges directors and employees to tD en ‫ ‏‬he bank’s board is also committed to the T avoid conflict areas involving a material risk of nm highest standards of integrity and ethics. damage to existing or potential clients’ interests. ro Matters relating to the internal control and risk They are bound by professional discretion and management governance as well as policies prohibited to engage in outside employment. The Environment Dimension: Closely monitoring for and practices concerned with compliance with any potential harmful impacts on the environment legal and regulatory requirements are treated as a direct or indirect result from any of the bank’s as a high priority in the Board of Directors’ operations, products, services or resources. meetings. 42 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 43 Employees can only share confidential day-to-day operations to ensure compliance information if essential for performing a job with all relevant statutory regulations, which ‫ ‏‬eveloping a Transparent Remuneration D function. There were no conflicts of interest may vary considerably from one country to System: from board members in FY 2014/2015. another. Total salaries and benefits for foreign ‫ ‏‬his section contains voluntary disclosures that T branches ‫‏‬W histle Blowing: Preventative measures and thorough control BM has agreed to with the Central Bank of Egypt, Amounts are expressed in Egyptian pounds help prevent loss of data and/or violation regarding levels of remuneration for our 10 highest of data protection regulations. We always paid senior executive officers. It also contains ‫ ‏‬ur staff act as our army, placed on the front O investigate complaints thoroughly. We also lines to ensure honest and ethical operations additional voluntary remuneration disclosures provide regular trainings to raise awareness on are conducted at all times. They take full data protection among our staff members to about levels of remuneration of employees in the accountability in maintaining our corporate ensure their compliance with regulations. bank’s local and international branches. 2015 reputation. Banque Misr provides regular 2014 2013 employee trainings on banking regulations and ‫ ‏‬ur Data Protection (Group Data Protection) O ‫ ‏‬he bank has maintained a sharp focus on human T 2012 codes of practice regarding illegal activities, office coordinates, assesses and monitors resources, regarded as one of its most important 2011 2010 such as bribery, corruption, money laundering practices in this field. It works closely with a assets. The construction of a new wage structure and insider trading, equal opportunities and network of data protection experts in the bank. privacy of data. is updated annually to keep pace with any potential changes in the domestic market’s wages. Banque Misr operates an inclusive compliance Modifications could be made to attract more ‫‏‬Anti-Money Laundering: qualified or young bankers. disclosure line, through mail, email and physical interviews, which is available to allow employees to make disclosures when the normal ‫ ‏‬ur anti-money laundering program provides O ‫ ‏‬he average monthly income of the bank’s top T channels for airing grievances or concerns are strong support for the international efforts to 20 employees in Egypt is 69,694 Egyptian pounds. Total salaries and benefits for Local branches unavailable or inappropriate. The compliance combat money laundering, financing terrorism The executive directors’ salaries are bench marked Amounts are expressed in Egyptian pounds disclosure line is available as an outlet for and other criminal acts. We scrutinize clients against comparable roles in peer banks. All staff employees’ concerns on a number of matters, and current transactions using meticulous salaries are set according to their professional including breaches of law or regulations, procedures and an automated monitoring experiences and up to the market’s standards. allegations of bribery and/or corruption, failure system. to comply with policies, suspicions of money laundering, breaches of internal controls and/ ‫ ‏‬he bank’s average monthly net salary for the entry T 2015 ‫ ‏‬anque B Misr’s anti-money laundering level stands at 3,600 Egyptian pounds. The average 2014 or fraud or deliberate error in the financial procedures are applied worldwide to all our 2013 records. annual cost of employees in terms of wages and 2012 business units, irrespective of their locations. benefits rose to 144,006 Egyptian pounds in 2015, 2011 2010 ‫ ‏‬he Regulatory Compliance department is T All our employees and senior managers are up 69% from 85,127 Egyptian pounds in 2010. responsible for the operation of the compliance required to comply with them to prevent the disclosure line and the handling of all disclosure misuse of our name or our products and/or ‫ ‏‬M remains committed to abiding by the CBE’s B cases on the regional and international levels. services for money laundering purposes. To regulations on payroll, which indicates that all banks’ ensure the application of the best possible employees and any third party contractor or service ‫ ‏‬ll compliance cases are reviewed and referred A compliance practices, BM routinely reviews its provider should get paid and on time. for appropriate investigations. Whistle blowing strategies and policies on money laundering. cases may also be raised directly with senior Total salaries and benefits for all executives, line managers, and with the human ‫ ‏‬ithin the scope of Banque Misr’s compliance W branches resources, security and fraud departments. program, all our employees are committed to Amounts are expressed in Egyptian pounds Amounts are expressed in Egyptian pounds fully complying with the local and international 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ‫ ‏‬he bank does not tolerate any risk to its longT standing esteemed reputation and is prepared anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws. All our Total salaries and to pursue a range of actions and alter outcomes senior managers and employees are strictly benefits for foreign branches 47,547 54,684 63,333 63,931 77,191 86,428 of its business plans to preserve its name, status, banned from receiving, accepting, offering, Total salaries and identity and integrity. paying or authorizing any bribe or any other benefits for Local 1,001,387 1,149,510 1,359,497 1,480,775 1,598,618 1,746,622 2015 2014 form of corruption. branches 2013 Total salaries and 2012 ‫‏‬Data Protection: benefits for all 1,048,934 1,204,194 1,421,829 1,544,706 1,675,809 1,833,050 2011 ‫ ‏‬anque Misr highly values the importance of B branches 2010 ‫ ‏‬e apply comprehensive systems to ensure W transparency and integrity in all of its business the appropriate use and protection of all dealings, to avoid any improper action or even data, particularly those related to customers’ the emergence of a questionable conduct information. We also implement special either from our employees or from any other procedures to minimize any potential exposure third party with whom we conduct business. to individuals or organizations engaged in illegal activities such as money laundering, terrorism, ‫ ‏‬anque Misr completed all the procedures B irresponsible environmental practices and/or for the purchasing of the technological in operations that may involve forced or child applications needed to implement the labor or violate indigenous or global human Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) rights. regulations for its branches in Egypt, the UAE and France. The process was executed through We apply comprehensive data protection concentrated efforts and involved the bank’s policies, rules, standards and processes to our most experienced staff and top management. 44 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 45 “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery” This timeless story of “Khun-Anub” demonstrates how he stood up for his right by sending letters to the mayor of his city to reclaim his extorted rights and how these messages were sent before the Pharaoh himself “Nebkaure Khety“. It became a trademark lesson for the students of AmunRa’s temple on how to demand your rights and illustrated how the judicial system in Egypt does not tolerate extortion and bribery. The Tomb Chapel of Nebamun 1350 BCE British Museum 46 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 47 ‫‏‬R isk Management: ‫‏‬BM service providers and SUPPLIERS I‫ ‏‬n a climate of a rising global financial concerns on risk, BM actively works to provide the best advice The building of strong relationships with a Banque Misr further works to ensure that all its and most reliable information to enterprises of all network of suppliers is essential to our services operations, employees and suppliers, adhere to the kinds and sizes to offer them a robust financial risk and operations. We select our suppliers laws and agreements pretaining to environmental management framework that satisfies compliance according to the finest standards. We seek and social risks, including the following: demands, contributes to better decision making in them the things we stand for, long-term and enhances performance. commitments, loyalty, ethics and transparency. • No to child labor: The bank’s administration ‫ ‏‬M’s audit committee provides an independent B and its suppliers are not allowed — under any assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness ‫ ‏‬onsequently, Banque Misr reserves the right to C circumstances — to employ children. of the overall risk management framework and verify the suppliers’ compliance with the Supplier risk governance structures within the bank and Professional and Ethical Code of Conduct. Both ‫ ‏‬Humane treatment: Suppliers should provide • reports directly to the BM’s Board of Directors. the suppliers and their subcontractors are urged a workplace free of harsh and/or inhumane ‫‏‬ to maintain all records necessary to demonstrate treatment. A successful risk management system is compliance with the laws and principles fundamental to the growth of BM’s business specified in the code of conduct. Suppliers are ‫ ‏‬No discrimination on the basis of race and • operations and the maximization of its also asked to ensure that their employees and all religion: Suppliers shall provide a work place shareholders’ value. As such, risk management is their direct or indirect subcontractors and agents free of harassment and/or inhumane treatment. at the core of our business strategies. The bank acknowledge and adhere to the principles of the regularly runs check-up procedures on all its code of conduct. ‫ ‏‬The reduction of resource consumption and • activities to ensure they remain protected from emissions: Suppliers are encouraged to use raw any major risks. If any violation to the Supplier Professional materials and natural resources in a responsible and Ethical Code of Conduct, the bank has the manner. The bank exerts all efforts to reduce the ‫ ‏‬he bank aims to continue achieving an T appropriate balance between risk and return right to take any action it deems appropriate to consumption of energy and fuel to lower their while avoiding or at least minimizing any potential address with the situation. associated dangerous emissions and encourage adverse effect on the environment, society and the use of environmentally-friendly operations. the bank’s financial performance. ‫ ‏‬M also requires that all its suppliers, and their B subcontractors and employees involved in the ‫ ‏‬Hazardous substances: The bank stresses on • ‫ ‏‬M’s risk management policies identify and B supplying of goods or services to the bank, the safe-handling and disposal of any substance. analyze risk and set appropriate risk limits and comply with the laws of the country and the efficient methods for control. They also monitor market. ‫ ‏‬Using safer technologies objective: The • adherence to those limits through reliable and bank favors the usage of new, progressive, and up-to-date information. ‫ ‏‬rivacy and confidentiality are crucial in all our P environmentally-friendly technologies. dealings. Suppliers are not allowed to disclose ‫ ‏‬he bank frequently reviews its risk management T any private or confidential information without policies and system to make sure they comply previous authorization from the bank. They are with the markets’ changes and the emergence also required to report on actual or suspected of new products. The bank’s risk department cases of disclosure or loss of any private or identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in cooperation with other relevant units in the bank. confidential information related to Banque Misr, its clients, operations or other suppliers the bank deals with. 48 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 49 “Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges” Egyptians worshipped the Nile River “Habi”. It was their umbilical cord. Even today, a common Egyptian blessing is: “May you always drink from the Nile!” Marsh Scene Tomb of Menna 1924 facsimile of original from ca. 1400 1352 BC Met Museum 50 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 51 ‫‏‬ENVIRONMENTAl SUSTAINABILITY ‫‏‬OUR PEOPLE Banque Misr remains committed to achieving strong and sustainable financial returns, while ‫ ‏‬t Banque Misr, we view human resources as our most valuable asset. Our work is a peopleA respecting the environment and the community within which the bank operates. To meet such led business and we heavily rely upon our employees’ commitments and efforts to continue our targets, BM established a plan to reduce the carbon footprint within its premises through adopting prosperity and success. We believe that high employee engagement leads to positive commercial various initiatives, including: outcomes, as it improves the business environment, leading to higher productivity, better talent retention, reduction of absenteeism, an overall enhancement in our services and higher customer satisfaction. ‫‏‬Lowering Energy Consumption: ‫‏‬Recycling: BM new and renovated branches are fully ‫ ‏‬M collaborates with various B ‫‏‬The bank highly regards its human resources as a vital tool for achieving sustainability through: equipped with modern LED lighting to recycling facilities and institutes to reduce energy consumption by 75%. secure proper disposal of wastes in ‫‏‬Values: The bank also highly appreciates special an environmentally-friendly manner. talents and works to provide them with care The bank is also planning to adopt an The bank recycled around 300 tons ‫ ‏‬e seek excellence in fulfilling all of our W and attention. Talented individuals are granted automatic system that includes occupancy of paper during 2015. customers’ banking needs and that is why we special opportunities to learn and increase their sensors to further lower its consumption of require high standards of conduct from all our competencies to be able to fill future key positions energy and water. BM carries out annual auctions to sell furniture and unused machines, tools, employees. We expect our staff to act with full in the bank. computers, cupboards, printers, and integrity in the execution of their daily duties. old cars. ‫ ‏‬anque Misr also believes in the importance of B ‫ ‏‬ur staff’s values and behaviors are the foundation O integrating more youth in the bank. In 2015, the for our respected image, which is projected in all average age of employees in BM went down to 38 our businesses. BM applies strict regulations on from 44 in 2005. the staff’s code of performance to ensure their full Reducing ‫‏‬Paper-Use: abidance to the bank’s code of ethics and internal ‫‏‬Investing in Our People: ‫‏‬Safety Procedures: ‫ ‏‬M also adopted a long-term plan to convert B policies. BM branches are fully equipped with fire from a paper-based to a paperless internal ‫ ‏‬anque Misr designs and implements a number B detection systems. business environment, encouraging its staff to conduct most of their in-office operations online. ‫‏‬Diversity: of training programs directed at enhancing the ‫‏‬ skills and knowledge of its staff, which lead to a The bank also equipped blue-collar The bank is further working to promote doubleside printing of internal memos, documents and ‫ ‏‬anque Misr is also keen to respect the different B direct positive impact on the bank’s performance. workers on its premises with safety boots, reports. values and opinions of its employees as part of protective masks and other tools to protect them from any potential harm from their its commitment to serve a diverse and inclusive I‫ ‏‬n this context, BM had developed a program BM will launch its internet banking service in exposure to dust or any other risks. 2016. The new service will decrease paper used society. All of BM’s employees are encouraged to called “Ma’an”, (Together), aimed at maintaining in offline transactions. It will also reduce the freely discuss their opinions and concerns. Biases a positive team spirit and developing an efficient couriered statements, amounting to 60,000 per month, to cardholders by around 30% within the and/or discriminations of any kind, including working environment among its staff members. next three years. those based on gender, age, ethnicity, religion, and disabilities, are met with a zero tolerance The program also offers seminars on the policy at Banque Misr. importance of teamwork and provides entertainment programs in which the bank’s ‫‏‬Emissions ‫ ‏‬hroughout its long years, Banque Misr had always T employees from the different regions interact BM substituted 52 old buses to be scrapped and recycled with new ones to reduce hazardous gas emissions by 80%. believed in equal opportunities. Diversity is a and get to spend quality time together, which The bank has further established an action guide to develop its branches to provide them with a healthy and fundamental value, a strategic business advantage promotes positive energy among the employees. environmentally-friendly workplace, where smoking is prohibited inside closed buildings. and a driving force for BM’s corporate culture. 52 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 53 ‫ ‏‬M signed a contract with Lobue Associates, B standards set by the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE), Human Rights and Working Welfare: staff members’ conditions and needs, offering a Inc. to train a number of employees to assess and the International Financial Reporting Standards maternity leave to 280 female employees in 2015 and improve the production and quality of the (IFRS). It also offered trainings on the fixed-income ‫ ‏‬he bank and its suppliers are committed to comply T along with 162 child care vacations for others. business environment. The PSI training program portfolio and crisis management, along with other with all applicable regulations, as well as with any is meant to ameliorate the business environment, courses in the fields of: capital markets, trading, existing industrial standards, agreements and/or ‫ ‏‬ur options for flexible working hours also support O improving its efficiency and raising the quality of investment, and assessment processes. The group guidelines on human rights and the welfare and our commitment to the work-family balance that the services offered by the employees to be fully had also organized special seminars for other staff safety of employees and clients by abiding with the we strive to provide to our employees in Banque equipped to understand and use PSI skills and members on the bank’s various products and mutual following requirements: Misr. techniques including: Process Flows, Capacity funds. Analysis, Production MIS, Manpower Tracking ‫•‏‬No to child labor: The bank’s administration ‫‏‬Employees with Special Needs: and Implementation Planning. Banque Misr Liban’s 220 employees receive constant and its suppliers are not allowed — under any work-related trainings to ensure the maintenance of ‫ ‏‬anque Misr’s sustainability strategy highly B circumstances — to hire children. ‫ ‏‬anque Misr also continues to increase the B an efficient work environment. emphasizes the importance of integrating all number of its vocational training sessions. BM ‫•‏‬Humane treatment: A workplace that is free of members of society in our bank. We are a bytheoffered 19,732 training sessions with a total of ‫‏‬Succession Planning: harsh and/or inhumane treatment is guaranteed. people tothepeople institute and hence we work 315,769 hours during the fiscal year of 2014/2015, ‫•‏‬No discrimination: harassments of all forms and/ very hard to integrate all kinds of people, including up from 297,532 hours of training in the previous ‫‏‬Future Leaders: or deliberate discrimination; on the basis of race, those with special needs, in our system. fiscal year. In addition, the bank also secured religion, political convictions, or on any other external trainings for 7,209 employees in 2015. ‫ ‏‬ur strategy in spotting young talents through the O basis are prohibited by the power of law. ‫ ‏‬he recruitment process puts into consideration T “Future Leaders” project was aimed to ensure that we the type of disability and the candidate’s skills and ‫•‏‬Health and safety: A safe working environment Additionally, BM provides extensive training have highly qualified candidates, who comprehend ability to meet the job’s requirements. is guaranteed at all times. opportunities and a supportive environment that our standards and work to exemplify our values, to be fosters career self-management in the Islamic able to hold future leadership positions. ‫•‏‬Wages and employment benefits: Salaries and Easing Employees’ Financial Burdens: Banking Sector. In 2015, 800 employees received employment benefits that satisfy all applicable 28 professional development training programs. Talent Program: employment laws are paid on time. Because Banque Misr understands the importance Additionally, the bank hosted five development of human resources and sees them as one of the workshops for a total of 150 employees on the ‫ ‏‬M constantly works to make sure it maintains a B Empowering Women: bank’s most important assets, the bank launched Islamic banking sector and its principles. fair share of talented young bankers, who are on par a new loan package for its employees that with the bank’s high standards, capable of meeting ‫ ‏‬e at Banque Misr view the high number of W included mortgage loans, personal loans and car The Capital Markets Group moreover follows its demands and implementing its strategies. female employees as one of the top indicators loans with facilitated conditions, as a gesture of the bank’s main principle of focusing on the for our success in implementing our values and gratitude to boost their performance. development of the human resources. It provides Employee Turnover: commitments towards society. regular training courses for its employees to keep ‫‏‬Competitive Benefits for Employees them up-to-date on the recent administrative and ‫ ‏‬anque Misr is distinguished by a low employee B In year 2015, women comprised 25% of the technical skills offered in the local, regional and turnover rate among other banks, which was total number of the bank’s employees. We also I‫ ‏‬n order to ensure our employees’ continuous global financial markets. recorded at 1.24% in the fiscal year 2014/2015, succeeded in raising the number of women in the satisfaction and to reflect our deep appreciation ‫‏‬In 2015, the Capital Markets Group organized and was mainly constituted by employees who had managerial level by 12% in 2015. to them; BM was eager to provide all its staff a special training course on the preparations of reached retirement age; reflecting a high rate of members with the most competitive benefits in banks’ financial statements according to the employee satisfaction. ‫‏‬BM also continues to work to accommodate female wages and salaries, medical care that also covers 54 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 55 59 the employees’ families, transportation facilities, number of employees working in the bank’s Leisure Travel: ‫ ‏‬reedom of Association and Collective F leisure travel along with a number of other social different branches and offices. Bargaining: and sports’ benefits. ‫ ‏‬M had also offered a 70% discount on a number B ‫ ‏‬he bank operates through an automatically T of leisure trips designed for its employees ‫ ‏‬e at BM respect our employees’ right to join, W ‫ ‏‬t BM; we provide competitive pay, benefits, A updated medical service system to save time during the summer and the winter seasons, form or not join a labor union without fear of and compensations based on performance. The and facilitate the process. The cost of the reprisal, intimidation or harassment. We are employees’ medical services; which included which positively reflected on their productivity, bank has recently built a new wages’ structure committed to establishing constructive dialogue offering special treatments to 103 patients improving the rate of compliance and boosting that is updated annually to keep pace with the with their freely chosen representatives. For suffering from Hepatitis-C, netted 139.9 million the general disposition of the employees during employees who are represented by a legally changes that occur on the wages in the banking Egyptian pounds for FY 2014/2015. office hours. The total cost of the leisure trips recognized union, the bank remains committed market. The year 2015 recorded an increase in was recorded at 9 million Egyptian pounds in FY to bargaining in good faith with all such the average employee cost to 144,006 Egyptian Post-Retirement Benefits : 2014/2015. representatives. pounds, up from 85,127 Egyptian pounds in 2010, ‫‏‬ marking a 69% increase. Child Labor : The total cost of the employees’ post-retirement ‫‏‬Social and Sports Activities: benefits had significantly rising over the past Employees Recognition Stemming from the bank’s strong belief in ‫ ‏‬anque Misr adheres to the minimum age B six years, going up from 34 million Egyptian providing employees and their families with provision of the applicable laws and regulations. pounds in 2010 to 38 million Egyptian pounds in ‫ ‏‬s a way of showing gratitude to our main asset of A the opportunity to practice sports, social and The bank strictly prohibits the hiring of 2011. Further, in accordance with the Egyptian individuals less than 18 years of age. The human resources, Banque Misr continues to hold Accounting Standards, Central Bank of Egypt entertaining activities, the bank invested in renovations for its Talaat Harb Club and is bank’s prohibition of child labor is consistent regular award celebrations for distinguished staff regulations, and a conducted study using actuarial currently working on establishing a New Cairo with the regulations of the International Labor members. Last year, the bank honored employee expertise, benefits surged to 320 million Egyptian Organization. Club with total investments of 100 million who held the first positions in competitions pounds in 2012, 619 million Egyptian pounds in Egyptian pounds. organized by the Egyptian Banking Institute in 2013, 499 million Egyptian pounds in 2014 and 2014. reached 497 million Egyptian pounds in 2015. ‫ ‏‬M further organizes frequent football B tournaments during the Islamic holy month of ‫ ‏‬anque Misr also adopted an initiative to B ‫‏‬Transportation Facilities: Ramadan and the Christmas and Easter holidays reward its best employees for their hard work and encourages its employees to participate and efforts. In 2015, the bank rewarded 95 ‫ ‏‬M is committed to providing an easy and B in them. Other similar tournaments are also employees based on their peer nominations. organized for volleyball, table tennis, chess, subsidized means of transportation to its basketball, swimming, squash and futsal games. employees to increase their productivity and The total cost of the sports activities amounted ‫ ‏‬edical Care for Our Employees and M ensure their general well-being. 2.9 million Egyptian pounds in FY 2014/2015. Their Families ‫‏‬ ‫ ‏‬M ensures the well being of all its employees B through offering comprehensive medical packages for them and their families. To fulfil such a goal, the bank contracted with a number of medical specialists, doctors, hospitals, laboratories and pharmacies to cover the vast 56 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 57 “Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination with respect To employment and occupation” The Egyptians had no word that meant “Queen”. The title of a female ruler was the same as a man’s: Pharaoh “The Ruling House”. Temple of Hatshepsut near luxor 1478 1458 B.C. (18th Dynasty) 58 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 59 ‫‏‬COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ‫ ‏‬orporate social responsibility lies at the core of Banque Misr’s strategy and in the hearts of its C employees. It is an integral part of how we operate and through which we measure our success in maintaining sustainability. Through responsible businesses; we aim to create value for the society and strive for a better economic achievement. We contribute positively and constructively through specific projects that are either carried out directly or by the ‫‏‬Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development and Welfare or through partnering with NGOs and development-oriented civil society institutions. Supporting National Projects: with a number of Arab and foreign leaders and businessmen. ‫ ‏‬anque Misr participated in the sponsorship of the B launch of the state’s New Suez Canal project in ‫ ‏‬he conference was regarded as a milestone in the T August 2015, out of its belief in the importance of government’s plan to enhance the performance of the project and its significance to the state’s longthe economy. term economic development. The project saw wide public support. ‫ ‏‬ew Mortgage Finance Programs for Low N and Medium-Income Citizens : Mashrouak Program : ‫ ‏‬s part of the bank’s pioneering role in pushing A ‫ ‏‬anque Misr also participated in the national B Egypt’s economy forward, Banque Misr announced project for community development entitled its participation in the Central Bank of Egypt’s (CBE) “Mashrouak”, (Your Project), by providing loans for mortgage finance initiative, with the aim of boosting micro enterprises that ranged from 1,000 Egyptian the real estate and construction sectors for the low pounds to 50,000 Egyptian pounds and others and middleincome citizens. In that regard, Banque for small enterprises in the range from 50,000 Misr has offered a long-term mortgage finance, Egyptian pounds to 2 million Egyptian pounds. with simple procedures, with 1,256 loans and an The finances had benefitted 6,700 entrepreneurs 92 million Egyptian pounds fund portfolio. in different parts in Egypt and had a funding portfolio of 200 million Egyptian pounds. Supporting the Grand Egyptian Museum Projects ‫ ‏‬ponsoring Egypt’s Economic S Development Conference : ‫ ‏‬anque Misr also allocated 12 million Egyptian B pounds to establish a special school, one of the ‫ ‏‬anque Misr sponsored Egypt’s Economic B Development Conference, the state’s largest major projects of the new Grand Egyptian Museum international economic event in 2015. The (GEM) – Phase III. The amount will be paid over three conference was the first international gathering for years and the bank has already made the second economists, businessmen and world leaders since payment. The new school will offer education the eruption of Egypt’s 2011 revolution. for 1 million students annually from different age groups, in the fields of arts, crafts’ making, sewing ‫ ‏‬he conference aimed to attract new foreign T investments to Egypt, to improve the state’s and jewellery designing. The new school, which is economic conditions and push for more growth expected to carry the name of the bank, is meant and reforms. It was held in the Egyptian resort to help encourage more youth to work in creative town of Sharm El-Sheikh in March 2015 and was industries. attended by President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi along BM has donated the amount of 12.3 million Egyptian pounds to the Aswan Heart Center that went into the constructing of a new fully equipped floor. 60 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 61 ‫‏‬Developing Historic Areas Developing Informal Settlements: ‫ ‏‬anque Misr cooperated with the Federation of the B ‫ ‏‬he banking sector’s firm belief in the importance of CSR T Egyptian Banks along with a number of banks; including led to their cooperation through the Federation of Egyptian Banks and other state institutes; including the armed the National Bank of Egypt (NBE), Egypt’s Commercial forces, to develop 17 informal settlements in Cairo and International Bank (CIB) and the state-owned Banque du on its outskirts. Banque Misr joined the initiative with 22 Caire to develop the historic Downtown area of Cairo million Egyptian pounds. for 10 million Egyptian pounds each. ‫‏‬Funding the Aswan Heart center : ‫ ‏‬articipating in the International Financial P Week Activities : ‫ ‏‬anque Misr provided financial support to the Aswan B Heart Center, an integral part of the foundation of the ‫ ‏‬anque Misr organized tours and seminars during the B internationally recognized Egyptian surgeon, Magdi international financial week, aimed at spreading the Yacoub, and one of Egypt’s most renowned charity financial culture among children and youth. organizations. The bank donated 12.3 million Egyptian pounds to the Aswan Heart Center, which went towards ‫‏‬Supporting Youth Sports Activities: the construction of a new fully equipped floor. ‫ ‏‬anque Misr continues to provide the best care for the B ‫ ‏‬he bank also bought prosthetic devices and wheel chairs T for 36 disabled persons. youth; stemming from its belief in their importance for the development and success of any society. The bank Funding Illiteracy Programs was happy to continue to sponsor the Egyptian Youth BM supports Orphans’ Day Futsal Championship that includes 176 teams from different parts in Egypt, for the fourth consecutive year. ‫‏‬Banque Misr has also been an active founding member in the national project for eliminating illiteracy. It had Employees Engagement: worked in collaboration with Ain Shams University and the General Association for Eliminating Illiteracy and Adult ‫‏‬Blood Donation Campaigns Education to provide literacy sessions for 300 women in ‫ ‏‬anque Misr launched blood donation campaigns B the governorates of Sohag and Sharqiya. among its employees under the supervision of BM’s Medical Service Administration, in collaboration with Funding Renovations of the Historic Manial the Ministry of Health, in a move signalling the bank’s Palace Museum concern to save lives in dire need of blood. ‫‏‬Supporting the Orphans ‫‏‬Banque Misr supported the Friends of Manial Palace Museum Organization by financing the restoration Banque Misr and the Banque Misr Foundation for work of the historic Manial Palace Museum. It also Community Development and Welfare also continued to play a significant role in social solidarity activities; like paid for the purchase of the museum’s display windows joining the community in the celebration on the Orphans’ The Arabian Organization for Social Responsibility Day, which takes place on the first Friday of the month of awarded Banque Misr with the Golden Excellence April. BM holds yearly celebrations for orphans on their Award and Certificate of Excellence in Corporate Social day in the governorates of Cairo, Alexandria, Menia, Beni Seuf, Luxor and Qena. The bank’s employees are Responsibility in 2015, in recognition of its input in the encouraged to join the celebrations as volunteers to restoration of Egypt’s historic Manial Palace Museum. organize and support the celebrations’ events. ‫ ‏‬MFCDW provides financial support to Ain Shams Specialized B BM launched a blood Hospital donation campaign among its employees 62 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 63 residents in a number of Egyptian villages, and Training 700 Youngsters Banque Misr Foundation for Community During the period from 2008 to 2015, ‫‏‬BMFCDW had organized a number of seminars to raise the public’s Development and Welfare: actively taken part in several developmental activities in awareness on health, social and economic issues. BMFCDW also trained 200 young men and women in coordination with a number of NGOs and universities the Shoubra El-Kheima district of Cairo to help them meet S‫ ‏‬temming from Banque Misr’s deep faith in to implement different programs in the fields of social Education the requirements of the competitive job market through the importance of supporting Corporate Social development, health, education and the development of Responsibility, the bank actively participated in several the economy. a number of awareness seminars and practical trainings. ‫‏‬Renovating Schools : activities to support the development of the community, including establishing a nonprofit organization in 2007 ‫‏‬Developing Egyptian Villages ‫‏‬The foundation also provided numerous training Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development workshops for youth in the fields of sales, accounting, specialized in this field under the name of: ‫‏‬Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development and Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development and Welfare (BMFCDW) majorly participated in the customers’ services, working with people with special Welfare (BMFCDW). BMFCDW is officially registered and Welfare (BMFCDW) joined a group of NGOs and development and renovation of a number of school needs, secretarial work, graphics, maintenance of under the Ministry of Social Solidarity. Egyptian universities from 2012 to 2015 in projects to classrooms and the establishment of universities in a appliances, running small projects, along with others. upgrade 35 villages and informal settlements in different number of Egyptian cities. It had also helped some trainees to find suitable job parts in Egypt. The foundation’s partners included Masr El ‫ ‏‬MFCDW aims to contribute to the overall development B opportunities. The foundation also provided technical Mahrousa Balady Association (MMBA) , the Association of the various sectors of society, including education, BMFCDW worked on the enhancement of the trainings to approximately 500 youngsters in Luxor, Sohag, of Upper Egypt for Education and Development (AUEED), culture, employment, the economy, public health and infrastructure of five schools in Luxor, Sohag, and and Menoufia. the Alliance for Arab Women, the Association for the the environment. It also supports other social solidarity Development and Enhancement of Women (ADEW), Menoufia. projects through working to strengthen civil society’s Omar Bin Abd El Aziz Association, in addition to the ‫‏‬Providing Scholarship Opportunities contribution to the BMFCDW’s projects to widen the faculties of agriculture and veterinary medicine of Benha Also, the foundation contributed to the comprehensive scope of its projects. University in the Nile Delta. development of the Modern Asfoun Primary School in ‫‏‬Acting upon its belief in the importance of science and Asfoun Village in Luxor, along with six other primary supporting the new generation of scientists, BMFCDW The foundation further works to offer support to ‫‏‬The developed villages included: and preparatory schools in Manshaa city in the signed an agreement of cooperation with Egypt’s Nile various scientific research centers, schools, universities ‫ •‏‬Al Hammas, Al Horayzat Al Gharbia villages, Markaz nearby southern city of Sohag. It also upgraded Kafr University for Science and Technology to finance and public hospitals. The foundation has also financed Juhyna, Al Zouk, in southern Sohag Al-Aamera Preparatory School in the Menouf city, education scholarships for 20 undergraduate students in a group of social projects either directly or indirectly ‫ •‏‬Tanfees and Asfoun villages in the touristic city of located in the Nile Delta governorate of Menoufia, different specializations, along with five others for graduate through non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Luxor which was inaugurated in FY 2014/2015. students with a total cost of 5.3 million Egyptian pounds. ‫ •‏‬Bishet Amer Village of Sharqiya in the Nile Delta The foundation also accepts donations from inside and • ‫ ‏‬Mit Kenana, Tersa, Karkashanda, Moshtohor, Namoul, outside of Egypt and from all individuals who wish to ‫‏‬Opening New Classrooms Culture: Manzala, and Toukh City in Qalyubia, on the outskirts engage in charity and development opportunities. of Cairo Contributions to the foundation are delivered to BMFCDW contributed to improving the learning Financing the Children’s Civilization and Creativity ‫ •‏‬Four villages in Menouf City in the Nile Delta special accounts offered by Banque Misr in all its governorate of Menoufia level of 2,900 school subjects through sponsoring reMuseum branches across the country. They can also be mailed ‫ •‏‬Kom Ghorab in Misr Al Qadimah, Cairo governorate enrolment classes in Luxor and Sohag. The foundation directly to the bank’s headquarters at 153 Mohamed also helped in establishing 46 new kindergarten BMFCDW agreed to cooperate with the Heliopolis Farid Street, Banque Misr Tower, Floor 22, Downtown, The foundation also worked to improve the quality of classrooms in Luxor and Sohag. Association to finance the establishment of a science center Cairo, Egypt. life for the residents of the previously mentioned villages in the Children’s Civilization and Creativity Museum by through developing educational and health services there, Renovating Sports’ Centers offering a grant of 6 million Egyptian pounds. The deal Stemming from Banque Misr’s firm belief in the vital along with providing trainings and job opportunities for the youth and upgrading the infrastructure of the aims to establish a distinguished science center for children role of BMFCDW, the bank had set an annual amount BMFCDW renovated and furnished three sports of its net profit to fund the activities of the foundation. dilapidated and old houses. to help explain to them, in creative ways, the school’s centers for youth in the town of Esna in Luxor and It also finances 2,000 families in need, on a monthly science curricula, develop the children’s scientific abilities It also sponsored medical convoys to serve around 5,000 Horayzat in Sohag. The bank had also provided these basis. and provide them with an interactive education experience. centers with educational equipment. 64 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 65 Supporting Developmental projects high-level training programs for doctors to aid them in their scientific research. Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development and Welfare (BMFCDW) dedicated The foundation also contributed to the development 1.5 million Egyptian pounds to finance a number of 33 medical units through the provision of of developmental and environmental projects appliances and medical needs for the universities in cooperation with Benha University, which and public hospitals. The foundation also took part included a project to preserve the production in upgrading and modernizing Cairo University’s of quails in an Egyptian village and another to Renal Failure and Surgeries Center in addition to the produce genetically modified rabbits in five other Fitness and Rehabilitation Unit of the university’s villages. The two projects targeted providing Abu El Reesh children hospital. Similar work was means to enhance the living conditions in done for the Obstetricians and Gynecologists Egyptian villages. Hospital of Ain Shams University, the Liver Research Institute and Hospital in Mansoura and in the Liver Supporting Health Care Projects : Hospital in Menoufia. ‫‏‬Providing Nutritional Biscuits for Students ‫‏‬The foundation also contributed to the development of Zagazig University’s hospitals, which are BMFCDW signed in 2015 a partnership agreement considered the largest network of university hospitals with the United Nations World Food Programme in the Nile Delta and Canal regions, by offering (WFP) to provide kindergarten schools in the Sinai donations to the Endocrine Unit, the Chest Diseases Peninsula and Luxor with nutritional biscuits for Unit and the Intensive Care Unit. 11,000 children. The biscuits provided were stuffed with dates and contain the basic vitamins needed to In addition, i‫ ‏‬t inaugurated a medical center in Mit Abu cover almost 25% of the children’s daily nutritional Ali Village in Minya Al-Qamh City in the Sharqiya needs. governorate, providing it with needed medical equipment. The center hosts clinics for: dentistry, The foundation also carried out a special school gynecology and obstetrics, internal medicine and nutrition program in the southern city of Sohag that heart, pediatrics, otorhinolaryngology, surgery, served around 500 students in five primary and urology, dermatology, reproductive medicine along preparatory schools. with medical labs. Developing Hospitals and Medical Units ‫‏‬The foundation further donated kidney dialysis BMFCDW aims to contribute to the overall development of the various sectors of the society including: education, culture, employment, competitiveness of products and services, the economy, public health and the environment. machines for Qena Fever Hospital, to contribute BMFCDW provides financial support to a number to help it to continue providing free treatment for of hospitals along with other medical centers, patients. including Ain Shams Specialized Hospital, the Mansoura Kidney Disease and Urology Center and ‫‏‬The foundation also contributed to the furnishing of the Magdi Yacoub Heart Foundation, which was an intensive care unit in Ain Shams University and directed towards the purchase of new equipment, the development of the emergency department in enhancing their medical services and providing Abu El-Rish children’s hospital. 66 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 67 The foundation also helped in furnishing needed Financing Developmental and Environmental facilities in the Fitness and Rehabilitation Unit of Projects ‫‏‬TECHNOLOGY Cairo University’s hospital and in the Injuries and Emergency Reception Unit in a hospital affiliated BMFCDW implemented 900 new economic with Zagazig University in the Nile Delta. This was projects for the youth and female-headed I‫ ‏‬n an effort to meet our clients’ aspirations and raise expectations, BM highly emphasizes the importance in addition to purchasing new medical equipment households in different villages. The of technology as a crucial element in the success of its operations. Over the years, BM renovated its for the kidney transplant unit of Assiut University’s projects included various sectors, such as IT infrastructure and technical services, adding new features and additional capacities and is currently breeding cattle and sheep, rabbit farming, working on streamlining its technical environment to remain dedicated to providing better experiences to Urology and Nephrology Surgical Hospitals. sewing, technical and craftsman trainings all customers. With the great strides achieved in the technology upgrades, as well as ensuring the stability for carpentry, plastering, plumbing, mobile and sustainability of all our systems, B ‫ ‏‬anque Misr continues to invest in technology through a range of ‫‏‬The foundation also equipped Talaat Harb Medical phone maintenance and electricity, all new projects, including: Center in the Tafnees Village in Luxor with new of which were aimed at enhancing the clinics for pediatrics, internal medicine, orthopedics, Infrastructure, Communications and obtaining the global Payment Card Industry Data standard of living for many families. an X-ray unit and a medical lab. Information-Projects Security Standard (PCI DSS) certification. This was in addition to implementing Access Right Matrix, ‫ ‏‬M recently implemented an agreement with B Risk Log, Control Compliance Suit, Pen test and Microsoft to provide the bank with a new Centralize Log Management System. ‫‏‬Supporting the Orphans external interactive website as well as automating the documentation of the credit provision and ‫ ‏‬Application of Information and Banque Misr Foundation for Community approval. The bank also developed an internal site Communication Technology-Projects Development and Welfare (BMFCDW) also (intra-net) to provide the employees with the bank’s different information and updates as well as receive Underlining our commitment to a sustainable contributed to Al-Manarat project that seeks to take their complaints and suggestions. Moreover, BM success, the continuity of development plans and care of orphans and single mothers in the following implemented the Swift Alliance system and the IP the complete restructuring of the different activities areas of Cairo: Basateen, Dar Al-Salam and Arab telephony project. and branches remain at the core of our principles Maadi, serving 650 children and their families and objectives. Banque Misr continues to serve ‫ ‏‬he bank also developed a new website for money T and reach customers anywhere, anytime through monthly. transfer that allowed transfer operations between different electronic channels by upgrading the the bank and its foreign correspondents, which core banking application (Flexcube) system that The foundation also worked to provide school resulted in a quantum leap in the number of daily connects all branches with a unified electronic supplies and new cloths for 1,000 children yearly. In transfers, recording an average of 16,000 transfers system. addition, BMFCDW continued to directly sponsor with a total cost of 42 billion dollars. Furthermore, BM offered training sessions for 11,000 employees It is a comprehensive banking system designed a group of over 2,000 orphanages, female-headed to provide the highest levels of banking services on how to best use the latest operating systems. households and families in need. to clients, allowing them to easily carry out any banking process swiftly and with the highest Out of our commitment to offering our clients the standards of quality and flexibility, implementing best service and making their visit to the bank an internet-banking applications to serve our enjoyable one, we had developed and improved customers and attract new segment of clients. We our queuing system. BM has completed the first have further expanded our ATM network to serve phase of developing its network infrastructure for our customer and all other financial institution 150 branches using WAN Optimization technology. through 1,400 ATM machines. ‫‏‬Security of Information ‫ ‏‬Banque Misr became a regional pioneer after becoming the first bank in Egypt and North Africa to comply with the PCI data security standards, 68 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 69 ‫‏‬CORPORATE BANKING Foreword Financing Environmentally-Friendly ‫ ‏‬elivering Excellence in Corporate D Projects: Banking: ‫ ‏‬ur deep faith in the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) concept of supporting manpower to O achieve sustainability has prompted us to ensure that our financing schemes integrate both the ‫ ‏‬anque Misr believes that supporting the B ‫ ‏‬ur excelling services recently landed us O social and environmental standards in the assessment phases. In lending large-scale projects, environmentally-friendly infrastructure projects multiple awards from major global financial Banque Misr gave more attention to the projects of high economic and/or social impact, along with is fundamental to maintaining its key strategic institutions. According to the Bloomberg’s environmentally-friendly ones. objectives for sustainable development. In league tables on Global Syndicated Loans for FY 2013/14, Banque Misr secured 319 million the first half of 2015, Banque Misr succeeded in: OUR APPROACH Financing National Projects: portfolio volume to 55.9 billion Egyptian pounds, Egyptian pounds for the purchase of 212 railcars a remarkable growth compared to the prevailing for the Egyptian National Railway Authority and 1-Maintaining its ranking as the best ‫ ‏‬anque Misr plays a leading role in B market rates. the upgrading of one of the passages in Cairo Bookrunner for Syndicated Loans and Project financing large-scale national projects that International Airport. Finance Transactions across Africa for the first significantly contribute to the Egyptian I‫ ‏‬n addition, the total recognized commissions two quarters of 2015. economic development, particularly in the in the department’s scope of work during fiscal I‫ ‏‬n FY 2014/2015, the bank provided 3.227 billion sectors of petroleum, energy, electricity, gas, year 2014/2015 surged to 897.4 million Egyptian Egyptian pounds to finance the South Helwan 2-Achieving the second best Mandated Lead telecommunication, aviation, tourism and pounds, recording a 74% growth rate. Power Station, the Walidia Thermal Power Arranger across Africa. HOW BM OPERATES construction. Its public and private corporate Plant’s new unit, along with other energy-related loans have also increased to 56 billion Egyptian ‫ ‏‬oreover, the Corporate Banking and Syndicated M projects as part of a national emergency plan to 3-Ranking the third best Bookrunner for pounds while the total loans’ portfolio rose to 67 Loans Department succeeded in maintaining increase the production of electricity. Syndicated Loans and Project Finance billion Egyptian pounds. an adequate portfolio credit rating, despite the Transactions across the Middle East and North prevailing political and economic conditions in ‫ ‏‬anque Misr has also been very committed to B Africa region (MENA). ‫ ‏‬hrough a highly skilled team, BM’s corporate T the region. Concentration levels of the granted finance eco-freindly projects that aim to achieve banking arm is dedicated to providing creative facilities within the portfolio’s sectors by June sustainable development. In FY 2013/2014, the ‫‏‬According to Bloomberg’s Ranking Report of financial packages, aiming to exceed our clients’ 30, 2015 complied with the concentration bank provided 450 million Egyptian pounds December 2013, Banque Misr was the only expectations. percentages, according to the approved credit to finance the Egyptian Pollution Abatement Egyptian bank ranked amongst the top 20 policies from the bank’s board of directors, in Project (PMU) of the National Cement Company financial institutions for Syndicated Loans ‫ ‏‬anque Misr has the honour of continuously B addition to other efforts to expand facilities (NCC), which enabled the company to use coal our activities across promising sectors to further reduce Bookrunners across the Middle East and North holding a high position among banks in Egypt in its operations. and the Middle East region, sustained by its longconcentration percentages within the portfolio. Africa. standing expertise in leading landmark funding I‫ ‏‬n FY 2014/2015, Banque Misr secured 460 transactions among different sectors within very I‫ ‏‬n light of Banque Misr’s vast experience and key million Egyptian pounds to finance a new project ‫‏‬In a further statement from Bloomberg on the tight time frames. It has also proven capable of performance in successfully leading landmark that upgraded the production lines and installed classification results, Banque Misr topped the guaranteeing and covering such transactions. transactions in diversified sectors within very an extra unit for the South Valley Cement list of the best banks within Africa regarding BM also led, arranged, and underwrote most of tight deadlines, 14 new syndicated loans have Company. It also helped to supply and install performance level and marketing financing financial performance the market’s largest transactions carried out in been concluded throughout the year of 2015 an alternative fuel unit for the Amreyah Cement transactions, with a major margin of difference the past 10 years. with a total finance volume of 41.3 billion Company and Wadi El Nil Company. Egyptian pounds; the biggest transaction in the from the holder of the second position, the ‫ ‏‬ur Corporate Banking and Syndicated Loans O market in the period from July 1, 2014 to June Bank of China. BM was the first Egyptian bank ‫ ‏‬anque Misr also runs intensive check-ups on B Portfolio (Direct and Indirect) net growth 30, 2015, out of which BM had underwritten all projects to make sure they comply with the to lead such ranking in the past three years, amounted 12 billion Egyptian pounds in a total amount of 9.5 billion Egyptian pounds, Ministry of Environment’s regulations. during which the first position was dominated FY 2014/2015, leading to an increase in the holding 8.7 billion Egyptian pounds. by European banks. 70 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 71 ‫‏‬RETAIL BANKING terms of the volume of issued e-payment cards ‫‏‬In this respect, the bank has held several I‫ ‏‬n its continuous efforts to meet and exceed clients’ expectations, BM continues to provide its clients which reached 3.8 million. As part of the bank’s symposiums for the youth, in addition to with the highest safety and quality measures through a range of creative products and services. strategy in promoting e-commerce and tourism, organizing school trips to BM’s different branches clients who have savings in the bank in the we introduced the DCC system, which allows and to the museum of Mohamed Talaat Harb, the ‫‏‬Continuous Geographical Expansion: form of certificates, deposits or saving accounts. purchases from Banque Misr’s traders. The system bank’s founder. Banque Misr has also, throughout Through the Fast Cash service, loans are provided is a financial service in which credit card holders, such tours, offered educational scholarships to ‫‏‬As we aim to help our customers access their with the clients’ savings as a guarantee. The value when making a payment in a foreign country, get a 1.3 million students, in cooperation with the accounts in the most convenient ways, the bank of loans is estimated at 5 million Egyptian pounds the cost of transactions converted to their home Ministry of Education and the Egyptian Banking plans to open new 275 branches over the next with the added value of having the most prompt currency at the point of sale. Institute. three years, including 255 mini branches. The expansion plan comes in line with the Central and facilitated administrative work with the least expenses. It also has a high loan rate at up to 90% ‫‏‬Financial Inclusion: ‫‏‬Supporting Home Ownership: Bank of Egypt (CBE) initiative to foster greater financial inclusion to increase the number of of the saving fund’s value. Banque Misr also offers a diverse range of loans catered to serve all our ‫‏‬Aiming to turn Egypt to a cashless society, Banque ‫‏‬BM believes that the inclusion of new segments banks’ customers. Our ultimate target is to have clients’ different needs with many competitive Misr pioneered to occupy a total market share from the society best supports the safety of the easy access to all parts of the country to reach all advantages. The loans include personal loans, of 45% in automating governmental workers’ bank’s financial system, widening and enhancing the different social segments. car loans, real estate financing, loans for durable salaries through its ATM machines. The bank has its services and outlook. It also has a positive commodities and memberships in sports’ clubs. maintained first place for the 11th consecutive year impact on the overall economic activity of the ‫‏‬Banque Misr also added many new services to in this field. The total value of automated salaries country, as it increases the amount of people’s its ATMs in addition to their basic service of cash ‫‏‬BM also improved its tax and customs e-payment had reached 20 billion Egyptian pounds used by savings and investments, thus ensuring the withdrawal and deposit. These services included service through 296 branches spread all over 1.15 million card users from the public and private mobilization of the financial resources through monetary transfers between individuals without Egypt, and was able to collect 5 billion Egyptian sectors, in addition to 45,000 accounts. official channels. This in turn positively reflects payment cards, the payment of bills, donations, pounds through this service. This is in addition on the economy, increasing its growth rates and and various subscription fees. The new services to applying the CPS corporate services, allowing Further, based on Banque Misr’s firm belief in decreasing poverty and unemployment rates. are launched in collaboration with Fawry, an customers to pay taxes, tariffs or other government the importance of financial planning for the e-payment solutions company. The number of dues from their offices without going to the bank. prosperity of the people and the development of ‫‏‬BM participated in the Central Bank of Egypt’s bill payments through the new services totalled Banque Misr was ranked first in the government the economy, it works to ingrain the concept of (CBE) initiative offering long-term loans to low and 85 million Egyptian pounds. payment services, CSL and customs’ duties. saving and investing. middle-income housing projects. Such projects are considered very promising for the banking sector ‫‏‬Enhancing Service Level: Moreover, BM came in first place in terms The bank participated in the Central Bank of as they are highly encouraged and supported by of the collection of traders’ operations, with Egypt’s initiative entitled “Ashann Bokra”, (For the government, which views them as an effective ‫‏‬Banque Misr recently launched a new line of 12,150 POS terminals spread across Egypt with Tomorrow), which aims to spread financial method to attract new local and foreign investments personal loans called the “Fast Cash”, which a trading amount of 5.4 billion Egyptian pounds. awareness among the youth through educational through public-private partnership housing projects. provides loans to both Egyptian and foreign In addition, the bank was ranked second in bulletins and bank tours. 72 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 73 The CBE announced in February 2014 that it Adapting to the latest technologies in internet banking, allocated 10 billion Egyptian pounds to finance BM will launch its secure and convenient internet SME BANKING low and middle income citizens to buy houses at a banking services within 2016. The new service will low yearly interest rate of 7% to 8%. BM has so far decrease paper used in offline transactions. It will I‫ ‏‬t is Banque Misr’s unwavering belief that the small and medium enterprises (SMEs) industry is the contributed with 3 billion Egyptian pounds to the also reduce couriered statements, amounting to gateway to economic prosperity and as such we continue to offer them sustained support in the form CBE’s initiative. 60,000 statements per month, to cardholders by of distinguished opportunities to grow their businesses. Having the largest number of branches, BM approximately 30% within the next three years. has an edge over other banks in being accessible to all kinds of entrepreneurs: micro, small, and mid ‫‏‬Supporting Local Community Projects: cap. ‫‏‬Gaining Strong Foothold: ‫ ‏‬s the bank continues its leading role in pushing economic and social development, Banque Misr A ‫‏‬BM joined a national campaign to replace the old continues to work to actively offer SMEs appropriate financing services. taxis in Egypt to improve the transportation sector ‫‏‬Banque Misr took the lead in the Bank’s Electronic and minimize the pollution caused by the old taxi Delivery Channels through operating the largest network Offering Funds and Boosting Investment and the Principal Bank for Development and Opportunities: Agricultural Credit (PBDAC). The initiative was vehicles that had a negative impact on tourism and of branches, ATMs and Point of Sales (POS) terminals launched in April 2015 to fund small and medium the community in general. In collaboration with across Egypt. In continuation of the bank’s strategy to ‫ ‏‬e view it as more of a social responsibility than W projects. the Ministry of Finance, BM offered 300 million develop, it has opened new branches throughout the a business opportunity to be more involved in Egyptian pounds for the purchase of 4,600 new country, increasing its network of branches to more developing the SME sector. We do whatever we ‫ ‏‬raining and Development Opportunities T believe is necessary to help SMEs succeed. We for Clients: taxis. than 500. Additionally, the bank has expanded its increased the SME funding portfolio to 5.3 billion sophisticated network of ATMs, reaching a total of Egyptian pounds by the end of June 2015. ‫ ‏‬e encourage SMEs to adopt sustainable business W Supporting Customers and Data 1,400. practices to gain confidence. We consistently Protection: ‫ ‏‬M has invested a great portion of time and B provide our SME clients with business advice ‫‏‬The value of the retail-banking portfolio at Banque resources to increase the number of branches and support through holding training workshops ‫‏‬Providing a wide range of products and services Misr recorded 8 billion Egyptian pounds in June 2015, that serve SMEs to 188 branches, covering 25 in collaboration with the European Bank for of Egypt’s 27 governorates. Through its micro Reconstruction and Development and the allows the bank to create and sustain profit and surging from 5.8 billion Egyptian pounds in the same financing services, Banque Misr has expanded its Frankfurt School of Finance and Management. fulfill its primary goal of keeping clients secure and month of 2014, with a 2 billion Egyptian pounds funds to 387 million Egyptian pounds for 32,664 We view the workshops as a prerequisite for satisfied. BM applies the latest modern technologies increase and a growth rate of 36%. SMEs clients with a 150% growth rate. During effective financial inclusion as they enable to protect its clients from any e-piracy risks, and 2015, Banque Misr approved 180 million Egyptian enterprises to make informed decisions, deal with consequently, the bank was ranked the first Egyptian ‫‏‬BM acquires 45% of the market of governmental pounds to fund 551 small enterprise clients; in its financial complexities on a day-to-day basis and latest efforts to encourage private employment, take effective actions to improve their financial bank to meet the requirements of PCI DSS compliant employees’ salary transfers. It also serves 489 companies reduce poverty and achieve an overall sustainable situations, welfare and avoid distress in financial systems. Furthermore, Banque Misr maintained its on employees’ salary transfers. The total amount of matters. social development and economic growth. number one ranking for the 11th year in a row in the transferred salaries is 20 billion Egyptian pounds field of automating government workers’ salaries. annually. ‫ ‏‬he bank works in collaboration with the T ‫ ‏‬he bank continues to reach out for more and T The bank also kept its rank at first place with respect government to ensure that creditworthy SMEs have various business classes through conducting access to ﬁnance working capital and investment. extensive research and market studies with the to the total number of operations conducted through We provided new funds to 1,816 SMEs of 44 help of specialized professionals to know what the Debit Card Scheme and Shared Cash Network new tools or services are needed for the various million Egyptian pounds through the “Mashrouak” “123”. initiative, a joint project between the Ministry of business communities to prosper. Local Development, the National Bank of Egypt 74 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 75 “Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining” The Egyptian labor system made sure that taxes in ancient Egypt also supported the wages of skilled workers, scribes, artisans, and military personnel, as well as financing large projects carried out by peasants during times of flood. Egyptian wall paintings from The New Kingdom, facsimiles of ancient Egyptian wall decoration 76 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 77 and food, IT and communications amongst integrated financial solutions to our clients’ CAPITAL MARKETS GROUP others. most challenging issues. ‫‏‬The bank holds equity stakes in 162 companies The group is also active on both the Equity with a total capitalization of 108 billion Egyptian Capital Markets (ECM) and the Debt Capital Markets (DCM), fulfilling Banque Misr’s role ‫ ‏‬anque Misr’s Capital Markets Group aims at maintaining the bank’s leading position in Egypt to B pounds as of June 30, 2016. in transactions and focusing on originating, continue to be the most obvious choice for retail and corporate banking in the area of financial structuring, pricing, executing, underwriting, management and specialized investment services, while creating favorable value for the bank’s The bank has endeavored to strengthen the and fund raising basic fixed income securities. capital structure of 13 companies within its various stakeholders. Total income generated from the group’s activities amounted to 2.4 billion This comes in addition to offering securitized direct equity portfolio by injecting 900 million Egyptian pounds during FY 2014/2015, marking a year-on-year increase of 650 million Egyptian products for our corporate and institutional Egyptian pounds into their capital. Meanwhile, clients through relying primarily on our large pounds, which accounts for a 37% increase. Accordingly, the annual average growth rate generated capital gains realized from the diversification of underwriting capabilities and widely distributed from the income group’s activities over the past five years stood at 22.5%. The fair value reserve for equity stakes in some companies amounted to network. assets managed by the group reached 3.1 billion Egyptian pounds on June 30, 2015, compared to 2.9 225 million Egyptian pounds in 2014. billion Egyptian pounds of the previous year, marking an 8.6% growth. The bank has promoted and guaranteed four ‫‏‬Investment Banking Services securitized bond issuances during the year, totalling 2.1 billion Egyptian pounds, of which ‫‏‬Pool of Expertise: Funds in the Middle East for the years: 2008, ‫ ‏‬he Capital Markets Group also provides T the bank’s share of underwriting was 0.6 billion 2012, 2013 and 2014 and Best Provider of companies, institutions and the government Egyptian pounds. ‫ ‏‬he Capital Markets Group relies on a diversified T Short-Term Investments/Money Market Funds with a wide range of comprehensive and group of in-house experts who are able to in the Middle East for 2015. innovative financial services to enable them ‫‏‬Real Estate Services lead and offer a wide spectrum of integrated to achieve their financial goals and implement financial services, including managing the ‫‏‬Portfolio Management their short and long term plans. ‫ ‏‬he Capital Markets Group team is also T proprietary, listed equities and bonds portfolio responsible for managing the bank’s real estate of the bank. They also offer corporate advisory ‫ ‏‬he Capital Markets Group actively manages T S‫ ‏‬temming from Banque Misr’s leading role assets’ portfolio, which involves the purchasing and transaction banking businesses (trustees and monitors Banque Misr’s proprietary in supporting the Egyptian economy, the and selling of different kinds of real estate and securities services), sales and security trading equity and fixed income, local and bank plays a vital role in supporting the debt properties on behalf of our customers. It also trading and distribution of diversified mutual international portfolios, as well as managing instruments in the market and also acts as a works on conducting real estate marketing funds. the bank’s investments in the mutual funds of main pillar to fund the state’s investments and auctions as well as promoting industrial and ‫‏‬ other banks. activate its efforts to offer a one stop shop for touristic projects. ‫‏‬The Capital Markets Services: investors. ‫ ‏‬he rise in prices of shares at the beginning T The bank has divested a number of its non‫‏‬The Mutual Funds of the current fiscal year encouraged the ‫ ‏‬he bank also has directly funded the state’s T earning assets during FY 2014/2015, generating management to continue adopting a profittreasury through the purchase of treasury bills and government securities with an average capital gains of 396 million Egyptian pounds ‫ ‏‬anque Misr’s Mutual Funds business is one B taking strategy, that led to its recording 450 balance of treasury bills and bonds of 173 from the sale of such assets compared to 111 of the largest and oldest in the Middle East. million Egyptian pounds in gains on sale of Established in 1994, Banque Misr currently listed equities in FY 2014/2015, up from 419 billion Egyptian pounds in June 2015, marking million Egyptian pounds a year earlier manages eight mutual funds. The bank has million Egyptian pounds in the previous year. a 36% increase compared to the closing figures a diversified range of mutual fund types that of June 2014 and achieving a profit of 18.1 ‫‏‬Custody and Trustees Services include Money Market Funds, Balanced Funds, ‫‏‬Equity Participation and Direct Investments billion Egyptian pounds. Equity Funds, Capital Guaranteed Funds and ‫ ‏‬anque Misr’s Capital Markets Group custodian B Islamic Funds. The bank’s funds aim to cater offers a range of services to meet all of the ‫ ‏‬anque Misr supports all efforts exerted to B ‫ ‏‬he bank’s Capital Markets Group’s services T to different client needs, on both the individual customers’ needs and objectives. This includes develop the Egyptian economy, becoming one in that area also included: mergers and and corporate levels. the purchasing and selling of securities, of the largest and most active private equity acquisitions, transitions, bonds (both corporate subscribing in public offered shares and bonds investors in Egypt through direct shareholding and securitized), privatization deals, initial In recognition of the bank’s continuous efforts on behalf of customers, as well as issuing account in companies across a number of vital economic public offering (IPOs), and divestitures, as well to offer the best and most advanced services statements, collecting securities coupons, and sectors. as acting as a financial advisor for corporate to all its esteemed clients, the leading financial offering all corporate actions for individual and restructuring. advisory, Global Finance, named Banque Misr institutional clients alongside sub-custodian ‫ ‏‬he bank’s Capital Markets Group holds a T as Best Provider of Money Market Funds in services. diversified direct equity portfolio among ‫ ‏‬ur team in the Capital Markets Group O Africa and the Middle East for the years: 2009 different sectors, including tourism and works alongside the different industries to and 2010, Best Provider of Money Market services, construction and housing, agricultural help develop and deliver strategic and fully 78 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 79 ‫‏‬CORRESPONDENT NETWORK AND TREASURY Correspondent Network: Treasury: drop in the country’s strategic foreign reserves under the Credit Derivatives division through and currency value. Our bank was one of the international transactions’ room, credit linked ‫‏‬Banque Misr has a huge network of around ‫‏‬The treasury department plays a very best banks in providing adequate liquidity, note (CLN) and first to default (FTD) which 280 correspondent banks covering 59 important role within our banking system. Its which had a positive impact on the national contributed to the bank’s profits. countries to ensure a smooth flow of business significance as a provider of sufficient liquidity economy; boosting its performance during between clients and their counterparts is crucial to the performance of any bank or difficult circumstances. ‫‏‬We were also the first to join the “Dollar around the globe. Our worldwide presence financial institution. The constant availability Interbank” mechanism, established in through foreign branches, subsidiaries, and of cash allows the bank to cater to its clients’ ‫‏‬In the context of the bank’s commitment 2004. The dollar loans between banks on correspondent banks has enabled us to provide and corporate customers’ immediate financing to facilitating the mobilization of imported the local market are considered an important the fastest and the most efficient services to needs. Our treasury department also works goods and essential services, Banque Misr component in any successful free exchange rate our customers to meet both their current and on effectively investing any liquidity surplus allocated foreign-currency letters of credit system. The interbank in dollars also ensures future needs. in the best and safest available methods to and documents against payment for importing a better functioning of the foreign exchange achieve high returns with low risk. Moreover, goods of around 9 billion dollars during the FY market in Egypt, already battling tough political ‫‏‬In cooperation with our correspondent banks, it provides practical solutions through 2014/2015, in addition to a currency exchange and economic conditions. we provided funding sources for foreign different financial engineering tools. It also service that recorded 3.8 billion dollars. currency through short-term loans and helps finance public debt by playing an active ‫‏‬Banque Misr’s Money Market Desk also business operations funding schemes for FY role in the Primary Dealers as well as in the ‫‏‬Offering Creative Solutions introduced new investment tools for the dollar 2014/2015 amounted to 130 million dollars. Secondary Market. and euro treasury bills. The new mechanisms Also, we played a vital role in supporting the ‫‏‬Our team of professionals in the treasury provided high liquidity and high returns. It government and the private institutions in ‫‏‬Banque Misr played a vital role in helping department offers value-creating ideas, is worth noting that the BM’s treasury bills importing strategic goods, such as petroleum the economy overcome several financial and innovative application of cutting-edge portfolio reached 1170 million dollars and 175 and food goods. Banque Misr further plans to political crises; including the 2008 global technology and deep industry experience to million euros respectively by the end of June raise a three-year global syndicated term loan financial crisis and Egypt’s 2011 popular our clients, helping them stay well ahead of the 2015. of 250 million dollars in its favor. uprising that ousted the state’s former curve. president and which was followed by a long ‫‏‬Our bank is one of the first banks to invest period of economic recession and a sharp in innovative structural products that fall 80 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 81 ‫‏‬ISLAMIC BANKING offers the Sharia-compliant Kenana credit card Supporting the National Economy: ‫ ‏‬M’s Islamic banking adopts a sustainable framework that incorporates the Islamic fundamental B based on the Murabaha model that is accepted principles of accountability, morality, Islamic banking business, capacities, and a result-based inside and outside Egypt. Out of Banque Misr’s devotion to supporting approach to hedge against any contagion risk. the national economy and financing strategic A Focus on Customer Experience: in Egypt, BM offered Islamic banking services ‫‏‬With the aim of meeting the needs of various projects that positively affect the country’s through a network of 35 branches and offices customers, we developed a new type of economic development, during 2015, the ‫‏‬BM was the first public bank to establish across Egypt. All our special branches for Islamic Banking Sector had led a consortium investment called “Islamic Treasury Products”, branches devoted entirely to Islamic Islamic finance utilize advanced computer of Egyptian banks to partially finance in collaboration with the Islamic banking transactions, providing banking, financial and systems to provide innovative banking Egyptian Electricity Holding Company in the sector and under the provisions of the Islamic trading activities in line with the rules of the services to keep up with other banks in Egypt implementation of its emergency plan for the Sharia law. We succeeded in achieving a bank Islamic Shariah to cater to the diverse needs and abroad. With respect to the Islamic summer of 2015 to meet the expected electricity portfolio for the supply of the government of our customers. The funds of such branches banking sector, the credit portfolio directed peak in household and industry consumption treasury bills and goods worth of 1.6 billion were separated from others at Banque to this sector rose to 3.1 billion Egyptian during the summer of 2015. A total amount Egyptian pounds and 2.7 billion Egyptian Misr. The branches that handle the Islamic pounds in June 2015, up from 1.9 billion of 1.62 billion Egyptian pounds was granted, pounds respectively by the end of June 2015. of which Banque Misr’s contribution was 500 transactions were also further supervised by Egyptian pounds in June of the previous year. the Shariah Committee, which consists of million Egyptian pounds. uniquely qualified professors of Al Azhar and ‫‏‬L iving up to Customers’ Expectations: ‫‏‬We will soon undertake the first Islamic Dar Al-Ifta Al Missriyyah. financing for small and medium sized Also during 2015, the Islamic Banking ‫‏‬B ecause BM provides the highest standards enterprises, according to the Central Bank of Sector was the mandated lead arranger that ‫‏‬By combining its unique heritage and tradition of service to all its sectors, we expanded Egypt’s definition as those enterprises as having participated in granting National Port Said with the adoption of modern banking the Islamic banking portfolio to include new sales revenues/year not exceeding 100 million Steel Company 1.84 billion Egyptian pounds techniques, underscored by technology and competitive products and services (Bank Egyptian pounds (13.5 million dollars) along with to finance the construction of a greenfield innovation, BM maintained its status as a assurance). One of the biggest Egyptian other micro enterprises’ financing products. steel plant in Ain Sokhna. Banque Misr’s leading Shariah-compliant bank in Egypt. insurance companies, Takaful, was chosen to We are planning to launch five products: contribution was 300 million Egyptian pounds. In terms of Islamic retail banking activity, provide insurance services throughout BM‘s small enterprise financing Murabaha, factories Banque Misr’s Islamic Banking Unit, “Kenana”, Islamic branches and the bank is proceeding The Islamic Sector was granted numerous equipment’s financing Murabaha, medical offers a diverse range of products, including in finalizing the contract with it. awards during the past few years, including: and hospitals equipment financing Murabaha, Islamic credit cards, auto Murabaha, durable means of private transportations financing Murabaha, which is known as the Islamic ‫‏‬In 2015, the bank launched a new retail Islamic • IFN Dubai Awards for Al Sharqiya Sugar Murabaha, schools, institutes and private concept of Murabaha. package that used the Islamic Murabaha Manufacturing Infrastructure and Project universities financing Murabaha, along with concept to finance some clients’ pilgrimage Finance Deal of the Year 2014. other micro enterprises’ financing products. Acknowledged as a pioneer in the and tourism visits, as well as Islamic alternative development of the Islamic financial industry products (Education Murabaha). The bank also ‫ •‏‬The IJGlobal Award for MENA Metals and Mining: Ain Sokhna Steel Plant Deal of the Year 2015. 82 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 83 “Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility” As one of the 42 commandments of the Ancient Egyptian book of the dead, no deceased person, whether a king or a peasant, shall pass to heaven if he has harmed the sacred River Nile. From a religious order to a modern necessity, we continuously work to protect our Nile. BD Weighing of the Heart 84 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 85 ‫‏‬Message from the CHAIRMAN Foreword It is a great honor to present to you our impressive performance for FY ‫ ‏‬anque Misr also updated its Islamic banking unit to fully comply with the B 2014/2015. In this respect, I would like to begin by thanking the board principles of the Islamic Shariah law, to widen the investment activities of members and all my employees, who exerted all efforts to enable the OUR APPROACH the bank’s Islamic branches, which have reached a volume of 2.6 billion 4.2 bank to achieve such outstanding results and overcome any hardship. FY Egyptian pounds in 2015. 2014/2015 was marked by a number of positive changes on the political, economic and financial levels; both locally and internationally. billion ‫ ‏‬he bank has played an important role in attracting new investments and T revitalizing the stock market performance since its foundation in 1920, ‫ ‏‬ustomers’ deposits rose by 50 billion Egyptian pounds to surpass 290 C under the leadership of the founder of the Egyptian national industry Egyptian pounds billion Egyptian pounds. Banque Misr currently acquires around 17% of and leading economist Mohamed Talat Harb. We remain committed the total customer deposits of the Egyptian banking sector. to constructive participation to achieve development in all sectors of Net Profit the national economy. The bank has direct investments of 11.5 billion HOW BM OPERATES ‫ ‏‬anque Misr’s credit portfolio has surpassed 64 billion Egyptian pounds, B Egyptian pounds, covering 162 companies. marking a year-on-year rise of 10.2 billion Egyptian pounds. As pursuant to CBE regulations, NPLs coverage ratio and capital adequacy ratio We funded numerous national projects to promote economic growth recorded 105.5% and 12.59%, respectively. in the hydrocarbon, energy, electricity, telecommunications, aviation, tourism, and construction sectors. The bank’s diversified funds aimed at ‫ ‏‬dditionally, the financial results revealed that Banque Misr has managed A meeting different corporate needs, on both the public and private levels. to achieve a huge leap. Our net interest income had neared 8.5 billion Our Corporate Banking and Syndicated Loans Portfolio has reached a Egyptian pounds, reflecting a year-on-year increase of 2 billion Egyptian total of 56 billion Egyptian pounds showing remarkable growth in the pounds. The net profit almost doubled to 4.2 billion Egyptian pounds, after overall gross loan portfolio of 67 billion Egyptian pounds in June 30, 2015. the bank paid income tax of 3.6 billion Egyptian pounds. Shareholders our activities Equity recorded around 23.3 million Egyptian pounds. I‫ ‏‬n addition, we also provided investment services through expanding in central depository and trading services, along with custody and trustees I‫ ‏‬n The Banker magazine’s July 2015 issue, Banque Misr ranked number services. The bank’s Capital Markets Group investments also include: 446 from a total of 1,000 banks based on the value of its total assets. merger and acquisitions operations, bonds, both corporate and securitized Banque Misr also held the second position among the Egyptian banks bonds, privatizations’ deals, Initial Public Offering (IPOs), divestitures as and the 38th among the Arab banks on its total assets value. well as acting as a financial advisory for corporate restructuring. The capital markets and investment sectors has reached 2.4 billion Egyptian ‫ ‏‬he bank also provided different financing systems that cover various financial performance T pounds during FY 2014/2015, in comparison with 1.7 billion Egyptian economic needs. The value of the retail-banking portfolio at Banque Misr pounds in the previous year, marking a growth rate of 41%. rose to 10.4 million Egyptian pounds in June 2015, recording a 37.8% rise. ‫ ‏‬he bank’s portfolio of treasury-bills in dollars rose to 1.2 billion dollars, a T 43.2% increase in comparison to last year. Similarly, the bank’s treasurybills in euros have increased by 35.7% to reach 175 million euros. 86 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 87 Wahid Abd ElGhaffar Hussen Mohamed Abd Elmonem Financial Statements BAKER TILLY Central Auditing Organization for the year ended June 30, 2015 Public Accountants and consultants AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE SUMMERIZED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF BANQUE MISR FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 2015 To: The Shareholders’ of Banque Misr (S.A.E.) Contents We have audited the financial statements of Banque Misr (S.A.E) as of and for the year ending June 30, 2015 from which the 1 Auditors’ Report 89 accompanying summarized financial statements were derived in accordance with the Egyptian Standards on Auditing and under the provisions of applicable Egyptian laws and regulations. In our report dated February 4, 2016 we expressed an unqualified 2 Balance sheet 90 opinion on the bank’s financial statements as of June 30, 2015 from which the accompanying summarized financial statements were derived. 3 Income statement 91 4 Statement of changes in shareholders` equity 92 In our opinion, the accompanying summarized financial statements are consistent, in all material respects, with the financial 5 Summarized statement of cash flows 94 statements from which they were derived as of and for the year ending June 30, 2015. 6 Statement of profit appropriation 95 7 Summarized notes to the financial statements 96 To better understand the bank’s financial position as of June 30, 2015 and the results of its operations for the year then ended, and the scope of our audit, the summarized financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements from which the summarized financial statements were derived and our audit report thereupon. Cairo : 17/ 3/ 2016 Hussen Mohamed Abd Elmonem Wahid Abd ElGhaffar Central Auditing Organization BAKER TILLY Public Accountants and consultants 88 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 89 BANQUE MISR S.A.E. Separate balance sheet as of June 30, 2015 BANQUE MISR S.A.E. (Amounts are expressed in thousand Egyptian pounds) Separate income statement for the year ending June 30, 2015 (Amounts are expressed in thousand Egyptian pounds) Note 30/6/2015 30/6/2014 No. Note 30/6/2015 30/6/2014 Assets No. Cash and balances with central banks 21 554 367 17 713 747 Interest on loans and similar income 24 777 418 19 531 704 Due from banks 25 827 274 25 555 614 Interest on deposits and similar expense (16 240 405) (12 865 072) Treasury bills 89 813 835 74 345 636 Net interest income 8 537 013 6 666 632 Financial assets held for trading (5) 315 709 4 787 209 Loans and advances to banks (net) (6) 236 809 986 064 Fee and commission income 1 866 154 1 307 767 Loans and advances to customers (net) (7) 63 807 209 53 602 675 Fee and commission expense (15 185) (15 564) Available for sale investments (8) 109 334 663 79 537 575 Net fee and commission income 1 850 969 1 292 203 Investments held to maturity (8) 363 914 503 902 Dividends income 398 680 414 140 Investments in subsidiaries and associates 3 881 528 3 278 963 Other assets 15 334 195 13 480 392 Net trading income 367 944 415 350 Property , Plant , and Equipment (net) 702 048 572 088 Gains from financial investments 357 857 124 860 Total Assets 331 171 551 274 363 865 Impairment (charge) for credit losses (131 057) (78 528) Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity Administrative expenses (3 623 101) (3 192 438) Liabilities Due to banks 4 109 626 3 460 577 Other operating income (expenses) 39 389 (366 738) Customers’ deposits (9) 290 146 318 240 203 665 Profit before income tax 7 797 694 5 275 481 Other loans (10) 3 321 867 2 295 943 Income tax expense (3 615 777) (2 760 466) Other liabilities 6 987 650 5 184 771 Net profit for the year 4 181 917 2 515 015 Other provisions (11) 1 384 470 1 608 307 Deferred tax liabilities 249 114 230 524 Earnings per share (Egyptian pounds/share) (15) 1.60 1.03 Post retirement benefits liabilities (12) 1 706 439 1 301 758 Total Liabilities 307 905 484 254 285 545 Shareholders’ Equity Paid in capital (13) 15 000 000 11 400 000 Reserves (14) 4 084 150 6 163 305 Retained earnings 4 181 917 2 515 015 Total shareholders’ equity 23 266 067 20 078 320 Total Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity 331 171 551 274 363 865 Contingent Liabilities and Commitments Liabilities for letters of guarantee, letters of credit and other 22 910 555 17 178 802 commitments The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements and are to be read therewith. 90 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 91 BANQUE MISR S.A.E. Separate statement of changes in shareholders’ equity for the year ending June 30,2015 (Amounts are expressed in thousand Egyptian pounds) Paid in Capital Legal Reserve General Capital Reserve Fair Value Special Reserve Banking Risk Supportive Fixed Assets F.C Translation Retained Total Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Prices Differences Earnings Increased Reserve Reserve Balance as of July 1, 2013 11 400 000 350 584 342 538 243 064 ( 88 156) 6 927 582 615 301 113 40 796 134 865 1 160 632 14 474 978 Dividends paid ( 492 500) ( 492 500) Transferred to reserves 115 169 107 354 8 940 ( 37 016) 473 685 ( 668 132) Foreign currency translation differences 44 728 44 728 Net change in fair value of available for sale investments (net of tax) 3 536 099 3 536 099 Net profit for the year 2 515 015 2 515 015 Balance as of June 30, 2014 11 400 000 465 753 449 892 252 004 3 447 943 6 927 545 599 774 798 40 796 179 593 2 515 015 20 078 320 Balance as of July 1, 2014 11 400 000 465 753 449 892 252 004 3 447 943 6 927 545 599 774 798 40 796 179 593 2 515 015 20 078 320 Dividends paid ( 767 500) ( 767 500) Transferred to reserves 248 655 219 310 28 462 44 803 1 206 285 (1 747 515) Foreign currency translation differences ( 56 770) ( 56 770) Net change in fair value of available for sale investments (net of tax) ( 169 900) ( 169 900) Capital Increase 3 600 000 ( 671 331) ( 669 202) ( 280 466) (1 938 205) ( 40 796) Net profit 4 181 917 4 181 917 Balance as of June 30, 2015 15 000 000 43 077 3 278 043 6 927 590 402 42 878 122 823 4 181 917 23 266 067 92 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 93 BANQUE MISR S.A.E. BANQUE MISR S.A.E. Summarized statement of cash flows for the year ending June 30, 2015 Separate statement of profit appropriation for the year ending June 30, 2015 (Amounts are expressed in thousand Egyptian pounds) (Amounts are expressed in thousand Egyptian pounds) Note 30/6/2015 30/6/2014 Note 30/6/2015 30/6/2014 No. No. Net Profit 4 181 917 2 515 015 Net cash flows provided from operating activities 26 343133 32 195 859 Less: Net cash (used in) investing activities (29 398 233) (25 888 904) Gains on sale of fixed assets transferred to capital reserve 237 397 28 463 Net cash flows provided from (used in) financing activities 8 731 (246 599) Distributable profit for the year: 3 944 520 2 486 552 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents during the year (3 046 369) 6 060 356 Less: Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 32 781 577 26 721 221 Legal reserve 394 452 248 655 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 29 735 208 32 781 577 Banking risk reserve 277 448 44 803 Distributable net profit for the year 3 272 620 2 193 094 Cash and cash equivalents are represented in : Distributed as follows: Cash and balances with central banks 21 554 367 17 713 747 General reserve 327 262 219 310 Due from banks 25 827 274 25 555 614 Supportive reserve 1 870 358 1 206 284 Treasury bills 89 813 835 74 345 636 Balances with central banks (within the mandatory reserve percentage) (16 590 338) (13 263 530) Employees’ share in profits 225 000 167 500 Due from banks (over three months maturity) (1 075 301) (71 401) State share in profits 850 000 600 000 Treasury bills and other government securities (over three months maturity) (89 794 629) (71 498 489) Cash and cash equivalents 29 735 208 32 781 577 Total 3 272 620 2 193 094 94 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 95 BANQUE MISR S.A.E. B/3 Foreign Branches Summarized notes to the separate financial statements for the year ending June 30, 2015 Assets and liabilities of foreign branches are translated using the closing rate at the balance sheet date, while items of income and expense are translated into the Egyptian pound at the rates 1. General information prevailing at the dates of the transactions or average rates of exchange, where these are approximate to actual rates. The differences arising in the translation of foreign branches are included in equity. Banque Misr (S.A.E.) was established on April 3, 1920 as a commercial bank. The head office is located at 151, Mohamed Farid Street, Cairo. CRevenue recognition The bank carries out corporate, retail and investment banking in addition to Islamic banking through more than 500 branches in Arab Republic of Egypt and five branches in the UAE and one branch in C/1 Interest income and expense France. The number of employees at the balance sheet date is 12,689 employees. Interest income and expense for all financial instruments, except for those classified as held-forThese financial statements were approved by the general assembly meeting on March 16, 2016. trading or designated at fair value, are recognized in ‘Interest income’ and ‘Interest expense’ in the income statement using the effective interest method. 2. Summary of accounting policies The calculation includes all fees and points paid or received between parties to the contract that The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are represents an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums set out below. These policies have been consistently applied in all years presented, unless stated or discounts. otherwise. ABasis of preparation C/2 Fee and commission income These separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Egyptian financial Fees charged for servicing a loan or facility that is measured at amortized cost are recognized as revenue reporting standards issued in 2006 and their amendments and in accordance with the Central as the service is provided. Bank of Egypt’s regulations approved by the Board of Directors on December 16, 2008 under the Fees and commissions on non-performing or impaired loans or receivables cease to be recognized as historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of financial assets held for trading and income and are rather recorded off the balance sheet. These are recognized as revenue, on a cash basis, available for sale investments. only when interest income on those loans is recognized in profit and loss. At that time, fees and commissions that represent an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial asset are treated as an adjustment to the effective interest rate of that financial asset. BForeign currency translation Fees are recognized on the debt instruments that are measured at fair value through profit and loss on initial B/1 Functional and presentation currency recognition and syndicated loan fees received by the bank are recognized when the syndication has been completed and the bank does not hold any portion of it or holds a part at the same effective interest rate The financial statements are presented in Egyptian pounds. Items included in the financial used for the other participants portions. statements of each of the bank’s foreign branches are measured using their functional currency, Fees and commissions resulting from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of, a transaction for a being the basic currency of the economic environment in which the foreign branch operates. third party – such as the arrangement of the acquisition of shares or other securities or the purchase or sale of businesses – are recognized upon completion of the underlying transaction in the income statement. B/2 Transaction and balances in foreign currencies Administrative and other services fees are recognized as income on a time-proportionate basis over the lifetime of the service. Each branch maintains its accounting records in its functional currency. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated on the balance sheet date at the prevailing exchange Fees charged for custodian services provided over long periods are recognized as income over the period rates. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from settlement and translation of such transactions and during which the service is rendered balances are recognized in the income statement and reported under the following items: C/3 Dividends Income Net Trading Income. (Case of held-for-trading financial assets) Other operating revenues (expenses) for the remaining items Dividends are recognized in the income statement when the right to collect it is declared. 96 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 97 DTreasury bills Impairment losses recognized in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement. If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-forsale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss Treasury bills are recorded at par value while discount (un-earned interest) is included in Credit Balances was recognized in profit or loss, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement. and Other Liabilities. Treasury bills are presented on the balance sheet net of unearned interest. HFinancial assets held-for-trading EPurchase and resale agreements, and sale and repurchase agreements A financial asset is classified as held-for-trading if it is acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the Securities that may be lent or sold subject to a commitment to repurchase (repos) are reclassified in the near future or if it is a part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed together for financial statements and deducted from treasury bills’ balance. Securities borrowed or purchased subject short-term profit taking. Financial assets held-for-trading are measured at fair value. Unrealized holding to a commitment to resell them (reverse repos) are reclassified in the financial statements and added to gains and losses are recognized in the income statement. treasury bills balance. The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued over the life of the agreements using the effective interest method. IAvailable-for-sale investments FLoans and advances to banks and customers Available-for-sale investments are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated as available for sale or do not fit into any other category of financial assets. Available-for-sale investments are measured at Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not fair value. Unrealized holding gains and losses are included in a separate component of equity until the quoted in an active market. financial asset is sold or impaired. At this time, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in equity is recognized in the income statement. GImpairment of financial assets JHeld-to-maturity investments G/1 Financial assets carried at amortized cost Investments held-to-maturity are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and The bank assesses, at each balance sheet date, whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset fixed maturities that the bank management has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity. or group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and Debt investments held-to-maturity are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more Banque Misr’s mutual funds certificates, which the bank is required by law to hold until fund liquidation, events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (a ‘loss event’) and that loss event (or events) are included in held-to-maturity investments, according to Central Bank of Egypt’s rules, and are measured has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can at cost. Any decrease in redemption value below cost is recognized as impairment in the income statement. be reliably estimated. Impairment loss previously recognized is reversed in case of subsequent increase. The reversal cannot result in a carrying value greater than original cost. If the bank determines that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment according to historical default ratios. KInvestments in subsidiaries and associates If the bank determines that objective evidence of financial asset impairment exists, that is individually Investments in subsidiaries and associates are measured at cost. If fair value of an individual investment assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognized, those assets declines below book value, it is reduced to reflect the impairment and such decrease is charged to the will not be included in a collective assessment of impairment. income statement under “Gains (losses) on financial investments”. Subsequent increase in the fair value is The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present credited to the same item in the income statement up to the amount previously charged. value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through LFixed assets and depreciation the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognized in the income statement. Fixed assets are recorded at historical cost minus depreciation and impairment losses. Depreciation of fixed G/2 Available-for-sale investments assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their residual values over estimated useful lives, as follows: The bank assesses, at each balance sheet date, whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets classified under available for sale is impaired. In the case of equity investments Buildings and constructions 5% Vehicles From 20% to 25% classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the assets are impaired. The decrease is considered significant Equipment 12.5% Furniture 100% when it becomes 10% of the cost of book value of the financial instrument and the decrease is considered IT equipment to be extended if it continues for period more than nine months. If the mentioned evidences become From 25% To 100% Fixtures From 12.5% to 33.5% available then the accumulated loss is posted from the equity and disclosed at the income statement. 98 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 99 MCash and cash equivalents aim is therefore to achieve an appropriate balance between risk and return and minimize potential adverse effects on the bank’s financial performance. The most important types of financial risks are credit risk, market For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include cash and balances due from the risk, liquidity risk and other operating risks. Market risk also includes exchange rate risk, rate of return risk Central Bank of Egypt, current accounts with banks, and treasury bills maturing within three months from the and other price risks. acquisition date. The bank’s risk management policies are designed to identify and analyze these risks, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor the risks and adherence to limits by means of reliable and up-to-date NPost-retirement benefits liabilities information systems. The bank regularly reviews its risk management policies and systems to reflect changes in markets, products and emerging best practices. Banque Misr provides some post-retirement benefits. Benefits are given provided that the employee remains in the employment of the bank until the retirement age. Risk management is carried out by a risk department under policies approved by the Board of Directors. The risk department identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the bank’s operating An independent actuary who applies the projected unit credit method calculates the liability of the defined units. In addition, the risk department is responsible for the independent review of risk management and the benefit at the end of the year. control environment. OOther provisions Other provisions are recognized when the bank has present legal or constructive obligations as a result of past 3. Capital management events, where it is more likely than not that a transfer of economic benefit will be necessary to settle the obligation, and it can be reliably estimated. Capital adequacy and the use of regulatory capital are monitored on a daily basis by the bank’s management, employing techniques based on the guidelines developed by the Basel Committee, as implemented by the banking In case of similar obligations, the related cash outflow should be determined in order to settle these obligations supervision unit in the Central Bank of Egypt. The required data is submitted to the Central Bank of Egypt on a as a group. The provision is recognized even in case of minor probability that cash outflow will occur for an item quarterly basis. of these obligations. When a provision is wholly or partially no longer required, it is reversed through profit or loss under other The Central Bank of Egypt requires the following: operating income (expenses). Maintaining 500 million Egyptian pounds as a minimum requirement for the issued and paid-in capital. Provisions are measured at the present value of the expected required expenditures to settle obligations after one Maintaining a minimum level of capital adequacy ratio of 10%, calculated as the ratio between total value of the year from financial statement date using the appropriate rate in accordance with the terms of settlement, ignoring capital elements, and the risk-weighted average of the bank’s assets and contingent liabilities the tax effect, which reflects the time value of money. If the settlement term is less than one year, the provision is booked using the present value, unless time consideration has a significant effect. The bank manages its capital resources to ensure that foreign branches that are subject to local capital adequacy regulation in individual countries meet their minimum capital requirements. PIncome tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year and deferred tax are recognized in the income statement, except for The table below summarizes the compositions of tier 1, tier 2 and the capital adequacy ratio at the income tax relating to items of equity that are recognized directly in equity. end of financial year according to Basel II: Income tax is recognized based on net taxable profit using the tax rates applicable at the date of the balance sheet, in addition to tax adjustments for previous years. According to Basel II Deferred taxes arising from temporary time differences between the book value of assets and liabilities are Amounts are expressed in thousand Egyptian pounds recognized in accordance with the principles of accounting and value according to the foundations of the tax. This determines the value of deferred tax on the expected manner to realize or settle the values of assets and liabilities, Capital 30/6/2015 30/6/2014 using tax rates applicable at the date of the balance sheet. Deferred tax assets of the bank are recognized when it is possible to achieve profits subject to tax to be possible through to use that asset in the future and is reducing the Tier 1 capital 16 039 233 14 454 040 value of deferred tax assets with part of that will come from tax benefit expected during the following years, that in the case of expected high benefit tax, deferred tax assets will increase within the limits of the above reduced. Tier 2 capital 3 616 901 3 878 957 Total capital 19 656 134 18 332 997 QFinancial risk management Total risk weighted assets and contingent liabilities 156 072 840 139 489 016 Capital adequacy ratio 12.59 % 13.14% The bank’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks and those activities involve the analysis, evaluation, acceptance and management of some degree of risk or combination of risks. Taking risk is fundmental to the financial business, and the operational risks are an inevitable consequence of being in business. The bank’s 4Critical accounting estimates and judgments 100 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 101 The bank makes estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities within the 6Loans and advances to banks next financial year. Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated, and based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances and available info. 30/6/2015 30/6/2014 Term loans 247 873 999 978 A. Impairment of loans and advances Deduct: provision for loan losses (11 064) (13 914) Total 236 809 986 064 The bank reviews its loans and advances portfolio at least on a quarterly basis, to assess impairment. The bank uses its discretionary judgment in determining whether it is necessary to recognize impairment loss in the income statement. This requires it to identify any reliable evidence indicating measurable decline in 7Loans and advances to customers the expected future cash flows from the loans portfolio before identifying any decline for each individual loan. 30/6/2015 30/6/2014 (1) Retail This evidence includes data indicating negative change in the ability of a portfolio of borrowers to repay Overdraft 1 589 764 1 308 416 the bank, or local and economic circumstances related to default. Credit card loans 180 883 164 939 Personal loans 8 390 053 5 895 586 On scheduling future cash flows, the management uses estimates based on previous experience related Mortgages loans 226 885 169 564 to impairment of assets having similar credit risks. Such experience refers to impairment similar to that of Total retail 10 387 585 7 538 505 the portfolio in question. The methods and assumptions used in estimating both the amount and timing of (2) Corporate loans (including loans to small businesses) the future cash flows are reviewed on a regular basis to minimize any discrepancy between the estimated Over draft 20 021 742 29 534 142 loss and actual loss based on expertise. Direct loans 20 620 887 14 332 393 Syndicated loans 17 620 294 11 166 585 B. Impairment of available-for-sale equity investments Other loans 308 238 Total corporate 58 571 161 55 033 120 The bank determines that available-for-sale equity investments are impaired when there has been a Total loans and advances to customers(1+2) 68 958 746 62 571 625 significant or prolonged decline in the fair value below its cost. This determination of what is considered Deduct: provision for loan losses (5 009 130) (8 591 831) significant or prolonged impairment requires judgment. In making this judgment, the bank evaluates, Deduct: unearned discount and interest in suspense (142 407) (377 119) among other factors, the normal volatility in share price. In addition, impairment may be appropriate Net loans and advances to customers 63 807 209 53 602 675 when there is evidence of a deterioration in the financial health of the investee, operational and financing Gross loans distributed to: cash flows, industry and sector performance, and changes in technology. Current 28 931 753 26 896 075 Non-current 40 026 993 35 675 550 68 958 746 62 571 625 5Financial assets held for trading Amounts are expressed in thousand Egyptian pounds 30/6/2015 30/6/2014 Debt instruments Investment portfolios managed by external managers 4 201 623 Other debt securities 220 704 419 352 Total debt instruments 220 704 4 620 975 Equity instruments Local shares 88 451 158 812 Mutual fund certificates 6 554 7 422 Total equity instruments 95 005 166 234 Total financial assets held for trading 315 709 4 787 209 102 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 103 Impairment from loans provision for customers 8Financial investments Amounts are expressed in thousand Egyptian pounds Movement analysis of the Impairment provision of loans and advances for customers 30/6/2015 30/6/2014 (A) Available-for-sale investments Debt instruments – Listed 88 635 968 58 450 638 Amounts are expressed in thousand Egyptian pounds Equity instruments – Listed 9 027 177 8 867 223 Debt instruments – Unlisted 8 234 014 9 065 420 30/6/2015 30/6/2014 Equity instruments – Unlisted 3 437 504 3 154 294 Non Performing Performing Total Non Performing Performing Total Total available-for-sale investments (1) 109 334 663 79 537 575 Loans Loans Loans Loans B) Held-to-maturity investment Balance at beginning of the year 7 765 340 826 491 8 591 831 7 554 891 580 509 8 135 400 Debt instruments – Listed 29 250 27 846 Transfers 3 846 8 428 12 274 906 (750) 156 Debt instruments – Unlisted 71 384 142 785 Equity instruments – Unlisted 263 280 333 271 Charge (release) of impairment from 53 734 167 573 221 307 (150 883) 230 098 79 215 loans Total held-to-maturity investments (2) 363 914 503 902 Recoveries of loans previously written off 260 115 0 260 115 338 443 0 338 443 Total financial investments (1+2) 109 698 577 80 041 477 Current 17 053 689 11 360 518 Foreign currency revaluation differences 136 215 (26 175) 110 040 40 896 16 634 57 530 Non-current 92 644 888 68 680 959 Write-offs (4 186 437) 0 (4 186 437) (18 913) 0 (18 913) Total financial investments (1+2) 109 698 577 80 041 477 Balance at the end of the year 4 032 813 976 317 5 009 130 7 765 340 826 491 8 591 831 The following table analyzes movements on financial investments during the year: Available for sale Held to maturity Analysis of the Impairment provision of loans and advances for individuals :investments investments Beginning balance on June30, 2014 79 537 575 503 902 Individual Additions 46 725 905 29 250 Overdrafts Credit cards Personal loans Mortgages Total Deductions (16 836 945) (166 691) June 30, 2015 Translation differences resulting from monetary foreign currency assets 414 804 348 152 348 2 666 256 826 8 340 420 180 Losses from fair value difference (151 310) June30, 2014 Impairment charges (355 366) (2 895) 115 681 2 270 249 658 9 398 377 007 Balance at end of year 2015 109 334 663 363 914 Analysis of the Impairment provision of loans and advances for corporates :Beginning balance on June30, 2013 49 807 691 695 675 Corporate Addition 42 424 236 Overdrafts Direct loans Syndicated loans Other loans Total Deduction (16 467 780) (211 525) June 30, 2015 Translation differences resulting from monetary assets in foreign currency 278 016 1 713 2 851 609 718 617 1 002 846 15 878 4 588 950 Gains from fair value difference 3 503 846 June 30, 2014 Impairment charges (8 434) 18 039 7 770 558 229 280 214 986 0 8 214 824 Balance at end of year 2014 79 537 575 503 902 104 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 105 9Customers’ deposits 10Other loans Amounts are expressed in thousand Egyptian pounds Amounts are expressed in thousand Egyptian pounds Interest Rate Balance as at Balance as at 30/6/2015 30/6/2014 % 30/6/2015 30/6/2014 Denmark International Development Loan of Egyptian Demand deposits 19 748 364 14 664 843 Holding Co. for Silos and Storage Fayoum Nil 8 900 14 515 Call and time deposits 79 829 748 58 080 096 Qena / Menia / Beni Sweif Silos Complex Nil 32 045 49 900 Saving certificates 85 698 151 75 447 493 Contract for development of small and medium-projects 7% 1 199 2 804 Saving deposits 98 736 038 88 756 720 Contract for development of a poultry 4% 539 971 Other deposits 6 134 017 3 254 513 CBE Local Supportive Loan Nil 1 397 984 1 245 255 Total 290 146 318 240 203 665 CBE Local Supportive Loan (Five years) Nil 785 382 688 418 Long term loans for financing SMEsfuture step 7% 51 000 85 000 Corporate deposits 90 020 833 63 647 204 Social Fund for Development loans-Bright future 8.50% 59 063 37 500 Retail deposits 200 125 485 176 556 461 Long-term loans–Egyptian Company for Refinancing 10.25% 17 444 18 778 Total 290 146 318 240 203 665 Social Fund for Development loansEnterprise development project 8.50% 40 000 10 000 Social Fund for Development loansAgriculture projects Non-interest bearing balances 18 304 801 16 079 426 support 8.50% 70 000 Variable interest rate balances 128 865 414 106 367 610 Social Fund for Development loansBedaia 8.50% 30 000 Fixed interest rate balances 142 976 103 117 756 629 Short-term loans from foreign banks 828 311 142 802 Total 290 146 318 240 203 665 3 321 867 2 295 943 Current 920 753 1 038 500 Current 217 759 369 183 672 585 Non current 2 401 114 1 257 443 Non current 72 386 949 56 531 080 3 321 867 2 295 943 Total 290 146 318 240 203 665 106 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 107 11Other Provisions Amounts are expressed in thousand Egyptian pounds 14Reserves 30/6/2015 30/6/2014 In accordance with the bank’s articles of incorporation, 10% of net profit is to be credited to legal reserve. Provision for legal claims and taxes 971 321 1 158 750 Crediting legal reserve ceases when its balance reaches 100% of the paid-up capital. Provision for contingent liabilities 408 487 427 281 Other 4 662 22 276 In accordance with the Central Bank of Egypt’s directives, the balance of the special reserve cannot be used Total 1 384 470 1 608 307 prior to the Central Bank of Egypt’s approval. Amounts are expressed in thousand Egyptian pounds 30/6/2015 30/6/2014 Legal reserve 43 077 465 753 12Post-retirement benefits liabilities General reserve 449 892 Capital reserve 252 004 Amounts recognized in the balance sheet Reserve for the rise in fixed asset prices 40 796 Supportive reserve 42 878 774 798 30/6/2015 30/6/2014 Fair value reserve 3 278 043 3 447 943 Post-retirement medical benefits 1 560 336 1 172 956 Special reserve 6 927 6 927 End of service benefits 146 103 128 802 General banking risk reserve 590 402 545 599 Financial statements translation differences reserve 122 823 179 593 Total 1 706 439 1 301 758 Total reserves 4 084 150 6 163 305 Amounts recognized in the income statement Liabilities for post-retirement medical benefits 483 133 470 587 15Earnings per share Liabilities for end of service benefits 24 284 22 361 Balances at the end of the year 507 417 492 948 30/6/2015 30/6/2014 Net profit attributable to the shareholder (thousand Egyptian pounds) (1) 3 956 917 2 347 515 The main actuarial assumptions used by the bank are outlined below Divided by weighted average number of shares (thousands of shares)(2) 2 469 370 2 280 000 Earnings per share (Egyptian pounds)(1:2) 1.60 1.03 Discount rate 11% 11% Long term inflation rate 8% 8% 16Comparative figures 13Paid-in capital and reserves Comparative figures were reclassified to be consistent with current year presentation. A. Authorized capital Based on the extraordinary general assembly meeting on March 22, 2015, the authorized capital has been increased from 15 billion Egyptian pounds to 30 billion Egyptian pounds. B. Issued and paid-in capital Following the extraordinary general assembly meeting held on March 22, 2015, the paid-in capital has been increased by 3.6 billion Egyptian pounds through capitalization of reserves. Accordingly, the Issued and paid-in capital amounted to 15 billion Egyptian pounds divided over 3 billion shares of 5 Egyptian pounds per share. 108 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY Report 2014/2015 109
