NIBC Communication on Progress (COP) – UN Global Compact April 2016 NIBC is pleased to once again reconfirm that we support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This reconfirmation follows our original commitment from December 2010 and our ongoing commitment to advance the principles since that time. With this communication on progress, we express our intent to continue to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We commit to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations. We support public accountability and transparency, and welcome feedback from our stakeholders on our progress. Principle NIBC Approach Where to find out more NIBC Commitment to the UN Global Compact NIBC’s commitment to responsible business is central to our About NIBC vision, embedded in our business strategy, articulated in our Mission Code of Conduct, and carried out in our day-to-day Strategy relationship with all stakeholders. Business Principles Corporate Governance Our approach is further supported by our governance Corporate Responsibility framework, policies and processes. 2015 NIBC Annual Report Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of We are committed to respecting and protecting human rights in 2015 NIBC Annual Report internationally proclaimed human rights all of NIBC’s business practices. NIBC GRI NIBC Sustainability Policy NIBC Human Rights Policy 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights NIBC recognizes our responsibility to help ensure fair business 2015 NIBC Annual Report abuses. practices in our overall value chain and direct and indirect NIBC GRI supply chain. NIBC Sustainability Policy NIBC Human Rights Policy NIBC’s commitment is supported by our business practices, due diligence processes, employee training, and engagement with a diverse range of stakeholders. NIBC Bank NV April 2016 Principle NIBC Approach Where to find out more Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and NIBC is committed to respecting and protecting labour rights in 2015 NIBC Annual Report the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; all of its activities and to support our stakeholders in realizing NIBC GRI their labour rights obligations. NIBC Sustainability Policy NIBC Human Rights Policy 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory This includes robust due diligence which aims to ensure forced 2015 NIBC Annual Report labour; and compulsory labour and child labour are not present in our NIBC GRI value chain. Furthermore stakeholder engagement ensures a NIBC Sustainability Policy continuous dialogue on labour issues and sharing of such NIBC Human Rights Policy knowledge among our peers and within our communities. 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and NIBC aims to ensure child labour is effectively abolished. This is 2015 NIBC Annual Report addressed in our business practices, due diligence processes, NIBC GRI employee training, and engagement with a diverse range of NIBC Sustainability Policy stakeholders. NIBC Human Rights Policy We are guided in our practices by conventions such as the UNICEF Convention on the Rights of the Child. Through our charitable contributions and activities we have worked to further boost children’s rights and develop opportunities for future generations. 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment NIBC is devoted to creating a stimulating work environment for 2015 NIBC Annual Report and occupation. people from all backgrounds. We recognise the sustainability NIBC GRI benefits of having a highly diverse workforce, and therefore NIBC Sustainability Policy continue to take steps to increase diversity across the company, NIBC Human Rights Policy during recruitment and promote processes by considering candidates irrespective of gender, age, ethnic origin, or nationality. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to NIBC views sustainability as an opportunity to build even closer 2015 NIBC Annual Report environmental challenges; relationships with our clients, strengthen and grow their NIBC GRI businesses, recognize potential ecological limits, and work NIBC Sustainability Policy together to address environmental and societal challenges. We NIBC Climate Change and Environment include sustainability factors in our client and supplier Supplement assessment and risk management process to ensure better NIBC and the Environment informed decision-making and that our client interaction does not harm society or the environment. NIBC Bank NV April 2016 Principle NIBC Approach Where to find out more 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental NIBC employees receive training on environmental & social 2015 NIBC Annual Report responsibility; and risks, sustainability developments and NIBC’s sustainability NIBC GRI framework. NIBC is carbon neutral in terms of its direct NIBC Sustainability Policy emissions. Since 2010, we have measured our direct emissions, NIBC Climate Change and Environment realised substantial reductions and compensated for remaining Supplement direct emissions. We manage our direct impact on the NIBC and the Environment environment through an environmental sustainability programme. This includes measures such as reducing our carbon footprint, using responsibly-sourced paper, and further increasing energy efficiency. Through awareness programmes, we also encourage our employees to take their environmental responsibilities seriously. 9. encourage the development and diffusion of NIBC provides financing in the form of loans and investments to 2015 NIBC Annual Report environmentally friendly technologies. the Renewable Energy sector. We support clients in other NIBC GRI sectors through our financings to improve their environmental NIBC Sustainability Policy footprint and transition toward more sustainable ways of doing NIBC Climate Change and Environment business. We also provide consumer mortgages which include Supplement the possibility for green renovations. NIBC and the Environment Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, NIBC continues to work against corruption in all its forms. We 2015 NIBC Annual Report including extortion and bribery. do not accept nor tolerate any instance of bribery, corruption NIBC GRI or fraud. Business Principles Corporate Responsibility NIBC supports the UNGC Call to Action regarding AntiTrust and Integrity Corruption and is represented in the UNGC Anti-Corruption Bankers Oath Working Group. Components of the Dutch Bankers’ Oath are embedded in our Code of Conduct, which applies to our entire organisation and is included in our employee contracts. We are guided in the way we do business and interact with our clients by our Code of Conduct, Corporate Values, Risk Control Framework and Sustainability. Issues such as extortion and bribery are seen as an operational risk and monitored within our risk control framework. NIBC Bank NV April 2016 By incorporating the Global Compact principles into our strategy, policies and procedures, and establishing a culture of integrity, NIBC aspires to not only uphold our basic responsibilities to people and planet, but also set the stage for the long-term success of our stakeholders and our communities. The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles are derived from: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. To learn more about NIBC and how we and our stakeholders are working to promote the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, visit www.nibc.com We welcome your feedback on this Communication on Progress, on our policies and practices, or other suggestions. Contact us here. NIBC Bank NV April 2016
