SETRIGHT Powering Africa UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Period covered by the Communication on Progress (COP) From: September 2015 To: September 2016 1. Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer 01st September, 2016 To our stakeholders, I am pleased to inform that Setright Technologies Limited reaffirms its support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compacts in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Our goal is to build innovative and sustainable solutions that embrace the best technologies. This is why we have continued to improve the standards of our solutions to ensure integration of the Global Compact principles into our business strategy and operations. In this Communication on Progress, we describe the practical actions we have taken to support the Global Compact. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely, Tony Ketter CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER SETRIGHT Powering Africa 2.0 Description of Actions 2.1 Human Rights: Below are actions Setright Technologies Ltd has taken in the area of human rights. Our relationship with customers and staff is valuable and is built on mutual respect and integrity. The following measures have been put in place in order to align our practices with the basic human rights:  A safety manual has been designed to educate our employees on safety in the workplace. Included in the manual is a directory of the company emergency numbers.  The Health and Safety committee carries out regular training on safety procedures. First Aid kits can be found in easily accessed and Fire Exits are clearly marked.  The Company ensures that employees are issued with protective gear: helmets, overall, gloves, safety boots, reflectors and rain coats. This is of great importance to our engineering team involved in construction works.  Setright is committed to providing a working environment free from harassment including sexual harassment and bullying, where individuals are treated with respect and dignity. As part of the employee induction process, the company informs the employee of the reporting procedures for any cases of harassment.  We recognize that every individual has the right to proper housing for his well-being and that of his family. We extend the benefit of a housing allowance for the comfort of our staff, and ensure timely payments of the rent. SETRIGHT Powering Africa 2.2 Labour: Below are actions Setright Technologies Ltd has taken in the area of labour Our employees are our biggest assets. We empower them to regard Setright Technologies not only as their employer, but as their partner. We have set in place the following policies and procedures to ensure utmost employee satisfaction:  In order to keep abreast with the standard of living, Setright conducts a salary survey as necessary and awards annual increments based on performance.  Our employees benefit from the Work Injury Benefits Act Policy. This policy covers the employees whilst on duty and engaged in the execution of projects undertaken by the company, against accidental bodily injury, disablement or death.  Staff are entitled to maternity and paternity leave. Female employees are entitled to three calendar months maternity leave with full pay, while the male employees are entitled to (2) two weeks (10 working days) after the baby has been born paternity leave with full pay.  Promotions are made on the basis of qualifications and merit. Periodic performance appraisals conducted, demonstrated commitment and proved competence are considered as key factors for promotion.  The official working hours at Setright are in 8 hour shifts. The Company’s management ensures equitable, reasonable and safe workload allocation to all staff. SETRIGHT Powering Africa 2.3 Environment: Below are actions Setright Technologies Ltd has taken in the area of environment As a renewable energy company, our goal is to make efficient and sustainable use of nature’s readily available resources, to generate power and foster economic development while reducing our carbon footprint. We have engineered power solutions that are environmentally friendly for companies in the Telecommunication, Oil and Education industries. Illustration: Solar Powered Computer Lab, Angola SETRIGHT Powering Africa 2.4 Anti-corruption: Below are actions Setright Technologies Ltd has taken in the area of environment Setright Technologies Limited’s commitment to integrity begins with complying with laws, rules and regulations where we do business. We are committed to competing solely on a merit of our products and services. Our Code of Ethics clearly states that, ‘we neither give nor accept business courtesies that constitute, or could reasonably be perceived as constituting unfair business inducements that would violate law, regulation or polices of Setright or customers or the State. The Company’s Code of Conduct and Ethics clearly states actions to be taken for fraud charges brought against an employee of the company. 3.0 Measurement of outcome The improvement of policies that ensure employees’ work-life balance has resulted in a decrease in the rate of absenteeism. Absenteeism has drastically reduced in the year 2015/16. This is depicted in the chart below: Chart showing rate of absenteeism at Setright (%) 20 15 10 2015 2016 5 0 Women Men
