UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS STATEMENT GC2014 1 CONTENTS 4 ABOUT THE REPORT 5 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 7 GLOBAL COMPACT 8 10 MISSION-VISION AND VALUES 11 19 CORPORATE PROFILE 20 21 ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT 22 23 OUR STAKEHOLDERS 24 31 SOCIAL Human Rights (UNGC) Labor Practices and decent work (UNGC) Society 32 39 ENVIRONMENTAL (UNGC) 40 44 ETHICS AND HONESTY (UNGC) 45 AWARDS 3 ABOUT THE REPORT Mersin Uluslararası Liman İşletmeciliği A.Ş. (MIP) has been the first company in the industry by supporting and being a party to “United Nations Global Compact” -which was implemented in 2000 by the United Nationsas a signatory. After “United Nations Global Compact” which we signed in 2014 and consisting of 10 universal principles geathering under the main headings of “Human Rights”, “Labor”, “Environment” and “Anti-Corruption”, we aim to share this awareness which we adopted in the name of sustainability with all our stakeholders in our annual progress reports and we aim to continue our sustainability journey by developing the report that we have prepared and published with a thrill of performing the first in the industry. Our commitment to these principles and values is on the rise in line with the frame of “Adopt-implement-support” since the first day when we were a party. Our development-oriented approach in the light of these principles constitutes the basis of all operational processes including our company policies and corporate culture. In our first progress report, we have included the works carried out by Mersin Uluslararası Liman İşletmeciliği A.Ş. (MIP) in 2014 on sustainable development. In this regard, the data available in the first progress report that we have published reflects our performance between January 1, 2014 December 31, 2014 and it is prepared annually in Turkish and English. We have prepared MIP GC2014 progress Report based on the principles of the progress report (COP) determined by United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) which we became a party in 2014. 4 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO As the first terminal operating signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 2014, MIP has underlined its commitment to upholding the principles of human rights, fighting corruption, maintaining a sustainable business model and taking care of our environment. We are proud to be a pioneering first-mover in the port business. MIP is an industry leader, and as such, we have always ensured that our approach to business is driven by our core values, which complement the key components of the UNGC. Mutual trust, commitment to excellence, a people focus, innovation and customer loyalty underscore what we do day to day. I am pleased to update that MIP has made great strides in 2014-2015, with a wide array of initiatives and projects that have aligned us ever closer to the core tenants of the UNGC. These include CSR projects that give back to our local community, such as providing TVs and projectors for the Niğde Ulukısla İnkılap Elementary School and building a gymnasium for the Hüseyin Polat Special Education Application Centre for mentally disabled children. Beyond our community related projects, we are also driving to reduce carbon emissions in the port as part of being a sustainable company that cares for the environment. Our “Go Green” campaigns have promoted recycling within our terminals, as well as the careful disposal and discharge of waste oils and reuse of water in a way that is environmentally sustainable. We are also utilising solar power to heat our water supply and automated sensor LED lights in our terminal buildings. At MIP, people are our most important asset. Mutual trust, one of our core values, has become part and parcel of what we do, and is also how we have built a work environment that ensures there is respect and open communication between all our employees. We respect the privacy of each and every individual and their personal information, while also ensuring that equal opportunities are given to all. MIP respects human rights and works to ensure we uphold the legal rights of our employees, support unionisation efforts and fight against forced and child labour. We will continue to engage our stakeholders and the wider community so that MIP can carry on having a positive impact both within our terminals and in our local community. I look forward to future innovative ideas and developments beyond what is outlined in this report to continue underlining our commitment to the UNGC as a catalyst for progress and change. Frans JOL Managing Director Mersin International Port 5 6 UNITED HUMAN RIGHTS NATIONS Principle 1: Business world should support GLOBAL and respect the declared human rights. Principle 2: Business world should not be part of human rights violations. COMPACT LABOR STANDARDS 10 PRINCIPLES In order to carry ten Principle 3: Business world should support employees’ freedom of association and principles on Human collective bargaining. Rights”, “Labor”, Principle 4: All forms of forced and compulsory labor should be stopped. Environment and AntiPrinciple 5: All kinds of child labor should be stopped. Corruption to a better Principle 6: Discrimination in recruitment and placement for work must be stopped. position, United Nations Global Compact brings ENVIRONMENT businesses together with United Nations’ institutions, labor, civil society and governments. With the Principle 7: Business world should support power of collective action, precautionary approaches to environmental challenges. it aims to make these ten Principle 8: All kinds of activities and formations which will promote environmental principles basic application responsibility must be supported. in business activities around Principle 9: The development and proliferation of environmentally friendly the world and aims to technologies should be supported. accelerate the actions so that ANTIthey support the broader CORRUPTION objectives of the United Nations. Principle 10: Business world should fight all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. 7 MISSION-VISION AND VALUES on t C d inue e n el In lenc at ov lE io n xc na tio ra pe O C u st o er m F oc u s e am T ated ic d De OUR MISSION To be the port of choice in Turkey and East Med region renowned for; • Operational Excellence • Continued Innovation • Customer Focus • Dedicated Team 8 OUR VISION To enchance its position as a leading port in Turkey and East Med Region. 9 OUR CORE VALUES 01 Mutual Trust We believe in establishing mutual trust with our stakeholders, which is essential for successful partnerships. 02 Commitment to Excellence We are committed to provide reliable and best-in-class services by continuously pursuing improvements in our business processes. 03 Innovation We encourage innovation for enhancements and overcome challenges with creativity. 04 Focus on People We value every member of our team member and provide opportunities for them to develop their potentials to the fullest. 05 Dedication to Customers We strive to upkeep our customers satisfaction level and help them succeed. We listen and respond to their needs. 10 CORPORATE PROFILE HISTORICAL DEVELOPMENT OF Mersin Port Mersin was a small fishing village in 1841 and became sub-district in 1850 then district in 1865. As of 1860, building a scaffolding has gained importance in the district and the number of incoming and outgoing vessels increased with the opening of Adana-Mersin Railway in 1886 and in order to provide loading and unloading of these vessels, Mersin Municipality first constructed “Taş İskelesi” then constructed “Gümrük İskelesi”. Due to the rapid increase in maritime trade, an experienced port management has been needed and MERSIN PORT COMPANY was founded on August 29th, 1927 in partnership with Seyrisefain Agency, Mersin, Tarsus, Seyhan and Ceyhan municipalities and Mersin Chamber of Commerce and Mersin Private Accounting. The construction of The company has suffered damage caused by Mersin Port started in a natural disasters and it was decided to transfer modern and protected it to the government with the liquidation decision in 1942. The decision no K/323 on its transfer to way on May 3, 1954. Turkish State Railways and General Directorate of Port Operations in exchange for 400.000 TL The construction was based on article 6 of National Security Law was performed by Dutch accepted with the Council of Ministers decision dated May 9, 1942 and numbered 2/17874 and Royal Port Construction published on Official Newspaper dated May 14, 1942, and numbered 5106. Company. The port reconstructed with all The construction of Mersin Port started in a modern and protected way on May 3, 1954. The facilities was put into construction was performed by Dutch Royal Port Construction Company. The port reconstructed operation in the modern with all facilities was put into operation in the sense in 1962. modern sense in 1962. 11 MERSİN INTERNATIONAL PORT (MIP) According to recently published statistics of the year 2012, MIP is the operator of Mersin International Mersin International Port Port characterized as a multi-purpose port and is spread over an area of which is the biggest port of Turkey in total cargo approximately 110 hectares volume and export containers handling areas. Mersin International Port is located in southern which is the largest field in Turkey, in the northeast corner of the Mediterranean. Turkey. It has 6 container Thanks to its location and connection possibilities, it is one of the main import and export gateways and 15 multi-purpose docks for Turkey's industrialized central and southeastern and totally 21 docks. It has cities. It plays an important role in international trade among neighboring countries in the Middle East in an extensive local cargo base Mersin International Port's hinterland. Also located with more than 20 containers at the intersection of fundamental maritime routes, and 11 Ro-Ro lines performed Mersin International Port is set to be a potential transshipment port for transit traffic in the Eastern regularly and which connects Mediterranean Region. Mersin International Port to Mersin International Port is spread over an area of approximately 100 ports in the approximately 110 hectares which is the largest field world. in Turkey. It has 6 container and 15 multi-purpose docks and totally 21 docks. It has an extensive local cargo base with more than 20 containers and 11 Ro-Ro lines performed regularly and which local cargo base with more than 20 containers connects Mersin International Port to approximately and 11 Ro-Ro lines performed regularly and which 100 ports in the world. As of March 31, 2013, connects Mersin International Port to approximately Mersin International Port has annually 18 million 100 ports in the world. TEU container and 9.75 million ton conventional cargo handling capacity. MIP was founded in May It is one of the main container ports in the 2007 between Akfen which is one of the leading Mediterranean region with its transfer and hinterland investment holdings of Turkey and PSA which is one connections with Middle East and black sea. With of the world's global port operators with %50 %50 its wide hinterland, with easy access to facilities and joint venture. The Company is established solely for trained human resources Mersin International Port the purpose of operating and improving the Mersin (MIP) meets an important part of Turkey's export International Port and this right is obtained in 2007 and import volume. via 36-year privatization contract valid until 2043. Mersin International Port (MIP) is not only Turkey’s Mersin International Port (MIP) is linked through but also Eastern Mediterranean’s one of the leading railways and roads with Turkey's industrialized ports with its geographic location, capacity, and cities such as Ankara, Gaziantep, Kayseri, wide hinterland as well as with the advantages of Kahramanmaraş, Konya and border countries such simplicity of domestic and multi-modal connections. as Syria, Iraq and Iran. Mersin International Port (MIP) has all opportunities for logistics activities with its free zone, railway Mersin International Port is spread over an area of transportation, strong truck fleet in the region, approximately 110 hectares which is the largest field Şakirpaşa airport which is 69 km away from it, in Turkey. It has 6 container and 15 multi-purpose logistics culture from the past and improved human docks and totally 21 docks. It has an extensive resources structure for this purpose. 12 RAILWAY TRANSPORTATION MIP (Mersin International Port) is linked with Gaziantep, Kayseri, Kahramanmaraş, Konya, Karaman, Ankara and other industrial cities through International railways. 4-track railway terminal providing container transportation is also available in the port area. It possible to provide services in the terminal with specialized personnel and appropriate equipment for freights of Ankara, Kayseri, Konya, Gaziantep, Kahramanmaraş Iraq, Iran and other regions. ROAD TRANSPORTATION Mersin International Port is linked with Gaziantep, Kayseri, Kahramanmaraş, Konya and developed industrial cities through highway. Thanks to effective road transportation, access can also be provided to Middle Eastern countries. FREE ZONE Mersin Free Zone is located adjacent to the Mersin International Port and linked with the port through a road called as “corridor” in the port. Mersin International Port's proximity to the free zone positively affects cargo traffic and provides time savings to cargo owners. Mersin International Port is the only port that can be connected with free zone through a corridor in Turkey. PORT SERVICES Mersin International Port (MIP) is import and export gate of Central Anatolia, Mediterranean, East and Southeast Anatolia regions. MIP which is also a transit hub for the Middle East countries is linked with domestic cities and Middle East countries through road, air and rail. Through the extensive facilities at the port, container, general cargo, project cargo, ro-ro, dry bulk and liquid bulk cargo, passenger and direct bulk from ship to containers services are offered for all kinds of kinds of cargo. MIP is the only port that can deliver all port services in the same field in Turkey. Depending on the size nearly 30 simultaneous loading and unloading services can be provided in the port with 21 docks. Annually, an average of 22 million tons of cargo is handled. 13 CONTAINER SERVICES Mersin International Port (MIP) which is one of the largest container port in the south of Turkey serves to the widest industrial hinterland in the region and contributes greatly to Turkey’s foreign trade. It is linked with all the main ports of the world through more than regularly frequented 20 container lines. 7/24 service are provided with modern equipment in Container Terminal which has the total dock length of 1470 meters and has a depth of 14 meters. • Loading / Unloading / Re-dispatch / Cabot • Lashing / Unlashing and Twist lock Services • Container Internal Loading / Unloading • Inspection, Full Detection, X-ray, weighbridge • 15,000 M2 area which has just been assigned to provide inspection and full detection services • 12 weighbridge placed in the appropriate fields • Reefer Container Services (PTI) • 900 plug capacity • IMDG Container Services CONTAINER INFORMATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS • 7/24 container operation follow up by work order on the Web • Network structure providing wireless data communication and its security in total 110 ha port and expansion fields, • Facility for 7/24 monitoring of port and expansion area with 150 CCTV cameras, performing all port operations through Terminal Operation Operating System (TOS) and online monitoring port users’ operations. 14 CONVENTIONAL CARGO SERVICES Bulk Solid Cargos It is possible to provide loading and unloading services to 60,000 tons of the post-panamax vessels daily up to 20.000 tons. Bulk Liquid Cargos It is possible to perform loading and unloading of any kind of bulk liquid through 3 pieces mobile dock platforms and 2 pieces product lines. Project Cargos Project cargo handling capacity is 140 tons in part basis with the port equipment. It is possible to provide service for project cargos over 140 tons by providing ship winch or suitable winches. General Cargos Loading and unloading services can be provided at 15 docks, 5 of which are directly linked with railway. Thus, import / export cargo vessels can berth to docks linked to railways and the cargos can be loaded directly onto rail wagons. CAPACITY AND FEATURES Multi-Purpose Docks 15 Docks Directly Linked With Railways 5 Vessel Length for Berthing 300 m Total Dock Length 2,280 m 13,517 m�² closed Storage Area 469,700 m² open Ro-Ro Area 127,600 m² 15 CFS SERVICES Internal loading and unloading are performed in CFS fields for all kinds of cargo under the transit procedure by using either labor force or equipment. Additionally, daily internal loading and unloading services are offered for wagons and for train cargos to Gaziantep, Kahramanmaraş, Kayseri, Konya, Ankara and Iraq as well as other regions. FEATURES THAT MAKE THE DIFFERENCE IN CFS SERVICES • 180.000 m2 CFS Field • Annual business volume up to 300.000 TEU • Daily capacity of loading 700 containers mine and marble • Internal loading and unloading services for wagons • CFS fields linked with railways • Bulk solid cargo filling pools linked with railway • Rich equipment park in the capacity from 3 tons to 45 tons • Labor and equipment and attachments to support CFS services • CFS service for heavy parts other than standard cargos, project cargos, yachts etc. 16 RO-RO CARGOS • 8 docks suitable for Ro-Ro cargo handling • Possibility for loading and unloading 4 Ro-Ro vessels simultaneously • Annual handling capacity of 150,000 vehicles • Possibility for loading and unloading from Ro-Ro vessels from ramp by forklifts with lifting capacity up to 45 tons • Regular weekly Ro-Ro ship voyages to Libya, Italy, Cyprus and other countries’ ports • Transit hub for the Middle Eastern countries such as Iraq, Iran and Turkic Republics MIP CAR TERMINAL • 70,000 m2 areas allocated specifically for transit vehicles • 3,000 m2 of special parking space for the car carrying tractor-trailers GAS STATION WITHOUT SPECIAL CONSUMPTION TAX Fuel without VAT and Special Consumption Tax is supplied by gas station in the port area to RoRo vehicles carrying export freight RAILWAY SERVICES Four-line railway terminal is available in Mersin International Port area. Available RTG will be PASSENGER TERMINAL replaced with 2 pieces RMG and line capacity Mersin International Port (MIP) meets the needs will be increased from 4 to 6 and line length will of tourism in the region. MIP which is at the be increased from 450 meters to 700 meters in heart of the Eastern Mediterranean has become 2015. a haunt of passenger ships with regular voyages to Syria, Lebanon and Cyprus. Appropriate Features That Make the Difference in Railway docks for cruise ships and 3.500 m2 area for VeServices; hicle Park next to the dock are available. • Loading and unloading from and to wagons through railway connection of five docks MARINE SERVICES • Internal loading and unloading services (Pilotage Marine Towing) directly from wagons to containers and from Pilotage Marine Towing service are provided to containers to wagons all vessels coming to the docks of Mersin Inter• Train services for cargos of Gaziantep, national Port located within the area protected Kahramanmaraş, Kayseri, Konya, Ankara and by the breakwater and Free Zone located within Iraq as well as other regions the breakwater, Ataş, Nato/Petrol Ofisi dock and piers and float facilities of the companies located outside of the breakwater and handling MIP ANKARA RAILWAY petroleum products. TERMINAL Services in our port are provided with following Services provided in this context; Towing Boats: • Ankara-Mersin railway transportation • Full / empty container storage and terminal -2 pieces ASD type 45 ton towing boats services -1 piece conventional twin screw 30 ton towing • Domestic container shipping in Ankara boat • Railway shipping -2 pieces VOITH type 32 ton towing boats 17 MERSİN INTERNATIONAL PORT EXPANSION PROJECT A new dock with total length of 480 m will be Totally 13 thousand tons steel pipes in 1016 and constructed under the project. 1219 mm diameter will be driven in the sea for the construction of the new dock. 65 collision mats and 34 bollards in the capacity of The 49 m high 4 giant dock cranes will be used on 200 tons will be placed on the dock. the dock. The total capacity of the cranes will be 800 thousand TEU. Additionally, 8 pieces E-RTG cranes that will be Turkey's largest container terminal will be built with operated on the back field will increase storage Mersin Port Expansion Project scheduled to be capacity of the port from 1.8 million TEU to 2.6 completed in 1.5 years. million TEU. 18 When the terminal planned to be completed in 1.5 years entered into service, vessels with 400 meters in length and 18 thousand TEU capacities will be able to berth in Mersin International Port. Thus, Mersin International Port will have the largest container terminal capacity in the country. The capacity of the port will increase from 1.8 million TEU to 2.6 milion TEU with additional dock project which is in totally 160 million dollars value. MAXIMUM VESSEL CAPACITY TOTAL DOCK LENGHT CONTAINER (m) MAX TEU LOA (m) DRAFT (m) (TEU) Before 3,250 6,500 305 13,5 1,8 m After 3,514 > 10,000 400 15,5 2,6 m 19 ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT Our most fundamental responsibility to our stakeholders is to continue our progress with accountable, transparent and sustainable governance model. As a company continuing all operations in the industry at the international level, we are embracing and relying on contemporary and modern management practices. Board of Directors elected by the General Assembly and Executive Committee established by the Board of Directors are responsible for the management of the company and they perform Board of Directors their duty based on the principles set forth in the Hamdi AKIN Chairman of the Board articles of incorporation İbrahim Süha GÜÇSAV Member of the Board and in the Internal Directive for the Company's Hüseyin Kadri SAMSUNLU Member of the Board Management. David Antonius YANG Member of the Board Board of Directors of LIM Pek Suat Member of the Board Mersin Uluslararası Liman İşletmeciliği A.Ş. (MIP) John Arthur PHILLIPS Member of the Board consists of 6 members. 2 members of the Board Executive Committee of Directors are also the members of the Executive David Antonius YANG Committee Member Committee. Executive İbrahim Süha GÜÇSAV Committee Member Committee consists of four members designated by Board of Directors. Audit Kelvin TAN Assistant General Manager of Finance Committee was established by March 1st, 2013 dated and 2013/1 numbered Audit Committee decision of the Board Bağımsız Denetim ve AKİS Serbest Muhasebeci Mali Müşavirlik A.Ş. Independent Auditor of Directors. The Audit Committee is responsible Hüseyin Kadri SAMSUNLU Member of the Audit Commitee for inspecting internal audit Necmiye Meral ALTINOK Member of the Audit Commitee unit of the company and for reporting to Board of LIM Pek Suat Member of the Audit Commitee Directors Vincent NG Hak Sen Member of the Audit Commitee 20 MERSİN INTERNATIONAL PORT (MIP) ORGANIZATION CHART Board General Manager Deputy General Manager / Finance Legal Human Resources Affairs Manager HSE & Organizational Development Manager Head of BD & Head of Internal Audit Head of Engineering Head of Operations Head of Commercial Head of Finance Administration and Risk Management 21 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT As Mersin Uluslararası Liman İşletmeciliği A.Ş., we systematically apply operational development and information by openly sharing with stakeholders and by planning a variety of internal and external communication activities. • Board of Directors • General Manager Accordingly, by sharing our commitments and application with • Employees our stakeholders, we use corporate website, internal communication networks, internal and external meetings, communication channels with media etc. to reach our stakeholders that we defined below. • Financial Institutions • Logistics Sector • Suppliers • Unions • Media • Universities • Non-government organizations • Public institutions and organizations • Local Community MEMBERSHIPS MERSİN LOGISTICS PLATFORM This is an organization that we formed to use available potential of Mersin and to carry Mersin to its deserved place in national and international scale in logistic which is one of the leading sectors of Mersin. Mersin Logistics Platform starting out for the purpose of making Mersin a “logistic base” for the cities in its hinterland in the country and for Middle East and Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). It was founded to determine logistic strategy of the city within the scope of RIS-Mersin project and to put it into practice. MIP is an active member of Mersin Logistics Platform which it considered as an important project for the development of the industry. 22 MERSIN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT MERSİN RIS PROJECT AND COOPERATION COUNCIL This is the Regional Innovation Strategy to be held for Activity areas of MEKİK carried out by Mersin GovMersin region for the first time in Turkey. The main obernorship are as follows; To direct public institutions jective of the project is to increase business-oriented and organizations, international organizations and innovation potential of the region. For this purpose, it non-governmental organizations for the development is aimed to develop and encourage regional innovaof the region, to develop all kinds of infrastructure, to tion infrastructure of the region, to create a common make strategic research, to attract national and interplatform for cooperation among research centers, uninational investors to the region, to provide information versities, private and public sector, to create a culture and guidance, to develop SMEs and to improve their open to creativity and innovation with the analysis of competitiveness, to support foreign expansion operabusiness needs and awareness-raising techniques, tions, to plan mutual visits, trade fairs and business to sport the conversion of knowledge to the innovadelegations, to operate Local Information Office of the tion and economic value with the promotion of uniEuropean Union, to prepare projects for the use of reversity-industry cooperation, to create inter-regional sources from EU funds, to support the integration with cooperation opportunities, to promote SMEoriented the EU, to perform scientific, economic, social and culcooperation activities among sectors, to increase the tural studies, to create an information bank for the denumber of the companies performing manufacturing velopment of Mersin, to publish a variety of documents operations based on innovation by establishing and for the needs of the region and agency, to cooperate supporting seed and venture capital funds, incubation with foreign development agencies, to perform promocenters and technology development zones, to estabtion, communication and lobbying activities. MIP aclish strong ties within the region, the country and the tively involves in all the works of Mersin Development European Research Area, to ensure the development and Cooperation Council. of human resources profile for innovation culture. MIP is among the supporter institutions of this project carried out by MTSO. OTHER MEMBERSHIPS INSTITUTION NAME INSTITUTION NAME TOBB Turkish Union of Chambers and Exchange Commodities (Maritime Sector) DTD Railroad Transportation Association TOBB/YOİKK Coordination Council for the Improvement of Investment Environment TURAB Turkish Arab Countries Businessmen Association MTSO Mersin Chamber of Commerce and Industry DEİK Foreign Economic Relations Board MDTO Mersin Chamber of Shipping AKİB Mediterranean Exporters Union General Secretariat TURKLİM Association of Turkey Port Operators MEDCRUISE MESİAD Mersin Businessmen Association 23 SOCIAL HUMAN RIGHTS (UNGC) United Nations Declaration of Human Rights constitutes with laws and regulations. Therefore; employees are an important part of our social responsibility commitment. expected to act in accordance with the company's Code According to this commitment, in order not to deprive of Conduct and Disciplinary Procedures. These rules anyone that contribute to our success by working from aimed at protecting the motivation and work peace in human rights and not to damage them psychologically the workplace have been identified by procedure and or physically, we are continuously working to develop we pay attention that the employees know that these and improve our social performance by identifying rules are placed for their own interests. higher objectives and by integrating human rights matters to our daily work activities. • Our employees are the most important key to the success of MIP. Therefore; our strategy is to place the LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT right people to the right job. WORK (UNGC) • Each of our new members participated in MIP will Mersin Uluslararası Liman İşletmeciliği A.Ş. has been be part of our integrity and will develop the company’s founded on the values that we describe as “core values” mission and vision and will provide the continuity of our by targeting to manage human resources which are the company culture. Therefore, we also pay attention the guarantee of the vision and mission in the most efficient suitability of candidates to our company culture. manner. Our policy is to promote skilled, versatile and quality-oriented workforce by supporting our • Based on the idea that the employees be balanced employees' knowledge and skills, superior performance persons will increase the efficiency in professional life, and commitment. we not only create suitable work environment for their We aim to provide superior and sustained performance physical, environmental and occupational health but of the company's workforce by ensuring that the also mental and emotional health. company’s values are shared and adopted by all employees. • Based on the importance of the “Learner Organization” Our principles have been developed according to our and the reality that our employees are our most valuable values to ensure that our Human Resources policy be assets, we pay attention to training planning, career understood correctly by all our employees: management and performance management to motivate our employees and retain our workforce presence. • Our basic principle in our relationships with employees is to build mutual trust and respect, to adopt transparent and open communication, to protect UNIONS AND COLLECTIVE LABOR AGREEMENT MIP supports unionization among its employees. In the privacy of personal information and to support the this regard, all our employees, regardless of level or principle of equal opportunity to the employees. competence have the right to form trade unions for the protection of individual and collective interests and to • All processes in MIP are created in accordance be members of trade unions. 24 MIP recognizes the roles of union representatives on this matter Percentage distribution of the training given and doesn’t exhibit any discriminatory attitude against these to our employees representatives. Furthermore the mentioned employees are granted paid leave for union activities and all the necessary facilities are provided to publicize the activities to the employees in the workplace. FORCED LABOR AND CHILD LABOR MIP doesn’t use forced labor and doesn’t employ personnel under the legal age of employment within the conditions defined by the International Labor Organization and law. It is in interaction with all stakeholders in the fight against child labor. LEGAL RIGHTS OF THE EMPLOYEES We exhibit an attitude to our employees’ labor rights arising from the provisions of the labor law and labor agreement from the Percentage distribution of employees by gender perspective of human rights not from the perspective of obligation. Discrimination and differential treatment aren’t applied based on language, race, sex, political opinion, philosophical belief, religion and sect or similar reasons for the recruitment and for work related matters. EMPLOYMENT OF DISABLED PERSONNEL We pay attention to adaptation of disabled people to society and their finding more space in the public sphere and we provide employment for disabled people in the proportion set forth in applicable law. Overall employment rate for disabled people in MIP is 2,91 %. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Percentage distribution of employees by age Employee Health As MIP while we are aiming the satisfaction of its employees, we are constantly working to ensure development in all areas of work. Considering the quality of life of its employees, our company is constantly being informed by the doctor of the workplace in order to support our employees’ health and these studies are supported by informative publication issued through mipconnect portal. Furthermore, our workplace health team performs the routine health checks of our employees and performs the relevant controls on a regular basis. Furthermore, our company offers on-site infirmary to serve our employees on 7/24 basis. Occupational Safety All the conditions are fulfilled to ensure the health and safety in our company and Occupational Health and Safety regulations and Percentage distribution of employees according to their educational status procedures are implemented to prevent possible accidents and occupational diseases at work. Occupational Health and Safety Committee and subcommittees have been formed and constantly working in order to prevent all risks identified in the port. In order to ensure the safety of our employees and minimize the risk of accidents, all our employees have been provided with occupational safety trainings and these trainings are repeated in specified periods. Furthermore, short informative films about occupational safety are continuously being displayed in social facilities located in the port. 25 2010 The Project of New Custom EMPLOYEE MOTIVATION Motivation Questionnaire to Old Vilage The social responsibility projects called as “New Custom As MIP, We organize Motivation Questionnaire and to Old Village” project developed by MIP and TIKAV; understand our employee’s expectations and needs Mersin Governorship aimed to ensure effective use of and their belongingness to the company is assessed. information access units formed in village chambers While Motivation Questionnaire allows the planning and to teach villagers to access the information. As an of the applications that will increase the motivation extension to this, it is aimed to place social responsibility of our employees, it also ensures to take actions for awareness within the company by allowing them to take the medium and long term improvements. In order to part in the project. increase the applicability of action plans, it is decided to perform the same Questionnaire every year. Within the scope of “New Custom to Old Village Project” supported by Mersin Governorship Mersin Metropolitan Make a Difference with your Idea Municipality, Provincial Health Office, Provincial Ideas of our employees are very important for us. Directorate of National Education and Mersin Province Starting from this understanding, we provide that our Social Assistance and Solidarity Foundation, Computer employees share their valuable ideas which will make Training, I value myself (KDV), hygiene, first aid, proper a difference, improve service quality, and contribute nutrition, Infectious Disease and Dental Care trainings to occupational safety through suggestion boxes and provided to 78 students from 41 villages for a week. mipconnect portal. We award the ideas selected by the As an extension to these trainings, in order to increase evaluation committee and provide the implementation social responsibility awareness, 8 MIP employees them to our operational processes. voluntarily visited 41 villages and provided KDV training to the adults. SOCIETY As MIP, we act with the conscious to consider the rights of the community in which we are located and we 2011-2012 Mother's School Project continue our contribution to this process with our social “Mother's School Project” implemented in collaboration responsibility projects without slowing down. with MIP and TIKAV In 2011 aimed to increase awareness of young mothers living in migration areas by providing them basic health education and thus it is aimed to ensure generations to be grown by these THE PROJECTS CARRIED OUT mother be more conscious, equipped with knowledge, and be individuals who continue their life by putting the THROUGH TIKAV (Human Resources knowledge into practice away from mother’s teachings. Foundation of Turkey) in PARTNERSHIP with MIP (Mersin Within the project which is planned to reach to 225 with 9 different study, hygiene, self-care and nutrition International Port): health trainings are given and Mother and Child 26 Health Physician Appointed by the Provincial Health to explain to headmen the changing dynamic nature Directorate has informed the mothers on reproductive of today and to contribute to the development of the health. At the end of the training program, mothers have environment they live in. In this context, it is intended gained a different experience with breathing therapy to develop social responsibility awareness by providing implemented by the psychologist appointed by the them to be a model for their social environment. In the Akdeniz National Education Directorate. Most of the studies performed within the scope of Hand in Hand mothers deprived of social life due to their surroundings with Headmen Project, seminars on communication have found opportunity to watch a movie in a theater. skills, effective leadership; official correspondence rules and practical computer use were given to the In 2012, in nine different villages of Mersin Toroslar participants. Within the scope of the project, 63 village, district, İKAV Project Officer gave young mothers “I 159 quarter headmen totally 100 headmen have been Value Myself” training and Provincial Directorate of reached in Toroslar, Akdeniz, Yenişehir and Mezitli Health, Maternal and Child Health Practitioner Ayşe district of Mersin. 100 headmen were given certificates Çöl gave reproductive health training. Health trainings at a ceremony held. are given to young mothers thus it is aimed to ensure generations to be grown by these mothers be more conscious, and be individuals who continue their life by putting the knowledge into practice. Additionally, while psychologist Yaşam Yanardağ was answering questions of mothers, she also applied needles acupuncture to the participants. After the basic health trainings, Arslanköy Women's Theatre players demonstrated the theater play that they wrote and allowed the villagers benefit from theater events. 2012 Our Common Language Colors 2013-2014 Repairing from Us and Project. Education from You TIKAV scholars completed the renovation of Kazanlı Within the scope of “Repairing from us and Education elementary school within the scope of 'Our Common from You Project” implemented with the cooperation Language Colour Project' and they handed over the of MIP and TİKAV, Inactive building in Mersin Dikilitaş school on September 10 with a ceremony attended by Primary School was renovated and a two classroom senior figures from the public and business. kindergarten is prepared. All construction, renovation and maintenance process of Kindergartens made 'Our Common Language Colour Project' implemented available to community were completed and the needs by the partnerships of TIKAV, MIP and Youth Award of the classrooms were met. Association was performed between the dates 2 to 9 September 2012 in Mersin, Akdeniz district Kazanlı Maintenance and repair work of Halil Akgün elementary school with the participation of TIKAV Elementary School started within the year 2014 social scholars. responsibility activities were completed and handed over to the Directorate of National Education was on International Youth Award Program financially supported Friday September 12. All the necessary renovations, by MIP and whose coordination assumed by TİKAV is maintenance, repairs of four – classroom Halil Akgün a Social Harmony Project. TİKAV scholars who are the Primary School were carried out under the project. Halil participants of International Youth Award Program under Akgün Primary School whose all needs from electrical the project painted Kazanlı elementary school. With installation to exterior paint and to training tools and this project, the school's class doors, curtains, cabinets, materials were met was prepared to provide education teacher desks and teacher chairs were renewed and to the students in accordance with the conditions of the the roof and garden walls were repaired. Akfen Holding age. A.Ş. and MIP donated to school computers and some technologic communication devices. In 2015, Mimar Sinan secondary school and Sabahattin Çakmakoğlu Elementary School were included in “Repairing from us and Education from You Project”. 2013 Hand in Hand with Headmen Construction, renovations and maintenance work as well project as the needs of schools such as improving laboratory With “Hand in hand with Headmen in Mersin Project” and the locker room, computer demand, music hall and performed with MIP and TİKAV’s cooperation, it is aimed painting studio will be taken into consideration. 27 2014 Barriers inside Us “Barriers inside Us Project” were performed in 2014 Music Festival which is most important artistic events of in Mersin with the partnership of MIP and TİKAV. Mersin since 2008. With the project supported by Mersin Governorship, Mersin Provincial National Education Directorate, The main goal of Mersin International Music Festival Mersin Provincial Directorate of Family and Social is to ensure that people of the city, the region, Turkey Policies, it is aimed to raise awareness of individuals and the world to meet the universal music Based on who have disabled people in his/her family to give the the principle that Music is the international language idea that disability is not a victimization, to encourage of humanity disabled people to participate in life, and to provide equal opportunities to disabled people. The project 2013-2014 Mersin Cultural Festival was realized in 5 steps and it included half day training MIP supported Mersin Cultural Festival held for the first program in April, May, September and October. time in 2013, as a sponsor, for the years 2013 and 2014. Working Life and Women 2008-2014 Mersin İdman Yurdu In 2015, in cooperation with Mersin Governorship, MIP supported Mersin İdman Yurdu Club which is the MIP and TİKAV, Working Life and Women Panel and only professional football team of Mersin, as a sponsor Communication in the Family Panel were included in 2015 since 2008 Social Responsibility Projects and preparations for the project are ongoing. 2010 Mersin Mediterranean Region Sailing Races MIP supported Mediterranean Region Races held for the MIP's Development Support Projects first time and placed on 2010 activity program of Turkey in athletic and artistic Area Sailing Federation by buying 2 pieces optimist boat. 2008–2014 Mersin International Music 2012-2013 Mersin Handball Club Festival MIP supported Mersin Handball Club playing in super MIP provides sponsorship support to Mersin International league for 2012-2013 seasons as a sponsor. 28 2011-2012 Mersin Maritime Festival MIP has been the sponsor of the festival held for the first time by Republic of Turkey Regional Directorate of Maritime Affairs to promote the development of the maritime sector and to introduce it to the younger generation. 2009-2010/2012 Art Bridge from Vienna to Mersin Project The aim of the project is to create an environment that the children may reveal their art talents and to open new horizons in their lives. In order to direct them to the art by providing them necessary preliminary education and to contribute their personal development; The project initiated by Serkan Gürkan who is studying Master of Science at Vienna Music Academy, is composer, arranger, artistic director and violinist and MIP in 2009 continued until the end of the year 2010 with the support of Mersin Governorship. Within the project, 20 children staying at Social Services and Child Protection Dormitory have been selected by violinists of String Inspirations Quintet group Sergej Bolontny ve Alexej Barer, Viyolonsel Peter Gospodinov, kontrbas Felipe Medina coming to Mersin and established by Serkan Gürkan. 12 of the children who are the future’s artist have received violin training and 8 of them have received cello training. MIT has supported this as a main sponsor. It has been planned that the children from orphanage give a concert in Vienna which is the capital of Austria and in different cities of Turkey. The project is of great importance in that it is “Turkey's First Orphanage Orchestra” 2012-2013 Mersin ITF ITF Future Tennis Tournament MIP supported ITF Future Tennis Tournament organized by Mersin Tennis Sailing Swimming and Water Sports Specialized Club in 2012-2013 as a main sponsor. 2014-2015 Mersin University Sports Club MIP has supported Mersin University Sports Club Women's Basketball Team which participated in TKB2L three seasons ago within Mersin University Sports Club and succeeded to attend play-off in the first season. Sponsorship support to Mersin University Sports Club continued in 2015. 29 2014 Mersin Tenis Kulübü ATP Challenger Tenis Turnuvası As a sponsor, MIP has supported ATP Challenger Tennis Tournament organized in Mersin by Mersin Tennis Sailing Swimming and Water Sports Specialized Club between the dates 7-13 April 2014. MIP has signed a contract as a main sponsor for ATP Challenger Tennis Tournament to be organized in 2015. As a sponsor, MIP has supported national fencer Cansu Tor Kadıoğlu who will participate International Fencing Target Competition in 2015. MIP's Education Support Projects At the beginning of the school year 2007-2008: School uniforms were provided to 500 needy students and in the same period stationary was provided to 500 students identified with limited purchasing power. In 2008, With the aim of supporting mental and manual skills development of the children staying in Orphanage, training kit for each age group separately have been bought and donated. In 2007-2008, scholarships are given to two students who won the university entrance exam, but are unable to afford the registration fees. MIP provided financial support for the construction of school buildings built by MTSO in 2007-2008. In 2007-2008, in accordance with Yenigün project carried out by the Provincial Police Headquarters, the publication of two books named Drug Addiction and Internet Addiction which are specifically designed to be distributed to young people in secondary school age are supported by MIP. In 2007-2008, Equipment needs of Nihat Sözmen Mentally Handicapped School Gymnasium were met. Air conditioning needs of Çamlıbel kindergarten were met. In 2007-2008, Turkey Offshore Championship Mersin Racings organized by cooperation of Mersin Chamber of Commerce and Industry and İstanbul Offshore Club were supported by MIP. In 2007-2008, required support for participation of Hatice Uluğ Elementary School Football Team to District Tournament was provided. 30 In 2007-2008, the football tournament organized In 2012, educational toys, books, stationery and clothing due to 163rd establishment anniversary of the Police aid were provided to Mut Gökçetaş village Elementary department was organized by MIP. school students in cooperation with Lamos Rotary Club. In 2007-2008, MIP supported Mersin State Opera and In 2015, TV and projectors are donated to Niğde Ulukışla Ballet (MDOB) to demonstrate Turkish Ballet “Çağrı’ İnkılap Elementary school to provide 1st, 2nd, and 3rd about Mevlana Celaleddin-i Rumi who is the symbol of class students to watch CD’s of the books. tolerance and love. In 2015, Gymnasium initiated under the project “lend In 2011, within the scope of Education Support Projects, a hand to my disability” and to be constructed in MIT provided class materials and tools for nursery Hüseyin Polat Special Education Application Center classes of 1.800 student capacity Selçuklar Elementary where nearly 240 medium and severe mentally school located in needy areas of Mersin. disabled children received education will be built for supporting the physical development of our children 20 laptops for visually impaired people, 50 wheelchairs by providing various sports equipment, sound system, and 100 white walking-sticks donated by an American electrical system and maintenance and renovation of benefactor for handicapped people in Mersin were whole saloon. This facility will greatly support mentally brought to Mersin with contribution of MIP. handicapped students for academic training as well as develop physical education skills, increase the gains in In 2011 MIP contributed to aid campaign initiated by matters such as physical, psychomotor behavior, fine Republic of Turkey Prime Ministry for Somali and other motor development etc. African countries living in hunger. Additionally, because most of the aid vessels sailing to Somali were sent from Mersin Port, MIP supported the campaigns by applying special tariff for aid vessels coming to the port. 31 ENVIRONMENT (UNGC) Assessment, Policy and Goals MIP has great opportunities for logistic activities logistics Our policy includes the following core values; activities with its free zone, railway transportation, • To ensure that all operational activities including strong truck fleet in the region, Şakirpaşa airport which subcontractors are in accordance with “Health, Safety, is 69 km away from it, logistics culture from the past and Environment and Safety Policy”, improved human resources structure for this purpose. • To comply with all applicable laws and regulations, Through the extensive facilities at the port, container, general cargo, project cargo, ro-ro, dry bulk and liquid • To attach due importance to health, safety, bulk cargo, passenger and direct bulk from ship to environmental and safety matters on commercial, containers services are offered for all kinds of kinds administrative and operational decisions, of cargo. MIP is the only port that can deliver all port services in the same field in Turkey. Depending on the • To identify necessary health, safety, environmental size nearly 30 simultaneous loading and unloading and security measures in corporate policies, procedures, services can be provided in the port with 21 docks. and programs, Annually, an average of 22 million tons of cargo is handled. It has been decided to expand capacity use • To consider health, safety, environmental and security the docks in the port more effectively, to increase port performance of personnel as a part of personnel activities and to allow more large volume vessels benefit evaluation and awarding,, from port services. • To adopt a culture that supports the ideal of Accordingly, “Health, Safety, Environment and Security commitment to health, safety, environment and security, Policy” has been formed to minimize the environmental impact of all operational processes and to create healthy • To continuously improve management systems and safe working environment. comprising pollution prevention and to improve health, safety, environmental and security performance, Awareness of creating safe, secure, healthy and clean work environment in our areas of activity and the loyalty Environmental Risks Arising from ideal targeting continuous improvement which supports Port Operations and Measures this awareness and which is sustainable and open to innovation lies under the foundation of our policy. Taken In Mersin Port operated by Mersin Uluslararası Liman Our goal as the leader in the sector is to be an İşletmeciliği A.Ş., measures are taken to prevent wastes organization model on health, safety, and environment to give harm to the environment and human life at all and security matters. stages of waste management. The wastes caused by 32 operational activities are sent to licensed recycling / disposal facilities. Six stationary tanks with a total of 750 m3 capacity are available within waste reception facility in the port operation area. Within the scope of waste collection service; petroleum and petroleum-derived wastes resulting from normal activities of the vessels (bilge water, sludge, waste oils), toxic liquid waste (vegetable oil), sewage, garbage and cargo residues are received and temporarily stored on site. After the separation and treatment, they are sent to recycling / disposal facilities licensed by environment and urban ministry. Emergency response plan formed under Law No. 5312 and Implementing Regulation on training of emergency response teams for the conditions caused by oil and its derivatives and other harmful substances related to the maritime traffic have been approved by Environment and Urban Ministry. OPRC 1 and 2, HNS 1 and 2 trainings have been included in MIP Emergency Response Plan and periodic drills are conducted every 6 months. MIP has been signed an agreement with an emergency Environmental dimension assessment studies have response company authorized by Environment and been performed to activate waste management within Urban Ministry on “Preparedness and Response to Oil sustainable development with the effects to water, soil Pollution” under Law No. 5312. Additionally, it is planned and air by putting forward environmental dimensions to initiate the works in 2015 for MIP to response directly and to position minimizing the use of natural resources in case of 1st degree marine pollution and preparing in the management. response equipment by providing them. Site inspections are carried out by the staff responsible Studies have been initiated to receive the certificates for the environment within Health, Safety, Environment of integrated management systems (ISO 14001, and Organization Development Directorate. Our OHSAS 18001 and ISO 9001) and it is aimed to receive environmental management department engaged in certificates until February 2016. internal audit is available to assess the compliance with environmental legislation whether the measures taken In this context, handling instructions indicating how are implemented effectively implemented. to handle cargos throughout the port have been formed furthermore, “Procedure for Implementation Periodic inspections and controls relating to the of Legal and Other Requirements”, “Monitoring and environment in the area are made in Port areas and Measurement Occupational Health and Safety and potential nonconformities identified are reported Environmental Parameters Procedures”, “Procedure for within the scope of “Corrective and Preventive Action Loading, Unloading and Transportation of Hazardous Procedure” and implementation of preventive and Substances within the Port” remedial actions is provided. In order to identify the conditions that may cause risks Dust measurements are made periodically to control related to the environment during the operational emissions of dust emitted into the atmosphere as a result activities of Mersin Uluslararası Liman İşletmeciliği A.Ş. of Port activities, to protect human and environment and thus systematically identify methods and procedures from hazards arising from air pollution, to eliminate the related to controlling expected and probable risks, negative effects that may arise as a result of air pollution “Environmental Dimension Assessment, Environmental and cause significant damage to general public and Management Plan preparation and Implementation neighbor relations and to prevent and to prevent the Procedure has been prepared. occurrence of these effects. 33 Methods are developed to keep environmental impact of loading and unloading activities carried out at the port at minimum level. For the cargos that will not be affected, pulverized water system special sealing couplings are used and loading and unloading are carried out without tossing. Special pans are used during loading of bulk cargo from trucks to vessel and bunker is used during unloading bulk cargo from vessel to trucks. Cargos are unloaded to trucks by machines at close range. It is provided that the roads and areas in the port are covered with concrete, asphalt and cobblestones and dust is prevented by regular cleaning and irrigation. In addition, in order to prevent dry bulk cargo pour into the sea during loading/unloading operation, suitable canvas is covered between the dock and the vessel. In order to ensure that hose and connections between vessel and chrome pier at the dock are separated securely in case of emergencies caused during the operation of bulk liquid cargoes, emergency release coupling is used and thus pollution is prevented both at the dock and at the sea. In the port area, handling of the containers within “International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code” (IMDG) is performed. A procedure is established on how to handle dangerous cargos and storage requirement. 2 pools have been constructed in container stacking area for the leaking containers with IMDG code. Fire safety measures are taken in all respects and in case of pour these pools are used to intervene. The containers with IMDG codes 1 and 7 are subject to free alongside ship regime this procedure of these two cargos are performed under the surveillance of security staff. Within the framework of projects and works aimed at adaptation to climate change, Air conditioners’ periodic maintenance and gas exchange are performed. It is considered that electrical components are available on work machines used. Instead of gasoline operated machines, electrical machines (Gantry Crane, RTG) are preferred Greenhouse Gas Emissions are calculated on a monthly basis. In order to decrease Greenhouse Gas Emissions, sensors and LED lighting are preferred in lighting systems and savings is provided in energy use. Additionally, solar power is used in hot water supply and periodic maintenance of the machines is performed. Washing machines providing pressurized water are used to wash the machines and thus less water consumption is provided. 34 All employees are provided with training on the subject within the training plan to raise environmental awareness, to provide waste management, to reduce the environmental impact during the port operations, to prevent environmental pollution, to ensure that MIP's environmental objectives and policies are understood and complied with. Green Port Project “Green Port” project has been initiated by General Directorate of Maritime Trade by considering the necessity to increase the environmental conscience of the ports in terms of administrative and technical aspects and to add the green port facilities to the country. For the title of GREEN PORT which is a respectability and competitive factor among the ports of developed countries, MIP has initiated the implementation of ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems, OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems, ISO 9001 Quality Management Systems. Awareness in Recycle Within the scope of “Go Green Fortnight” environmental activities in 2014, in order to raise the awareness of our employees, Informative posters and visual presentations are prepared and posted across the port. Long live Carettas Furthermore, with the participation of our voluntary employees, Mersin Kazanlı costs which are spawning ground of the Caretta carettas have been cleaned. Clean areas have been provided for caretta carettas and green sea turtles by collecting wastes creating threats for the nests of sea turtles with the activity organized to contribute the protection of natural habitats and raise awareness in the public. 35 Waste Management The management of all wastes under environmental Reception Facility will be filled by ship personnel. legislation is ensured in accordance with “Waste Dangerous wastes (oily rag, oily cloth, oil filters, Management” formed related to minimizing the contaminated packaging etc.) resulting from port wastes arising from port activities, separating the activities are collected separately from other wastes wastes according to their sources, collecting, so as not to cause any spill, leak, spread. Waste temporary storing, recycling, transportation, collection points were established in many places in disposing and post disposing control activities. the port to collect and wastes at the source. Within the scope of Collecting Waste from Ships The wastes are stored in sealed containers by and Waste Control Regulation” entering into force by labeling in accordance with waste codes defined publishing in official gazette dated 26.12.2004 and in Regulation on the General Principles of Waste numbered 25682; following wastes arising as a result Management for 6 months in the Temporary of normal activities of vessels are received to Waste Hazardous Waste Storage available within the Reception Facility in port operation field; petroleum port field and whose permission received from the and petroleum-derived waste (bilge water, sludge, Provincial Environment and Forestry Directorate. The waste oils) which are under MARPOL 73/78 Annex I, wastes are sent to licensed recycling and disposal the wastes (vegetable oil, palm oil) under MARPOL facility by licensed vehicles by filling in national waste 73/78 Annex II, waste water under MARPOL 73/78 transportation form. Annex IV, garbage and cargo wastes under MARPOL 73/78 Annex V. The wastes collected from ships are Medical wastes coming from Workplace Health Unit temporary collected in Waste Reception Facility and in Port operation field are sent to sterilization facility after the separation and treatment procedure, they for disposal. Waste oils arising from port field are are sent to recycling and disposal facilities licensed collected temporarily in the working field in tanks in by the Ministry Of Environment And Urbanization. sufficient size and delivered to authorized organization for recycling/disposal at regular intervals. “Instructions to Collect Waste from Ships” is prepared to determine the procedures to be performed and Waste packaging are collected separately from other rules to be followed in taking wastes from ships. wastes in storages temporarily according to their Further, “The Measures to be taken in Collecting types (paper, cardboard, plastic, metal strip) and Wastes from Ships and The Measures against sent to licensed recycling facility. Possible Accidents and Environmental Impacts” are available in the mentioned instructions. Before Evaluable solid wastes are separately collected starting waste transfer “Security Checklist” is filled temporarily in scrap collection area available within and it is controlled that all measures are taken. the port field and sent to the company licensed on this “Customer Satisfaction Assessment Questionnaire” matter under the coordination of our Environmental on the quality of the service rendered by Waste Officer. 36 Domestic solid wastes aren’t mixed with evaluable solid wastes. They are collected in “GARBAGE” collection containers and transported to solid waste regular storage field. Waste waters from machinery washing machine are drained into sewage system in accordance with the discharge standards after treating in physical and chemical treatment plant established in the port. 37 Measurement of Results “Monitoring and Measurement Procedures for the ISG and Environment Parameters” have been prepared to form a system to measure and control important parameters of process and activities that may be effective on occupational health and safety (ISG) and environment in the port operations. For this purpose, a Monitoring and Assessment Plan is created. Compliance with legal requirements has been provided by preparing this plan in detail to cover checkpoints on all existing possible operations and activities. Mandatory checkpoints to follow determined as a result of risk assessment and evaluation studies are available in “Monitoring and Measurement Plan” The precipitated dust measurements are performed in The existing treatment plant’s effluent is the laboratories authorized by Ministry of Environment continuously monitored, analyzed and and Urbanization and the results meets the conditions discharged to sewage. In order to control the stated in the regulations. compliance of the facility or its operation with Environmental Law and the regulations enacted Drilling was conducted for soil analysis in Mersin Port under this Law, inspections are carried out by and the results are obtained lower than the standard both public and private audit firms. figures. PACKAGING WASTES 582.24 tons of packaging waste in 2013 and 574.30 tons of packaging waste in 2014 were recycled 38 WASTE OIL In order to prevent environmental impacts of waste oils, waste oils resulting from the 1. Category waste oil (ton) maintenance of the machines 2. Category waste oil (ton) in the port area are stored temporarily; their category analysis is performed and sent to recycling/disposal facility. Bilge water and sludge collected from The amount of waste collected from vessels the vessels are sent to licensed cement and sent to Cement Factory (ton) factories to use as an alternative fuel. Waste oils collected from the vessels, if it is 1. Category waste oil, sent to The amount of waste recycling facility. By this way, it is collected from vessels and sent to Cement aimed that Factory (ton) The wastes are recycled / disposed under suitable condition and adverse environmental effects are eliminated Added value are created to the national economy by turning the wastes to the economy Natural resources are protected Measures are taken against global warming by reducing CO² emissions through the use as alternative fuels 39 Ethics and HONESTY Because the service area of Mersin Uluslararası Liman It is effectively in communication with these institutions İşletmeciliği A.Ş. is an area under the responsibility of on the control of suitability of entrance and exit to the various state institutions, it is interrelated with many difport at entrance and exit gates control points of the port, ferent government agencies and legal institutions and at the stage of the control of the suitability of document businesses. Therefore, in addition to prevent its employflow with work requests declared by the customers for ees enter into Corruption, Bribery and Extortion relathe performance of import and export procedures; Relitionship with 3rd parties, it also needs to prevent Corability of Document Flow, Operation of the port gates, ruption, Bribery and Extortion relationships that may be performance of X-Ray controls, transport of required performed without knowledge of its employees but may containers, etc. and all matters deemed necessary by be performed through MIP services. Customs directorate. Due to the dimension and importance of its service area, MIP struggles with Corruption, Bribery and ExtorBecause Mersin Port is not only in operation on the land tion under two main headings: but also in operation in the sea, it acts in coordination with Coast Guard which assumed following duties on 1) External Factors the area between ship anchorages area and docks; 2) Internal Factors • To protect our coastal waters, to provide security, to External Factors ensure the safety of life and property on the seas, MIP is interrelated with many public and private institutions because of the reasons legally not mandatory • To clean the refugees entering to our coastal waters but need to be followed such as that Mersin Port is in a from weapons and ammunition that may be with them strategic location, its operation area is a customs area, and hand over them to the relevant authorities, its productivity directly effects import and export level of the country, it is one of the most important ports privat• To prevent all kinds of smuggling by sea, to prevent ized within the border of Republic of Turkey, there is a the actions of vessel and marine vehicles against the military zone and military docks within the port boundlaw on radio, health, passport, anchoring, mooring, fisharies, it is in the neighborhood of the free zone, there ing, diving and raising flag, are NATO docks, it is possible to unload cargo to docks through railways. • Performing inspections to prevent marine pollution, Because its service area is also a customs area, it is • To conduct search and rescue operations in Turkish interrelated with all administrations within the body of search and rescue area within the principles of internaMersin Customs and Trade Directorate bounded to Retional search and rescue act and national search and public of Turkey Ministry of Customs and Trade. rescue regulations. 40 While Mersin Police Headquarters bound to Republic of information related to transactions of suspected perTurkey Ministry of Interior performing required controls sons, etc. and all matters legally needs to be followed at entrance gates to prevent the entrance of harmful peoand if an operation is deemed necessary it provides ple and substances to the country, taking precautions cooperation and provides all data required based on to prevent crimes in public places, performing searches transparency policy. to catch unlicensed weapons, prevents actions improper Because the port operations are inspected within the to public morality, etc. in the port area and waters, boat State Structure; mooring areas and gates, it carries out procedures via MIP transaction records and reports related to order of • Port Authority is directly in contact with MIP because the operations. of its duties determined within the frame of “PORT REGULATION” issued by Ministry of Transport, MariMIP is in effective communication with the following intime Affairs and Communications. MIP is obliged unstitutions; der the laws to perform the services stated by the Port • Marine Port Branch Directorate, for the control of pasAuthority at stated times and to report the operations senger entrance and exit records and visa procedures, that it planned within the frame of customer demands controls of ship personnel. to the Port Authority. Therefore, it provides service in compliance with the code of ethics, without allowing • Underwater Group Unit, for intervention to rescue the corruption, without favoring customers, agents and drowning incident persons, according to request order, and it informs the Port Authority related to its transactions. • Directorate of Anti-Smuggling and Organized Crime Branch MIP exchanges information on protection of pri• Mersin Port operated by Republic of Turkey State vacy, taking security precautions, pursuing theft, corrupRailways (TCDD) is included in the scope of privatization, smuggling crimes, raid, sharing footage and tion 41 42 with the method of “Transfer of Operating Rights” acm. Respect for Labor Rights cording to Privatization High Council’s decision dated n. Privacy Principles for Company Information 30.12.2004 and numbered 2004/128. According to the o. Privacy Principles for Personal Information result of the tender it is transferred to PSA Akfen Joint p. Trade Secrets Venture Group in exchange for 755.000.000.Us Dollars q. Malpractice price on 11.05.2007 to operate it for 36 years. It continr. Obligation to Intervene or Request to Intervene to ues to the operation of the port under the title of Mersin Unlawful Conditions Uluslararası Liman İşletmeciliği A.Ş. (MIP). TCDD pers. Occupational Health and Safety forms its surveillance and control duties and authorities t. Responsibility to Nature and the Environment granted to it within the frame of the provisions of conu. Representing the company cession agreement on the Transfer of Operating Rights v. Eligibility and Work performance of the Personnel through TCDD Mersin Port Operations Control Directow. Use of the Authority rate. • Mersin Governorship Port Local Authority legally is the Port Operations: a. Port Automation System: MIP made one of its larghighest responsible position for Mersin Port on behalf of est investments on Port Operation System since 2007 the State. Because of this responsibility, all persons and when he took over Mersin Port. This system provides vehicle who want to enter to and exit from the port have the performance of port operations quickly and in a conto get permission from Port Local Authority by providing trolled manner and additionally it sends the order of the the documents requested by the Authority. In order to operation to hand terminals over a central system for prevent smuggling, bribery, corruption and extortion at the performance of the works quickly and at the lowest the port, those persons entering to the port are allowed cost and in a manner preventing the determination of after the inspection of their criminal records, certificate the order of operation by the employees and preventof residence, Social Security documents, qualification ing that the employees benefit from this. This applicadocuments. MIP is in contact with Port Local Authority tion has prevented the involvement of the customers to related to these entrance and exits and Port operations. take the priority for port jobs by entering into extortion, corruption and bribery relationship with the employees. Internal Factors b. Camera Systems: that the Port Area, the buildings Ethical Principles Procedure; and the gates are furnished with camera systems and In order to introduce the relationship between internal the inspection of the images by forming a special CCTV ethics principles and rules to our employees and to room and the performance of operation or safety checks provide the development of ethics principles and rules are used to control whether the employees entered into within the company and to ensure that the personnel corruption, extortion or bribery relationships. refrain from unlawful acts, Ethical Principles Procedure has been prepared and announced. This procedure c. In order to provide port security with effective, suitconsists of the following headings and these subjects able methods by qualified persons in a professional are mentioned within the procedure in detail, fluently, context, MIP has subcontract security services to a priplain but descriptive manner. vate security company expert on security and qualified to fulfill all conditions stated in the provisions of Regulaa. The use and protection of resources tion on the Implementation of the Law on Private Seb. Time usage curity Service which was prepared based on the Law c. Relationships with customers No. 5188 on Private Security Services and based on the d. Relationships with sub employer and suppliers provisions of this law and all conditions stated in other e. Supervision of Staff Operations relevant arrangements. This duty covers ensuring the f. Gift Donations and Aids security of Port area, MIP Land Terminal, A, B, C, D, E g. Relationships with the media and non-governmental gates of the Port area, Passenger Building Entrance, organizations MIP Operation Center and MIP Management Building; h. Relationships with Public Institutions searching every vehicle entering and leaving the port; i. Relationships with competitors control of smuggling, weapons, the control of entrance j. Avoiding from the activities that may create unfair documents of each person and vehicle entering and competition leaving the port; reporting improper conditions to police k. Conflicts of Interest and Custom Directorates. l. Ban on performing another job 43 d. The Responsibility of Sub Employer: MIP has submitted all its procedures including Ethical Principles Procedures to Sub Employers for them and their employees to obey ethical rules, not to enter into Corruption, Bribery and Extortion relationship. Compliance obligation to these procedures has been legally, undeniably determined by including the following article to all its contracts: “CONTRACTOR shall take all precautions set forth by Labor Law, Environmental, Occupational Health and Safety Legislation, MIP Occupational Health and Safety Regulations and similar legislation, law, rules, regulations, procedures, instructions, notification, etc. and shall provide required equipment, tools, vehicles, supplies and hardware and shall perform required periodic controls, maintenance and inspections of the equipment. CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the loss and damage that may occur and the penalty accrued due to failure to follow these measures. It shall be provided that the employees comply with these regula3rd parties and company personnel and audits whether tions.” there is any corruption, bribery and extortion relationship within the company. Internal Audit: MIP has formed an internal audit department not only External Audit: to provide audit at the stage of rendering the operations Because MIP is a two-partner company, its partners but also on documentation, billing, purchasing, conPSA and Akfen Holding employ their auditors every year tractor bid, supply of services, administrative services, separately to audit MIP. These audits cover all services construction services and progress payments. This deof MIP and they are reported as a result of the inspecpartment assesses the information coming from both tion of financial controls and ethical behaviors. 44 AWARDS • First prize in port operators category at 2011 Logitrans Logistics Awards organized in 5th Logitrans Transport Logistics Fair • “Port Operator of the Year” Award in the 6th Golden Anchor Maritime Awards organized by Perşembe Rotası and the Deniz News Agency. • Mersin Chamber of Trade and Industry Special Award The Company providing the Biggest Contribution to the Logistics Sector in • First prize in port operators category at 2007 2014 Atlas Logistics Awards organized in 8th Logitrans Transport Logistics Fair • The Undersecretariat of foreign Trade Port Handling The Highest Amount of Liquid Bulk • “Best International Bond Issuance Prize” in Cargoes in 2007 award International Bonds Deal of The Year category organized by Bond & Loans newspaper • The Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade Port Handling The Highest Number of Export • Project Finance Magazine “2013 Europe Containers in 2007 award Port Deal of the Year Award” • Lloyd’s List 2008 Port of the Year award • Project Finance International Magazine “2013 Port Deal of the Year Award” • First prize in port operators category at 2013 Logitrans Logistics Awards organized in 7th Logitrans Transport Logistics Fair • First prize in port operators category at 2012 Logitrans Logistics Awards organized in 6th Logitrans Transport Logistics Fair 45 www.mersinport.com.tr Mersin Uluslararası Liman İşletmeciliği A.Ş. Yenimah 101. Cad 5307. Sok. No:5 33100 Mersin Turkey Tel: +90 324 241 29 00
