SIDI KERIR PETROCHEMICALS CO. (SIDPEC) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT About this report: This report includes Sidpec’s sustainability activities during 2015 and published on UN Global Compact web site in June 2016. Further information shall be available on sidpec web site: www.sidpec.com CONTENTS Subject Page Foreword 2 Vision and Mission 3 1. About SIDPEC overview 5 Business Units 7 Strategic Plan 10 Performance 12 2. Governance & Ethics Governance 14 Ethics 15  Anticorruption  Human Rights Sidpec Code of Conduct 16 3. Human Resources Development Labors 19 Safety 23 4. Environmental Protection Environment 27 Energy and GHGs 31 5. Social Relations UNIDO Industrial Energy Efficiency 38 Project in Egypt (IEE) Social Contributions 43 1 Foreword The abidance and upholding of the rules and standards we have set for ourselves, which is necessary in a hazardous and health-risk related business such as ours. We are furthermore committed to excellence through the systematic and disciplined management of our operations and a great part of that is the continuity to learn and improve and not to shy away from correcting our shortcomings in that area. We are aware of the consequences of our decisions, no matter how big or small they may be. Therefore, we hold ourselves to the highest ethical and behavioral standards and respect the environment in which we operate. This begins with the strict compliance of laws and regulations, which are an important building block in order to earn the trust of internal and I warm-heartedly want to welcome you to Sidpecs’ external relationships on which we so strongly depend. second installment of our annual sustainability report. Being one of Egypt’s leading petrochemical companies I want to seize the opportunity to extend my thanks and and producers we are committed to creating economic, gratitude towards our employees, customers, suppliers as well environmental as well as social values throughout our as our stakeholders, who so bravely faced the challenges we entire production process. As in previous years, the encountered and helped in making the previous year a success. insights of our business practices and the progress made Last, but not least, since we are in constant pursuit of to achieving the highest levels of sustainability is shared improving of our society and environment on the long-term, I with our companies’ stakeholders both, inside and would like to emphasize that sustainability starts from the outside. within. Be it the maintenance of our production process at the This report reflects our sustainability strategy, highest quality standards, supporting our surrounding commitment, practices, performance during 2015 and community by exercising our corporate social responsibility our reconfirmation of our continual support to UN as well as facing and managing the impacts of our GLOBAL COMPACT ten principles on human rights, environment in order to increase financial returns. labors, environment and anti-corruption. Chairman & CEO Eng. Osama Mahdy 2 Vision & Mission • Sustain SIDPEC’s leadership in providing value added and highest quality petrochemical Vision products worldwide while creating a superior shareholders value. • To produce and market high quality petrochemical products through the integration of most efficient staff, best updated technologies and business Mission systems within the highest standards of ethics and integrity for the purpose of achieving sustainable and profitable growth. 3 4 Overview Overview Export Polyethylene to 53 Countries EGYPTENE®: No. of Employee is 225 KTY 1028 Labors st 1 st Petrochemicals Co. in Egypt 1 integral step towards the petrochemicals future in Egypt to be certified with ISO-50001 5 Overview Shareholders Structure 6 Business Units Our Business Units SIDPEC is an Egyptian joint stock company  Maintain and develop our global market share established on 16 November 1997 Under Egyptian thanks to our technology edge in the field of investment law. polyethylene production. SIDPEC is considered the first integral step towards  Fulfill the requirements of Egyptian the petrochemicals future in Egypt. Petrochemical Co. of Ethylene instead of We utilize the latest available technology and design importing it to produce PVC. in order to satisfy the Egyptian environmental  Maximize value of Natural gas resources in regulation and requirements. Egypt. The trade name of SIDPEC polymers is named  Maximize profit through production and EGYPTENE® polymer portfolio includes linear marketing of intermediate products as LPG, low density polyethylene (LLDPE) and high density Butene-1. polyethylene (HDPE).  Comply with Egyptian Environmental Our objectives are: Regulations through adopting a state of the art  Maintain Polyethylene local market leadership technology that consumes less energy and has through strict compliance with product quality the least impact on the environment. and marketing services to attain Customer’s satisfaction. Production Process 7 Business Units Ethylene Plant Polyethylene Plant Utilities & Facilities Complex Plant Capacity is 300 KT/ year Plant Capacity is 225 KT/ year Utilities complex is designed based on the Feed Ethane / based on the Ethylene and to secure the following: propane mixture Stock. The hydrogen Feed Stock. The used know how is ABB used license is bp Chemicals Filtered water: 2,000 m³/hr. Lummus (USA), and the (Ineos), and the general Demineralized water: 150 m³/hr. general Contractor was Toyo – Contractor was Samsung – Cooling water: 23,000 m³/hr. Japan. Start-up date was Korea. Start-up date was Firefighting water: 2,250 m³/hr. August 2000. October 2000. Polyethylene plant is designed Instrument air: 4,000 Nm³/hr. to produce HDPE, and Plant air: 3,000 Nm³/hr. LLDPE. HP steam: 92 ton/hr. Start-up date: January 2000 General Contractor: ENPPI. LPG Plant Butene-1 Plant Effluent Water Plant Capacity is 50 KT/ year Designed to collect all treated Plant Capacity is 10 KT/ year based on the C3 and heavier based on the Ethylene Feed waste water from all plants and Feed Stock. The used know Stock. The used know how is disposed these effluents to how is ABB Lummus (USA), IFP. Start-up date was external drainage system. and the main Contractor was September 2000. Toyo – Japan. Start-up date was May 2002. 8 Business Units Addition of Business Value NEW AMINE UNIT The feed treatment system of the Ethylene Plant designed to remove CO2 and mercury from ethane / propane feedstock through Feed Pre-treatment System (Acid Gas Absorber, Amine Stripper and Mercury Removal Bed). Sidpec has decided to ADD NEW Amine Unit in Ethylene Plant, to overcome the changes in feedstock specifications (C2/C3 ratio and increase of CO2 content). In 2015, Sidpec and Thyssen Krupp Industrial Solutions Egypt (TKIS) signed a contract regarding the establishment of new amine unit designed to remove CO2 up to 17 % in feed stock with a capacity of 300,000 T/Y expandable to 460,000 T/Y. During signing a contract of Amine Unit in October 2015 9 Strategic Plan Our Strategic Plan towards Sustainability The principal goal of our Strategic Plan for Our sustainability strategy is considered as a part of substantiality as shown below is to improve our the company. It includes identification and analysis performance to ensure healthy ecosystems, social of global trends, predict the risks and adapt to them, equity and good organizational governance. and seize opportunities, enhance business agility; all Our strategy is to reveal our aspirations efforts to of that in order to achieve the interests of all continue the pursuit of a world-class financial stakeholders. performance. Our goal is to strengthen our leadership Our first approach is to determine where we are position in providing highest quality petrochemical for an accurate picture of where our business is, to products worldwide. get a clear understanding of the marketplace, the Sidpec’s 2020 strategy as announced in 2014 competitive environment, and organization’s focusses on the following objectives to be achieved: competencies. Secondly, we identify our 1. EnMS: Reduce energy consumption by 10% materiality (priorities) according to our vision and within 5 years. mission. Third approach is to define what we must 2. Environment: Initiate project for zero discharge achieve by define the expected objectives what we of treated industrial water from production must achieve to address the materiality issues. The 3. Environment: Reduce CO2 emission from forth approach is to determine who is accountable ethylene plant by 20% within 3 years. to implement the action plan and final approach is 4. HSE: Reduce near misses by 80% within 4 years. to regularly review in order to ensure that the 5. Stakeholders: Encourage and systematize action plan performed as designed. communication with our stakeholders. 6. Labors: Ensure employment of disabled personnel to reach 5% by 2020. 10 Strategic Plan Accountability for our sustainability goals As mentioned above, there are many sustainability strategic goals over the long term. Below is an account of our actions in 2015 and our looking forward towards them in 2016: Long-term target Target Achieved in 2015 Target in 2016 Reduce about 2.7 % of Reduce electrical energy consumption and electrical Consumption Focus on medium cost fuel gas consumption 10% for each by the compared to baseline through projects end of 2018 no cost projects Reach zero discharge of treated industrial Prepare the technical Studying offers regarding water from all plantZLD Project (400 specifications of the project BOOT system m3/hour) Reduction of CO2 emission by 20% within 3 Continuous reduction years. Reduce GHG > 10,000 tCO2 eq depending on achieved Transfer the CO2 reduced for usage by Air energy savings Liquide company for compressed gases Arrange 4 training sessions for 100 employees about near Reduce near misses by 80% within 4 years misses & Publish 6 messages about near misses on sidpec intranet Encourage and systematize communication channels (stakeholders have been informed and trained in our sustainability approach Arrange 4 sessions to train and code of conduct).  Train 60 Persons about 80 Persons 100% of high priority stakeholders 50% of med. Priority and 30% of low priority (2014:2018) Achieve 5% disabled workers within 7 years Continual support to people having special needs with about (2014:2020) to comply with the law total of 290,000 EGP in 2015 number of worker in 2014 ( 1028 ) 11 Performance Performance Summary Measured Performance Item Performance Indicator Measuring Unit 2014 2015 Labors Skilled Work force Employee 1032 1028 Labors Internal Mobility % 8.4 12.4 Labors Training Evaluation Surveys % 86.75 87.99 Labors Training related to Sustainability Courses 18 Labors Training related to Sustainability Employee 321 Labors Training (Sharing Knowledge) Courses 14 18 Labors Training (Sharing Knowledge) Employee 401 661 Safety No incident since 2007 Total Hours 13,702,590 15,744,125 Environment Energy Improvement* % 2.99 Environment Energy Savings* EGP 2,401,590 Environment Energy Savings* MWh 4,819 Environment GHGs emissions Reduction* tCO2 eq 10,000 Community Summer training Students 294 446 Community EnMS Certified National Expert Experts 22 Community Energy Savings** EGP 41,846,455 Community Electricity Savings** MWh 61,951 Community Firing Fuel Savings** MMBTU 224,369 Community Social Contributions EGP 3,979,500 6,608,000 * Achieved by SIDPEC **Achieved by six Petrochemicals companies participated in IEE Project 12 13 Governance Governance Sidpec believes that governance strategy for Sidpec rely to manage its sustainable development sustainability will lead to quality and excellence in on the following processes: performance through the selection of appropriate and effective methods to achieve the plans and objectives  Effectiveness in planning: and that their of corporate and the existence of systems of relations consequent of accuracy in determining the between the interested parties that affect the goals and objectives, and in order to be an performance, It also includes elements of the effective and flexible it is necessary to provide strengthening the organization in the long term and comprehensive, modern, documented, and determine the charge and responsibility include, based renewable data base for resources. on several characteristics such as discipline,  Effectiveness in implementation: the ability to transparency; independence; accountability; convert strategic objectives into reality, here responsibility; justice; social responsibility. are highlights how important the human element and efficiency in achieving the goals So SIDPEC has established a system of governance for of sustainable development and to provide the the implementation of its sustainability strategy and suitable base of education, culture, good appoint the general management of HSE and Quality to preparation and training. be responsible for developing the sidpec’s vision  Teamwork: working in an integrated towards sustainability, priorities, and objectives, as multidisciplinary team unity the purpose and well as to be responsible for the corporate's performance levels and therefore easily performance on sustainability. overcome regulatory barriers and most of the problems in order to achieve sustainable development goals. 14 Ethics Ethics Anticorruption Sidpec Identified the Risks of Corruption, Implement and Maintain Many Policies and Practices to Counter Corruption, Sidpec Rules such as HR, Purchasing, Marketing and all of its Rules Counter Corruption. Sidpec’s Leadership is a Clear and Perfect Pattern for Anticorruption, provide Commitment, encouragement Implementation Of anticorruption Polices. Sidpec Code Of Conduct Emphasizes The Rules Of Anticorruption. Sidpec Always Work to raise the Awareness Of its People and All Stake Holders about Corruption. Human rights Sidpec avoids getting involved in any business is not consistent with Human rights. Sidpec do not enter into partnership or relationship with any partner that commits human rights abuses. Sidpec avoids any relationship with entities which engaged in antisocial activities. Sidpec has effective grievance mechanisms that protect human rights Sidpec eliminates all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Sidpec do not use child labor internally or among its suppliers or customers. Sidpec respects the right of own property. Sidpec respects access to due process and right to a fair hearing before any internal disciplinary measure had taken. 15 Sidpec Code of Conduct SIDPEC Code of Conduct SIDPEC commits to encouraging a safe, supportive and reproductive work environment through cooperative and sustainable principles of conduct and ethical behavior. We envision added human rights and social value by incorporating Social Responsibility into our activities. Our approach is built upon a holistic view, transparency and an open dialogue with consideration to our stakeholders’ interests. We are accountable for our impact on society, the economy and the environment with respect to the rules of law and international norms of behavior. “It is easy to say what we must do, but the proof is in our actions”. 1Governance: has been appropriately addressed, the Our decisions are taken in pursuit of our employee should feel free to address this objectives and are built upon factual issue to the company’s Chairman. Data. We oppose child labor in our premises We gain credibility by adhering to our and among our stakeholders. commitments, displaying honesty and 3Labor Practices: integrity and reaching company goals We endeavor to invest in our employees solely through honorable conduct. by providing them with the best possible Management is responsible for skills and abilities in order to develop demonstrating through their actions, the their individual potential to the importance of this code. maximum, and thereby contribute to a “Refer to our vision &mission”. sustainable success and competitiveness 2Human Rights: of our enterprise. We provide specific We believe that all employees deserve to training to the employees as regards to work in an environment where they are technical aspects connected with our treated with dignity and respect. We are processes and the field of health & safety committed to creating such an at the workplace as well as other relevant environment because it brings out the full aspects connected with the enterprise potential in each one, which in turn, activities. contributes directly to our business We strive to create working conditions success. that give our employees the convenient We are an equal employment entity and environment to work considering the are committed to providing a workplace human aspects and particularly without that is free of discrimination of all types any risk for their health and industrial of abusiveness, offensiveness or hygiene. harassing behavior. Any employee who We have clear recruitment and feels harassed or discriminated against promotion criteria for all employees. Our should report the incident to his or her grievance procedures are identified and supervisor or department manager. If the we recognize the right for employees’ employee is not satisfied that the matter 16 Sidpec Code of Conduct representation to participate in a products based on their superior quality, transparent social dialogue. functionality and competitive pricing. 4The environment: We respect the property right of others. We are committed to conserve the We do not acquire or seek to acquire natural environment, endorsing the improper means of a competitor’s principles of sustainable use and proprietary or confidential information. minimum impact on the environment in 6Consumer Issues: full compliance with the applicable laws We are keen to provide products, which and regulation. achieve our customers’ satisfaction. Our stakeholders should be sensitive to We provide our customers with fair and the impact of their operation on the local transparent information of our products. community and cultural setting within We review our customers’ complaints which they work and minimize any and improve practices in response to adverse effects. them. We encourage our stakeholders to We offer adequate and efficient support develop their own, and others’ and advice system for our customers. understanding of the environment We always take adequate measures to protection and the behaviors that can protect our customer health, safety and adversely affect it. Within our decisions and activities, we business. “Refer to our quality policy”. adopt special practices that take into 7Community Involvement and consideration the direct and indirect development: economic, social, health and We consider ourselves as an integral environmental implications. partner of the community in approaching We envision ourselves in future as a zero educational development projects. liquid discharge, zero pollutants We provide continuous contributions to emission and zero wasted energy the surrounding communities to promote company. “Refer to our HSE policy”. higher levels of well-being in these 5Fair Operating Practices: communities. We prohibit corrupt or non-ethical We provide employment opportunities practices. for our surrounding community either We investigate all reported instances of directly through us or indirectly through questionable or unethical behavior and our subcontractors. take appropriate actions that prevent We never cease to invest tremendously such unethical behavior in the future. on our community health care projects. Our commitment to integrity begins with We support research and development complying with laws, rules and projects in cooperation with regulations. governmental institutions and We are dedicated to ethical, fair and universities. vigorous competition. We sell our 17 18 Labors Sustainability driven concept Measurable contribution Performing HRM Sustainably HR function play a pivot role in HR performance include not only We focus on the professional achieving success in a support for the achievement of HRM tools & processes that sustainability driven concept in broad sustainability business form the core of the HRM SIDPEC through two prime objectives, but also measurable contribution & on executing major missions: contributions to HR performance, processes in accordance with including: sustainability principals for  Develop managers & key users example: who can deal with both present  Lower employee turnover & future sustainability  Lower absenteeism  Linking remuneration to challenges facing the  Improved employee well-being performance & seniority & a company.  Increase employee engagement degree of equitable  Adopt a holistic & integrated distribution of variable pay view of people management by SIDPEC adopts a career tied to our business annual using our skills & knowledge development policy consists of results. as sources of competitive two processes:  HR policy acts towards how advantage that contributes in remuneration is applied developing & implementing  Career planning : assisting addressing balance between SIDPEC sustainable strategy. employees to focus on their male-female pay ratios. Ex. Compensation & benefits, skills & abilities in order to training & development, establish a career plan Our Values in Action performance target & valuethrough: o Identify personal abilities Our values & leadership based recruitment. principals shape our culture as a HR Dept. provide an annual and interest. o Encouraging & embracing dynamic workplace where training plan based on an actual employees are encouraged to training needs assessment , employees in obtaining professional diplomas and think big, act boldly & work further more contributes in collaboratively across designing organizational chart academic degrees boundaries. We hold one another related to business necessity.  Career Management : accountable to act with integrity. o Identifying future staffing SIDPEC HR team excels to Needs. Our employees are encouraged handle employee benefits needs, o Assess training program to report any issues of potential providing significant support for o Develop Career developing misconduct they may contact employees and their families Programs (career path) leadership or HR rep. Reports through a rich portfolio of high o Provide career training. are investigated & any quality healthcare providers substantiated incidences of (Hospital, Clinics, Pharmacies & misconduct result in disciplinary laboratories). action. 19 Labors Providing Opportunities Engaging Employees Skill building & Leadership development SIDPEC offers employees SIDPEC seeks employees, who opportunities to experience are enthusiastic about their work We understand the value each different aspects of our business and eager to make positive employee brings to our company through: contributions that propel product & work to match them with the innovation and improve business resources & opportunities  Short term assignments operation. We encourage needed to grow their careers &  Internal transfers employees to contribute their meet their professional goals.  International roles ideas through many avenues These opportunities provide  Our commitment begins with including engagement survey employees with necessary and employee communities: competitive compensation & hands-on training to be reward packages & extends to successful in their careers while  Ideas Bank formal coaching & creating a more skilled The idea was built where professional development workforce to help the company every employee introduces programs tailored to achieve its mission. his idea, which contributes individual needs. in improving the working In 2015 we filled almost 90% of process aiming better Rewarding employees position at the manager level. culture and results. These ideas are published to all Our compensation packages are SIDPEC Workforce Total other colleagues. We almost designed to reward & support the Employees reached about 241 Ideas in needs of employees & their o 2013 1014 the bank. families.to verify that ; package o 2014 1032 are fair & equitable we conduct o 2015 1028  Training Surveys annual compensation assessment Training department regular to ensure our practices are in line Internal Mobility surveys employees to with selling and production plan. understand how their Percent of positions filled with Supportive Job description training needs and internal candidates for manager evaluation can be better SIDPEC job description are an level and above addressed. integral part of quality & o 2013 8.7 % environment management. They o 2014 8.41 % The result showed how is are a job reference for o 2015 12.4 % the evaluation of our determining employee’s role trainees toward the training toward saving energy, program as mentioned environment protection & below: continuous improvement in the working place. o 2013 85.74 % o 2014 86.75 % o 2015 87.99 % 20 Labors Talent Development Leadership development improved result across the range of cost saving, time on task, error Over the last five years we have We have also launched several rates and innovative solutions. invested heavily in training leadership development courses which promote programs including advanced understanding of how efforts training for seasoned leaders & Student Opportunity made at the local level can intensive rational programs for improve environment & quality those early in their careers.  SIDPEC offer a wide range of life. of internship opportunities In 2014 approximately 34 across job categories. Our range of training & short employees attended courses in  Our internships provide courses provide opportunities for leadership in 2015 the number students with the opportunity promoting sustainable rose to approximately 46 to do “real work” alongside development and social employees. responsibility aspect as our talented full-time mentioned below : SIDPEC offers training courses employees and to gain firstcovering the areas of finance, hand experience with a  CSR. Courses : 101 trainee operations, safety & marketing. leading petrochemical attend 5 course in 2015 The programs enable recent company.  Energy courses : 185 trainee graduates & young leaders to  Many of our internships also attend 9 course in 2015 accelerate their careers by provide broad exposure to the gaining hands-on experience in  Environmental courses : 35 company through formal multiple role. trainee attend 4 course in 2015 orientation meetings and session with senior leaders as Partnership with faculties Sharing Knowledge well as a variety of development opportunities SIDPEC support & encourage Employee’s knowledge is our through training. the sharing of knowledge across largest asset; HR plays a pivot role in managing knowledge, we  In 2014 approximately 294 the academic community aiming believe that knowledge in action students attended summer to be a company with an up-togets results accelerating the rate training course in 2015 the date profile in environmental & of learning, cutting down the number rose to 446 student scientific issues, thus contributes in relating conferences organized risks of not knowing and repeating mistakes and retaining Training Courses by SIDPEC or held by the faculties of science / engineering whether by knowledge assets when people Trainees Courses monetary funds or papers and move, leave or retire. presentations prepared by We transfer valuable knowledge o 2013: 356 11 volunteering employees. from the most experienced, high o 2014: 401 14 SIDPEC support meeting, performing employees to others o 2015: 661 18 workshops in the field of through internal training courses. polymer technology and students When essential knowledge is site visits. captured & shared we touch an 21 Labors Retirement benefits Employee Involvement Health Insurance Program SIDPEC-sponsored retirement SIDPEC involves its employees SIDPEC provides a Health savings plans, which are useful in setting its goals and achieving Insurance Program for for both employees and them. Performance improvement employees and their families employer, as they present is accomplished through the through direct contracting with benefits like savings directly, medical specialties (physicians, delegation of authorities and hospitals, laboratories, prosthetic deducted from employees teamwork through devices, etc.) paycheck and in some cases.  Committees Employees enroll in and get their Employees are automatically medical benefits from a Medical enrolled in different retirement o Formation of workers' managed care plan, employees benefits systems and get their first committee of representatives can only go to doctors, contribution with their first from various departments of specialists, or hospitals that are paycheck, these competitive the company. Its main role is part of the plan. retirement plans enhance the direct communication with SIDPEC health plan brochure employees involvement and employees of different levels explain how they coordinate belonging also increases retention to share ideas, collect their benefits with Medicare, where and longer stays within the suggestions and their views, are lists of all physicians, company, as mentioned below: and submit a feedback to hospitals & laboratories which superior management allowing an employee and their family can  Offering social employees to take the initiative choose. insurance contribution to improve and continuously SIDPEC raised its contribution that obtains the develop systems inside in the medical provision plus a employee the highest o Employees are trained one year new advantage point has been pension grade when added allowing employee’s in the new position before parent to use the medical care reaching retirement accession of the middle and top employees program. age. management level so that they  Providing an additional can exercise responsibilities  Periodical medical check pension benefit before promotion and ensure o Periodical medical check (supplementary their ability to carry out their for all employees pension) duties. o Annual medical check for  Offering a life o Formation of committees, task employees above 50 years insurance policy o Forces for new projects and old. subsidized by SIDPEC. technical, feasibility studies, o First Aid training course is  Qualified deferred tenders, auctions, Practices and implemented for our compensation any other mandates. employees every year as retirement plan offered Recommendations of these awareness. to all employees, this committees and task follows plan provides a are implemented as initiative retirement reward at the for the employees to work and age sixty. innovate. 22 Safety SIDPEC HSE “SIDPEC is considering health and safety issues and environmental protection as well as the assurance of product quality, to be fundamental elements in its policy. It is most important that we all be committed to prevent incident, safeguarding the environment and protecting its employees and others from harm, thereby fulfilling our social responsibility as an industrial firm and earning the confidence of society”. Safety SIDPEC is committed to providing safe and SIDPEC provide a good working environment to healthful working conditions for all persons workers to keep their safety. working at Jobsite. The responsibility for safety Accidental loss can be decreased through good also extends to all our employees and contractors, management, which has standard measurement, and who are required to ensure that all governing comply with the international safety rating system. safety rules and operating procedures are followed. SIDPEC provide its employees, contractors training and Budgets for safety activities property. SIDPEC states that safety is the most important Concern at work and safety is everybody Duty and responsibility to strictly follow all of time. 23 Safety Performance 2,041536 Hr. Goal (2015) Without incidents or time losses What we do 2,041,536 Hr. Employees 1028 Total hours without incidents since 15,744,125 22/7/2007 6 5 4 3 No. of Injuries 2 1 0 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 24 Safety This has been achieved through the application of the following elements: 1. Periodical inspection of the production units and through which to check the status for technical methods of engineering applied to reduce business risk. 2. Controlling the work permits system and careful follow-up of the permits issued to make sure that workers commitment to implementing the safety instructions. 3. Training and awareness for SIDPEC employees and contractors through planned programs, HSE induction and Tool Box Talk (TBT). 4. Completion of a major site activities successfully without any major incidents 5. Reducing unsafe behavior. 6. Responses to employees’ opinion survey on HSE. 7. Applying process safety management systems 8. Applying the health and safety management systems to comply with OHSAS-18001 regulations, (The Company certified from 2003). SIDPEC HSE Management System includes: 1. Identification of hazards. 2. Assessing and ranking the risks associated with our operations and activities. 3. Selection, implementation and maintenance of a structured system of controls. 4. Monitoring the effectiveness of the process and identifying areas for improvement. 25 26 Environment Sidpec Environmental Policy: SIDPEC control the operation of production complying with the standards of environment allowance so as not make negative impact on the natural resources. The company is obliged to minimize wastes and emissions so that local environment can be preserved and also to save energy, natural resources so that global environment can be protected. Sidpec seek to comply with all applicable legal and other relevant requirements that relate to our environmental aspects, official codes of practice and, as far as practicable, accepted best practice in environmental management, endorsed at senior management level. HSE’s long-term aim is to continually reduce its environmental impact. HSE is committed to the continuous improvement of environmental performance and management and the prevention of pollution from the activities we undertake by;  Implementing energy saving technologies and initiatives.  Adopting strategies to minimize the environmental impacts of business travel.  Using utilities in a responsible and economic way to minimize negative impacts on the environment.  Managing waste according to our duty of care, minimizing volumes going to landfill, by re-use and recycling wherever possible.  Purchasing supplies wherever possible which are recycled and recyclable, and whose production and use minimizes the consumption of natural resources.  Communicating our environmental policy and performance to appropriate people working for or on behalf of the organization.  Using contractors / suppliers who perform the services in accordance with the government’s environmental policy, demonstrating commitment to the continual improvement of environmental performance and the management and prevention of pollution from the activities they undertake.  Objectives and targets are set and reviewed each year according to our policy and environment needs  Environmental management systems (ISO-14001). 27 Environment Sidpec objectives regarding air emissions include:  Eliminating of hydrocarbon flaring, reducing emissions, improving energy efficiency, promoting renewable energy and eliminating continuous venting of hydrocarbons. In line with SIDPEC’s HSE policy and objectives, SIDPEC established an continuous emission Monitoring System (CEMS), the system is for monitoring the ambient air quality in the (Utility – Boiler stack), as well as continuous stack monitoring of major sources. As a result of the CEMS, SIDPEC is now able to:  Transfer Utility – Boiler stack ambient air quality and meteorological data online (10 sec. delay) to EEAA (Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency) through a central server.  Prepare and submit an ambient air quality monitoring report to EEAA.  Compare actual ambient air quality with air quality objectives.  Provide an information and simulation tool to develop and implement an air quality management program. “SIDPEC Next objective is that all site stacks to be monitored by CEMS (continuous emission monitoring system”. Climate change SIDPEC accept the international trends on Climate Change assessment of climate change science, which has found that the warming of the climate is unequivocal, the human influence is clear and physical impacts are unavoidable. As a producer of Ethylene, we recognize our responsibility to take action by focusing on reducing our emissions, increasing our preparedness for physical climate impacts and working with others, including industry and governments, to enhance the global response to climate change. Our strategic approach to climate change is engaged with our environmental policy. We believe industry has a key role to play in climate change policy development by working with governments and other stakeholders to inform the development of an effective, longterm policy framework that delivers a measured transition to a lower emissions economy. SIDPEC believes an effective policy framework should include a complementary set of measures, support for low-emissions technologies and measures to build resilience As a result, SIDPEC signed a contract with Air liquid to build up a new unit for recovery of CO2, and at the second quarter of 2017 Air liquid will start the first industrial production. 28 Environment Environmental lab The company has its own environmental lab to conduct the appropriate environmental measurements for all emissions (water and flue gases). Each plant (ethylene, polyethylene, utility) has its own lab to continuously follow the emissions. Periodical sampling from the waste water and flue gases from the incinerators, boilers, cracking heaters conducted to detect any deviation from the assigned limits at the environmental laws. Sanitary water treatment unit instead of water trenches The company take a lead role in establishing a sanitary waste water treatment unit (50 m3/day) to treat the sanitary water from the administrative buildings all over the company instead of using water trenches that may cause ground water pollution. The next step to use the treated water used in irrigation of green areas all over the company. Paper and wood pallets recycling One of the leading projects that the company tried to do is the recycling of papers and the wooden pallets Where the company collect the waste paper from all over the company to recycle them by selling them to a specified company in paper recycling In addition, the company established a small workshop to repair the wooden pallets that are used in packaging the polyethylene product and encourage the customers to revert the used pallets to be reused in packaging the products. Green areas all around the plant Sidpec pays more attention to increasing the green areas inside the company. The green areas all over the company equals (49,650 m2) that helps in reducing the air pollution and eliminates the visual pollution. These green areas irrigated by treated water instead of using potable water. The may contribute to decreasing the use of potable water and decreasing the use of chemicals used in purifying the potable water. 29 Environment New Environmental Project CO2 PROJECT (70,000 T/Y) Amine Unit function is removing acid gases (carbon dioxide & hydrogen sulfide) from feed gas. Acid gases go through thermal Oxidizer (Incinerator) which converts it to a safe form to atmosphere. We will establish a new plant to recover CO2 CORRUGATED PLATE INTERCEPTOR PROJECT (CPI) Installation of a new CPI unit to improve oil and grease removal (Until 50 ppm) in WWT unit inlet feed which lead to improvement for all the unit PRESSURE SWING ABSORPTION PROJECT (PSA) New additional Fifth Drum will be installed in the PSA unit to avoid the stopping of this unit. This will lead to a decrease emissions of burned hydrocarbon gases to atmosphere. 30 Energy & GHGs Our vision towards Energy and GHGS Sidpec believes that sustainable energy is with IEE project in Egypt, implemented by the prerequisite for development, economic growth and UNIDO and financed by the GEF in cooperation prosperity creation and therefore there is a need to with ministry of Environment, the Ministry of establish a new model for dealing with energy Industry, Trade Small and Medium Enterprises and contributes to reconcile the need to achieve the Federation of Egyptian Industries. economic growth and prosperity on the one hand, and ensure sustainability for the benefit of future generations on the other hand. In order to achieve sustainable development and meet the climate change mitigation goals (GHG emissions), Sidpec focus its efforts significantly on improve its energy efficiency which considered one of most cost effective ways to expand energy supply and reduce environmental impact. Sidpec determined procedures in order to increase UNIDO International Energy Expert with some of SIDPEC Energy team members the efficiency of the existing energy systems through rehabilitation, moderating demand for energy, and Sidpec ensures that the organization continually adopting more efficient technologies. passes through the cycle of making policy, evaluation the objectives, planning actions, Sidpec choose to apply one of the best practice implementing actions and checking results, methodology to ensure sustainable energy efficiency reviewing progress and updating policy and and continually improving performance which is the objectives. Energy management systems (EnMS). Top Management is committed to the EnMS system Sidpec keen to align with Energy management and allocate resources for implementation of system systems as a systematic approach (ISO 50001:2011) in terms of manpower, purchase of energy meters, effecting organizational, technical and behavioral awareness and training etc. actions in an economically-sound manner with the objective to improve the energy performance and Sidpec is focusing on no cost/low cost opportunities cost optimization. that can reduce energy rather than having only medium to high cost investments. When the UNIDO established industrial energy efficiency project (IEE) in Egypt, Sidpec saw that “Our success story started by leveraging this is an opportunity to get the necessary technical support during preparation and implementation of organization culture towards Lean Six Sigma EnMS till being ISO 50001 certified. This that made us ready to implement an effective achievement is attained through strong partnership EnMS in compliance to ISO 50001” 31 Energy & GHGs Our Objective in 2015 Energy Projects in 2015 SER. Objective Status Use of excess plant air produced from utilities air compressors unit in 1 Achieved performing decoking for cracking heater instead of decoking compressor 2 Stop the recycling of LPG pumps on storage tank Achieved 3 Reduce power consumption of polyethylene plant extruders Achieved Stop N2 compressor of ethylene plant and use the excess N2 produced from 4 Partially Achieved N2 unit of polyethylene plant instead Connect OPC Cooling Water pumps in cooling towers to cooling water 5 ON HOLD network Reduce imported fuel gas consumption in ethylene plant by HS vents waste 6 Partially Achieved optimization 7 Install two units of solar cells on administration buildings Achieved Solar power station For the purpose of focusing on the use of renewable energy source, 60 KW solar station was installed. “Applying Gemba within SIDPEC is a key to get more and more energy efficiency improvement opportunities” During the installation of SIDPEC solar station on the admin. Building in March 2015 32 Energy & GHGs Our Key Performance in 2015 Savings Savings Investment Cost Payback Energy Project MWh * EGP *EGP Year Excessive air utilization 1,312 710,000 0 immediate LPG Pumps 650 350,000 0 immediate Optimization of Nitrogen Unit 297 160,000 0 immediate Rationalization of Extruder energy consumption 2,132 1,150,000 0 immediate Install two units of solar cells 128 69,000 898,000 13 * EGP: Egyptian Pound (base 1 US$ = 8 EGP) Highlights Performance against base line: Energy Performance Improvement (%) Cost to implement 2.99 % 898,000 EGP Cost savings GHG Reduction 2.4 Million EGP >10,000 tCO2eq Energy savings Payback period 4.8 GWh 0 Year for most projects 33 Energy & GHGs EnMS in SIDPEC SIDPEC staff members were motivated to  Ensure that the key characteristics of operations implement an EnMS at their facility by the clear that determine energy performance are benefits realized from previous management monitored, measured and analyzed at planned systems (e.g. ISO 14001 and ISO 9001) and other intervals using state-of-the-art control system techniques and tools for process improvement (e.g. and historian. Lean Six Sigma). Under a pressuring energy Although the implementation of EnMS at SIDPEC situation in Egypt with rising energy costs and was, smooth due to the strong management insecurity in supply, it was clear to the company’s commitment. The company’s energy team has faced top management that a serious commitment to some challenges and barriers along the way. improving their energy performance to reduce its Barriers faced during implementation of the EnMS overall costs is the way forward. The company was were mainly related to resistance to change and assured that the economic and technically sound motivation as it was believed that there are low approach is to tackle the issue through energy monetary benefits from EnMS when compared to company annual profit. efficiency improvement following a systemized approach. Thus, concrete steps have been taken to These barriers were overcome through conducting adopt an EnMS that is compliant with ISO 50001. awareness sessions, linking the EnMS with the environmental performance and sustainability Our keys to success are: requirements, and linking the EnMS with the continuous improvement activities already achieved  Strong Top management begins with buy-in to by Lean Six Sigma methodology. the business value of a systematic approach to EnMS. “We believe that it’s not difficult to save more  Reporting is a key element in maintaining than 10% of energy consumption using no management commitment. cost and low cost opportunities”  Develop a dynamic cross functional energy team: provide training, and delegate activities.  Perform complete energy review.  Strong internal communication: Establish SIDPEC Ideas Bank by which any person can suggest opportunities for improvements to the EnMS.  Providing recognition for EnMS achievements to motivates staff and employees and brings positive exposure to the energy management program.  SIDPEC applies Statistical Process Control (SPC) for operational control purpose which is SIDPEC 50001:2011 Certificate the critical element of the EnMS for energy savings. 34 Energy & GHGs CASE STUDY IMPLEMENTATION OF EnMS IN SIDPEC Sidpec EnMS is based on the assigned energy Tools & resources policy and careful attention to the core elements Sidpec use automated control system and monitoring, including energy planning phase, implementation CMMS Program, Sidpec information system (SIS), phase and checking phase necessary to improve ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 management system, lean energy performance and achieve the required six sigma methodology supported the successful effectiveness. implementation of Sidpec EnMS. Organizational Operational control • Top management established and implemented Sidpec ensures that operational and maintenance energy policy integrated with quality policy controls should bring the significant energy uses and highlighting the concern of sustainability and the energy uses related to the energy objectives, business excellence. targets and action plans into efficient and sustainable • Top management appointed management operation through certain procedures. representative and approved energy team Energy performance indicators formation. Sidpec decided to establish Energy Sidpec depended on several ways in order to analyze Team at two-levels; Top Management the measured data by transforming it into useful Committee and Implementation Committee. information upon which action can be taken. There is Energy Review and Planning: a regular comparison of actual monthly energy • Sidpec developed a document titled “SIDPEC starting from September 2014 versus average EnMS description” that assures the compliance baseline (2011-2013) energy to ensure the energy with energy management system (EnMS) performance measurement. requirements of ISO 50001 such as an energy International Recognition policy, responsibilities, scope and boundaries, Sidpec was honored by UNIDO at the Vienna Energy objectives, targets, and action plans needed to Forum 2015 that took place in Austria as one of the improve energy performance according to legal best practitioners of EnMS that significantly saved requirements and information related to energy. significant energy use. Training, and communications • Sidpec ensure EnMS awareness of all employees by conducted 13 awareness training sessions in 2014 and 2015 for 241 employees. • Sidpec establish Ideas Bank (SIB) for effective internal communication in order to have a recognized channel for ideas from all employees. SIDPEC Energy Management Representative receiving the award of Industrial Leaders of Energy Management System from UNIDO during Vienna Energy forum 2015 35 Energy & GHGs Effect of EnMS on our Supply Chain Our Plan in 2016 Sidpec assigned its EnMS objectives based on the As concerns mount about fuel prices, long-term approach of big hairy audacious goal (BHAG). energy availability, and climate change, sidpec BHAGs are described on a corporate level as nearly attention is finally turning toward one of the most impossible to achieve without consistently working pervasive places where energy can be conserved: the outside of a comfort zone and displaying corporate industrial supply chain. Simply put, the supply chain commitment, confidence and even a bit of is the production and distribution network that arrogance. In this context, Sidpec assigned the encompasses the sourcing, manufacturing, following long term objectives to be achieved by the distribution, consumption, and disposal of goods. end of 2018: Some primary factors drive sidpec to be interested in  Reduce Electrical Consumption by 10 % the energy-efficient supply chain. One of these  Reduce Fuel Gas Consumption by 10 % factors is the desire to cut energy costs. Other one is concern about regulation which will increasingly  Energy Awareness Training of 80 % of personnel pressure to limit the amount of GHG we release. Third one, is a growing segment of customers favor In 2015 MRM, a decision for starting the companies that credibly demonstrate reduction of implementation of some medium cost projects was GHG impact. The fourth driver is productivity: The taken and supported by the company’s chairman & economies put in place to reduce emissions, reduce CEO. other costs and improve operations as well. In order to achieve this decision in 2016, sidpec shall identify the appropriate medium cost ISO 50001 requires that sidpec take into account opportunities that improve the energy performance energy impacts when conducting procurement and and according to rating and ranking of the selecting suppliers. Sidpec proceed to develop opportunities with respect to the prioritization purchasing specifications for services, products, and criteria, the most appropriate opportunities shall be equipment that can have significant impacts on selected to be implemented firstly to proceed the energy use and shall inform their suppliers that fulfillment of main objective achieved by the end of procurement of such services and equipment will be 2018. partly evaluated based on energy performance. This Sidpec shall continue to ensure that all employees might be an effective way to affect the supply chain who may have an impact on energy performance later by encouraging the suppliers themselves to within the scope and boundaries of the EnMS and adopt ISO 50001. can affect the performance of SEUs are appropriately aware of their roles, daily activities Development and implementation of energyand job functions and how they relate to energy use efficient system saves consumers and businesses and consumption and understand the negative money, drives innovation and productivity, supports impacts when their activities deviate from defined a cleaner environment, and reduces dependence on procedures, objectives and targets. imported energy. In order to achieve this target, SIDPEC shall organize 20 awareness training sessions in 2016. 36 37 IEE Project in Egypt Our vision towards Peer-to-Peer Network After the participation of staff of sidpec in the Because energy was subsidized by the government, UNIDO EnMS training program delivered within energy consumption was the last thing that the IEE project and the success demonstrated by the petrochemicals industries though about. From company in implementing Energy Management another hand policies are now changing and System (EnMS) and obtaining ISO 50001, sidpec subsidies are getting removed, and so there is a great wished to share their knowledge and experience and need to be more energy efficient. That is what the expand its role in industrial energy efficiency to the Peer-to-Peer network is training the staff on by national level. When UNIDO IEE project in Egypt sidpec. took the initiative of establishing the Peer-to-Peer network, sidpec saw that this is a great opportunity to perform its vision. UNIDO and Egyptian Petrochemicals Holding Company (ECHEM) agreed to cooperate on starting the first Peer-to-Peer network within the petrochemicals sector by supporting experts trained at sidpec to transfer their knowledge and expertise to staff of all companies in the petrochemicals sector. During Peer-to Peer project, Sidpec proved that the SIDPEC Experts conduct 2-Day User training as a highest level of success is achieved by replicating the part of the peer-to-peer project in March 2015 success to other companies. EnMS consultation and technical assistance is more effective when it comes from companies who work in the same industrial sector speaking the same technical language; that is what Sidpec provided to other Egyptian petrochemical companies. Sidpec succeeded through Peer-to Peer project in not only making the trainees aware of the significance of energy efficiency in their plants but also in personal lives. They now understand that achieving energy Participants in third module training as a part of the savings reduces cost, improves production and it is a peer-to-peer project in Dec 2015 social responsibility. Sidpec made an effort to describe the effect of one of main barrier faced when implementing EnMS “We work in the same industry, and we speak the which is the mentality, as everyone thinks about the same language, therefore participants can witness the productivity and not care about energy implemented EnMS in a plant similar to theirs” consumption. It is time to transfer this message to the employees. 38 IEE Project in Egypt Our Objective in 2015 Peer-to-Peer Network Services Provision in 2015 SER. Objective Status 1 Training Provision Achieved Operationalization of a peer to peer network to share EnMS Implementation 2 Achieved expertise within the petrochemicals sector 3 Provision of Technical Expertise and Assistance for EnMS Implementation Achieved Highlights on Performance of Peer-to-Peer Network Project in 2015 Savings below achieved by actual energy projects in 2015 regarding to five petrochemicals companies. Cost savings Firing Fuel Gas Savings 41.2 Million EGP 224,369 MMBTU Electricity savings Certified UNIDO EnMS National Experts 62 GWh 22 National Experts 39 IEE Project in Egypt CASE STUDY SIDPEC PEER-TO-PEER NETWORK The Peer-to-Peer network owes its success to the The Peer-to-Peer network utilizes various tools for collaboration of the three organizations: effective communication. These include the  ECHEM: “Basecamp”, an interactive online platform The network activities are sponsored by the developed by UNIDO IEE that allows the Egyptian Petrochemicals Holding Company participants, sidpec experts and international experts (ECHEM) who is responsible for ensuring to share queries, knowledge, experiences and files to participating companies management commitment one another. Webinars between the companies and and monitoring the efficiency of the network. the international experts are also carried out  SIDPEC: periodically. For follow-up, consultation and support, Provides all the technical support to participating sidpec experts make regular field visits to the companies including training and on-site technical participants’ plants. support for the implementation of EnMS.  UNIDO IEE: Provides financial sponsorship as well as technical support through the provision of international expertise and technical training material. The participating companies fall under the UNIDO IEE project scope, and hope to achieve the ISO 50001 certification upon completing the project. The Peerto-Peer network supports a total of 30 participants, with representatives from the following companies: E-Styrenics, ELAB, EPPC, MOPCO, ECHEM, and SIDPEC, all from the petrochemicals sector. Peer-to-Peer Network Structure The project methodology determined by UNIDO Participants during internal Audit on-site training experts and the action plan developed by sidpec in ECHEM as a part of the peer-to-peer project in experts in close collaboration with UNIDO IEE Dec 2015 following the PDCA cycle. Scheduled over the project of one Year (2015), the Peer-to-Peer network services UNIDO EnMS National Expert Certification provision is divided into closely monitored phases that ensure both that the participants are technically Following the completion of the modules, an qualified, and that the EnMS implementation in their examination is carried out to evaluate the participants. companies is on the track to be ISO 50001 compliant. Twenty two participants passed this examination and Following an introductory 2-Day User Training on get certified as a “UNIDO EnMS national experts”. EnMS, three modules are carried out covering EnMS planning, implementation and operation, and checking. From their experience, sidpec experts added two additional sector-specific topics covering “Yellow Belt 6 Sigma” and “Statistical Process control” for process quality and monitoring improvement. 40 IEE Project in Egypt Effect of EnMS Peer-to-Peer Network on Our Plan in 2016 our Supply Chain Sidpec relies on running their plants on the import of Although it is assumed that Peer-to-Peer network electricity from the Egyptian petrochemical project will end at the beginning of 2016, however, company which is considered one of the sidpec looks forward to continue the communication participating companies in the Peer-to-Peer network with the companies participating in the project in project. order to complete the exchange of experiences and knowledge, and benefit from the successful This project helped the Egyptian petrochemical implementation of improvement projects of similar company, as a service supplier to Sidpec, to improve units in each company to be applied to the rest of the efficiency of operation regarding to their own other companies. electrical power station through developed opportunities for improvement of the efficiency of Sidpec has taken several steps to ensure the the power plant performance and attention to continuation of cooperation between these perform preventive maintenance, monitoring companies through creation of group on the linkedsystems and periodic examination programs put. in website in order to exchange views, ideas and to put forward topics for discussion. This shall lead to the stability of the operating units and integrity of the continuity regarding the Sidpec has also assigned the participating companies existence of the power plant in service without to fill a template regarding their utilities units’ interruptions and reduced emergency operational design figures and actual operating conditions over problems and shutdown, which will inevitably affect the past years in order to compare these data between the stability of operation in Sidpec’s plants and thus all companies as a bench mark. adversely affect the smooth supply chain within the company. The interest in the improvement of the efficient operation of the Egyptian petrochemical’s power plant started with the improvement of fuel fire gas efficiency used in boilers inside the plant to secure the fuel gas needed to run the power plant. 41 IEE Project in Egypt CASE STUDY MOTOR SYSTEM OPTIMIZATION (MSO) TRAINING More than 300 million motors are used in industry, large buildings and infrastructure globally, and 30 million new electric motors are sold each year for industrial purposes alone. Electric motor driven systems in industry are estimated to be responsible for about 29 % of overall global, and 69 % of industrial electricity consumption. Their energy costs are estimated to be 362 million USD per year, and by using existing technologies and practices, the efficiency of industrial electric motor driven systems can be cost-effectively improved on average between 20 and 30 %. Such improvement holds the potential to reduce global electricity consumption by 3.2-4.8 EJ, cut the CO2 emissions by 770-1100 Mt, and save the industry between 72-108 Billion USD annually. It is obvious that motor system optimization (MSO) is of vital importance to the industrial sector in EGYPT and can save enterprises a huge amount of energy. Thus the industrial energy efficiency project in EGYPT organized MSO training during the period of 7-12 November 2015 at SIDPEC Company in Alexandria, and attended by 40 engineers representing 16 organizations. The training was carried out by UNIDO’s international MSO experts. Topics covered during the training included proven approaches aimed at optimizing motor system performance and energy efficiency such as having motor systems management plan, motor sizing and high efficiency motors technologies, applications of adjustable speed drives, and preventive maintenance schemes. Source: IEE Newsletter Issue 09 Oct.-Dec. 2015 42 Social Contributions SIDPEC realizes that its activity affecting on a better life provision. The completion of any progress at this level requires the company to invest in areas and locations in which they operate, and to contribute to building a flexible and healthy communities. In this context, SIDPEC provides its support to the local communities through the participation of its employees and through its donations and charitable contributions. SIDPEC’s Donations (EGP) to the community in 2015 17% Permanent Remaining Specified Donation Budget (EGP) Hospitals 95,000 862,000 1,800,000 570,000 Charities Total Donations (EGP) 691,000 83% Universities 2,590,000 Syndicates Local Districts 43 Social Contributions Examples of SIDPEC’s Donations to the community Distribution of Ramadan food packages and Meat Amount 1,000,000 EGP Subsidies for schools, universities and scientific research Amount 1,070,000 EGP Subsidies of public and private hospitals Amount 2,440,000 EGP Free treatment fund for patients from the surrounding areas Amount 100,000 EGP Support for orphans and the disabled Amount 290,000 EGP Projects through charities in surround area Amount 141,000 EGP Subsidies for syndicates and associations Amount 305,000 EGP Restoration/Improvement of the company mosque and annual an Quran (Reading) Competition Amount 300,000 EGP The establishment of a national project of the surround community Amount 912,000 EGP 44 KM 36 Alexandria/Cairo Desert Road El-Amerya El-Nahda Territory Alexandria. Tel.: (+203) 4770141 to 4770145 Head Office Fax: (+203) 4770129 E-mail: info@sidpec.com E-mail: marketingspc@sidpec.com 12 Abo El-Allaa El-Maary St., Kaab Ibn Malek Crossing From El-Heggaz St, Cairo Office Heliopolis. Tel.:(+202) 6362176 / (+202) 6362154 Fax:(+202) 6382716 www.sidpec.com 45
