COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) BASIC TEMPLATE Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: Oct 2015 To: Oct 2016 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) Please use the box below to include the statement of continued support signed by your company’s chief executive 02 Oct 2016 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that M/s Access reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Ubaid R! Managing Director 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of human rights. Examples include: • M/s Access ensured that all workers are provided with safe & suitable work environment. • M/s Access protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats & emplaced the law of Harassment at workplace act 2010 • M/s Access took different measures to eliminate ingredients, designs, defects or side-effects that could harm or threaten human life and health during manufacturing, usage or disposal of products. Medical facilities being provided. Labour Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of labour. Examples include: • M/s Access confirms that it does not participated in any form of forced or bonded labour • M/s Access confirms that it does not support any form of child labour • M/s Access comply with minimum wage standards as per Pakistan labour law. • M/s Access ensured that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria through a fair, transparent & accountable way. Environment Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of environment. Examples include: • M/s Access avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance of production processes and environmental protection system (air pollution control, waste, water treatment systems, etc.) • M/s Access ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health • M/s Access minimize the use and ensure safe handling and storage of chemical and other dangerous substances Anti-Corruption Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken to fight corruption. Examples include: • M/s Access assess the risk of corruption when doing business • M/s Access condemn any form of bribe or taking business advantages through un-law & unfaithful way • M/s Access mention “anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behavior” in contracts with business partners • Ensure that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In the box below, please include the most relevant indicators to measure outcomes. Examples include: • M/s Access displayed the Harassment & anti-corruption policy in its office, in business profile & other documents. • M/s Access maintained its Gender equality & equity policy by providing equal opportunity to all genders and included females in higher management team to make it more effective • M/s Access recycled its 30% of the wasted material while rest is safely channelized through proper waste management company
