United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress, 2016 TrustWorks Global Green Park House, 15 Stratton Street Mayfair-London W1J 8LQ www.trustworksglobal.com +44(0) 20 7873 2237 1 7th November, 2016 To our Stakeholders, As Director of TrustWorks Global (TrustWorks) and Chief Executive Officer I, Josie Lianna Kaye, commit to continue to support the implementation of the principles of the UN Global Compact – both in terms of the essence of our mandate, and in terms of the way we work as a company. This report is, therefore, TrustWorks’s third Communication on Progress and covers the period of 2015-2016. It features TrustWorks’ efforts to address the ten principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption both in the workplace and more broadly within its sphere of influence. TrustWorks supports businesses in natural resource-related sectors to operate in a socially, politically and environmentally responsible manner. As such, our goals are fully aligned with those of the Global Compact. We strive to ensure that businesses, especially those operating in conflictaffected contexts, are able to minimize the negative and maximise the positive impacts of their operations by providing tailored analysis, training and mediation services – drawing upon our expertise in the fields of conflict sensitivity, conflict resolution, mediation, natural resource management, stakeholder engagement and strategic planning. Nonetheless, like all the other companies who form part of the Global Compacts’ vast network, we are also a learning organization – continually looking to adapt and improve ourselves, both in terms of the services we offer to our clients, and how we operate as a company, as expressed in our principles, processes and working methods that make up what we stand for on a day-to-day basis. This report, therefore, provides a moment to reflect on what we have achieved since joining the Global Compact, and to identify areas where we can continue to improve in the months and years ahead. We look forward to remaining a member of a community of businesses committed to the Global Compact’s principles. Yours sincerely, Josie Lianna Kaye Director and Founder TrustWorks Global Green Park House, 15 Stratton Street Mayfair-London W1J 8LQ www.trustworksglobal.com +44(0) 20 7873 2237 2 TrustWorks’ Disclosure on UN Global Compact Principles 1. Human Rights Principles  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and,  Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses a. Assessment, policy and goals on human rights Human rights are at the core of TrustWorks’s business philosophy. TrustWorks believes in the potential of the private sector to collaborate with governments and communities to achieve peacebuilding, state building and sustainable development that establish/re-establish the conditions for the enjoyment of social, political and economic rights, and therefore to actively contribute to an environment where human rights are respected and promoted. TrustWorks is implicitly concerned with human rights in its core business operations. Within its sphere of external influence, the company focuses on addressing non-technical risks facing companies working in the natural resource sector that operate in conflict-affected, fragile and developing contexts, and therefore helps ensure companies are in conformity with internationally proclaimed human rights principles. Due to our mandate to help businesses improve their impact on communities, TrustWorks upholds a policy to not preclude any company accused of human rights violations from receiving our services and support on the basis of that accusation – as we feel these companies need our services in many ways more than others in order to rectify their operational practices. We demand only that businesses demonstrate a willingness to actively address such accusations in a meaningful, collaborative and sustainable manner. Furthermore, when approached by a company, TrustWorks first fulfils a due diligence assessment of this company – looking extremely closely at the accusations of human rights violations. Once this initial due diligence screening is completed, TrustWorks decides whether to work with such companies and to ensure that we do not become ourselves, unwillingly and inadvertently complicit. TrustWorks’s due diligence assessment involves an in-depth evaluation of:  The political will within the company to address these violations and commitment from senior managers that the initiative will be implemented;  The access we will have to staff and stakeholders to help the company to address these violations;  Whether we are able to help the company address the issue that may have given rise to accusation of human rights violations, while also putting in place mechanisms for the long-term that will enable stakeholders to seek redress; and, Green Park House, 15 Stratton Street Mayfair-London W1J 8LQ www.trustworksglobal.com +44(0) 20 7873 2237 3  Whether our engagement can be reasonably expected not to cause harm to any persons or any contexts and if the security of TrustWorks personnel will not be jeopardised. Internally, TrustWorks only hires staff with a proven track record in our core areas of expertise; we work with credible suppliers (web designers, accountants, lawyers etc.) who have been recommended to us by dis-interested third parties. TrustWorks also partners with Swisspeace and the Conflict and Research Unit at Clingendael both of whom share a commitment to the principles enshrined by the Global Compact. We continue to explore joint work, including discussions series and training programmes, which bring together diverse actors from business, international organizations, NGOs and think-tanks to discuss crosscutting issues concerning business operations in fragile and conflict affected contexts, including human rights violations. b. Implementation TrustWorks has developed a comprehensive series of country profiles that analyse the various sociopolitical, economic and/or environmental risks faced by prospective clients in high-risk countries, and possible linkages between these dynamics and human rights abuses. In addition to the country profiles, in the coming year TrustWorks will develop country analysis briefs, available through its website to provide thoroughly researched relevant information to interested stakeholders. The country profiles are the basis upon which TrustWorks builds its outreach strategy, identifying salient issues in medium and high-risk contexts that can be mitigated through a careful selection of companies which may benefit from our services. TrustWorks’s conflict management expertise allows us to bridge the gap between governments, communities and companies to help communities benefit from positive impacts of company operations, and from positive support and partnerships from governments. Accordingly, the selection of our clients is a particularly thorough process. When approached by a new client, we usually take 1-2 weeks to do our due diligence on the company and to complete our assessment of whether we are in a position to assist, or not. Through our website, our very active twitter and LinkedIn accounts, we also contribute to raise awareness about the crucial role that businesses play in advancing human rights. Through carefully selected articles and in-depths analyses, we communicate our views and opinions on how companies can improve the commitment to human rights due-diligence, and become a valuable partner for communities and states. c. Measurement of outcome TrustWorks positioned itself on the forefront of Human Rights protection and Conflict mediation. The past year has seen the successful further development and establishment of the brand, as well as increased awareness. Green Park House, 15 Stratton Street Mayfair-London W1J 8LQ www.trustworksglobal.com +44(0) 20 7873 2237 4 TrustWorks has increased the number of hits on its website in over 30 countries on every continent, and we have increased our followers on twitter to almost 850 in the course of the last year. The company is known by major institutions including the UN, the OECD, EEAS, the EIB, the World Bank, USAID, the Center for Humanitarian Dialogue, Mercy Corps, Thales, TD-International, Adam Smith International and various NGOs, amongst others. Every member of the company is charged with engaging with our clients through a human rights lens. Over the year, senior experts from the team regularly held conferences and trainings related to business and human rights, and actively contributed to raise awareness on related topics in the business community. 2. Labour principles  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Principle 5: the effective abolishing of child labour; and,  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation a. Assessment, Policy and Goals on Labour standards Mutual respect, integrity and trust are key values of interaction among the people within the TrustWorks network. The quality of TrustWorks’s expertise draws upon internal inclusiveness, gathering individuals with diverse nationalities, cultures, thinking styles and expertise. The great diversity of the individuals contributes to foster the team’s ability to work collaboratively on a broad set of expert topics to address clients’ needs and to achieve personal and professional development aspirations. TrustWorks pools and develops talents by providing four-month internship opportunities for students enrolled in Masters programmes who have a keen interest in its sphere of operation. Interns are subjected to the same confidentiality agreement as TrustWorks’ Senior Advisors, and they work directly with the Director, Assistant Director, and business consultants in executing their roles; interns are encouraged to offer their views on the business, based on the understanding that they have as much to contribute as they do to learn. Given that they are students all interns are expected to communicate transparently about the constraints on their side, and to prioritise their studies if ever there is a conflict. In order to respect their studies, students perform no more than 8-10 hours a week and are requested to prioritise their studies when there is a clash of interests. Green Park House, 15 Stratton Street Mayfair-London W1J 8LQ www.trustworksglobal.com +44(0) 20 7873 2237 5 Over the past year, TrustWorks has developed a partnership with the University of Nottingham, offering their students the opportunity to contribute to the company’s work as part of their curriculum. The company fully partners with the University in selecting students for the scheme. Successful candidates then intern with the company for the duration of a semester, receiving academic credentials for their work. TrustWork’s internships are a first-hand learning experience for students, and as such are voluntary. However, TrustWorks does not believe in free labour and thus, maintains a policy to provide interns a small bonus upon successful and satisfactory completion of the internship where possible. Senior Advisors are remunerated in the contexts of projects only, and Business Development Consultants are remunerated on a commission basis. Within its sphere of influence, TrustWorks is committed to boosting the reputation of companies operating in conflict affected/high risk contexts by helping them to develop conflictsensitive employment policies that avoid any discrimination against minority groups or working conditions that fuel latent resentment. b. Implementation Transparency and confidentiality are at the core of TrustWorks’s business principles. Confidentiality is the highest quality engagement of the company towards its clients. All TrustWorks staff and partners are subject to comprehensive contracts and confidentiality agreements. All “Staff”, regardless of their status within the company, are subject to the same rights and obligations outlined in those agreements. Transparency is the core principle of TrustWorks’s internal operations, and is central to staff relations. The Director at TrustWorks communicates transparently to all team members as and when required. All team members are regularly kept up-to-date through monthly updates sent by the Director. On this occasion, all members are invited to offer their comments and insights on current projects and further company developments. On a bilateral basis, calls are held with individual staff members on a regular basis, as well as upon specific requests. For projects involving several in-house experts, and external consultants, regular phone calls and/or in person meetings are held. Finally, all team members join for an annual staff meeting in New York, an event where ideas and projects are shared in order to strategize on the year ahead and share lessons learnt and good-practices. In our work with clients, we maintain a strong commitment to ensuring businesses do not discriminate and/or are not perceived to discriminate against any particular group. At the core of our engagement strategies with clients, we build in services that help companies with labour-related disputes, both internally, and in their community relations. We are able to design collaborative processes that enable staff to jointly separate fact from perception when it comes to differential treatment, and to then co-design processes to deal with both in a fair, equitable and transparent manner. Green Park House, 15 Stratton Street Mayfair-London W1J 8LQ www.trustworksglobal.com +44(0) 20 7873 2237 6 c. Measurement of outcome TrustWorks is composed by a young, balanced and diverse team. The company’s staff, including interns, covers a wide range of different nationalities across Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America and ensures a 50-50 male-female representation, while the average age of employees is 38. While TrustWorks is a woman-run business as the Director, a woman, is the only shareholder, the company does not discriminate in any kind on a gender basis. Over the past year, the composition of interns has been to two-thirds women, in comparison to the all-female composition in 2015. It must be noted that the internship recruitment process is based on an open, fair but highly competitive basis: candidates are selected upon CV and letter of intent, then assessed through interview rounds. The same recruitment process is also applied to the partnership with the University of Nottingham: the University pre-screens candidates based upon their CV and letter of intent, while the company has full competency over the interviews and final selection of interns. TrustWorks prioritises candidates that demonstrate motivation and commitment, but who may not have relevant prior work experience on the basis that obtaining that first experience is one of the important challenges for new recruits. Finally, in spring this year, the team was complemented by an Assistant Director. The newly appointed female Assistant Director had interned for the company in 2014, and has been continuing to support the work of TrustWorks as junior consultant since then. Her appointment to this new role exemplifies TrustWorks’ commitment to the empowerment of young women in developing leadership skills in business, taking inspiration, support and precious mentoring from the Director. 3. Environmental Principles  Principle 7: Businesses should support precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. a. Assessment, Policy and Goals on Environmental standards TrustWorks believes that natural resource companies have a particularly important footprint in countries in or emerging from conflict and that environmental damage are more likely to provoke significant tensions between companies and communities as the communities most affected are often those whose livelihoods depend on land, water and other natural resources. Green Park House, 15 Stratton Street Mayfair-London W1J 8LQ www.trustworksglobal.com +44(0) 20 7873 2237 7 TrustWorks therefore supports companies to grow a perception and reputation of being socially and environmentally responsible by engendering an internal culture that genuinely reflects these principles. This way, companies can maintain their license to operate amongst communities, and can behave as “partners” rather than opposing sides in conflict. By building mutual beneficial relationships between companies and communities on environmental issues, it is easier to prevent environmental disasters, and to address them as and when they do arise, in a way that is efficient but also respectful of the local way of life. b. Implementation TrustWorks is engaged in environmental protection, both in its internal business values, and in its work with clients. Environmental protection being one of our core services, the company actively engages with conflict and environmental concerns in its outreach strategy. Both our promotional materials and our social media feeds are tailored towards raising environmental awareness. TrustWorks moreover adapted the form to the content, having developed a 90 second animation that can be viewed on-line or on USBs keys distributed to interested potential clients and partners, as well as online brochures so as to reduce the environmental impact of our outreach operations is also available on line. As a company, our work requires significant travel, but when meetings or mentoring occasions can be held via video conferencing this option is often preferred in order to reduce our carbon footprint. We also minimize our printing: all of our promotional and outreach materials are only available in electronic format. c. Measurement of Outcome Over the past year, TrustWorks has pursued its outreach to natural resource companies to, among other reasons, reinforce their awareness of environmentally sustainable practices in their operations and to provide capacity-building and mediation services when required. TrustWorks’s outreach strategy is on digital basis, in order to reduce our environmental footprint. This year, the majority of team and multilateral meetings held by TrustWorks were held via Skype or tele-conferencing to avoid unnecessary travel and carbon footprint. Finally, TrustWorks also took part in discussions and conferences organised around the topic of environmental protection, especially in conflict contexts, and will continue to prioritise environmental protection in its engagements with clients. Green Park House, 15 Stratton Street Mayfair-London W1J 8LQ www.trustworksglobal.com +44(0) 20 7873 2237 8 4. Anti-corruption Principles  Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. a. Assessment, policy and goals on anti-corruption TrustWorks acknowledges that tax revenue from natural resource wealth provides governments in fragile contexts with the resources to be able to provide and improve basic service delivery. However, development objectives are often not achieved due to the failure to generate transparent and accountable processes, which in turn contributes to mass distrust for companies, greater income disparities, conflicts and ultimately constrain bottom line growth. TrustWorks seeks to work with companies to communicate effectively and transparently, thereby avoiding the negative optics and impacts of being associated with corrupt practices. TrustWorks operates as an impartial, independent company which uses independent, impartial analysis; targeted, comprehensive capacity-building; and, inclusive mediation processes to build trust. However, we work actively and openly with companies wishing to address corruption, and welcome requests from clients wishing to address this problem in a proactive manner. As with issues of human rights violations, TrustWorks does its due diligence with companies who have been accused of corruption to be sure that we are in a position to assist. Anti-corruption is one of the most important clauses in the contracts signed between the company and staff, and TrustWorks has an internal zero tolerance policy towards corruption. b. Implementation In the year ahead, TrustWorks intends to expand its work and engagement with companies working in conflict-affected and fragile states to help them address issues related to perceived and proven corruption. In our work with clients, TrustWorks prioritizes transparent communication between operational staff and management, and encourages companies to implement processes and regular consultations that allow staff to report instances of corruption without fear of reprisal. Internally, the company continuously reviews and updates its operational guidelines on anticorruption, and carefully carries out due diligence assessments in dealing with current and prospective clients. c. Measurement of Outcome In its work with clients, dealing with corruption accusations is a main part of TrustWorks’s mandate. The company carefully assesses every claim, and develops project and case-specific engagement strategies for the client to improve its record in a long-term, sustainable and proven way. Green Park House, 15 Stratton Street Mayfair-London W1J 8LQ www.trustworksglobal.com +44(0) 20 7873 2237 9 In the year ahead, the company plans to partner with existing anti-corruption initiatives driven by private sector entities to complement government efforts in fighting corruption in resource-rich developing and/or conflict-affected regions with its sector-specific expertise. It is among TrustWorks’ core objectives to actively engage with policy-makers and civil society to contribute to anti-corruption policy development in order to develop long-term benefits for both communities and governments. The strategies the company develops with clients contribute to raise anti-corruption standards, build investor confidence and finally promote socioeconomic development and political stability. Green Park House, 15 Stratton Street Mayfair-London W1J 8LQ www.trustworksglobal.com +44(0) 20 7873 2237 10
