Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Plastoco Oy Ab supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We are committed to ensuring that all our employees are treated fairly and with respect. All health and safety regulations required by the Finnish law and European Union Directives are strictly followed. Labour relations comply with the Finnish law and European Union Directives. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. The management team regularly reviews that policies are followed and in discussions with the employees we search to identify and act on possible incidents. If any abuse of Human Rights by our partners, business associates or contractors is detected and proved, the business relationship is to be terminated. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. We have not been subject to any incidents involving Human Rights aspects to this date. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Plastoco Oy Ab is based in Finland where there are clear labour laws which we strictly follow. We support the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Plastoco Oy Ab respects that its employees form and join labour organizations. Aspects of the employment at Plastoco Oy Ab, such as salary level policies, vacation, benefits and pensions, are covered in the employment contract and collective agreements. PlastocoOy Ab believes in a workplace where everyone has equal opportunities to work and progress. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. New employees are introduced to rules and procedures during their introduction at the company. Agreements of employment are made by mutual agreement between the employee and the employer and are strictly regulated by national law and collective agreements. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. All health and safety procedures defined by the Finnish law and European Union Directives are followed. Plastoco Oy Ab has not been involved in any events related to contravention of the Global Compact principles regarding labour. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. The company has a quality system based on the ISO-9002 standard which is not certified. The customers of the company are both domestic and foreign – the proportion of export is increasing. Due to this we are motivated to develop an environmental management system and do it according to the requirements of the ISO 14001 environmental management standard. Plastoco Oy Ab observes and supports all regulations of the government in the environmental area Our focus in environmental development is to reduce waste continuously and recycling is strongly encouraged. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. In our company we understand the environmental influence that the industrial activity causes. This is taken into consideration in decision making. We act actively, openly and ethically with promoting sustainable development. We are bound to the continuous development concerning the following matters: 1. The environmental awareness 2. Reducing of the amount of waste and cutting down the amount of waste carried to the waste tip 3. Making efforts to recycle and use reusable packaging 4. Improving the labour safety Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. The management team is bound to carry out the policy and a continuous improvement of the company image. We inform our customers, consumers and interest groups openly about our activity and its development. We survey environment policy every year in the environment surveys made by the management. We monitor electricity, water and gas usage on a monthly basis. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anticorruption. Plastoco Oy Ab is a private held company operating on market conditions. Plastoco Oy Ab fully supports the UN Convention Against Corruption. All activities are conducted with a high degree of ethics and moral and we expect all business partners to meet our high ethical standards. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. We have financial audit reports conducted by external auditors which means that any sign of bribery or corruption is identifiable Any corruption situation detected that involves employees, business partners or suppliers, must be investigated and may lead to contract termination. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. No fraudulent or corruption activities have been detected to this date.
