BAISY ORYX TOURS, TRAVEL & SAFARIS Ltd. Kenya, Uganda & Tanzania Safaris, Camping Safaris, Luxury Safaris, Car Hire, Mountain Climbing, Incentives, and Hotel & Lodge Bookings. P.O. Box 2351 00100, Nairobi. Telefax. +254 20-2470001. Cell: +254-714-242465. E-mail, holidays@oryxsafaris.com Bhavesh Center, First Fl, 02E, Ngara Rd, Opp. Fig Tree Hotel. Website: http://www.oryxsafaris.com March 4, 2016 I am pleased to re-affirm that Baisy Oryx Tours Travel and Safaris Ltd (BOTTS’) support for the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Baisy Oryx Tours Travel and Safaris Ltd will continuously make clear statement of this commitment to our suppliers and other business partners and the general public. Yours Sincerely, Sincerely yours, For Baisy Oryx Tours, Travel & Safaris Ltd., Mr. Eutychus Mbuthia Chief Executive Officer The following are our policies and action plans in regard to the principle underlying the Global Compact Initiatives: 1. Human Rights Principles a. Baisy Oryx Tours, Travel and Safaris Ltd human resource department targets to influence our employees and our business associates to respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We have drafted a staff handbook that safeguards both the employee and the employer rights respectively; articulated our stand in regard to staff matters within our business networks as guided by the policies established in the handbook. b. Measures taken to prevent human rights violation in our work departments are as following: i. We have deployed a suggestions/complaints box within our office block. 1 ii. We maintain an open door policy to enable our employees talk to senior staff and directors on matters affecting their welfare. iii. In-house training sessions and regular meetings with staff aimed at reducing the size of the unknown sector within the company’s Johari’s window. c. Measurement of Outcomes i. We hold quarterly senior staff meetings and every department is required to report on the gains made in all spheres of our business including staff matters and we have continually managed to mitigate any human rights violations within our organization by holding our departmental managers accountable. 2. Labour Principles: a. Policy i. Our company handbook is designed to highlight the main elements in the staff policy in a general way that will be easy to understand, and will serve as a reference guide. It covers the main aspects of the staff policy; and provides a source of information about the company’s processes and conditions of employment for staff and is binding on the employee as part of the contract of employment. b. Implementation; i. The suggestions/complaints box coupled with the open door policy to senior staff has mitigated in a big way the staff policy implementation in our firm. ii. We also maintain a Work Injury Benefits Act Insurance Policy that has gone a long way to boost the staff morale for they know that they are covered while at work. 3. Environment a. Policy Description: i. Our Tours and Travel business actively engages with nature and we are therefore very particular about environmental protection. To this end, we have subscribed to Travelife agenda for Sustainable tourism in the world and our company is actively engaged in implementation of the Travelife’s sustainable tourism agenda in Kenya. b. Implementation: i. We have had a bias in our tours by contracting hotels, lodges and camps that are implementing policies geared towards alleviating environmental degradation and at the same time engaging local communities so as to empower their socio-economic status through employment and funding basic needs such as schools and health facilities. c. Activities for 2015: i. We shall strive to earn a Travelife badge and display the certificate on our website and office. 2 ii. Early February 2016; we attended Travelife Advanced Training for Sustainable Tourism activities in Kenya and obtained a certification. We are due to undergo a rigorous evaluation process under this program in the course of this year. iii. Constant review of our partners operations to ensure that they adhere to sustainable tourism activities shall be our standard operating procedure every year. 4. Anti-Corruption a. Policy Description: i. The aim of this policy is to ensure that Baisy Oryx Tours, Travel and Safaris Ltd have appropriate systems and procedures in place to prevent bribery and corruption. The Company has a zero tolerance approach towards bribery and corruption. b. Implementation: i. The Company has introduced this policy to supplement its commitment to the Code of Conduct that has been distributed internally to ensure that appropriate ethical conduct is applied across the group's activities throughout the world. This policy is designed to ensure that each part of the Company applies appropriate steps to comply with the Company's ethical standards and the law. c. Measurement of Outcome i. Constant reviews and vetting of departmental operations is the key to guarantee that the company achieves and upholds the zero tolerance to bribery and corruption in all our operations. 5. Making the COP Available to Stakeholders: a. We shall circulate this COP to all our employees and also have it available as a resource downloadable at our website in due course. 6. Donations, awards a. Baisy Oryx Tours, Travel and Safaris Ltd in its own humble ways continues to support an initiative by BOMA Fund project in Northern Kenya; a project aimed at giving grants to groups of women to start businesses. These grants have greatly transformed the lives of the beneficiaries who live in the remote northern Kenya. 3
