RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2015 GRI G4 (CORE) VERSION OF THE REPORT, VERIFIED BY AN INDEPENDENT AUDITOR Independent Certifying Report Contents GR4 1–56 Independent Certifying Report 1 7. Relations with local communities 52 (concerning Budimex Group Responsible Business Report 2015) 1. Letter from the President 4 8. P  revention of unethical conduct PR and integrity in operations 58 2. Nationwide awards and distinctions 6 9. Quality and safety CRE 3. About us 8 of construction sites 64 4. About the Report 28 10. R ational use of resources EC and environmental pollution 68 5. Conditions, occupational SO health and safety (OHS) 32 11. Tables with non-financial data 72 6. Impact on the local environment 12. GRI Index 88 LA and biodiversity 42 HR EN 2 3 Contents BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 1Letter from the President of the Management Board Ladies and Gentlemen, G4-1 I am pleased to present you with the new social and environmental This also shows how we will strive to build our competitive edge G4-2 responsibility report of the Budimex Group. over the coming years. The comprehensive approach to management seems to be the key We have a potential to win new contracts. We can tackle the element in building permanent value, including economic value, most complex technical challenges. Therefore, with the expected of a company. Therefore, I am all the more pleased to see how accumulation of works in 2016–2017, we are planning to increase the value of the Budimex shares has been growing over the years. investments, but above all we want to employ the best industry In the last few years, so difficult for the construction industry, the specialists for whom around 800 jobs await in Budimex. market has recognised the good standing of Budimex. Last year, the company’s market value increased from PLN 3.4 billion as at Yours faithfully, the end of 2013 to PLN 3.6 billion as at the end of 2014. And at the end of February 2015, the Budimex market capitalisation amounted Dariusz Blocher to PLN 4.2 billion. For 5 years, Budimex has been regularly paying President of the Management Board, dividends to its shareholders. The last year was the best in the Chief Executive Officer of Budimex SA history of our company as regards the value of contracts signed, which amounted to PLN 6.3 billion and was nearly twice as high as the year before. It is also yet another year when Budimex was included in the prestigious group of companies listed on the RESPECT Index, the first index of socially responsible companies in the region, as well as on the WIG DIV index. The year 2014 was a symbolic year also for other reasons. In November, the Augustów ring road, routed along an alternative option, was commissioned. The road was for many years the symbol of a deep social conflict between the economic growth, safety of the local community and the protection of valuable natural resources. Today we can say, as the contractor of this project, that we have managed to come to a compromise: the nature is safe and the road transport does not pose a threat to the inhabitants of Augustów anymore. I would like to express special thanks to our engineers who, bearing in mind the protection of the ecosystems of the Rospuda River Valley, and thus the necessity to minimise the interference with the river channel, decided to construct the crossover with the application of incremental launching method. This is an example of how business competences are applied in practice within the measures for sustainable development. 4 5 Letter from the President of the Management Board BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2 Nationwide awards and distinctions Nationwide awards and distinctions in 2014: Local awards and distinctions in 2014: • in the 5th edition of Eurobuild Awards, Budimex was awarded the title of the best • in the “Build Safely” competition organised by the National Labour construction company on the Warsaw Stock Exchange; Inspectorate, the District Labour Inspectorate in Białystok awarded the first prize to the construction of the Hajnówka shopping mall, • Budimex also won in the 3rd edition of TSR Ranking — Złota Akcja Biznes.pl in the special carried out by Budimex; category: the best WIG-BUDOWNICTWO 2011–2013 company; • the District Labour Inspectorate in Lublin appreciated the • Budimex ranked second in the “Engineering” category in the Universum TOP 100 2014 construction of the Lublin Conference Centre and the building rating published by the Newsweek weekly; of the Marshal Office in Lublin, awarding the second prize to those • in the 12th edition of the “Builder Awards” competition, organised by the editorial team projects by Budimex. and programming board of the “Builder” monthly, Budimex SA was awarded “Polski • in the Construction Project of the Year in Podkarpackie Region Herkules 2014” [Polish Hercules 2014]; also the Polish Hercules statuette was also given competition, organised by the Association of Communication by the Chapter of the Competition to President Dariusz Blocher for efficient management, Engineers and Technicians of the Republic of Poland, Rzeszów effective extension of the company’s potential and competitive advantage, as well as for Branch, Budimex was awarded the first degree prize in the entrepreneurial skills and business intuition; Motorways category for the construction of the A4 motorway, • Budimex was also awarded the title of “Perła Polskiej Gospodarki” [“Pearl of the Polish sections Dębica — Rzeszów West, Rzeszów West — Central Rzeszów Economy”] in the Great Pearls category by the editorial team of the “Polish Market” monthly; and Jarosław — Radymno; • the editors of “Rynekinfrastruktury.pl”, in cooperation with Stowarzyszenie Inicjatywa • in a poll organised by the Lubuskie Chamber of Construction, dla Infrastruktury [Initiative for Infrastructure Association], recognised Budimex during the the S3 express road built by Budimex — section from the Międzyrzecz 2nd Polish Infrastructure Congress in Krakow. South junction to the Sulechów junction — won the Lubuski Mister of Construction Projects prize in the roads and bridges category. • during the 6th “Polish Infrastructure” conference, organised by the Executive Club, under the honorary patronage of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Development, prizes for outstanding achievements in the industry were for the first time awarded to companies and infrastructure leaders in the Polish market — under the “Investment of the Year” category, the consortium that Budimex was a partner of (with a 50% share) was presented with the “Diamond of the Polish Infrastructure” prize for the construction of A4 Tarnów-Dębica motorway; • Budimex was awarded in the category of “Social Responsibility Leader,” • in the most prestigious competition organised by the Polish Association of Civil Engineers and Technicians — “Construction Project of the Year” — Budimex received several awards for the facilities constructed;1 • The Bridge Engineers of the Republic of Poland awarded Budimex an honorary Bridge Work of the Year diploma for the bridge over the Vistula River near Kwidzyn. 1 The first degree awards received: The Wielkopolska Centre for Advanced Technologies — Stage I and II in Poznań — in the New Technology Construction Facilities category; a complex of multi-family residential buildings with retail & office facilities and an underground garage, technical infrastructure and driveways in Warsaw, at ul. Kruczkowskiego 2 (Powiśle Park) — in the Individually Evaluated Construction Facilities category and a building with hotel, office and cinema photo: Polish Hercules 2014 satue space at ul. Łąkowa 29 in Łódź (DoubleTree by Hilton hotel) — in the Individually Evaluated Construction Facilities category. The second degree awards received: a complex of multi-family residential buildings with retail & office facilities, an underground garage, and technical infrastructure in Warsaw in the area of Gocławska and Kamionkowska streets (Gocławska Estate) — in the Residential Buildings category, the Malopolska Centre of Biotechnology in Krakow at ul. Gronostajowa 7A — in the New Technology Construction Facilities category, and the Neptun Office Centre in Gdańsk at ul. Grunwaldzka 105A — in the Administration & Office Facilities category. 6 7 Nationwide awards and distinctions BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 3 About us Market activity photo: ICE Kraków Congress Centre G4-4 Budimex is one of the leading construction companies in Poland. Marking its presence in various areas of the construction market, the company’s brand is one of the strongest and best recognised brands in the industry. What is more, the difficult years of recent economic slowdown clearly showed that the brand was stable, reliable and trustworthy for customers, subcontractors and suppliers as well as for local communities. Budimex provides the best performance, while minimising social and environmental arduousness which may potentially accompany every construction project. Whether we are talking about activities in the area of construction, development or property management, Budimex always guarantees the top quality and stands for trustworthiness and reliability. The Budimex Group offers to its customers services within the scope of infrastructure construction projects (road, railway, hydro-technical), general construction works (public, sports and commercial facilities), ecology projects (sewage treatment plants, waste disposal facilities), energy construction projects, as well as machinery services, laboratory services, and mineral and asphalt mixes manufactured at its own bituminous mixing plants located throughout Poland. Due to our conviction that only responsible approach ensures long-lasting success, confirmed by over 45 years of experience, the policy of respecting the environment has been reflected in the Budimex Mission. It is a philosophy which in hard times of economic slowdown not only allows the company to survive, but also determines true leaders, a philosophy which allows a company to act with moderation and modesty during economic upturns, and at the same time to achieve dynamic and real growth. This was clearly evident in recent years, as the Budimex Group was able to face challenges while its competitors would loose their liquidity and were forced out of the market. And this is clearly evident now, as individual market segments started to regrow and the increases reported by the Group are stronger than increases reported by the market. 8 9 About us BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT photo: A1 motorway construction between Stryków and Tuszyn In fact, it is not difficult to grow quickly and spectacularly as the market grows, and then to fail with an economic turnaround. The challenge here is to capture the art of responsible management, which ensures continuous and stable growth with due regard for the interests of customers, business partners, employees, local communities, nature and investors, whose assets the company’s management shall increase in a safe and certain way. Responsible business means balancing expectations of all groups of stakeholders; to know how to listen intently to their expectations and anxieties. It also stands for sustainable development, which is the only permanent development, so very much expected not only by the environment, but first of all by shareholders thinking about building long-term value. The Budimex Group provides a wide range of construction and assembly services under the system of general contracting at home and abroad, performs property development and property management activities, as well as, on a smaller scale, trade, production and transportation services. Budimex Mission “Our mission is to implement construction G4-56 projects, including real estate development undertakings, in a manner worthy of a market leader, respecting the natural environment and ethics, with attention to customer satisfaction and user comfort, to be achieved thanks to our professionalism and passion for construction, high operating effectiveness and partner relations with suppliers and subcontractors.” 10 11 About us BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT The basic business goal of Budimex SA, the dominant of the Group operating in the development market is development of national technical infrastructure and of the main investor in this construction market Company, beside rendering construction and assembly Budimex Nieruchomości Sp. z o.o. energy security. In accordance with the Programme segment, PKP PLK, exceeded PLN 7 bln in 2014. services and performing property development approved by the European Commission in December The rate of announcing and awarding material tenders activities, is the advisory, management and financial 2014, it can be expected that the largest amount under the new financial perspective is unsatisfactory function for companies of the Group. Such model Market situation and prospects of funds will be allocated to transport-related which, in the period 2016–2017, may entail a risk of aims at achieving fast information flow within the projects — roads, railway, urban transport, air market contraction and problems for companies with G4-2 structures of the Group, strengthening the efficiency In 2014, the long expected inhibition of the strong transport and sea transport (allocation of approx. extensive executive potential. However, in the long of the financial and economic business of individual downturn trend in the construction sector took place. EUR 19.8 billion). The above sectors will be followed term, prospects for the railway construction sector are companies and further strengthening of the Group’s While in 2013 the construction and assembly production by: the environmental sector (EUR 3.5 billion) and the relatively good. Primarily, these prospects are related to market position. decreased by 13.6% (in current values), in 2014 this energy sector (EUR 2.8 billion). The main recipients of investments under the Infrastructure and Environment trend was reversed. The construction industry increased the support will be public sector entities, including local Operational Programme for the years 2014–2020 and to Construction and assembly activities are also the by 2.6% during the year and was driven mainly by the government units and entrepreneurs, in particular large potential funds under the Connecting Europe Facility. domain of Mostostal Kraków SA. The Company infrastructure segment, in which railway, industrial companies. specialises in the provision of services from the area and hydro-technical construction industries played The energy-related construction segment will probably of construction and assembly of steel structures of all a crucial role. Expenditures by the key investor in the roads maintain good growth performance due to large types and assembly of devices mainly for the cement segment, the General Directorate for National Roads projects for the construction of several power units and limestone industries, the energy sector, and steel Over the next few years, faster settlement of new and Motorways [Generalna Dyrekcja Dróg Krajowych which entered the implementation phase almost and chemical industries. contracts, financed partly from the European Union i Autostrad — GDDKiA], decreased significantly from simultaneously. The Energy Regulatory Office [Urząd budget within the framework of the new financial approx. PLN 13 bln in 2013 to approx. PLN 10.6 bln in Regulacji Energetyki, URE] estimates that by the end At the same time, development and property perspective for the years 2014-2020, will be crucial. the previous year. Lower expenditure resulted, on the of 2028, 18 GW of new production capacities are to be management services comprise preparation of land The Infrastructure and Environment Programme, with one hand, from the expiry of the European Union’s commissioned. Although the largest contracts have for investment, execution of investment projects in the allocation at the level of EUR 27.4 billion, will remain financial perspective for the years 2007–2013 and, on already been awarded, over a dozen major investments field of residential building, sale of flats and rental and the largest operational programme. Its priority is the other hand, from the unsatisfactory pace of signing in the broadly understood conventional energy sector management of property on own account. The entity a low-carbon economy, environmental protection, contracts implemented under the new EU perspective. are still at the planning or tender stage. Moreover, Higher growth dynamics, resulting from accumulation the importance of the renewable energy market will of construction works under contracts co-financed from increase, in particular with respect to wind energy. the new EU perspective, should be expected in 2016– FBSerwis 2018. New priorities and challenges are currently being specified in the road construction segment. A draft National Roads Construction Programme [Program Although 2014 saw a slight drop in the number of flats put into use, these figures do not reflect the current situation in the housing construction market. Very The youngest company, which is only occasionally Budowy Dróg Krajowych, PBDK] for the years 2014– good market economic is confirmed by the number 2020 stipulates that the amount spent for investment of flats whose construction was commenced and mentioned in this report and in which the Budimex tasks will be PLN 92.7 billion. In the first place, these by the number of construction permits issued. Group is a minority shareholder, is FBSerwis SA. funds will be used for the construction of 1,862 km of The commencement of the government programme express roads and motorways, as well as 366 km of called “A Flat for the Young” [Mieszkanie dla Młodych, This is a Polish company, established ring roads. In the event of obtaining additional funds MdM] and record-low interest rates resulting in by Budimex SA and Ferrovial Services SA. or savings, additional 630 km of express roads or relatively cheap financing and, at the same time, motorways and 147 km of ring roads may be approved low interest rates on bank deposits contributed to Such a partnership, founded on the transfer for implementation from the pool of reserve projects. a significant recovery in the development market. of international experiences of the Ferrovial Already in 2014, the General Directorate for National The offer of the primary market combined with the Roads and Motorways settled a part of big road projects expected continuation of good economic growth should Group, is a pioneering partnership in terms of (46 projects). The total value of lowest bids within result in maintenance of the positive trends from 2014. comprehensive performance of property-related invitations to tender exceeded PLN 13.5 billion. 2015 may again bring an increase in the number of investments by property development companies. services. The competencies of FBSerwis are Investments in the railway infrastructure sector did related to the implementation of PPP projects not reach the dynamics assumed in the Long-term The opportunity of further development of Railway Investment Programme until 2015, although the infrastructure market may also be based (waste, hospitals, Smart Cities and other). they set a new record. It is estimated that expenditure on the public-private partnership (PPP) formula. FBSerwis specialises in comprehensive property management, maintenance of industry facilities, comprehensive maintenance of infrastructure (roads and motorways, urban infrastructure), environmental services and solutions within the scope of Smart Cities and energy efficiency. 12 13 About us BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT Results for the last year increased by 9.1% and 20.9% respectively as compared Budimex changes Last year, the first year after the slowdown, the revenues to 2013, in both cases exceeding the recorded market growth rate. Also the sales structure for construction G4-9 the face of Polish industry of the Budimex Group increased faster than the market. For the construction segment, sales of the Budimex and assembly services in the Budimex Group has slightly changed, which was triggered by, among other things, Group increased by 13.9% compared to 2013. Revenues a good economic situation in the residential construction Some of the most prestigious prizes awarded in the infrastructure and facilities construction sector sector. by Polish economic media, the titles of “The one who changes the Polish industry”, were awarded Sales value for the 14th time by the editorial office of 2014 2013 Miesięcznik Gospodarczy Nowy Przemysł Type of construction PLN million % PLN million % and the wnp.pl website. The ceremony was Civil engineering (infrastructure) 2,680 56.8% 2,456 59.3% held on 17 February 2014 in the Sheraton hotel Buildings, of which: 2,037 43.2% 1,685 40.7% in Warsaw. – non-residential buildings 1,748 37.1% 1,485 35.9% “For many years, the winners of those – residential buildings 289 6.1% 200 4.8% prestigious awards have been people, Total sales of construction and assembly services 4,717 100.0% 4,141 100.0% institutions and companies who have had a significant impact on positive changes in the Polish industry and have contributed It should be here noted that sales revenues on In a geographic context, the primary markets where the G4-6 to the development of the entire economy,” development activities are recognised upon transfer Budimex Group operates were Poland and Germany, G4-8 said Wojciech Kuśpik, President of the PTWP of the ownership title to the premises to the buyer, by way of a notarial deed, after the technical acceptance and last year the main share of revenues from the Polish market increased from 88% to 96%. 3% of revenues G4-9 Group, editor of the monthly magazine. report has been signed for the entire building. originated from the German market, and 1% from the Therefore, a much better prognosis, and a particularly markets of other countries. As for the German market, Budimex was honoured for its steady resistance encouraging one, is pre-sales volume of flats, i.e. the in 2014, like in 2013, only workshop services were number of preliminary contracts concluded. In 2014, rendered. Despite the share in the total revenues of against unfavourable trends in the construction a major revival could be observed on the entire real the Group dropping, the revenues from sales in Germany industry and for stability on the challenging and estate development market, including a record interest were slightly higher than the year before, which was due in the Budimex offer. The net advance sales throughout to the increase in prefabrication works and despite the fluctuating market. “Budimex has been called the year 2014 amounted to 1,685 flats, as compared decrease in metal-related works. Gross profit generated a star pupil on the Polish construction market to 742 flats in the preceding year. Last year, the in 2014 in Germany was lower than in the previous year, construction of over 2,000 new flats was commenced which resulted mainly from the bankruptcy of a customer for years. The Group skilfully uses its assets within twelve new development projects located in and a write-down on receivables. and expertise, while avoiding excessive risk, Warsaw, Krakow and Poznań. As at the end of the year, 2,751 flats were under construction. In 2014, the Group New infrastructural investments (in particular road rationally managing costs, adapting to economic commenced the portfolio diversification process, for investments implemented under the National Roads fluctuations and the dynamic market,” as the example by implementing the “Nowe Czyżyny” project Construction Programme for the years 2014–2020) with 1,374 flats, using partly land owned by the Group. offer an opportunity for the Budimex Group to win organisers noted in the award justification. Also, new plots were purchased. Currently, the Group contracts in this segment. The Group also plans to “The example of Budimex proves that thoughtful holds lands for construction of over 5.4 thousand new win contracts in the segment of residential, office flats, as compared to the land bank for the construction and industrial buildings, as well as in the energy and decisions, a strategy of diversification, discipline of over 7 thousand flats the year before. hydraulic engineering construction segments. Further and rational approach to risks pay off in terms development on the market of municipal services is also planned, as well as engaging in new projects on the of business, even under unfavourable market basis of public-private partnerships. conditions. 14 15 About us BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT In 2014, the Budimex Group companies signed In 2015, the Budimex Group plans to incur capital construction contracts for the total value of PLN 6,310 mln (with annexes). The value of the construction order expenditure of approx. PLN 68 million. The outlays will be made mainly on construction machines Budimex membership in organisations and social G4-16 book of the Budimex Group as at 31 December 2014 amounted to PLN 6,107 mln and was higher by 40.7% and implementation of IT solutions. initiatives: as compared to the end of 2013. ● Business Centre Club ● POLLAB Polish Research Laboratory Club ● Ogólnopolska Izba Gospodarcza Drogownictwa [Polish Chamber of Road Engineering] ● Polski Związek Pracodawców Budownictwa [Polish Association of Construction The order book structure was as follows: Industry Employers] ● Polskie Stowarzyszenie Wykonawców Nawierzchni Asfaltowych [Polish Asphalt infrastructure 43% Pavement Association] ● Polsko-Hiszpańska Izba Gospodarcza [Polish-Spanish Chamber of Commerce] non-residential segment 25% ● Railway Business Forum industrial construction 14% ● Stowarzyszenie Emitentów Giełdowych [Polish Association of Listed Companies] ● Stowarzyszenie Księgowych w Polsce [The Accountants Association in Poland] residential segment 9% ● UN Global Compact ● Związek Mostowców RP [Polish Society of Bridge Engineers] railway segment 7% ● Izba Gospodarcza Energetyki i Ochrony Środowiska [Chamber of Commerce for hydro-technical construction 2% Energy and Environment] ● Związek Pracodawców Branży Infrastruktury [Association of Infrastructure Trade Employers] ● Executive Club ● Pracodawcy RP [Employers of Poland] ● Izba Towarzystwo Gospodarcze Polska-Rosja [Poland–Russia Commercial Society Chamber] G4-9 The basic economic values that characterise the Budimex Group were: G4-10 2014 2013 G4-21 photo: Tram line in Toruń Net revenues from sales of products and services, goods and 4,949.94 4,749.46 materials (million PLN) 193.94 301.30 Net profit (million PLN) 522.51 645.18 Equity (million PLN) 3,335.70 3,041.58 Liabilities (million PLN) 3,858.21 3,686.75 Assets (million PLN) 4,337 3,983 Number of employees N/A* N/A* Number of subcontractors’ employees under the supervision of the Budimex Group * Construction works are characterised by large seasonality of the employment of subcontractors, and the specificity of subsequent stages of executed works means rotation of subcontractors and changing number of workers on Budimex contracts. Employee data, including data of the subcontractors’ employees, are updated on a daily basis and are registered directly on construction sites. Those registers are critical for the sake of OHS, especially in emergency situations (e.g. evacuations). The registers are not centrally consolidated. Consolidated data on hours worked by the subcontractors’ employees will be available as of 2015. 16 17 About us BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT Contribution to infrastructural and airport infrastructure at Szczecin–Goleniów Airport, Eventually, the ring road was re-routed so that it would development or the Koszalin Coastland protection works – tasks by-pass the precious nature areas — the ring road VI and VII and the construction of a production hall G4-9 The activity of the Budimex Group results not only in and a warehouse of Ferrero Polska. Of course, road went through Raczki and does not collide with any G4-EC7 the increased value for its shareholders. The value contracts belong to the most numerous group, which built over years is a bonus and reward for the reliable includes: the construction of the S5 road Żnin–Gniezno areas protected as a part of the Natura 2000 European performance of contracts and delivering the agreed (section: “Mielno” junction–Gniezno), the construction Environmental Network. The ring road, whose contractor results. Another, yet equally important result of the of the S19 express road Lubartów–Kraśnik at activity are specific objects of infrastructure: roads and the section from the Dąbrowica junction (without was Budimex, was commissioned in November 2014. motorways, railway infrastructure, airports, hydrothe junction) to the Konopnica junction, the technical facilities, industry facilities, sewage treatment continuation of the construction works for the The total length of the ring road is 34.23 km. The fist plants and waste disposal facilities. Plus, a number of A4 motorway at the section Rzeszów (Wschodni section with the length of 21.48 km, from the Augustów public buildings, such as hospitals, academic buildings [Eastern] junction) – Jarosław (Wierzbna junction), or cultural facilities. These are also flats for thousands the construction of the S7 express road at the section junction to the Raczki junction, is the single-lane national of families. Jędrzejów — border of Świętokrzyskie and Małopolskie road No 8. The second, 12.75 km-long section from Provinces, the continuation of the design and Among more important contracts signed in 2014, construction of the A1 motorway at the section from the Raczki junction to the Suwałki Południe junction whose implementation provides real value to society, Stryków to the Tuszyn junction (task 3), the construction is the two-lane express road No S61. The new road we would like to mention e.g. the contract for designing of the Jarocin ring road within S11, the construction of and constructing a power unit at the Turów power the S7 express road at the Miłomłyn–Olsztynek section is 36.6 km-long, including the connecting road from plant (PGE), the construction of an integrated transport (subsection Miłomłyn–Ostróda Północ), the design and the Suwałki Południe junction to the existing national centre in Bydgoszcz — Stage 1 Bydgoszcz Główna construction of the S5 express road Poznań–Wrocław Railway Station (PKP), the construction of the takeat the section from Korzeńsko to Widawa Wrocław road No 8. off area with a guardhouse at the “Mazury” Airport junction, the completion of the S5 express road in Szymany, the completion of construction works for Poznań–Wrocław, the construction of the Bełchatów The commissioned Augustów ring road is a key element the Marshal Office building and the Lublin Conference ring road within national road No 8. Centre, the expansion and modernisation of the airfield in the international traffic between Poland and Baltic countries. In the future it will constitute a part of the planned express road No S61 from Ostrów Mazowiecka, through the planned Łomża ring road, Ełk to Budzisko. Augustów ring road is open The planned Suwałki ring road will be its natural extension towards Lithuania. Thanks to this project, thousands The history of construction works for the Augustów ring of heavy trucks, which have been passing through road reaches back to 1992, with the first options for Augustów everyday for years, causing danger to health the route being proposed in 1996. The controversies, and life of the residents, were directed to the ring road. generated by the construction of the road launched in 2007, gave rise to a dispute, unprecedented in An interesting, innovative and environment-friendly the history of Polish road engineering. The designed solution, that Budimex undertook to implement, is the ring road passed through valuable and protected construction of a bridge across the Rospuda River. The (i.a. under the Natura 2000 network) nature areas of total length of the bridge is 180 km. Due to the natural the Rospuda River Valley and brought about measures assets of the Rospuda River Valley, construction of the by a number of environmental organisations. On the crossover required application of the incremental launching other hand, the inhabitants of Augustów, who had to face method, which allowed reduction of the interference difficulties and dangers caused by thousands of heavy with the river channel. The bridge has a composite steel trucks passing through the city centre, refused to agree structure and concrete deck slab. The weight of the steel to suspend the investment, contrary to the demands structure alone is 840 t. of the environmentalists. 18 19 About us BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT Mostostal Kraków, contractor for many unique of a steel construction for the construction of a new photo: Powiśle Park in Warsaw constructions, has executed or continues to execute 463 MW combined cycle unit in Włocławek (Orlen orders for environmental protection for the industry SA); prefabrication, delivery and assembly of a steel (e.g. industrial electro-filters and sack filters), sewage construction in the boiler building at the Tychy Heat plants, waste treatment plants, construction of water Power Plant; prefabrication, delivery and assembly dams as well as many other kinds of public utility of 1,758 tonnes of a steel construction for the Boiler buildings. In 2014, the company was involved in Building (Mondi Świecie); delivery and assembly of construction and assembly works for the construction a steel construction for the construction of new power of a selective, non-catalytic nitrogen oxides reduction units at the PGE Elektrownia Opole. system (SNCR) in the Ożarów Cement Factory; in the construction of the ICE Kraków Congress Centre Probably the most unique project is the currently (delivery and assembly of 3,055 tonnes of a steel implemented contract for execution of a steel construction); in the prefabrication, delivery and construction for the new steel dome protecting the assembly of a steel construction for the expansion ruins of the nuclear reactor in Chernobyl. Two parts works of the infrastructure in the south part of the of the dome will be slid over the radioactive rubble. Świnoujście Port; in the delivery and assembly of about The construction will be 105 metres high, 150 metres 145 tonnes of a steel construction for the “Biological long and 257 metres wide. As announced by the Waste Treatment Plant sludge dewatering unit” Novarka consortium, who ordered the construction investment task in the Azoty Puławy SA Group; in the from Mostostal Kraków, this will be the greatest sliding execution, delivery and assembly of approx. 855 tonnes construction in the history of mankind. of a steel construction; and in the start-up of a liquid ammonia tank also for the Azoty Puławy Group.. Management culture Currently, Mostostal Kraków is working on a number of projects in the energy sector. Among others, they Management approach include: execution, delivery and assembly of steel G4-34 constructions for two 300 MW Power Units Eesti The Budimex Group strives for the best practices Energia Narva Elektrijaamad (Estonia); manufacture, in the area of management and corporate governance. delivery and assembly of a steel construction for the The Group’s goal is to ensure the highest management construction of the Flue Gas Desulphurisation Plant standards, including transparency of decisionat the Rybnik Power Plant; delivery and assembly making processes, as well as reliability and timeliness photo: Children's Hospital in Bydgoszcz 20 21 About us BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT of information on the actual standing of the Group the company holds many other highly valued photo: ICE Kraków Congress Centre provided to all actors of the capital market. In 2014, certificates for welding technology, bridge construction, Budimex applied the “Best Practices of WSE Listed steel construction production and certificates granted Companies” adopted by the resolution of the WSE by the Office of Technical Inspection [UDT]2. It is Supervisory Board dated 4 July 2007, with the noteworthy that Mostostal Kraków received its first exception of: ISO 9001 certificate in October 1995 — as one of the first • the option to exercise voting rights in person Polish construction companies to implement a quality or through a proxy in the course of the general system. From April 2009, an Integrated Management shareholders meeting from a location other than System complying with the PN-EN ISO 9001, the general shareholders meeting venue, using PN-EN ISO 14001, and PN-N 18001 standards was electronic communications, introduced into the entire system of investment • two-way real-time communication process during implementation. which shareholders can take the floor during the General Meeting of Shareholders while being In 2014, Budimex Nieruchomości did not apply certified at a location other than the meeting venue — Rule management systems. No 10 item 2) in Section IV of Best Practices Applied by Shareholders. Managing corporate responsibility G4-25 The decision on this matter was taken following The responsibility management system of the Group G4-34 the assessment covering the matters relating to is based on the approach stipulated by both technical and legal threats to correct and the PN-ISO 26000 standard. In 2010, a CSR policy was smooth the GSM process, considering the number adopted, based on which first goals were defined for the of shareholders who typically participate in the meeting. years 2011–2012. Although the original policy and goals were accepted by the company authorities, 2013 was of Management systems key importance for systematised approach to CSR. The CSR Committee was formally appointed, with G4-34 The implementation of investment projects is based members of the management board and key managers. on the Integrated Management System comprising: This allowed us not only to comprehensively divide quality management system according to PN-EN ISO responsibility for individual aspects of influence, but 90001, environmental management system according also to define key responsibility areas and stakeholders to PN-EN ISO 14001, OHS management system groups. However, what is crucial in terms of daily according to PN-N-18001 and quality assurance system operational management, an effective cooperation based on requirements of the NATO standard AQAP platform was created, providing holistic approach to 2110. The effectiveness of these systems is confirmed sustainable development. Moreover, the CSR by the certificates granted and by the constant Committee, in whose works and regular meetings supervision of external certification units. Relevant the management board is directly involved, with its policies, procedures and processes define in detail the chairman presiding over the works of the Committee, operational policies in terms of quality, occupational is very important for responsible business management. health and safety, as well as in terms of effects on The Committee gives opinion and confirms goals social and natural environment. What is more, regular adopted within the CSR Policy, periodically monitors the reviews of the applied system solutions enable constant degree of their achievement and approves improvement of operational management, so that we implementation of new projects from the responsible can achieve even better results, not only in economic, management area. Upon initiation of the Committee but also in social and environmental aspects. works, workshops for persons responsible for individual CSR actions were organised. As a result, new goal Mostostal Kraków also works by the rules of proposals were established for Budimex. Ultimate goals the Integrated Quality Management System, for the years 2014–2015 were accepted by the environmental management and OHS within the range Committee, then accepted formally by the Management of comprehensive investment execution, performance, Board by way of a resolution. deliveries and assembly of facilities of general, industrial and transport construction in compliance with the following standards: PN-EN ISO 9001:2009, PN-EN ISO 14001:2005, PN-N 18001:2004. Furthermore, 2 More information on Mostostal Kraków SA certificates can be found on the following website: http:9//www.mostostal.com.pl/?pid=25. 22 23 About us BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT CSR goals for Budimex for the years 2014–2015 (Appendix to the CSR Policy): Time Goal Goal limit achievement Time Goal Goal limit achievement 17 Preparing a report in CBD, which will permit negative listing of companies (score 2014  1 on the scale from 1 to 5) when evaluated in the area of fulfilment of safety 1 Ensuring safe organisation and implementation of particularly dangerous works and hygiene (OHS) conditions by a subcontractor and as regards proceedings by preparing an Instruction of Safe Execution of Works — 100% of works specified in environmental protection and ecology. in BIOZ plans as particularly dangerous. 2014  18 Verification of Budimex agreement standards and adjustment of their provisions 2014  2 Training and communication activities on the subject of good OHS practices to ensure more partnership relations with company counterparties. for 80% of constructions executed in 2014. 2014  19 Extension of the report functionality in CBD to include e-mail notifications 2015 *** 3 Implementation of and organisation and provision of hygiene and health resources to the OHS Department with information about suppliers who received negative standard for all construction works starting from Q3 2014. 2015  evaluation in the area of OHS and/or environmental protection. 4 Implementation of standards for organisation and execution of work at heights — 20 Introduction of a CSR module into the “Welcome to the Group” training in 2014. 2014  100% of all construction works starting from Q3 2014. 2015  21 Creating the “Risk management policy in Budimex SA” document (working title). H1 2015  5 Implementation of standard equipment for workers and persons performing works on construction sites — basic personal protective equipment, i.e. protective helmets, goggles, protective shoes and reflective clothing (2nd reflectance class) 23 Creating the document “Policy of cooperation with local communities in Budimex 2015 pending or reflective vests — 100% of all construction works starting from Q3 2014. 2015  SA construction contracts under implementation” (working title). * The CSR Committee issued a number of recommendations for limitation of electricity consumption within construction contracts performed by the 6 Creating quantitative and qualitative records of reused materials from demolitions, Budimex Group (core business), e.g. announcing a competition among employees for the best energy saving initiative, analysing an option to sign disassembles and earthworks. 2015  a framework agreement for supply of electricity with a single supplier, or an attempt to record in the existing data collection systems the amount of energy consumed (not costs), which would produce more reliable results than just basing on the index of an average electricity price. ** Data analysis for the previous years indicated that the quantity of segregated waste generated on construction sites fluctuates at the level of over 95% 7 Manufacturing processes review for the purpose of their optimisation regarding and the quantity of waste transferred to natural persons exceeds 60%. Therefore, the CSR Committee took a decision on correcting those two goals, fuel consumption and related environmental pollution, preparation of activity plan which shall now read as follows: Goal No 13: “Maintaining the quantity of segregated waste generated on construction sites at the level above 95%”; and commencement of its execution. 2014  Goal No 14: “Maintaining the quantity of waste transferred to natural persons or non-commercial organisational units to be used for own purposes at the level above 60%.” *** Due to the changes in the e-mail system, the IT Office postponed the implementation of this goal to the closest technically possible deadline. 8 Improvement of manufacturing processes review for the purpose of their optimisation regarding energy consumption and related environmental pollution, preparation of action plan and commencement of its execution. 5% decrease in energy consumption. 2014 * 9 Optimisation of energy consumption by replacing existing lighting with LEDs in three Budimex offices — in Poznań, Kraków and Warsaw. 2014 pending 10 Providing first aid kits to all construction sites — 100% of all construction sites Additionally, the Ferrovial Group, the strategic investor • Company’s Policy of Responsibility, starting from Q2 2014. 1Q 2015  of Budimex, adopted the following policies for • Anti-Corruption Policy, responsible management, declared (already in 2015) • Anti-Monopoly Policy and Competition Policy, 11 Successive replacement of paper newspapers with electronic ones. Reduction binding also for the employees of the Budimex Group: • Policy for Human Rights, of paper newspapers purchased by 15%. 2Q 2015  • Policy for Environmental Protection and Quality. 12 Ensuring proper hazardous waste disposal on 100% of construction sites, i.e. signing contracts with companies holding appropriate permissions regarding hazardous waste management. 2015  13 Increase the quantity of segregated waste generated on construction sites by approximately 30% in relation to the year 2013. 2015 –** 14 Increase in quantity of waste transferred to natural persons or non-commercial organisational units to be used for own purposes by approximately 30% in relation to 2013. 2015 – ** 15 Promoting energy, water and paper savings. Employee education with the use of the Budinet internal information portal. Publications: once a quarter. 2015  16 Changes in procedure 06-02 (Procedure for purchases and supplier qualification): introduction into the procedure of a negotiation protocol template in which one of the points pertains to OHS. 2014  24 25 About us BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT Budimex again listed Managing responsibility in the supply chain The foundations of this approach are two evaluation systems: at the stock exchange • qualifying a subcontractor, and A characteristic feature of the construction sector, • final scores, which recapitulate the cooperation. G4-12 RESPECT Index including the Budimex Group, is flexible management of resources, i.e. frequent use of subcontractors. The scores mentioned later in this report include Thanks to a long horizon of investments, which at typical social factors, such as compliance with Budimex has been listed at the Respect Index individual stages require different works and various equipment, this approach is both rational and cost environmental protection rules and OHS. since January 2011 Budimex presence was again efficient. Otherwise, specific equipment and workforce When referring to the supply chain, we should mention confirmed in December 2014 RESPECT would just need to wait idly. This flexibility allows us to react dynamically to the changing situation on not only subcontractors, rendering construction services, but also suppliers of main materials and the market and either to cut costs or to rapidly increase raw materials used by the Group. Among Budimex The RESPECT Index is one of the stock exchange the potential required to render works. Therefore, suppliers are the biggest producers of bitumen for road indicators that can build a company’s credibility one of the key factors for long-lasting business construction (Orlen Asfalt, Lotos Asfalt), manufacturers success in the industry is the ability to select reliable of reinforced steel, concrete reinforcing bars and in the eyes of shareholders, potential investors subcontractors with diversified specialisations and metallurgical products (Arcelor Mittal Distribution and business partners. This group includes building relations with them based on mutual trust Solutions Polska, Konsorcjum Stali SA, ThyssenKrupp and partnership. The above feature of the industry Energostal SA), aggregate materials and concrete companies with the most effective use of best means also that for most of the indicated areas of (Cemex Polska Sp. z o.o., Lafarge Kruszywa i Beton practices in the field of information governance social impact, the responsibility for a certain aspect Sp. z o.o., Mineral Polska Sp. z o.o., Śląskie Kruszywa is not limited only to direct responsibility of a specific Naturalne Sp. z o.o., Kopalnie Dolomitu w Sandomierzu), and investor relations, as well as in areas company of the Budimex Group. It becomes an indirect road and bridge barriers (Stalprodukt SA), fuels (heating relating to environmental, social, labour responsibility, i.e. it exceeds the Budimex Group and to oil, mazout) (PKN Orlen SA, Mal-Sped Sp. z o.o.), a great extent concerns suppliers and subcontractors. components of road culverts (Viacon Polska Sp. z o.o), and economic factors, and those with and components of sewage systems (Ecol-Unicon a forward-thinking approach to organisation For example, due to the execution of a business model Sp. z o.o.). Last but not least, in 2014 none of the based on external subcontractors, the responsibility suppliers of materials or services exceeded 10% of management. Since the first publication of the Budimex Group expands in terms of the impact the Group’s sales. on 19 November 2009 until December 2014, on a local biosphere, OHS or quality and accuracy of the performance, providing for safe use of premises. It should be noted that the involvement of G4-10 rate of return on the RESPECT Index was 70%. In consequence, from the responsible management’s subcontractors and suppliers does not imply merely point of view, attention should be placed on business extending the responsibility by the supply chain. “Judging from our recent contacts with partner monitoring in these aspects. Shifting the The Budimex Group activities generate income for the international investors, I can say that they are burden of some of the works to a third party means capital group itself and for many companies whose that a correspondingly greater part of consumption services and products are used. This means that the increasingly interested in companies doing of materials and raw materials, including fuel, also lies Group contributes indirectly to creating many more jobs business in a responsible manner. This is also with that party. In the case of certain key raw materials than it could be inferred from the employment figures such as steel, responsibility for its production, which only for the companies of the capital group. However, confirmed by research worldwide. I am glad that affects the environment, lies entirely beyond the this number is difficult to evaluate, although during the RESPECT Index attracts growing attention Budimex Group, including Mostostal Kraków, for which a year Budimex cooperates with 12 thousand business steel is the main material. partners. Due to the varied nature of the works, of issuers. This year another three companies changing with the advancement of a given project, joined the Index. I would like to congratulate The business model which includes subcontractors and both the number and specialisation of workers also which leads to expanding the responsibility, determines change. all companies joining the index of transparent the approach to socially responsible management. and responsible approach to business”, said Paweł Tamborski, President of the Warsaw Stock Exchange, when announcing the new composition of the Index. 26 27 About us BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 4 About the Report photo: CSR Programme Domofon ICE . Budimex for Children – Kamieniec Wrocławski G4-17 The presented seventh annual report of sustainable and confirmed by an independent auditor development in the Budimex Group focuses on activities (Deloitte Advisory sp. z o.o.). and performance of three out of four companies crucial for the long-term development of the Group’s business The meetings of the CSR Committee in 2014 did not G4-18 activity. These are: indicate any changes in the environment which would G4-19 • Budimex SA, have significant influence on the social or environmental • Budimex Nieruchomości Sp. z o.o., impact of the Group. Essential areas of responsibility • Mostostal Kraków SA. were defined in accordance with the PN-ISO 26000 standard in 2012, with the involvement of over a dozen G4-13 Thus, compared with the year before, there are key managers (interview surveys); in 2013 they became G4-21 no material changes within the scope of reporting. the subject of additional discussion and verification by The report does not include the youngest of the the CSR Committee. This supplementary process enabled companies relevant to the Group’s future, i.e. FB Serwis the score update for individual key areas in compliance SA (www.fbserwis.pl), as this company is not included with materiality and completeness principles and taking in the consolidated financial statements of the capital into account its stakeholders. In turn, the reference group. If the Budimex Group increases its capital to the ISO 26000 standard ensures that the context involvement in FB Serwis SA, which would lead to of sustainable development is preserved. Due to the inclusion of the company in the consolidated financial constant character of our business, areas important statements, FB Serwis SA will be also included from the social responsibility point of view were in non-financial reporting scheme. unaffected. They are: • conditions, occupational health G4-17 Smaller companies, which are consolidated in the and safety (OHS), financial statements, have been omitted from this • influence on local environment report, due to the significantly smaller scale of their and biodiversity, operations and, consequently, the limited social and • non-ethical conduct prevention environmental impact. More details on all companies (bribery, corruption), whose results are consolidated in financial reporting • quality and safety of constructions, and which are not included in this report are • reasonable use of resources available in the appendix to the report (“Tables with and environmental pollution. non-financial data”). G4-33 This responsible business report published by the Budimex Group was prepared for the third time in accordance with the GRI guidelines in their latest G4 version in the Core option. The report refers also to the industry indicators presented in the respective sector supplement. Reliability and conformity of the report with the Guidelines were verified 28 29 About the Report BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT G4-20 The importance of individual aspects for the individual companies is defined as follows: Decentralised dialogue with individual groups Social or Budimex is conducted on an ongoing basis throughout environmental Nieruchomości Mostostal aspect Impact aspects and GRI indicators Budimex SA Sp. z o.o. Kraków SA the year, under individual business areas, in the • Workplace: occupational health and safety form and at a frequency tailored to the specific conditions, occupational (G4-LA-DMA, G4-LA5, G4-LA6, G4-LA7 G4-LA8) relations. The CSR Committee is the platform health and safety (OHS) • Supplier assessment (G4-LA14, G4-LA15) • Complaint transfer procedure (G4-LA16) high* high* high* for confronting various expectations, interests and concerns of individual groups. In the opinion • Biodiversity (G4-EN11, G4-EN12, G4-EN13, G4-EN14) of Budimex, a stakeholder panel organised at this • Environmental assessment of suppliers impact on local (G4-EN32, G4-EN33) stage will not bring the expected business value. environment and biodiversity • Complaint transfer procedure (G4-EN34) • Local community (G4-SO1, G4-SO2) high* low* low* This can be concluded from poor experiences • Human rights: investments (G4-HR1) when making efforts to initiate such dialogue, • Human rights in the supply chain (G4-HR10, G4-HR11) which did not invoke particular interest among non-ethical • Human rights: complaint transfer procedure potential partners. It will be more efficient conduct (G4-HR12) prevention • Anti-corruption (G4-SO3, G4-SO4, G4-SO5) high* high* high* to conduct dialogue based on trust built over quality and safety • Customer health and safety (G4-PR1, the years by managers and executives. of construction G4-PR2) high* high* high* • Raw materials and materials (G4-EN1, G4-EN2) • Energy (G4-EN3, G4-EN5) • Emissions (G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN18, G4-EN21) • Sewage and waste (G4-EN23, G4-EN24) reasonable use • Compliance with regulations (G4-EN29) of resources and • Environmental assessment of suppliers environmental (G4-EN32, G4-EN33) pollution • Other (industry) (CRE2, CRE8) average* average* average* * aspects in case of which we may refer to the extended responsibility, i.e. taking into account the activities of suppliers and subcontractors in the supply chain. Published social reports received similarly weak As far as the frequency of the dialogue is concerned, response (i.e. basically no feedback from the it depends closely on the nature of the relations. G4-24 The current map of stakeholders, verified by the • Customers (GDDKiA, corporate customers, stakeholders). However, the Budimex Group plans For example, once every two years, all employees G4-25 CSR Committee in 2013, specifies 26 main stakeholders individual customers, business partners, key to take measures for creating a platform and more of the Group undergo a comprehensive satisfaction G4-26 within bigger categories. These are: suppliers, subcontractors, local self-government systematised dialogue with selected groups of the study, and once a year they may meet the President G4-27 • Employees (full-time employees, students and and government administration), environment. The nature of these measures will be of the Management Board during a series of potential employees, former employees, trade • Society (local communities in the area of an defined when developing a new social responsibility meetings organised at various venues in the country. unions, employees of subcontractors and suppliers, investment, residents and community leaders, strategy. It should also be noted that in the recent In turn, the contacts with investors (customers) labour inspection and other similar supervision media, universities and academics, technical years a platform for sustained and extremely depend on the nature and the implementation authorities), and professional organisations), constructive dialogue over OHS was successfully stage of the project. • Investors (the strategic investor, institutional • Environment (environmental organisations, created, i.e. the “Safety in Construction Agreement” investors, individual investors, Warsaw Stock environmental supervision inspectors, platform. The largest business operators and As a consequence of the aforementioned limitations, Exchange, brokerage houses, banks), State Forests). the Polish Social Insurance Institution joined the we based the process of defining the report’s initiative. Also, the system of preliminary qualification content on the managerial expertise regarding and final evaluation of subcontractors, becomes the expectations of stakeholders. Information a platform for dialogue with subcontractors who can presented in the report reflects this long-term better understand Budimex expectations and as process of gathering knowledge about expectations a result, improve their approach. of the environment. 30 31 About the Report BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 98 97 5 Conditions, occupational health and safety (OHS) photo: Pomeranian Metropolitan Railway Construction LA DMA In the companies where the majority of the capital G4-LA5 group’s personnel is employed, i.e. in Budimex CRE6 and Mostostal Kraków, integrated management systems were implemented, including occupational health and safety management system. In Budimex this system complies with PN-N-18001 and OHSAS 18001, whereas in Mostostal — with the PN-N-18001 standard. In individual companies of the Group there are occupational health and safety committees.3 They consist of the employee and employer representatives. The Committees represent all employees (100%). For example, in Budimex the OHS Committee had 7 members at the end of 2014: 1 employer representative, 4 employee representatives, OHS Department Manager and an occupational medicine physician. Based on the previously adopted policy “Safety First”, in 2014 a new tool was prepared and launched, enabling comprehensive gathering of the current knowledge on potential hazards and OHS measures. All information, e.g. risks and recommendations identified during the inspection, is aggregated in one place. Thus, it is possible to monitor it more efficiently and to efficiently identify training needs and to plan training sessions. It also facilitates subcontractors management. With information about a subcontractor, it is possible to establish a constructive dialogue on necessary actions. Budimex may even audit a subcontractor and assist in defining the source of subcontractor’s difficulties. According to the new approach, we should focus on the causes and their elimination rather than on unsatisfactory results. The cooperation with our subcontractors may be greatly facilitated by changes in the rules for financing of solutions for safety in small companies by the Social Insurance Institution. Last year, as part processes improvement, the new standard of the Safety and Health Protection Plan (BIOZ), implemented the year before, was updated. The BIOZ Plan consists of permanent elements that include processes during constructions. Its integral part are the appendices that define individual procedures and key processes connected with 3 Budimex Nieruchomości is supervised by the Budimex SA OHS Department. 32 33 Conditions, occupational health and safety (OHS) BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT co-operation with the subcontractor. The employees in Construction Agreement” signed by Budimex, new In 2014, the distribution of “Manual for health and intend to become a coordinator or who simply would like that rotate between contracts find the same template training programmes were developed. Last year, about environmental protection” continued. The Manual to enrich their knowledge about comprehensive safety at each construction site, which facilitates studying this 1,500 persons finished the new programme for manual consists of modules that describe all possible kinds of management within a contract also participate in the document. The BIOZ Plan must be accepted by the OHS workers. The programme received very good reviews. work that an employee can find on a construction site. programme. The groups at training sessions are small, specialist and by the Site Manager. Participation in this In 2015, it will become generally available. Any person Each module describes specifics of given work, dangers, which facilitates discussions and the exchange of views. process enables interception of possible lacks and employed at a construction site can participate in such expected and prohibited conduct and other information The training includes procedures for the integrated shortcomings and correcting them before the BIOZ Plan a programme, thanks to the agreement with the Social required for safe work. In 2014, over 800 copies of the management system within the range of OHS and is implemented within the contract. Implementation of Insurance Institution, which will be the training provider. Manual were distributed. environmental protection; BIOZ Plan guidelines and the Plan at a construction site involves training for all Budimex hopes that it will evoke interest of, among Instructions for the Safe Execution of Works (IBWR); those who execute works. others, subcontractors working both for Budimex and for Training programmes for OHS and environmental the identification of risks on site and the demonstration other parties to the “Safety in Construction Agreement.” protection coordinators, initiated in 2013, were also of the “Safety in Construction Agreement” initiative A “Contract commencement” is an obligatory element at However, the plans are much broader — next training, continued. Apart from the coordinators, persons who to the coordinators. During training the participants the beginning of every investment. It takes the form of this time for the senior management, is under a meeting of the OHS specialist and the environmental development. protection specialist with construction site managers, during which the OHS procedures, legal requirements, photo: Pomeranian Metropolitan Railway Construction Budimex standards and obligations resulting from the participation of the company in the Safety in Construction Agreement, of key importance during organising and executing safe work at the construction site, are all discussed. The persons involved in OHS matters, the solution applicable throughout 2014, confirmed its efficiency. In 2014, all the Budimex employees already worked in new type of occupational clothing, i.e. clothing from modern fabrics, ensuring both comfort and higher safety, also thanks to vivid colours. The process of introducing new clothing at individual contracts launched in August 2013. OHS Training and Prevention For many years the training system applicable in Budimex has been exceeding legal requirements significantly. It is enough to mention that training for employees and senior management takes place more often than required by law, i.e. on an annual basis for production employees and at least every three years for senior management. As a rule, all persons executing a given contract, including employees of subcontractors, are trained in internal safety procedures. However, it is not only the matter of frequency, but also the content of the training. The employees regard this training as something useful and dedicated to their problems, i.e. daily risks that they encounter at work. The training cannot be something boring that one just needs to complete periodically to be licensed for a job. Therefore, it is no coincidence that very often training becomes a bilateral dialogue. A new addition is that Budimex not only goes beyond the legal requirements, but also started sharing with others its experiences and competencies developed on the basis of these experiences. According to the “Safety 34 35 Conditions, occupational health and safety (OHS) BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT receive a “Coordinator case” — a set of policies, with a training licence, which allows them to conduct internal procedures and documents connected with training in person. work safety and environmental protection, all put inside Budimex takes over the leadership G4-15 a handy binder. In 2014, 27 persons completed the The continued initiative from before 2014 of placing G4-25 training. two sections on information boards: reaction sequence of Safety in Construction Agreement G4-27 and access plan also receives good feedback. In 2014, as in the previous years, first-aid trainings Reaction sequence is an updated list of people who On 4 February 2014, Budimex took over the leadership of Safety in Construction were continuously provided, and more first-aid gear have been trained and designated to provide first Agreement from Skanska. This change is a result of earlier agreements between was purchased. We would like to note that both the aid and people who are entitled to manage a rescue the signatories of the Agreement, which establish that in subsequent periods different training programme and the composition of the first-aid operation and evacuation. Access plan is a short companies will take the leadership. The presidency of Budimex will last 2 years. kit were prepared with the site’s specifics and typical and simple description of access to the accident site. construction risks in mind. Employees of Budimex SA The description takes into account easily recognisable Safety in Construction Agreement is an initiative of seven construction companies delegated to the German market who participate in the objects near the construction site, GPS data and that signed a joint declaration in August 2010. These companies are: Bilfinger courses are granted a “Paramedic” title — the highest other information facilitating identification of the site Infrastructure, Budimex, Hochtief Polska, Mostostal Warszawa, Polimex Mostostal, degree possible in life rescue for persons without and access for emergency services. This significantly Skanska, and Warbud. In October 2013, the group was joined by Mota-Engil and in medical education. Among them there are also persons facilitates sharing key information with rescue services. February 2015 by Erbud SA and Unibep SA. Today, the Agreement has 10 members and its goal is the improvement of safety on Polish construction sites. The signatories of the Agreement already use high OHS standards and continuously photo: Pomerania Metropolitan Railway Construction raise the bar and transfer these standards to subcontractors, as this is the group under the gravest accident risk. The construction site must be a safe place for everyone. Already during Skanska’s presidency measures were adopted which resulted in a decrease in the number of fatal accidents on signatories’ construction sites from 9 in 2011 to 3 in 2013. Subcontractors of all signatories must comply with the same requirements for OHS standards on the construction site. Therefore, a common attachment was designed and adopted for subcontractor contracts under the title of “Requirements for occupational health and safety,” obliging subcontractors to organise and conduct works in a way that guarantees safe and healthy conditions of work and imposes an obligation of cooperation with the Agreement signatories with regard to OHS issues. The Agreement has also designed and adopted “Guidelines for Instructions for the Safe Execution of Works.” The risk assessment refers to a particular task, requires drafting IBWR, and, in consequence, requires taking measures for minimising risk already at the works planning stage. The next step in the safety improvement on construction sites process is OHS training among employees and subcontractors. In January 2014, the process of introducing protective goggles began on all construction sites run by the signatories of the Agreement. Currently, goggles became standard gear also among subcontractors. Effects of the initiatives and operations undertaken by the signatories of the Safety in Construction Agreement have been noticed by public institutions, e.g. the National Labour Inspectorate (PIP), which now wish to engage in a dialogue over the implementation of high OHS standards and which see the Agreement as a social partner. 36 37 Conditions, occupational health and safety (OHS) BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT photo: Lublin Arena Safety Week — largest initiative on Polish market Forty thousand workers participating in hundreds of events organised in more than 350 entities (branches and construction sites) — these numbers illustrate the scale of the Safety Week, which took place in May on construction sites of the companies forming the Safety in Construction Agreement. The honorary patronage over this largest initiative for occupational safety on the Polish market was held by the National Labour Inspectorate (PIP). The Safety Week covered activities on hundreds of construction sites all over Poland, which allowed the Agreement’s signatories to reach not only their own workforce, but also a great number of subcontractor companies operating on the Polish market. G4-25 The Social Insurance Institution supports the ideas of the Safety in Construction Agreement In October 2014, Zbigniew Derdziuk, President of the Social Insurance Institution (ZUS) Dariusz Blocher, President of Budimex who presides over the Safety in Construction Agreement, signed a letter of intent initiating cooperation between ZUS and the Agreement’s signatories. The ideas and activities of the Safety in Construction Agreement are consistent with tasks within the scope of accident prevention, carried out by the Social Insurance Institution. The Agreement will support the Social Insurance Institution in identifying the needs of small and medium enterprises with regard to improving the level of occupational safety, as well as in getting through to this group of companies with information about the “Scheme of subsidising activities aimed at maintaining capability for work throughout the period of occupational activity, carried out by payers of contributions.” The Safety in Construction Agreement counts on the Social Insurance Institution’s support in creating occupational safety procedures in the construction sector, which is characterised by the highest accident rate. The Agreement also prepares training programmes dedicated to individual groups of employees from this industry. 38 39 Conditions, occupational health and safety (OHS) BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 98 Accident rates the differences regarding the accident assessment process itself, the definition of a serious accident is also OHS and subcontractors 97 LA DMA G4-LA6 Budimex Group has adopted a double system for different. Internally adopted solutions are much more G4-LA14 G4-LA7 classifying accidents at work. Each accident is restrictive in this area. Due to more stringent criteria In 2014, 1,807 subcontractors (100%) were subject to G4-LA15 described in compliance with the Polish regulatory classification and with procedures and classification and greater accident differentiation, the non-obligatory classification provides better possibilities for analysing preliminary qualification with respect to, among others, adopted by the strategic investor (Ferrovial). Along with post-accident statistics. compliance with occupational health and safety (OHS) standards. 5,115 cooperation summary assessments were also conducted; they contained, among other things, elements Accident rate in 2014: related to OHS. A negative assessment may result in Among own workers Among subcontractors’ workers terminating cooperation with a particular subcontractor. 2013 2014 2013 2014 All employees of subcontractors working on Budimex Number of accidents (total) 36 35 59 68 construction sites undergo training in internal OHS procedures Number of fatal accidents 0 0 1 3 and are obliged to comply with them. Apart from an accident More numeric data is provided in the tables at the end of the report. register for its own employees, Budimex also keeps a record of occupational accidents that occurred on construction sites In 2014, monitoring of harmful factors in the workplace analysing accident rates for the subcontractors’ and affected employees of subcontractors for whom Budimex did not confirm that highest permissible concentrations employees (such data have been collected since 2015). acts as the main contractor. All of them are analysed in terms and intensities (NDS, NDN) of harmful and dangerous factors were exceed. However, as regards harmful As part of cooperation between the companies of causes and circumstances in which they occurred, as well as and hazardous factors, we should return to the issue participating in the “Safety in Construction responsibilities of supervisors. of awareness-raising among employees in terms of Agreement”, it was decided to provide mutual compliance with the OHS requirements, including the transparency regarding analyses of accident rates and, OHS issues in their broad sense, apart from a number of other application of protective equipment. Specific health as a result, to provide a possibility of comparison with issues often appear only after years and it is difficult competitors being the signatories of the document. aspects related to the compliance with labour rights in the case to attribute them to one employer. Sporadically, such of subcontractors, seem to be particularly important. Therefore, SO DMA cases were reported by persons currently employed Another aspect of security is the issue of outsiders G4-SO2 with Budimex. Therefore, measures within the Budimex who may find themselves in the impact zone of an Budimex pursues such a comprehensive approach, which Group, its subcontractors and the entire industry are investment and may, potentially, be injured. Of course, includes both the requirement to apply respective contractual so important here. This is particularly important on the all rules concerning the fencing and marking of the market where there is a high employee turnover. construction site are strictly observed, which reduces clauses, preliminary and final assessment, training and the likelihood of an unauthorised entry. Preventive measures within the framework of the “Safety in Construction Accident statistics are analysed once a month by measures are also taken by the employees, and the Management Board and illustrated by factors especially by the security staff, who — as some of us Agreement.” They enabled the development and popularisation that refer them to the scale of contracts executed. may not know — not only protect the property, but also of some best practices for subcontractors among the biggest Since 2013, near-accident events have also been indirectly contribute to the elimination of danger which registered (last year 17 of such events were registered). may threaten, for example, children who would like to market players. In 2014, a new system for registering working time “explore” the site unnoticed, unknowingly exposing of subcontractors was developed, which will enable themselves to great danger Ongoing observation of the work of subcontractors, which is reflected in final assessments of the suppliers, led to the identification of 327 irregularities, of which 48 were related to OHS. 40 41 Conditions, occupational health and safety (OHS) BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 6 Impact on the local environment and biodiversity Limiting impact on the local natural environment photo: “Nowe Ogrody” Housing Estate in Poznań EN DMA The impact of projects under implementation, including the impact of the investment process itself, is of a key importance for Budimex and stakeholders from the capital group. On the one hand, the impact on the closest social and natural environment, especially in terms of all kinds of threats and concerns, is of a key importance for the residents of the areas next to the project and for various environmental organisations which monitor the entire process, the implementation of which — although beneficial from the economic and social view — most often results in permanent and irreversible changes of the landscape and local natural environment. On the other hand, capital market investors regard the very same aspects as risks, which may lead to delays in obtaining respective administrative decisions or in prolongation of works. These are risk factors to which the company draws investors’ attention in its financial reports and which are under the company’s management. Care for the environmental issues to the extent of impact exerted on them by Budimex and its subcontractors, is in best interest of not only the natural environment, but also the company and its shareholders. To define the environmental impact of investment projects, in the first place we should note that the scale of construction industry’s potential impact on the environment is influenced by the character of the investment project itself, and most importantly — its location. Infrastructural investments are of key importance here. Road and railway investments often run across or in the neighbourhood of valuable natural areas, which can affect the local biosphere both at the stage of the project execution and later on — in the course of the subsequent use of facilities. The implementation of residential investments, especially those located in urbanised areas, has a significantly smaller influence on the environment. Similarly, the construction of industrial facilities as a rule takes place in areas already transformed by human activity to a large extent. Here in turn, the impact of the subsequent use of a given industrial facility is vital. It is worth noting that it is the Budimex Group who is the provider of pro-environmental solutions limiting the adverse effects on the environment of the existing facilities (e.g. by retrofitting flue gas desulphurisation plants). 42 43 Impact on the local environment and biodiversity BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT Within the Integrated Management System • construction of the S7 express road at the section in already developed and transformed areas, if possible, Efforts are also made so that the surface soil (humus), in Budimex, as well as in Mostostal Kraków, Jędrzejów – border of Świętokrzyskie and Małopolskie far from residential buildings, but also far from naturally removed during the works, would be reused at later confirmed by independent certificates, environmental Provinces. valuable areas. The occupancy of land in the forests stages of works, e.g. when reinforcing slopes and matters management is done on the basis of the (environmental aspects of the selected contracts are or wetland areas is reduced to the necessary minimum. developing green areas. Thus, the soil humus removed PN-EN ISO 14001 standard. Specific construction elaborated in detail in the subsequent parts of the report) Wherever it is possible, the works do not go outside from the surface is stored in heaps and then used to investments are regulated by the “Environmental the designated lane road. Transportation of materials develop land at the end of the investment. The soil management on contracts” procedure (09-11), As a rule, Budimex is the contractor for projects prepared necessary for the construction takes place primarily material used for finishing works is most often of local the purpose of which is the reduction of negative by the investor. This refers also to the dialogue with within the designated road, so as not to cause any origin, so that it would not contain seeds of species alien environmental effects of constructions executed the environment. It means that the company usually unnecessary transformations of other areas. Solutions to that region. The point is that the implementation of by Budimex, and which defines, among others, most does not have a direct influence on the form of the for protection against pollution with chemical substances investment projects should not result in introduction of probable environmental risks. project itself, i.e. on how designers of the road included coming from the construction sites are implemented on invasive species, pests, and pathogens to the biosphere. the needs of the natural environment. This applies to sections where earthworks and construction works are Implementation of tasks related to environmental the route of the planned road, which should be routed conducted near water reservoirs. Special attention is Also helping to reduce the negative impact on the protection is supervised by OHS and environmental in the way least disruptive for the local biosphere and paid to environmental protection against oil derivatives environment is a series of very simple rules for protection coordinators present on individual contract omit particularly valuable natural areas. We should from cars and construction machinery. Therefore, on conducting the works, such as: spraying the technological sites and supervising compliance with environmental consider also proper planning of the infrastructure, such the construction site and its facilities (storage areas for roads with water in the case of draught, reduction principles on a daily basis (more about training of as passages for animals, which should coincide with equipment/materials, etc.) there are standardised spots of working time for internal combustion engines of coordinators and operations on the subject of OHS their migration paths. The passages, in turn, should for refuelling equipment, which protect the site against construction equipment and vehicles at idle to a and environmental protection training can be found be consistent with planting of trees and shrubs. The contamination of groundwater, and for chosen contracts, minimum, careful loading of loose materials onto vehicles in the chapter “Occupational health and safety (OHS)”). plantings should be planned in a way which directs a system for the collection of polluted rainwater is applied. and the use of tarpaulins, or simply reducing speed within animals to the passages. It is important to create ecotone the site and in the surrounding area. zones in the forests along the routes, in order to protect A consequence of infrastructure investments is an Environmental concerns on the ecosystem from the effects of a rapidly exposed irreversible transformation of environment, even with an The above procedures correspond closely with national a construction site forest wall. An adequate drainage system should be optimum location and route planning for the road. Part and European regulations, including regulations foreseen, which will protect subterranean streams and of the vegetation, located directly below the planned concerning Natura 2000 sites. The adopted solutions G4-EN11 For all investment projects which may potentially affect surface waters from contamination with petroleum route, is irreversibly destroyed. Therefore, compensatory ensure compliance with legal requirements and often G4-EN12 individual elements of the natural environment, including substances, as well as noise barriers or appropriate planting is applied to make up for the losses. For exceed the regulatory minimum. The monitoring (nature G4-EN27 biodiversity, a mandatory environment impact report lighting of bridges, limiting the number of bird collisions. inventoried habitats of valuable plants which would be control) of the impact zone and its habitats is conducted G4-EN33 is prepared. The report is prepared in cooperation with In cases where Budimex is also the designer, the destroyed by the constructed route, even metaplantation during the project implementation and after its external specialists in various fields (e.g. ornithologists, Company is responsible for the preparation of an is carried out, i.e. the plants are transferred to new places, completion, in accordance with the recommendations of herpetologists, ichthyologists, entomologists, botanists). optimum solution from the social and environmental which are suitable for them. This is done in agreement the environmental impact report of the project and legal The report facilitates not only cataloguing the natural point of view. However, as mentioned at the beginning, with locally competent authorities for environmental decisions issued by the environmental protection offices. wealth, but also proposing solutions to minimise most frequently the company is responsible for the protection. When a small water reservoir (pond) is to be or compensate the projects’ adverse effects on the construction of an already planned road in a manner filled in (destroyed) during the construction works, its It should be underlined that construction sites G4-14 environment. It is worth noting that often, in agreement consistent with the design prepared by the investor. amphibians and reptiles are removed and transferred to and particular investments are well prepared for G4-EN24 with the investor, solutions are adopted that exceed new places. The nature itself is also monitored during the emergencies. Each contracted investment implemented G4-EN29 law requirements and limit risks. In 2014, the following We should bear in mind that some environmental risks construction process. Construction works are conducted by Budimex has instructions for dealing with emergency contracts were executed which go through or in the are associated with the investment implementation under the supervision of naturalists, often of different situations, and is equipped with the necessary proximity of the Natura 2000 areas: stage. This requires the highest professional diligence on specialties. In the case of some contracts that run equipment needed in case of contamination, including • Pomeranian Metropolitan Railway Stage 1 the part of the contractor and subcontractors. Seemingly through valuable nature areas, there were sometimes sorbent, absorbent sleeve, absorbent mats and personal (Kokoszkowska Railway revitalisation), simple activities can, in fact, be very important. This as many as seven experts of different specialities protective equipment (“ecology kit”). Furthermore, any • completion of construction works for the S5 express should include proper organisation of a construction site (e.g. an ornithologist, an ichthyologist, a herpetologist, contamination is treated as a threat to the environment road Poznań-Wrocław, at the Kaczkowo-Korzeńsko and site facilities. Technological routes should be routed an entomologist and a botanist) involved. Construction until its type and source are determined. Additionally, section, in a way ensuring an efficient use of land and minimal works were sometimes temporarily suspended, when OHS and environmental protection coordinators (whose • continuation of construction works transformation of its surface and, after the completion rare animals appeared in the investment impact zone. presence is mandatory for each project) undergo for the A1 motorway Stryków-Tuszyn, Task 3, of works, the area should be restored to its previous state. The schedule and cycle of works are closely correlated specialist training connected with environmental • construction of the S19 express road Such an approach minimises deforestation. Regardless, with the cycle of nature. Some works are temporarily held protection, including emergency situations. In 2014, Lubartów–Kraśnik at the section from Dąbrowica trees located in the impact zone of the construction up due to periodic migrations or the breeding season of no accidents or other serious incidents that would junction (without the junction) to Konopnica junction site are properly protected against mechanical damage. birds. Periodic migrations do not apply only to birds, but lead to significant water and soil contamination were (including the junction) Similarly, e.g. habitats of protected species are protected also, for example, to amphibians or fish. Construction reported. Also, there were no reports of penalties • construction of the S7 express road at against the effects of the work of heavy construction works in the vicinity of noise-protected areas are carried connected with breaching regulations referring the Miłomłyn–Olsztynek section, subsection A: equipment. Construction facilities, especially the depots, out only during the day. to environmental protection. Miłomłyn–Ostróda Północ warehouses and transportation bases are mainly localised 44 45 Impact on the local environment and biodiversity BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT G4-EN11 Budimex SA: construction Budimex SA: G4-EN11 G4-EN13 G4-EN13 G4-EN14 of the S7 express road at the section completion of construction works for the S5 express G4-EN14 Miłomłyn–Olsztynek, subsection A: road Poznań-Wrocław, at the Kaczkowo-Korzeńsko Miłomłyn–Ostróda Północ section The entire constructed section is located within two areas At the Widawa-Korzeńsko section, within the borders of Dolnośląskie Province, of protected landscape: on a section of 1 km the project cuts through the “Dolina Barczy” Area of Protected Landscape, and, on a section of approx. 4 km, it runs in the vicinity of the planned ●● Elbląg Channel Area of Protected Landscape, Natura 2000 Area of Special Protection of Habitats “Ostoja nad Barczą” (PLN020041, ●● Tabórz Forest Area of Protected Landscape. surface 82,026.4 ha). Moreover, the road cuts through the north habitat corridor and a junction area (more information on individual valuable nature areas, including protected species, is available at of international importance: West Pomeranian Area (13M). http://obszary.natura2000.org.pl) The closest area belonging to the Natura 2000 network is the Drwęca River Valley (PLH280001, surface of 12,561.5 ha), which includes the Drwęca River photo: Sławinek Junction and its tributaries. It is important for its rich ichthyofauna and a mosaic of habitats relevant to the river valley (22 types of habitats from Annex I of Council Directive 92/43/EEC were distinguished here). The Drwęca River alone is the only ichthyologic reserve in the Warmia and Mazury Province. This area is also a habitat for valuable and rare animals of aquatic environment — there are here 27 species from Annex II of Council Directive 92/43/EEC: ●●  irds: white stork, western marsh harrier, lesser spotted eagle, B common crane, common kingfisher, red-backed shrike, grey heron, mute swan, mallard, common merganser, coot, great cormorant; ●● Mammals: Eurasian beaver, European otter; ●● R  eptiles and amphibians: northern crested newt, European firebellied toad; ●●  ish: European river lamprey, Atlantic salmon, asp, Amur bitterling, F European weatherfish, spined loach, European bullhead; ●● Invertebrate: Vertigo angustior, large white-faced darter, large copper, hermit beetle; ●● Plants: marsh angelica. During the construction works, 0.17 ha of elm-ash forest with golden saxifrage (constituting 0.096% of the Natura 2000 surface) will be destroyed. (more information on individual valuable nature areas, including protected species, is available at http://obszary.natura2000.org.pl) 46 47 Impact on the local environment and biodiversity BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT G4-EN11 Budimex SA: Budimex SA: G4-EN11 construction of the S7 express road G4-EN13 G4-EN14 construction of the S19 express road Lubartów– G4-EN13 at the section Jędrzejów – border of Świętokrzyskie Kraśnik at the section from Dąbrowica junction G4-EN14 and Małopolskie Provinces (without the junction) to Konopnica junction The investment goes through the areas of Jędrzejów and Wodzisław communities, which belong to the Jędrzejów district. It cuts through the following rivers: Jasionka, (including the junction) Mierzawa and Mozgawa. The constructed section of the S19 express road is located in areas which were The project’s area crosses the legally protected Miechowsko-Działoszycki Area of deforested in 90% due to the presence of fertile loess soils. Therefore, the natural, Protected Landscape (no negative impact by the project on the above area was found). original forest sites were replaced by crops, gardens and orchards. Still, valuable The project is located 45 km away from the Świętokrzyskie National Park and 10 km remains include the forests in the region of Pietrzakowizna and Konopnica and regions away from the Chęciny-Kielce Landscape Park and the Nida Landscape Park. The closest of river valleys (Łazęga River Valley, Czechówka River Valley, Konopniczanka River Natura 2000 areas are bird protection areas “Ostoja Nidziańska” (PLH260003, surface: Valley). Both belong to the group of the subcontinental deciduous forest indicated 26,515.6 ha) and Chęciny and Kielce hills (PLH260041, surface: 8,616.5 ha — “Shadow in Annex I of the Habitats Directive. List”). East to the road there are valuable nature areas of “Ostoja Gaj” (0.5 km) and Within the area of the project protected species were identified, such as: February Mierzawa River Valley (1 km). It is estimated that the project will not have a significant daphne, lesser butterfly-orchid, bird's-nest orchid, Aruncus dioicus, Lilium martago. negative impact on these areas and will not deteriorate the state of natural habitats. Among numerous species of birds recognised within the area of the project, two species from Annex I of the Birds Directive were identified: ortolan and red-backed (more information on individual valuable nature areas, including protected species, is available at http:// shrike. obszary.natura2000.org.pl) A reference should also be made to the Ciemięga River Valley Area of Protected Landscape (approx. 3.6 km away from the project) and the Stasin Nature Reserve (approx. 4 km) and the natural and landscape complex in Radawiec Duży. G4-EN11 Budimex SA: Within the area of the project there are no Natura 2000 areas. 13 km away from G4-EN13 G4-EN14 construction works for the A1 motorway the project there is the “Bystrzyca Jakubowicka” area (PLH060096, surface: 456.2 ha — “Shadow List”). And approx. 17 km away from the project there is the “Świdnik” area Stryków-Tuszyn, Task 3 (PLH060021, surface 122.8 ha), comprising an area of a grass airfield with a numerous population of speckled ground squirrel, priority species from Annex II and IV of Within the impact area of the project Łódź Hills Landscape Park is located, which the Habitats Directive. includes four nature reserves: Parowy Julianowskie, Struga Dobieszowska, the Wiączyń Reserve and the Wolbórka Reserve. The motorway does not cut through nor run in (more information on individual valuable nature areas, including protected species, is available at a direct vicinity of borders of the above nature reserves. http://obszary.natura2000.org.pl) The motorway is routed along the border of the planned Mroga and Mrożyca Area of Protected Landscape and the Widawka River Valley Area of Protected Landscape. It cuts through the designed areas of protected landscape: The Tuszyn–Dłutów–Grabia River Area of Protected Landscape and the Pajęczno–Gidle Area of Protected Landscape. The motorway does not cut through any of the existing or planned areas of the Natura 2000 network. The closest Natura 2000 area is the area “Łąka w Bęczowicach” (PLH100004, surface: 191.2 ha, approx. 16 km from the motorway). A potential Natura 2000 area of “Cytrusowa Wola” (PLH100012), submitted for protection by environmental organisations, is located slightly closer. (more information on individual valuable nature areas, including protected species, is available at http://obszary.natura2000.org.pl) 48 49 Impact on the local environment and biodiversity BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT Ecology and subcontractors photo: Augustów by-pass road G4-EN32 G4-EN33 G4-EN34 In 2014, 1,807 subcontractors (100%) were subject to preliminary qualification with respect to, among other issues, compliance with environmental rules. 5,115 cooperation summary assessments were also conducted; they contained, among other issues, elements related to environmental protection. Any irregularities on the part of subcontractors on construction sites may result in potential threats to the environment (e.g. contamination of soil and groundwater with petroleum substances, paints and solvents). Therefore, it is extremely important that they follow the procedures, have relevant experience and fully functional equipment. Subcontractors (100%) Waste management classified as waste. The dirt removed is then reused entering construction sites receive appropriate directly on the construction site or — if for some reason training in procedures applicable in the field In the course of business activity conducted by the its excess has to be removed — it is used elsewhere. G4-EN23 Budimex Group, in particular by Budimex itself, mainly In the latter case, from the formal point of view, it is of environmental protection, including rules typical construction waste is created: dirt and rubble as recognised as waste. However, in practice it remains of conduct in the event of failure. Technical checks well as waste from remodelling and disassembly of civil a valuable resource, which is reused.4 structures and road infrastructure. There are site offices, are also applied to subcontractors’ equipment laboratories and bituminous mixing plants on construction Plant-tissue waste should also be mentioned, as its mass (for leakages of fuel). sites. Their operation may generate some amounts of increases in the event of works involving deforestation waste that may contain residues of hazardous substances. and cutting shrubs. As it was mentioned before, actions Among cases reported to the Ethics Committee, Improper waste management system might, on the one interfering with the biosphere are limited to the necessary hand, adversely affect the local biosphere, and on the minimum, however, logging often cannot be avoided no reports regarding environment were recorded. other hand, might mean a loss of reusable resources. (e.g. to clean the lane for a future road). In practice, Also, there were no significant incidents related because of its economic attractiveness, wood is The structure and the volume of waste closely depend on usually managed by the investor who commissioned to suppliers and subcontractors. However, the nature and advancement of conducted construction the execution of works by the Budimex Group. the ongoing monitoring of the subcontractors’ works. The key category of waste consists of brick and The contractor’s tasks include the removal of rootstocks, concrete rubble, mixed with other materials originating boughs and remnants of shrubs. They can be utilised work, which is reflected in final assessments from the demolition of civil structures and infrastructure as well. Most often they are handed over to other entities of the suppliers, led to the identification of facilities. A significant category is removed asphalt, and used as fuel. The chipping process, i.e. clear-cutting old material from the road base, or, in the case of with special machines, also makes them a valuable 327 irregularities, 38 of which were related railway contracts — railway aggregate. Their removal is gardening material. to environmental protection. In the preceding a precondition for the execution of the investment project. Detailed information on the amount of waste is provided year, 362 irregularities were identified, including Soil, dirt, stones, and all excavated material generated in the tables at the end of the report. 23 related to environmental protection. during excavations decidedly constitute the category 4 In this report, due to their huge volumes, soil and dirt are reported separately in the tables. 50 51 Impact on the local environment and biodiversity BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 7 Relations with local communities Reducing nuisance photo: CSR Parent Zone Programme. Budimex for Children – a hospital in Poznań SO DMA Investment projects, including infrastructural projects, G4-SO1 translate into tangible and measurable social and G4-SO2 economic benefits. Roads, railways and airports are the bloodstream of the economy and determine its development. New schools, universities, hospitals and other public facilities translate into an increase in the level of social life. Often they are crucial for people living nearby, i.e. for the local community. Although much is said about the importance of road and rail infrastructure for the national economy, the perspective of a particular community allows us to see what great value such investments bring into its life. Over the years, the Budimex Group has contributed directly to the creation of hundreds of kilometres of roads, many bridges, industrial facilities, as well as shopping centres, concert halls and hospitals. However, what is not so often discussed, investments in the implementation phase generate not only positive effects such as jobs and orders for local entrepreneurs. Construction works also mean nuisance. Building materials, including thousands of tonnes of soil, aggregates, concrete or bitumen, must be delivered to the construction site, which means increased traffic and noise. Another frequent issue is the change of road markings and traffic obstructions, which impede the daily lives of residents. The company responds to any worrying signals and complaints. It is aware of being only a guest in the community for which it operates. The potential impact on neighbouring areas of an investment project is also a matter of analysis at the stage of issuing relevant administrative decisions. Administrative processes are transparent and representatives of local communities are considered a party to the administrative proceedings. The goal is to propose such solutions which balance sometimes conflicting needs. Unfortunately, sometimes unintentional damages occur, despite executing the construction works with utmost care and despite the attention paid by the company to the reduction of the impact on the environment. The company feels responsible for incidents caused by it and affecting the property of local residents. Therefore, before the commencement of construction works a property count takes place, and in justified cases, insurers pay compensations. 52 53 Relations with local communities BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT SO DMA Communities and subcontractors Compensating communities for nuisance and Children’s Haematology of the Wrocław Medical University. The “Wróć” Foundation for Children Injured in G4-SO9 Transportation Accidents received funds from Budimex G4-SO10 In 2014, 1,807 subcontractors (100%) were subject to Not all kinds of nuisance can be eliminated. And not all for the purchase of minibuses which will transport G4-SO1 preliminary qualification. Also, 5,115 cooperation summary of them can be even limited. However, Budimex wants to be remembered by local communities as a company children to rehabilitation facilities. assessments were conducted and the assessment included who not only worked in their neighbourhood in a reliable In response to social demand, the company became elements based on technical capacity, compliance with manner, but also participated in the life of the community. The company wants to leave behind not only a completed a partner of the “Budimex Półmaraton Augustowski”, a half-marathon organised to promote healthy lifestyle. the quality requirements, occupational health and safety, project, but also good memories, therefore it initiates and It is the largest running event in the region which respect for workers’ rights and environmental protection. involves itself in a number of social events. The company makes efforts so that the target beneficiaries of its longattracts an increasing number of participants year by year. Although the aspect of impact on the local community was term activities are mainly communities living close to the not defined explicitly among these criteria, it is included in implemented investment projects. As in previous years, the company remains involved in the organisation of the Polish Sailing Championship for other activities, in particular those related to environmental Budimex executes two proprietary programmes which the Disabled. The year 2014 witnessed the 20th edition issues. As a rule, in the event of construction works, are the foundation for the company’s social involvement for children. The first one, “Domofon ICE. Budimex of this event. extraordinary influence on the environment means also Dzieciom” [ICE Card. Budimex for Children], has been For many years, Budimex, whose headquarters are influence both on the natural and social environment. These implemented since 2010. The second one, “Strefa Rodzica. Budimex Dzieciom” [Parent Zone. Budimex for located close to the historical Powązki Cemetery, has been a partner of the J. Waldorff Social Committee for two kinds of influence are inextricably intertwined with one Children], was launched in 2012. At the same time, for the Stare Powązki Cemetery in Warsaw. In 2014, the another. several years now the company has been implementing a social project of an entirely different nature, company donated funds to save historical chapels and tombstones in this unique necropolis. addressed to students of technical universities, called Minimising disturbance to the local community is directly “Akademia Budimex” (Budimex Academy). Apart from community, charity and sponsoring related to the compliance with fixed hours of work Where possible, the company tries to help those initiatives, the company also carried out educational activities, supporting the organisation of professional and moving only on designated access roads, and in need, by cooperating with recognised nonand industry conferences, congresses and seminars. this, in turn, is associated with the fulfilment of quality governmental organisations. For example, in 2014 the “Na Ratunek Dzieciom z Chorobą Nowotworową” In many cases, Budimex representatives participated as experts. requirements and compliance with employment laws. Foundation received funds for the treatment of children Noise that irritates people or dust from the construction and for the construction of “Przylądek Nadziei” — Clinic of Bone Marrow Transplantation, Oncology In 2014, the Budimex Group donated in total more than PLN 600 thousand to various causes. site is nothing but a violation of the principles relating to the environmental protection. One could cite numerous examples, but all these aspects are an element of the subcontractors assessment, who Budimex SA: may directly cause disturbances for the residents. These aspects are assessed during both the preliminary ICE Card. Budimex for Children qualification and final evaluations. “Domofon ICE. Budimex Dzieciom” is a programme launched in 2010. It involves providing grade 0-3 schoolchildren with plastic cards with contact details of their next of kin to All incidents and complaints of residents are reported be contacted in the event of an emergency. Additionally, the campaign has a broader educational dimension as it promotes the principles of road safety and first aid among directly to contract managers. This allows us to young people. All children participating in the programme receive mobile phone-shaped immediately diagnose the problem and undertake cards together with a fluorescent holder that can easily be fixed to a backpack. Thus far, corrective actions. Due to the lack of specification the programme has included over 15 thousand children from 100 schools nationwide. of the category of impact on the local community in In 2014 alone, 2,625 children from 25 schools joined the programme. qualification surveys and cooperation summary surveys, More on: www.domofonice.pl. possible violations are recorded statistically in other categories. 54 55 Relations with local communities BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT Budimex SA: Budimex Academy Parent Zone. Budimex for children is back at universities “Strefa Rodzica. Budimex Dzieciom” is a programme whose aim is to provide children's For the fifth time Budimex has invited departments at hospitals with isolated zones where parents could spend time with the students of building, road, bridge and their sick children in decent conditions. Depending on the needs and conditions in railway construction engineering as well as individual hospitals, this can involve refurbishing an unused space or part of a corridor, equipping the hospital with an appropriate number of folding beds or sanitary devices, environmental engineering to take part in the free and organising a place to rest and play with the children. “Parent Zone” also involves “Budimex Academy” educational project, created the personal engagement of Budimex employees, who volunteer to outfit renovated in cooperation with renowned Polish technical spaces, help in the assembly and placing of furniture, and do small finishing works. In 2014, Budimex launched four Parent Zones in children’s hospitals in Poznań, universities. Gdańsk, Szczecin and Kraków. The total number of Parent Zones all over Poland is 10, During the workshops engineering experts from and they can be used annually by more than 17 thousand children and their guardians. the Budimex Group share their knowledge and More on: www.strefarodzica.budimex.pl experience from construction sites with the students. These meetings also come as a good opportunity to discuss innovative solutions applied in the contracts performed by Budimex photo: CSR Parent Zone Programme. in the field of building engineering, as well as Budimex for Children – a hospital in Poznań road, bridge and railway construction. In May and June 2014, the Budimex Academy visited 8 universities: Białystok University of Technology, Gdańsk University of Technology, Tadeusz Kościuszko University of Technology, Lublin University of Technology, Lodz University of Technology, Poznań University of Technology, Warsaw University of Technology, Wrocław University of Technology. 56 57 Relations with local communities BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 8 Prevention of unethical conduct and integrity in operations photo: Lublin Arena SO DMA Implementation of high-value contracts entails a potential risk of unethical, corrupt conduct. Additionally, the fact that most of them are financed from public funds creates particular commitment towards the society to ensure that all processes are carried out in a fair and transparent manner, and that even the slightest doubts are clarified. A risk map, updated on an annual basis, identifies, among other things, risks associated with unethical conduct and the threat of fraud. All business risks, including those mentioned above, are monitored. An integrated management system in the procedure of “Protecting the interests of the Budimex Group” (05-08) defines a set of rules for dealing with suspected abusive acts or omissions, including suspected corruption5. Proceedings resulting from the procedure are coordinated by the Office of Internal Audit and supervised by the CEO, while the procedures themselves are constantly improved. G4-SO4 The Budimex executives participate in periodical training sessions relating to the broadly understood safety in business. Every year, the training areas are adapted to the current needs resulting from the business circumstances, so as to expand knowledge in a specific area. In 2014, the composition of the training group was deliberately limited to the top representatives of the key personnel, i.e. the members of the Management Board, directors of the construction division, directors of the region and sales directors. All representatives (100%) of this group participated in the “Safety aspects in business” workshops. The workshops themselves provided knowledge about such issues as: preventing corruptive conduct, including corruptive conduct within the current context of settling projects financed by the EU. G4-LA10 This training is perfectly compatible with other comprehensive development measures, the goal of which is to provide Budimex with staff with the highest qualifications and systematise the knowledge of management. It supplements the competence development programme of “Project Management Academy,” which enables managers to acquire 5 Additionally, the Ferrovial Group, the strategic investor of Budimex, adopted an anti-corruption policy which was announced in the Budimex Group in 2015. 58 59 Prevention of unethical conduct and integrity in operations BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT the skills of effective management of the existing and In the opinion of the Budimex Group, corruption and the evaluation may specify any other irregularities of despite weaker negotiating power of Budimex, are new contracts in a changing market environment. It is bribery are part of a wider phenomenon, related to values, their concern. supplemented with a special appendix related to ethical noteworthy that the subjects of the training include also ethics and integrity in business. The crisis of values in issues — their number was as follows: such areas as contract stakeholders, risk management business favours wrongful conduct. When people act on The company particularly seeks that significant and negotiations. At the same time, the Group runs the basis of ethical values, the threat is much smaller. For agreements with key business partners, often other managerial programmes, e.g. the Leadership such reason ethics are reflected so strongly in the Mission Development Programme (within the Ferrovial Group). of the Budimex Group and in very specific mechanisms of 2013 2014 the Code of Ethics, as well as in every-day treatment of BudiMetr, i.e. a scoring system of employees, is a useful partners — just to mention the practical aspect of timely % of significant agreements with ethical clause 76.0% 91.3% tool, contributing to creating good atmosphere. settlement of payments. BudiMetr defines assessment criteria and expectations towards employees in a clear and transparent manner. Fair principles in relations with Taking into account all subcontractors, not just the most preliminary evaluations (preliminary questionnaires) and Thus, it reduces the risk of unfair and unethical scores, important ones, year by year, an increasing number of final evaluations is made: counterparties which for some unclear reasons promote certain employees at the cost of the others. The timely settlement of payments, especially in times 2013 2014 difficult for the construction market, has became Monitoring of threats a distinguishing feature of the Budimex Group, valued Number of qualifying questionnaires 1,589 1,807 by its suppliers and subcontractors. As a reliable SO-DMA As a rule, all contracts (100% of construction and trustworthy business partner Budimex gains Number of final evaluations 7,722 5,115 G4-SO3 projects) are constantly monitored for proper a competitive edge. Number of irregularities identified 362 327 implementation, including the risk of corruption. G4-25 Every month, fortnight or sometimes every week, However, Budimex also expects reliability and integrity % of final evaluations during which irregularities were identified 4.7% 6.4% the advancement of construction works is monitored. on the part of its business partners. The “Code of HR DMA G4-HR1 At the same time, independent inspections are carried conduct for counterparties” attachment is appended G4-HR10 out, supervised by the Office of Internal Control. It is to contracts with suppliers. It specifies expectations G4-HR11 an interdisciplinary team, consisting of experts in the related to: In 2014, 48 OHS-related irregularities were identified Compliance with and enforcement of the Code of Ethics G4-SO9 fields of economics and finance, as well as construction • compliance with the law, and 32 irregularities related to the protection of the is guaranteed by the Ethics Committee, appointed by G4-SO10 experts: a general construction engineer, construction • business ethics, environment, which, unfortunately, means an increase the President of the Management Board. The Ethics and engineering structures engineer, structural • respect for Human Rights, compared to the previous year, when 23 irregularities Committee consists of: engineer and environmental engineer. They are all • relations with and between employees, were found in each category. In 2014, like the year • Member of the Management Board, Human highly qualified internal auditors with professional • obligations to third parties and the market, before, most objections were raised in connection with Resources Manager, competencies and psychological preparation to conduct • respect for the environment. failures to meet deadlines and unsatisfactory technical • Member of the Management Board, Chief Legal inspections potential. Officer, A new business partner undergoes a preliminary • Director of the Office of Internal Audit.. In 2013, employees of the Office completed all audits assessment on the basis of a qualification Code of Ethics adopted in the annual audit plan. A total of 52 audit reports questionnaire. The questionnaire consists of a supplier’s The Committee’s role is to monitor the compliance were prepared, containing 98 follow-up recommendations. declaration of compliance with applicable regulations The Code of Ethics, binding for all employees of the of applicable standards of professional ethics with SO-DMA All these recommended recovery and corrective tasks in such areas as: labour law, OHS and environmental Budimex Group’s companies subject to the report, the rules of the Code of Ethics. Every employee can G4-56 were implemented by 31 December 2014, contributing to protection. The condition for supplier’s preliminary strongly condemns any form of unethical conduct, inform the Committee anonymously about identified G4-HR3 the reduction of operational risk. Moreover, apart from qualification is the approval of the declaration. Thus, including corruption and bribery. At the same time, violations of the Code. Notifications can be given G4-HR10 the scheduled audits, in June 2014 the employees of the all key suppliers and subcontractors (100%) were it clearly condemns any forms of discrimination, in writing or by e-mail at the following address G4-HR11 Office of Internal Control carried out a comprehensive subjected to the evaluation (preliminary qualification). stating that the Budimex Group “does not tolerate etyka@budimex.pl (only the Committee members G4-HR12 inspection in the General Construction East Branch At the end of the cooperation they were also subjected discrimination and imposition of views, especially due can access the mailbox). All notifications, after being and in October 2014 — a comprehensive inspection in to final evaluation.6 Although the main focus in the to gender, origin, religion, age, political views, and the examined in line with the confidentiality standards, form Mostostal Kraków. Also in the case of these inspections, evaluation, due to the nature of the business, is on the position held; in daily relations with employees it does the foundation for developing corrective or remedial the recommendations to be implemented by 31 December quality, timeliness, the actual technical capacity, OHS not accept violation of privacy or abuse of professional measures. On the basis of every individual case, written 2014, were timely implemented. and environmental issues, also issues directly related to position for private goals; the company ensures good information is prepared along with recommendations human rights (i.e. compliance with employment rights, employment conditions for their employees and or guidelines for further action addressed to relevant Apart from the planned audits, the employees of the cases of discrimination) are also assessed. One of the it creates an environment that gives considerable organisational units. Office of Internal Control carried out training sessions on evaluation criteria in the qualification questionnaire is possibilities of professional development and promotion construction sites, during which they discussed procedures compliance with employment rights. In turn, the final and it does its best to employ people with varied level The report on the operations of the Ethics Committee G4-LA16 and internal instructions. evaluation includes possible cases of discrimination. of experience in the organisation.”7 The Code of Ethics is submitted to the Management Board and Audit G4-HR3 What is more, the contract managers making applies to all the companies covered by this report. Committee of the Supervisory Board every year. In 2014, G4-HR12 the Ethics Committee received 6 written notifications, G4-SO4 whereas one year earlier only 1 notification was registered. G4-SO5 6 These evaluatuions are a standard procedure and do not concern only key suppliers. 7 At the same time, the Work Regulations of Budimex guarantee respect for human rights and prevent discrimination in employment. 60 61 Prevention of unethical conduct and integrity in operations BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT However, this should not be interpreted in terms of Compliance with law photo: A photograph from a photo competition for Budimex employees deterioration of the situation. It should be rather regarded G4-SO6 as a sign of growing trust of the employees in the Code The Budimex Group does not employ children, as G4-HR3 of Ethics mechanisms. In two cases workers employed on declared in chapter XIV of the Work Regulations. G4-HR4 construction sites were suspected of stealing materials. No cases of compulsory labour or child labour were G4-HR5 However, checks did not confirm the accusations. In identified in the Budimex Group or the reviewed G4-HR6 one case, improper conduct of a superior towards an counterparties in 2014 or in the previous years. employee was reported. The proceedings executed, These aspects, along with the matter of freedom of including interviews with other employees, confirmed the association and avoidance of all forms of discrimination, accusations, and the Committee, together with the direct are defined in a standard ethical attachment to superior of the accused employee, took disciplinary action. contracts and constitute their integral part. None of the Another three cases referred to actions characteristic Budimex Group companies financed political parties. for attempts to corrupt managers by subcontractors Last year, the Ferrovial Group, the strategic investor of executing works on contracts. All of them, due to their Budimex, implemented the Human Rights Policy which nature, were examined individually by the employees of was adopted by Budimex in 2015. the Legal and Organisational Unit. Budimex Mostostal Budimex SA Nieruchomości Kraków Counterparties [G4-HR3] Total number of reported cases of discrimination and actions Budimex taken in this regard Nieruchomości None None None [G4-HR4] Identified activities that could pose a threat to the freedom of association and the right to Mostostal collective disputes Kraków None None None [G4-HR5] Identified incidents of use of child labour Counterparties None None None [G4-HR6] Identified incidents of use of forced and compulsory labour None None None None G4-SO7 In 2014, the President of the Office of Competition and the Road Transport Inspectorate imposed 4 fines Consumer Protection (UOKiK) brought an action against of PLN 15,000 each and 1 fine of PLN 500 (all fines Budimex Nieruchomości concerning the recognition refer to the construction works for the Pomeranian of provisions in the contract template as prohibited. Metropolitan Railway). A fine of PLN 15,000 for However, the first court hearing is scheduled for the end transporting aggregate materials in breach of the of August 2015. maximum gross vehicle weight mass was also imposed on Budimex in the Lublin region (the construction works G4-PR9 In turn, due to overloading of trucks by external carriers for the Lublin ring road). who transport aggregate materials for Budimex, 62 63 Prevention of unethical conduct and integrity in operations BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 9 Quality and safety of construction sites Quality management photo: Pyrzowice airport runway PR DMA To ensure the highest quality and, consequently, G4-PR1 safety of constructions, companies of the Budimex Group implement investment projects based on procedures. The Integrated Management System has been implemented in Budimex, comprising: quality management system according to PN-EN ISO 90001, environmental management system according to PN-EN ISO 14001, OHS management system according to PN-N-18001, and quality assurance system based on requirements of the NATO standard AQAP 2110. All these systems are certified by external entities. As in the case of Mostostal Kraków, the Integrated Quality Management System includes the systems of environmental management and OHS within the range of comprehensive investment execution, performance, deliveries and assembly of objects of general, industrial and transport construction in compliance with the following standards: PN-EN ISO 9001, PN-EN ISO 14001, PN-N 18001. Budimex Nieruchomości is the only company that doesn’t have any officially certified management systems. Mostostal Kraków, due to the nature of its activities, holds numerous certificates and permits for manufacturing, assembly, and repairs of steel structures, pressure and lifting equipment, construction of road and railway bridges, and for carrying out welding works, conducting destructive and non-destructive research, training and examining of welders, which were issued by, among others, the Office of Technical Inspection, Universität (TH) Karlsruhe, Institute of Welding Technology, Ministry of Infrastructure, and the Polish Chamber of Steelworks. The company also holds a subcontractor’s certificate issued by the Office of Technical Inspection for laboratory research according to PN-EN ISO/IEC 17025. Budimex Nieruchomości has built over 8 thousand flats and has never exceeded a deadline for their commissioning, which is the best measure of the company’s reliability. 64 65 Quality and safety of construction sites BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT photo: Wielkopolskie Centre of Advanced Technologies in Poznań Quality performance significantly exceeded the market average. While on average slightly over 15% of samples is questioned, In 2011, the General Directorate for National Roads and GDDKiA’s goal is to reduce this index to below 10%, G4-PR2 and Motorways (GDDKiA) published for the first the current result for Budimex is 7.3%. This result is, time the results of its analyses of quality of works of therefore, half of the market average. However, what individual contractors. Already at that time, Budimex is crucial from the managerial point of view, is that for was among the best contractors in annual rankings. many years now Budimex results have not only been Although last year Budimex was a most frequently good and substantially above the market average, inspected company (out of the total number of 17.5 but they are improving year by year. As a result, in the thousand samples taken by GDDKiA, as much as 3.8 last score Budimex ranked as the second contractor thousand, i.e. 22%, originated from the construction performing investment tasks of GDDKiA in terms of sites of Budimex), the results scored by the company quality of works. 2011 2012 2013* 2014* % of questioned samples — Budimex 15.8% 12.6% 11.4% 7.3% * for 2013 and 2014 GDDKiA published reports for the first three quarters The quality management approach applied in Budimex Research laboratories is of key importance, both in terms of the scale of and reliable quality control The Quality Conformance (QC) ratio, calculated of performance, as mentioned above, the quality of operations and the superior position towards the for internal needs, is of key importance for quality materials and raw materials used and their compliance PR DMA companies of the capital group. It specifies the A rich laboratory and technological base facilitates assessment. It defines the compliance of results with with the project requirements and the accuracy of G4-PR1 procedures for quality control on construction sites, the performance of efficient ongoing quality control the applicable quality standards. In the entire 2014, this workmanship are supervised by, among others, including managing the quality of mineral and asphalt of construction works and follow-up analysis. In 2014, ratio amounted to 96% (93% in 2013), i.e. only 4% of Budimex mobile laboratories. They collect samples from mixes, concrete mixes and aggregates. They define very the company’s laboratories were located in 18 regions results were negative. Internally, Budimex carries out already constructed sections of roads and analyse their precisely the responsibility of individual persons for the of Poland and the central laboratory is accredited by many more tests than the number analysed by GDDKiA, compliance with the standards. quality of the projects implemented. The procedures the Polish Centre of Accreditation (AB1414). Increased which renders the result reliable. describe the actions globally: from the criteria and reliability of assessments carried out by Budimex, All the above certificates, management systems, G4-PR1 methods of obtaining materials to the steps to be taken due to the accreditation, directly contributes to the The quality of performance is crucial for the safety of procedures and the daily efforts of many people allow G4-PR2 in the case of deviations from the requirements under reduction of risk in business relations. The accreditation both constructed facilities and their users. Speaking us to maintain the highest quality and accuracy. The the standard. They specify patterns of operation in the is an objective and indisputable proof that the of the safety of users, one should consider not only Budimex Group means a professional, experienced team case of identifying irregularities at various stages of organisation operates in accordance with the best the quality of the applied materials, but also individual with unique skills and responsible people who provide the construction process, implementation of preventive practices, limits the number of defective products, stages of constructing a product — a motorway, flyover, safe premises. The best proof of this is the absence of or corrective measures. They define the method of reduces costs of control and production and enables the bridge, industrial structure or a flat in an apartment incidents, not to mention construction disasters, for controlling construction investment projects in order to implementation of innovative solutions. building. Responsibility for safety begins at the design any of the facilities built by the Budimex Group. Another ensure high quality of works. stage and extends further to the stage of performance proof are the numerous awards. Our concern for quality With its own laboratories, Budimex collaborates and further maintenance of the facility. Budimex is confirmed by the fact that Budimex Nieruchomości Since 2013, a system to record repair costs incurred with renowned research and scientific institutions. It Technical Department in a way also acts as a research has delivered over 8,000 apartments — all completed during the warranty period has been applied in participates regularly in comparative laboratory tests and development unit. This is where new, innovative on time. Budimex. Analysis of causes of faults enables the and proficiency tests, bearing in mind the need to ideas are created. The Department also decides on the company to take measures in order to reduce their constantly improve research methods and, as a result, use of specific materials and raw materials. At the stage numbers and related costs. increase customer satisfaction. 66 67 Quality and safety of construction sites BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 10 Rational use of resources and environmental pollution photo: ICE Congress Centre in Kraków EN DMA A demand for specific materials and raw materials is highly variable, depending on the stage of the given investment project. It is most evident when we compare their consumption and the production of various categories of waste in individual years. The production cycle, i.e. the lead time, as a rule substantially exceeds the 12-month reporting period. Moreover, the formal recognition of revenues often takes place after the peak demand period for raw materials, materials or energy. The best example here is the said Budimex Nieruchomości and sale of flats, in the case of which the revenue is recognised upon signing of the sales agreement in the form of a notary deed. On the other hand, already at the initial stage of constructing a road, there is high demand for means of transport and fuel for transporting dirt or rubble. Later on, raw materials for construction of a road base or embankments will be used, as well as concrete and reinforcing steel necessary for the construction of certain elements of infrastructure (such as flyovers). In turn, the aggregate and bituminous mixtures required for the production of asphalt surface, will be needed at the later stages of construction. In addition, the operation of bituminous mixing plants owned by Budimex is associated with an increased demand for heat generated by the combustion of fuel oil. As a result, the analysis of effectiveness of the demand for materials, raw materials, fuel and energy conducted on an annual basis and compared to revenue is extremely difficult, at times even misleading and unreliable in the case of construction industry. 68 69 Rational use of resources and environmental pollution BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT Materials and raw materials Fuel, energy and CO2 emissions photo: Neptun offce block in Gdańsk EN DMA The value engineering (VE) process implemented at Most fuel and energy is absorbed during the bitumen G4-EN3 Budimex supports the management of effective use production process and the operation of vehicles and G4-EN5 of materials and raw materials. It enables optimisation construction machinery. Unfortunately, in the case G4-EN15 of the use of materials and reduction of the amount of these very processes substantial savings cannot of waste produced, thereby reducing the negative be expected, and the nature of a given investment impact on the environment. As for the categories of project (e.g. the distance and volume of materials the most important materials, they vary depending on and raw materials to be transported) also affects the the nature of activities of individual companies. These utilisation level. However, for many years Budimex are: plain and modified road asphalt, cement, crushedhas been reducing the demand for fuels in processes stone aggregate for bituminous mixtures, mixtures of supporting basic operations in an orderly manner, crushed-stone aggregates, concrete, reinforcing steel, e.g. by emphasising energy savings in offices and and wood. replacing the fleet of passenger cars with more economical vehicles, with smaller capacity engines G4-EN1 Due to the nature of the business activity, basically all that meet stringent exhaust quality standards. G4-EN2 materials and raw materials used are non-renewable. This approach is directly related to the logic G4-EN23 It is also difficult to talk about recycling. The life cycle of environmental management systems, which CRE8 of infrastructure facilities is extremely long, and are based on the ISO 14001 standard and thus assume therefore it cannot be determined to what extent the improvement of the organisation. Optimisation of facilities built today will be used in the future. Of course, fuel and energy consumption and, consequently, there are some exceptions — e.g. the bituminous surface reduction of direct and indirect emissions, contribute is changed relatively often during periodic repairs. It is to the reduction of operational and environmental usually milled and re-used. During demolition works, costs. We should mention here the initiative of the which accompany the implementation of the investment Equipment Services Branch, which tries to place project, a lot of materials from facilities already built bituminous mixing plants in the vicinity of the is reclaimed (e.g. scrap materials, glass). Various types implemented road contracts in order to limit fuel of debris or rubble, for example aggregate, are also consumption and influence on the environment due recycled. We should be aware that huge volumes of to transports of bituminous mixes. valuable raw material waste do not indicate company’s inefficiency, but on the contrary — its care for efficient It is noteworthy that the energy efficiency indicator recovery of raw materials. was successfully improved, i.e. the demand for energy9 vs sales revenues. As a result, the emissions efficiency From waste formally produced in 2014, we were able to indicator will also be improved (CO2 emissions/ separate, among others8: 11 tonnes of copper, bronze revenues). This means that every zloty earned or brass, 7.5 tonnes of glass, 103.3 tonnes of plastic generated less energy consumption and a smaller and plastic packaging and as much as 1,493.67 tonnes carbon footprint. of iron and steel. Soil, dirt, stones, and sand, formally recognised as waste, are also reused on construction As already mentioned, while conducting such indicator sites. In 2014, over 2,719.7 tonnes of these materials analyses, one must be aware of their imperfections were used. in the case of operation in an industry where the production cycle is much longer than the reporting Detailed information on the consumption of key raw period and the demand for energy carriers strongly materials, and economic utilisation of by-products of depends on, among others, the current stage and size other industries, can be found in “Tables and data”. of an investment project. 8 The figure provided is a total volume of e.g. plastic waste, plastic packaging and plastics which, from the formal point of view, represent separate categories of waste (similarly for other volumes provided above — e.g. glass and glass packaging). 9 Taking into account not only electricity but also energy from combustion of any kind of fuel (diesel oil, gasoline, light and heavy fuel oil, coal dust). 70 71 Rational use of resources and environmental pollution BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 11 Tables with non-financial data Generated economic value (in PLN thousand) Directly generated economic value Revenue Divided economic value Operating costs Salaries and employee benefits 2013 4,995,573 4,995,573 4,663,930 3,830,646 622,327 2014 5,018,218 5,018,218 4,777,810 3,736,367 637,926 Change % 0.5% 0.5% 2.4% -2.5% 2.5% G4-EC1 G4-17 Subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities consolidated in financial statements of the Budimex Group Payments to investors 131,467 322,451 145.3% Companies Payments to the state 78,905 80,454 2.0% of the Budimex Subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities Method Group included Investments in communities 585 612 4.5% consolidated in financial statements of consolidation in in the corporate of the Budimex Group Registered office financial statements responsibility report Retained economic value (calculated as the generated economic value after deducting divided economic value) 331,643 240,408 -27.5% Mostostal Kraków SA Kraków / Poland full ü Budimex Bau GmbH Cologne / Germany full û Budimex Nieruchomości Sp. z o.o. Warsaw / Poland full ü Number of employees as at the end of the year10. G4-10 Budimex Budownictwo Sp. z o.o. Warsaw / Poland full û 2013 2014 SPV-BN 1 Sp. z o.o. Warsaw / Poland full û Women Men Total Women Men Total Poznańskie Przedsiębiorstwo Inwestycyjne Budimex SA 577 2,815 3,392 677 3,058 3,735 Sp. z o.o. Warsaw / Poland full û – Polish market 574 2,173 2,747 671 2,323 2,994 Budimex Kolejnictwo SA Warsaw / Poland full û definite period of time 147 525 672 242 703 945 Budimex Parking Wrocław Sp. z o.o. Warsaw / Poland full û indefinite period of time 427 1,648 2,075 429 1,620 2,049 Budimex B Sp. z o.o. (in liquidation) Warsaw / Poland full û full-time basis 569 2,169 2,738 671 2,318 2,989 Elektromontaż Poznań SA Poznań / Poland full û part-time basis 5 4 9 0 5 5 Elektromontaż Import Sp. z o.o. Warsaw / Poland full û aged under 30 169 482 651 206 486 692 Instal Polska Sp. z o.o. Poznań / Poland full û aged 30–50 339 1,244 1,583 397 1,394 1,791 Elektromontaż Warszawa SA Warsaw / Poland full û aged over 50 66 447 513 68 443 511 Przedsiębiorstwo Budownictwa Mieszkaniowego Nadolnik Sp. z o.o. Warsaw / Poland full û – German market 3 642 645 6 735 741 definite period of time 0 631 631 0 717 717 indefinite period of time 3 11 14 6 18 24 full-time basis 3 642 645 6 733 739 part-time basis 0 0 0 0 2 2 aged under 30 0 84 84 0 99 99 aged 30–50 1 376 377 3 442 445 aged over 50 2 182 184 3 194 197 10 data apply only to employees of individual companies (excluding subcontractors). 72 73 Rational use of resources and environmental pollution BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2013 2014 Number of persons hired G4-LA1 2013 2014 Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total Budimex Nieruchomości sp. z o.o. 45 23 68 59 34 93 Budimex SA 73 884 957 145 809 954 definite period of time 8 2 10 18 12 30 – Polish market 73 206 279 145 348 493 indefinite period of time 37 21 58 41 22 63 aged under 30 50 101 151 82 152 234 full-time basis 44 23 67 58 33 91 aged 30–50 21 80 101 61 178 239 part-time basis 1 0 1 1 1 2 aged over 50 2 25 27 2 18 20 aged under 30 7 2 9 11 6 17 – German market 0 678 678 0 461 461 aged 30–50 35 15 50 43 22 65 aged under 30 0 106 106 0 64 64 aged over 50 3 6 9 5 6 11 aged 30–50 0 399 399 0 293 293 Mostostal Kraków SA 8 515 523 9 500 509 aged over 50 0 173 173 0 104 104 – Polish market 8 343 351 9 363 372 Budimex Nieruchomości sp. z o.o. 6 3 9 15 12 27 definite period of time 2 28 30 2 62 64 aged under 30 3 1 4 6 4 10 indefinite period of time 6 315 321 7 301 308 aged 30–50 3 2 5 9 8 17 full-time basis 8 342 350 9 361 370 aged over 50 0 0 0 0 0 0 part-time basis 0 1 1 0 2 2 Mostostal Kraków SA 5 155 160 2 137 139 aged under 30 1 31 32 2 49 51 – Polish market 5 25 30 2 51 53 aged 30–50 5 175 180 5 168 173 aged under 30 1 13 14 1 28 29 aged over 50 2 137 139 2 146 148 aged 30–50 3 9 12 1 10 11 – German market 0 172 172 0 137 137 aged over 50 1 3 4 0 13 13 definite period of time 0 172 172 0 137 137 – German market 0 130 130 0 86 86 indefinite period of time 0 0 0 0 0 0 aged under 30 0 15 15 0 14 14 full-time basis 0 172 172 0 137 137 aged 30–50 0 80 80 0 48 48 part-time basis 0 0 0 0 0 0 aged over 50 0 35 35 0 24 24 aged under 30 0 23 23 0 19 19 Total — Group 84 1,042 1,126 162 958 1,120 aged 30–50 0 102 102 0 80 80 aged under 30 54 236 290 89 262 351 aged over 50 0 47 47 0 38 38 aged 30–50 27 570 597 71 537 608 Total — Group 630 3,353 3,983 745 3,592 4,337 aged over 50 3 236 239 2 159 161 definite period of time 157 1,358 1,515 262 1,631 1,893 indefinite period of time 473 1,995 2,468 483 1,961 2,444 full-time basis 624 3,348 3,972 744 3,582 4,326 part-time basis 6 5 11 1 10 11 aged under 30 177 622 799 219 659 878 aged 30–50 380 1,912 2,292 448 2,106 2,554 aged over 50 73 819 892 78 827 905 74 75 Rational use of resources and environmental pollution BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT G4-LA1 Number of resignations Percentage of employees covered by collective agreements G4-11 2013 2014 2013 2014 Women Men Total Women Men Total Budimex SA 99.4% 99.4% Budimex SA 85 1,066 1,151 68 916 984 Budimex Nieruchomości sp. z o.o. 0.0% 0.0% Polish market 83 391 474 68 247 315 Mostostal Kraków SA 99.4% 98.9% aged under 30 29 104 133 30 71 101 aged 30–50 45 201 246 33 121 154 aged over 50 9 86 95 5 55 60 Ratio of remuneration for men to the remuneration for women (in the same employee category) G4-LA13 turnover ratio 14.5% 18.0% 17.3% 10.1% 10.6% 10.5% 2013 2014 German market 2 675 677 0 669 669 Budimex SA aged under 30 0 83 83 0 122 122 Blue-collar workers 22.8% aged 30–50 1 423 424 1 361 362 White-collar workers 9.6% aged over 50 1 169 170 0 186 186 6.7% Managerial positions 7.1% turnover ratio 67% 105% 105% 0% 91% 90% Executive positions 16.5% Budimex Nieruchomości sp. z o.o. 1 2 3 1 1 2 Budimex Nieruchomości sp. o.o. aged under 30 0 0 0 0 0 0 White-collar workers -16.2% aged 30–50 1 2 3 1 1 2 Managerial positions -8.6% -1.6% aged over 50 0 0 0 0 0 0 Executive positions -3.4% turnover ratio 2% 9% 4% 2% 3% 2% Mostostal Kraków SA Mostostal Kraków SA 2 193 195 2 210 212 White-collar workers – -21.6% Polish market 2 36 38 2 59 61 Managerial positions -1.6% aged under 30 0 5 5 0 21 21 Definition: remuneration for men / remuneration for women – 1; Note: in the data from 2014 categories without representation by both genders were omitted aged 30–50 1 10 11 2 20 22 aged over 50 1 21 22 0 18 18 turnover ratio 25% 10% 11% 22% 16% 16% Lowest remuneration in the company in relation to the minimum wage in the country11 G4-EC5 German market 0 157 157 0 151 151 2013 2014 aged under 30 0 12 12 0 20 20 Women Men Women Men aged 30–50 0 99 99 0 81 81 Budimex SA 125% 125% 126% 113% aged over 50 0 46 46 0 50 50 Budimex Nieruchomości sp. z o.o. 181% 200% 214% 194% turnover ratio 91% 91% 0% 110% 110% Mostostal Kraków SA 125% 113% 171% 134% Total — Group 88 1,261 1,349 71 1,127 1,198 aged under 30 29 204 233 30 234 264 aged 30–50 48 735 783 37 584 621 aged over 50 11 322 333 5 309 314 turnover ratio 14% 38% 34% 10% 31% 28% 11 Information relates only to the Polish market. 76 77 Rational use of resources and environmental pollution BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT G4-LA3 Number of employees on maternity/paternity leaves (as at 31 December) Diversity in management bodies G4-EC6 G4-LA12 2013 2014 2013 2014 Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Total Budimex SA 71 132 203 17 19 36 Budimex SA – Polish market 71 114 185 17 6 23 Management Board 0 5 5 0 6 6 – German market 0 18 18 0 13 13 aged under 30 0 0 0 0 0 0 Budimex Nieruchomości sp. z o.o. 4 1 5 0 0 0 aged 30–50 0 3 3 0 2 2 aged over 50 0 2 2 0 4 4 Mostostal Kraków SA 0 4 4 0 0 0 foreigners 0 1 1 0 1 1 – Polish market 0 1 1 0 0 0 Supervisory Board 1 8 9 1 8 9 – German market 0 3 3 0 0 0 aged under 30 0 0 0 0 0 0 aged 30–50 1 3 4 0 4 4 G4-LA3 Number of employees who returned to work after maternity/paternity leaves during the year aged over 50 0 5 5 1 4 5 2013 2014 foreigners 0 2 2 0 4 4 Women Men Total Women Men Total Budimex Nieruchomości sp. z o.o. Budimex SA 25 125 150 64 143 207 Management Board 0 3 3 1 3 4 – Polish market 25 109 134 64 124 188 aged under 30 0 0 0 0 0 0 aged 30–50 0 2 2 1 2 3 – German market 0 16 16 0 19 19 aged over 50 0 1 1 0 1 1 Budimex Nieruchomości sp. z o.o. 0 1 1 4 1 5 foreigners 0 1 1 0 0 0 Mostostal Kraków SA 0 4 4 1 11 12 Supervisory Board 0 3 3 0 3 3 – Polish market 0 1 1 1 5 6 aged under 30 0 0 0 0 0 0 – German market 0 3 3 0 6 6 aged 30–50 0 2 2 0 2 2 aged over 50 0 1 1 0 1 1 foreigners 0 2 2 0 2 2 G4-LA3 Percentage of employees who resigned from work at the company within 12 months after their return Mostostal Kraków SA to work from parental leave Management Board 0 2 2 0 3 3 2013 2014 aged under 30 0 0 0 0 0 0 Women Men Total Women Men Total aged 30–50 0 1 1 0 1 1 Budimex SA 20% 0% 4% 6% 8% 8% aged over 50 0 1 1 0 2 2 – Polish market 20% 0% 4% 6% 5% 5% foreigners 0 0 0 0 0 0 – German market 0% 0% 0% 0% 32% 32% Supervisory Board 1 2 3 1 2 3 Budimex Nieruchomości sp. z o.o. 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% aged under 30 0 0 0 0 0 0 Mostostal Kraków SA 0% 0% 0% 100% 27% 33% aged 30–50 1 2 3 1 2 3 – Polish market 0% 0% 0% 100% 0% 100% aged over 50 0 0 0 0 0 0 – German market 0% 0% 0% 0% 50% 50% foreigners 0 0 0 0 1 1 78 79 Rational use of resources and environmental pollution BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT G4-LA6 Accidents at work Consumption of selected raw materials, of key importance due to the type of activities: G4-EN1 Accident frequency rate Accident severity rate Raw material / material unit 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Budimex SA Budimex SA 12.76 12.19 38.11 36.97 Road asphalt (regular and modified) thousand tonnes 53 66 Budimex Nieruchomości sp. z o.o. 0 0 0 0 Cement thousand tonnes 70 46 Mostostal Kraków SA 27.93 32.09 70.60 49.08 Crushed-stone aggregate for bituminous mixtures thousand tonnes 1,063 1,157 Mixtures of crushed-stone aggregates thousand tonnes 2,221 3,412 Railway aggregate thousand tonnes 354 0 Hydro-technical stone thousand tonnes 215 0 2013 2014 Reinforcement steel thousand tonnes 42 30 (“Safety in (“Safety in Concrete thousand m3 743 976 Construction Construction Budimex Agreement”) Budimex Agreement”) Mostostal Kraków SA Accident frequency rate 12.76 12.5 12.19 11.95 Steel thousand tonnes 12.8 14.2 Accident severity rate 31.5 37.1 31.71 42.75 Consumption of raw materials as reuse G4-EN2 Category of recovered raw material unit 2013 2014 Budimex Nieruchomości Asphalt (code of waste: 17 03 02) thousand tonnes – 2.96 Budimex SA sp. z o.o. Mostostal Kraków SA Waste sand and clays (code of waste: 01 04 09) thousand tonnes 1.7 0.97 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Soil and dirt, including stones (code of waste: 17 05 04) thousand tonnes 50 154.39 Injury rate (IR) 1.27 1.21 0 0 2.78 3.21 Soil and dirt, including stones (code of waste: 20 02 02) thousand tonnes 28.7 – Occupational disease rate (ODR) 0.04 0.07 0 0 0 0 Concrete waste and concrete rubble from demolitions and renovations (code of waste: 17 01 01) thousand tonnes – 0.051 Lost day rate (LDR) 48.92 38.5 0 0 196.42 157.49 Ash-slag mixes from wet waste disposal furnace (code Absence rate (AR) 5.72% 4.82% 5.23% 2.35% 6.69% 6.06% of waste 10 01 80) thousand tonnes – 1.43 Minerals (e.g. sand, stones) (code of waste: 19 12 09) thousand tonnes 102 – Other wastes (including mixed substances and objects) from the mechanical treatment of wastes other than those mentioned in 19 12 11 (code of waste: 19 12 12) thousand tonnes 40 – 80 81 Rational use of resources and environmental pollution BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT G4-EN3 Fuel and electricity consumption Air emissions of pollutants, main sources (in kg/year)13, 14 G4-EN21 G4-EN5 Change other dust Source of energy and energy raw materials unit 2013 2014 y/y sulphur dioxide nitrogen dioxide carbon monoxide Benzo(a)pyrene (source: paving (source: paving (source: paving (source: paving (source: paving 196 497 169,778 plant) plant) plant) plant) plant) Diesel oil GJ (4 529,67 tonnes) (3,913.73 tonnes) -13.6% (kg/year) (kg/year) (kg/year) (kg/year) (kg/year) 13,131* 7,493 Lublin 261.65 1,206.64 7,553.76 293.18 1.75 Gasoline GJ (293.44 tonnes) (167.45 tonnes) -42.9% Pruszków 250.49 258.89 96.22 0.21 0.000002 39,747 15,281 Light fuel oil GJ (922.21 tonnes) (354.55 tonnes) -61.6% Zagórz (Komańcza) 93.26 236.79 1,584.58 3,343.48 0.001 258,781 219,850 Heavy fuel oil with low sulphur content (LSC) GJ (6,135.17 tonnes) (5,212.19 tonnes) -15.0% Jaźwiny (Czarna) 19,129.82 8,850.53 889.57 1.94 0.003 0 0 Fuel oil (HSC) GJ (0.0 tonnes) (0.0 tonnes) Suwałki 18,661.74 5,319.96 6,754.57 8,655.38 29.54 138,983 103,615 Siewierz 390.69 400.10 185.86 326.42 0.001 Electricity GJ (38,606.37 tonnes) (28,781.81 tonnes) -25.4% Szymany 2,684.50 2,684.50 2,569.27 2,519.30 17.76 74,326 Coal dust GJ – (3,378.46) Total 79,747.64 33,764.79 29,048.41 27,467.12 78.61 Total GJ 647,140 590,343 -8.8% GJ/PLN Energy efficiency thousand 0.1363** 0.1193 -12.5% * calorific value corrected Aromatic Aliphatic ** after transformed net revenues from sales of products and services, goods and materials. Benzo(a)pyrene hydrocarbons Carbon dioxide hydrocarbons Soot (source: bitumen (source: paving (source: paving (source: paving (source: paving container) plant) plant) [Mg] plant) plant) cont (kg/year) (kg/year) (kg/year) (kg/year) (kg/year) G4-EN15 CO2 emissions12 G4-EN16 Lublin 0.208000 0.02 1,352.47 Change G4-EN18 CO2 emissions unit 2013 2014 y/y Pruszków 0.000047 0.0041 346.40 Direct emissions (scope 1) tonnes 37,678.14 30,219.63 -19.8% Zagórz Indirect emissions (scope 2) tonnes 24,715.97 25,529.16 3.3% (Komańcza) 0.000062 101.00 427.63 545.00 Indirect emissions (scope 3) x x x Jaźwiny (Czarna) 0.000547 0.04 3,210.37 Total: 62,394.11 55,748.79 -10.7% Suwałki 0.000628 0.01 5,188.19 0.06 tonnes/ Siewierz 0.000097 0.00014 667.37 PLN Efficiency thousand 13.1* 11.3 -14.3% Szymany 0.000181 – 2,537.24 0.04 * after transformed net revenues from sales of products and services, goods and materials. Total 0.21 202.11 23,223.24 1,090.00 0.16 13 All plants listed in the table operate within the structure of Budimex SA. The table does not include aromatic hydrocarbons released during the process of unloading the mineral and asphalt mix, whose annual emissions are estimated at 4.6 kg, as well as aromatic alcohols and their derivatives (phenol), released at 0.82 kg/year, also during the process of unloading the mineral-asphalt mix. 12 Estimates made using a consistent methodology applicable in the Ferrovial Group, based of the GHG Protocol and actual consumption of primary fuels 14 The values provided are equal to the values reported to relevant administrative bodies in order to calculate the environmental charges, and their sources and electricity. are direct measurements or estimates calculated in accordance with applicable regulations (based on volumes of production and processed raw materials). 82 83 Rational use of resources and environmental pollution BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT Aromatic 2013 2014 Aromatic hydrocarbons and hydrocarbons their derivatives Other dust Other dust Main waste by type mass (tonnes) mass (tonnes) (source: bitumen (source: bitumen (source: limestone (source: coal dust container) container) flour container) container) ●● aqueous liquid wastes (16 10 01) 9.2 – (kg/year) (kg/year) (kg/year) (kg/year) ●● wastes from other ceramics pieces of equipment (17 01 03) – 10.20 Lublin 39.40 2.96 75.32 – ●● mixtures of or separate fractions of concrete, bricks, tiles, Pruszków 0.0009 0.0001 2.63 – ceramics and pieces of equipment containing dangerous substances (17 01 06) – 63.46 Zagórz (Komańcza) 0.0012 0.0001 38.36 – ●● waste from repair and reconstruction of roads (17 01 81) – 44,857.92 Jaźwiny (Czarna) 0.0104 0.0008 142.78 – Suwałki 0.1190 0.0089 253.75 – ●● wood, glass and plastic waste containing hazardous substances (17 02 04) 5.9 107.750 Siewierz 0.0018 0.0001 33.43 – ●● bituminous mixtures containing coal tar (17 03 01) – 874.000 Szymany 0.0033 0.0003 21.81 0.57 ●● coal tar (17 03 03) 4.12 0.00 Total 39.67 2.98 1,036.38 0.57 ●● copper, bronze, brass (17 04 01) – 11.09 ●● cables other than those mentioned in 17 04 10 (17 04 11) – 0.63 G4-EN23 Waste (without dirt and soil) ●● soil and dirt (17 05 03) 38.02 0.018 2013 2014 ●● insulation materials containing asbestos (17 06 01) – 5.84 Main waste by type mass (tonnes) mass (tonnes) ●● materials containing asbestos (17 06 05) 55.06 7.000 Waste considered to be hazardous, including: 131.815 1,069.627 Non-hazardous waste, including: 281,295.66 271,250.39 ●● waste sand and clays (01 04 09) – 974.85 ●● plant-tissue waste (02 01 03) 427.24 225.00 ●● wastes from washing and cleaning of minerals other than those mentioned in 01 04 07 and 01 04 11 (01 04 12) – 1,485.60 ●● wastes from forestry (02 01 07) 10,760.00 334.40 ●● organic halogenated solvents, washing liquids and mother ●● waste plastic (07 02 13) 0.42 0.28 liquors (07 01 03) 0.24 2.070 ●● paper and cardboard packaging (15 01 01) 23.92 9.09 ●● waste rubber and rubber production (07 02 80) – 60.00 ●● plastic packaging (15 01 02) 21.69 29.06 ●● engine oils (13 02 06) 0.02 0.000 ●● wooden packaging (15 01 03) 4.20 0.00 ●● other engine, gear and lubricating oils (13 02 08) 1.02 0.680 ●● composite packaging (15 01 05) 2.01 0.00 ●● other halogenated solvents and solvent mixtures (14 06 02) – 0.220 ●● glass packaging (15 01 07) 0.71 0.00 ●● other solvents and solvent mixtures (14 06 03) 0.073 0.143 ●● absorbents, filter materials (15 02 03) 0.35 0.75 ●● mixed packaging (15 01 06) – 20.775 ●● discarded equipment (16 02 14) 0.065 7.46 ●● packaging containing residues of hazardous substances (15 01 10) 17.228 7.452 ●● components removed from discarded equipment (16 02 16) 0.008 0.034 ●● absorbents, filter materials contaminated by dangerous substances (15 02 02) 0.37 0.412 ●● alkaline batteries (16 06 04) 0.002 0.00 ●● discarded equipment containing hazardous components, other ●● concrete waste and concrete rubble (17 01 01) 35,121.89 129,365.37 than those mentioned in 16 02 09 to 16 02 12 (16 02 13) – 0.132 ●● brick rubble (17 01 02) 849.70 6,419.58 ●● oil filters (16 01 07) 0.454 0.450 ●● mixtures of concrete waste, brick rubble, ceramic waste and ●● wastes not otherwise specified (16 01 99) – 0,08 pieces of equipment (17 01 07) 38,937.48 17,285.69 ●● laboratory chemicals (16 05 06) 0.11 0.000 84 85 Rational use of resources and environmental pollution BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT Soil and dirt G4-EN23 2013 2014 Main waste by type mass (tonnes) mass (tonnes) 2013 2014 ●● removed plaster, wallpaper, veneer (17 01 80) 7.07 0.00 Main waste by type mass (tonnes) mass (tonnes) Soil and dirt, including stones, considered to be hazardous (17 05 03) 38.02 0.018 ●● waste from renovations and reconstruction of roads (from the existing road base, etc.) (17 01 81) 49,722.94 44,857.92 Soil and dirt, including stones, other than waste considered to be hazardous (17 05 04) 2,389,711.86 2,402,874.20 ●● wastes not otherwise specified (17 01 82) 33.90 0.00 Dredged material not containing or not contaminated with dangerous ●● wood (17 02 01) 6,182.12 1,421.655 substances (17 05 06) 322,088.10 316,873.03 ●● glass (17 02 02) 1.31 7.46 Total 2,711,837.98 2,719,747.25 ●● plastic (17 02 03) 27.49 55.55 ●● asphalt other than mentioned in 17 03 01 (17 03 02) 60,022.80 15,748.26 ●● waste tar paper (17 03 80) 91.075 275.23 Utilisation of waste G4-EN23 ●● iron and steel (17 04 05) 1,213.60 1,493.672 2013 2014 ●● mixed metals (17 04 07) 7.33 0.00 Main waste by type mass (tonnes) mass (tonnes) ●● track ballast (17 05 08) 32,176.90 36,395.72 Used as fuel or other means to generate energy (R1) 4,659.14 440.605 ●● insulation materials (17 06 04) 35.10 25.79 Reuse (R14) (without dirt and soil) 9,364.74 113,012.74 Transferred to companies licensed for collection, transportation and ●● mixed construction, renovation and demolition wastes (17 09 04) 5,198.55 5,653.40 disposal (including e.g. storage in landfills) (without dirt and soil) 267,403.59 187,205.825 ●● wood other than mentioned in 19 12 06 (19 12 07) 1.20 1.50 Total 281,427.47 300,659.17 ●● minerals (e.g. sand, stones) (19 12 09) 15,929.08 0.00 ●● waste from mechanical treatment of waste (19 12 12) 24,495.10 35.00 ●● plastic (20 01 39) – 18.78 ●● non-segregated (mixed) municipal waste (20 03 01) – 143.057 Utilisation of dirt and soil G4-EN23 ●● municipal wastes not otherwise specified (20 03 99) – 7.83 2013 2014 Total 281,427.47 271,250.39 Main waste by type mass (tonnes) mass (tonnes) Reuse (R14) 1,769,402.37 1,780,097.43 Transferred to companies licensed for collection, transportation and disposal (including e.g. storage in landfills) 942,435.61 939,649.80 Total 2,711,837.98 2,719,747.23 86 87 Rational use of resources and environmental pollution BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 12 GRI Index Indic. G4-8 range overall partial not reported / not applicable p. 15 audit GRI guidelines  Markets served, including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/consumers and beneficiaries Area according to ISO 26000 6.3.10 6.4.1 6.4.2 6.4.3 6.4.4 UN Global Compact principle Comment / Description [Results for the last year] Detailed information on this subject can be found in the “2014 Annual Report” available at http://www. budimex.pl/pl/relacje-inwestorskie/ 6.4.5 raporty/okresowe. range 6.8.5 overall Area G4-9 15  Scale of activity 7.8 [Results for the last year] UN Global partial according 16 Indic. p. audit GRI guidelines Compact Comment / Description [Contribution to infrastructural not reported to ISO 18 principle development] / not 26000 applicable G4-10 16  Number of the Company’s [Results for the last year] Strategy and analysis 27 employees and employees [Managing responsibility in the 73 under the Company’s supply chain] G4-1 4  Statement from the most4,7 [Letter from the President of the supervision broken down by senior decision-maker of 6.2 Management Board] gender and type of contract [Tables with non-financial data] the organisation (e.g. CEO, 7,4,2 chair or equivalent senior 6.2 G4-11 77  Percentage of employees [Tables with non-financial data] position) about the relevance covered by collective of sustainability to the agreements organisation and its strategy G4-12 27  Description of the value chain [Managing responsibility in the supply chain] G4-2 4  Description of key impacts, [Letter from the President of the 12 opportunities and risks Management Board] G4-13 28  Significant changes during the [About the report] reporting period, regarding [Market situation and prospects] A detailed description of changes in size, structure, form of the organisational structure of the Business risks are described in the ownership, or value chain Budimex Group can be found in the “2014 Annual Report” available at “2014 Annual Report” available at http://www.budimex.pl/pl/relacjehttp://www.budimex.pl/pl/relacjeinwestorskie/raporty/okresowe inwestorskie/raporty/okresowe. Organisational profile G4-14 45  Explanation of whether 7 [Environmental concerns on and how the precautionary a construction site] G4-3 –  Name of the organisation 6.3.10 Budimex SA principle is applied by the The procedure “Environmental 6.4.1 organisation. management on contract sites”, G4-4 8  Primary brands, products and/ 6.4.2 [Market activity] which is a part of the Integrated or services 6.4.3 More on www.budimex.pl Management System, defines, 6.4.4 among others, rules for the analysis 6.4.5 of environmental requirements G4-5 –  Location of the organisation’s 6.8.5 ul. Stawki 40 and the concept of environmental headquarters 7.8 01-140 Warsaw impact. It covers every actual and Poland potential type of impact. www.budimex.pl In addition, the Group undertook G4-6 15  Number of countries where [Results for the last year] to comply with the precautionary the organisation operates, and principle by joining the UN Global names of countries with either Compact. major operations or specifically relevant to the issues covered G4-15 37  Externally developed 1-10 ●● UN Global Compact in the report economic, environmental, and ●● (“Safety in Construction social charters, principles, or Agreement”) (see: OHS Training G4-7 –  Nature of ownership and legal Spółka Akcyjna (joint-stock other initiatives to which the and Prevention]) form company) listed on the Warsaw organisation subscribes or Stock Exchange which it endorses ●● social campaign of the National Labour Inspectorate and the Social Insurance Institution (ZUS): “Szanuj życie! Bezpieczna praca na wysokości” (“Respect life! Safe work at heights”) 88 89 GRI Index BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT range range overall Area overall Area UN Global UN Global partial according partial according Indic. p. audit GRI guidelines Compact Comment / Description Indic. p. audit GRI guidelines Compact Comment / Description not reported to ISO not reported to ISO principle principle / not 26000 / not 26000 applicable applicable G4-16 17  Memberships 6.3.10 1-10 [Results for the last year] G4-26 30  Approach to stakeholder 5.3 [About the report] in associations 6.4.1 engagement, including (such as industry 6.4.2 frequency of engagement associations) and/or national/ 6.4.3 by type and by stakeholder /international organisations 6.4.4 group 6.4.5 G4-27 30  Key topics and concerns that [About the report] 6.8.5 37 have been raised through 7.8 [OHS Training and Prevention] stakeholder engagement, Identification of material aspects and limitations and how the organisation has responded to those key topics G4-17 28  Entities included in the 5.2 [Tables with non-financial data] and concerns, including their 72 consolidated financial 7.3.2 reporting statements 7.3.3 7.3.4 Report profile G4-18 28  Process for defining the report [About the report] content G4-28 –  Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/ 5.3 Fiscal/calendar year: calendar year) 7.5.3 01.01.2014 — 31.12.2014 G4-19 28  Identified important aspects [About the report] 7.6.2 of social and environmental G4-29 –  Publication date of the last 2014 impact report (if any) G4-20 30  Significance of identified [About the report] G4-30 –  Reporting cycle (annual, annual aspects of social and biennial, etc.) environmental impact for each entity G4-31 –  Contact person Łukasz Kubiak, Office of External Communication, Budimex SA, G4-21 16  Limitations of the report in [Results for the last year] ul. Stawki 40, 01-040 Warsaw 28 relation to the relevant aspects e-mail: lukasz.kubiak@budimex.pl [About the report] of social and environmental Phone (22) 623 61 64 impact, including entities mobile 695 052 455 outside the organisation G4-32 –  CSR Index [GRI Index] G4-22 –  Explanation of the effect of any No significant adjustments. [About the report] adjustments of information provided in previous reports, G4-33 28  Policy and current practice [About the report] reasons for such adjustments with regard to seeking external and their impact (e.g. mergers, The report was prepared by an assurance for the report. If not acquisitions, change of a base external entity on the basis of data included in the assurance report year/period, nature of business provided by Budimex SA, and then accompanying the sustainability activity, measurement subjected to verification by an report, explain the scope and methods) independent auditor. basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the G4-23 –  Significant changes in No significant changes. relationship between the relation to the previous report reporting organisation and the regarding the scope, range, or assurance provider(s). measurement methods applied in the report Governance, commitments and engagement Stakeholder engagement G4-34 20  Governance structure of 6.2 1-10 [Management systems] G4-24 30  List of stakeholder groups 5.3 [About the report] 22 the organisation, including 7.4.3 Detailed information can be engaged by the organisation committees under the 7.7.5 found in the “2014 Annual Report” highest governance body, available at http://www.budimex. responsible for specific tasks, pl/pl/relacje-inwestorskie/raporty/ G4-25 22  Basis for identification and [About the report] such as setting strategy or okresowe. 30 selection of stakeholder groups organisational oversight Moreover, information about [OHS Training and Prevention] 37 engaged by the organisation the current composition of the 38 [Fair principles in relations with Management Board, Supervisory 60 counterparties] Board and its committees, including biographies of individual persons, is available at: http://www.budimex. pl/pl/o-budimex/wladze.html. 90 91 GRI Index BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT range range overall Area overall Area UN Global UN Global partial according partial according Indic. p. audit GRI guidelines Compact Comment / Description Indic. p. audit GRI guidelines Compact Comment / Description not reported to ISO not reported to ISO principle principle / not 26000 / not 26000 applicable applicable Ethics and reliability Market presence G4-56 11  Organisation’s values, principles, 4.4 1-10 [Market activity] G4-EC5 77  Ratio of the lowest level 6.3.7 1 [Tables with non-financial data] 61 code and standards of conduct 6.6.3 wage compared to the local 6.3.10 [Code of Ethics] minimum wage at significant 6.4.3 and ethics. locations of the organisation 6.4.4 6.8.1 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 6.8.2 Economic performance G4-EC6 79  Percentage of senior 6.4.3 6 [Tables with non-financial data] management hired from the 6.8.1 Basically, the companies within G4-EC1 73  Direct economic value 6.8.1 – [Tables with non-financial data] local market 6.8.2 the Budimex Group employ generated and distributed, 6.8.2 6.8.5 only Polish citizens. A few including revenues, 6.8.3 6.8.7 foreigners, representing the operating costs, employee 6.8.7 main shareholder, are in the compensation, donations and 6.8.9 governing bodies of companies. other community investments, Their number is given in the table retained earnings, and illustrating the composition of payments to capital providers management and supervisory and governments boards. G4-EC2 –  Financial implications and 6.5.5 7 No significant impact was stated Indirect economic impact other risks and opportunities at the moment. Nevertheless, the for the organisation’s activities primary raw materials used by G4-EC7 18  Development and impact of – [Contribution to infrastructural 6.3.9 due to climate change the company are the products of infrastructure investments development] 6.8.1 industries which have a significant and services provided 6.8.2 impact on the climate (production primarily for public benefit 6.8.7 of asphalt and fuels, cement through commercial, in-kind, 6.8.9 production, steel industry). or pro bono engagement. Thus, changes in regulations Impact of these activities on and additional burdens of these society industries in relation to greenhouse gas emissions, could adversely affect the company’s costs. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Climate change in a broader sense, Raw materials and materials i.e. intensity of extreme weather events, may influence the process EN DMA 42  Management approach 6, 7, 8, 9 [Rational use of resources and of execution of contracts. 68 7.3.1 environmental pollution] 70 7.4.3 On the other hand, the company’s 7.7.3 offer responds to expectations 7.7.5 indirectly related to climate change. Budimex has adequate resources G4-EN1 70  Materials used by weight or 8 [Materials and raw materials] 6.5.4 allowing it to be included in the 81 volume. restructuring processes for power [Tables with non-financial data] plants (construction of production G4-EN2 70  Percentage of materials 8, 9 [Materials and raw materials] 6.5.4 facilities). In the company’s offer 81 used that are recycled input there are facilities where power [Tables with non-financial data] materials loss was reduced to a minimum and which meet the demands of Energy climate-aware customers. EN DMA 42  Management approach 6, 7, 8, 9 [Rational use of resources and 68 7.3.1 environmental pollution] 70 7.4.3 7.7.3 7.7.5 G4-EN3 70  Direct and indirect energy 6.5.4 8 [Fuel, energy and CO2 emissions] 82 consumption by primary [Tables with non-financial data] energy source 92 93 GRI Index BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT range range overall Area overall Area UN Global UN Global partial according partial according Indic. p. audit GRI guidelines Compact Comment / Description Indic. p. audit GRI guidelines Compact Comment / Description not reported to ISO not reported to ISO principle principle / not 26000 / not 26000 applicable applicable G4-EN5 70  Energy efficiency [Fuel, energy and CO2 emissions] G4-EN15 70  Total direct greenhouse gas 6.5.5 8 [Fuel, energy and CO2 emissions] 82 82 emissions by weight (Scope 1) [Tables with non-financial data] [Tables with non-financial data] Biodiversity G4-EN16 82  Total indirect greenhouse gas 6.5.5 8 [Tables with non-financial data] EN DMA 42  Management approach 6, 7, 8, 9 [Limiting impact on the local emissions by weight 68 7.3.1 natural environment] (Scope 2) 70 7.4.3 7.7.3 G4-EN18 82  Efficiency associated with 6.5.5 [Tables with non-financial data] 7.7.5 greenhouse gas emissions G4-EN11 44  Location and area 6.5.6 8 [Environmental concerns on G4-EN21 83  NOx, SOx, and other significant 6.5.3 8 [Tables with non-financial data] 46 of the land owned, a construction site] air emissions by type and Individual bituminous mixing 47 leased, or managed weight plants, whose locations are 48 located in or adjacent indicated in the table along with 49 to protected areas emission values of the individual and areas of high compounds, are the source of biodiversity value outside emissions. Emissions are related protected areas to the work of paving plants and G4-EN12 44  Description of significant 6.5.6 8 [Environmental concerns on aggregate dryers, as well as tanks impact of activities, a construction site] of bitumen, asphalt, limestone and products, and services stone dust. on biodiversity in protected Sewage and waste areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside EN DMA 42  Management approach 6, 7, 8, 9 [Limiting impact on the local protected areas 68 7.3.1 natural environment] 70 7.4.3 G4-EN13 46  Habitats protected or restored 6.5.6 8 [Environmental concerns 7.7.3 47 on a construction site] 7.7.5 48 Detailed information is available 49 G4-EN23 51  Total weight of waste by type 6.5.3 8 [Waste management] in the studies of the impact of individual investments on the 70 and disposal method [Materials and raw materials] environment, with an indication 84 87 [Tables with non-financial data] of the exact location in relation to the investment. G4-EN24 45  Total number and volume of 6.5.3 8 [Environmental concerns on G4-EN14 46  Number of IUCN Red 6.5.6 8 [Environmental concerns on significant spills a construction site] 47 List species and national a construction site] Products and services 48 conservation list species 49 with habitats in areas affected G4-EN27 44 Initiatives to mitigate 6.5.3 7, 8, 9 [Environmental concerns on by operations, by level of environmental impact of 6.5.4 a construction site] extinction risk products and services, and 6.6.6 extent of impact mitigation 6.7.5 Emissions Compliance EN DMA 42  Management approach 6, 7, 8, 9 [Rational use of resources and 68 7.3.1 environmental pollution] G4-EN29 45  Monetary value of significant 4.6 8 [Environmental concerns on 70 7.4.3 fines and total number of nona construction site] 7.7.3 monetary sanctions for non7.7.5 compliance with environmental laws and regulations 94 95 GRI Index BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT range range overall Area overall Area UN Global UN Global partial according partial according Indic. p. audit GRI guidelines Compact Comment / Description Indic. p. audit GRI guidelines Compact Comment / Description not reported to ISO not reported to ISO principle principle / not 26000 / not 26000 applicable applicable Environmental assessment of suppliers Workplace: labour/management relations EN DMA 42  Management approach 6, 7, 8, 9 [Environmental concerns on G4-LA4 –  Minimum notice period(s) 6.4.3 3 In accordance with the 68 7.3.1 a construction site] regarding operational 6.4.5 requirements of the Polish Labour 70 7.4.3 changes, including whether Law. 7.7.3 it is specified in collective 7.7.5 agreements G4-EN32 50  Percentage of suppliers who 6.3.5 [Environmental concerns on Workplace: occupational health and safety (OHS) were assessed against the 6.6.6 a construction site] environmental criteria 7.3.1 LA DMA 32  Management approach 6, 1, 3, 6 [Conditions, occupational health 41 (regarding occupational 7.3.1 and safety (OHS)] G4-EN33 44  Significant current and 6.3.5 [Environmental concerns on health and safety) 7.4.3 50 potential environmental risks 6.6.6 a construction site] 7.7.3 in the supply chain 7.3.1 7.7.5 Complaint transfer procedure G4-LA5 32  Percentage of total 6.4.6 1 [Conditions, occupational health workforce represented and safety (OHS)] G4-EN34 50  Number of complaints relating 6.3.6 [Environmental concerns on in formal health and safety to the environmental impact, a construction site] committees addressed and resolved through formal mechanisms (attended by both managers and workers) that monitor and advise SOCIAL PERFORMANCE on occupational health and safety programmes Workplace: employment G4-LA6 40 Rates of injury, occupational 6.4.6 1 [Accident rates] G4-LA1 75  Total number of resignations 6.4.3 6 [Tables with non-financial data] 80 diseases, lost days, and 6.8.8 [Tables with non-financial data] 76 and employee turnover rate by absenteeism, and a total age group, gender, and region number of work-related fatalities, by region G4-LA2 –  Benefits provided to full6.4.4 – The benefits are the same, time employees that are not 6.8.7 regardless of whether the person is G4-LA7 40  Employment at high risk of 6.4.6 1 [Accident rates] provided to temporary or a full-time or part-time employee. occupational diseases. 6.8.8 part-time employees, by main Among non-mandatory benefits, G4-LA8 –  OHS in collective agreements 6.4.6 1 OHS aspects were included organisational units the following benefits should in the collective agreement only be mentioned here: medical in the case of Mostostal Kraków. insurance (Budimex SA, The provisions define the possibility Budimex Nieruchomości), life to temporarily grant periodical insurance (Budimex SA, Budimex allowance for work in harmful or Nieruchomości) and Benefit burdensome conditions to a given cards (Budimex SA, Budimex group of employees. Nieruchomości). Additional medical insurance is also available to trainees, employed under civil law contracts. G4-LA3 78 Percentage of return to work 6.4.4 [Tables with non-financial data] and retention rate after maternity/paternity leave in relation to gender 96 97 GRI Index BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT range range overall Area overall Area UN Global UN Global partial according partial according Indic. p. audit GRI guidelines Compact Comment / Description Indic. p. audit GRI guidelines Compact Comment / Description not reported to ISO not reported to ISO principle principle / not 26000 / not 26000 applicable applicable Workplace: trainings G4-HR1 60  Percentage and total number 6.3.3 1-2 [Fair principles in relations with of significant investment 6.3.5 counterparties] G4-LA10 58  Development programmes 6.3.7. 1, 6 [Prevention of unethical conduct agreements and contracts that 6.6.6 6.3.10 and integrity in operations] include human rights clauses, 6.4. or that have undergone human All the described managerial skills 6.4.3 rights screening development programmes are part of the concept of continuous training and contribute to the Human rights: non-discrimination increase of value in the labour G4-HR3 61  Total number of incidents of 6.3.6 1, 2, 6 [Code of Ethics] market. In individual cases, despite 62 discrimination and corrective 6.3.7 no formalised programme, the [Compliance with law] actions taken 6.3.10 Budimex Group provides support in 6.4.3 these aspects to employees during outplacement. Human rights: freedom of association and collective bargaining Workplace: diversity and equal opportunity G4-HR4 62  Operations identified in which 6.3.3 1-3 [Compliance with law] the right to exercise freedom 6.3.4 G4-LA12 79  Composition of governance 6.2.3 1, 6 [Tables with non-financial data] of association and collective 6.3.5 bodies and breakdown of 6.3.7 bargaining may be violated or 6.3.8 employees per employee 6.3.10 at significant risk, and actions 6.3.10 category according to gender, 6.4.3 taken to support these rights 6.4.5 age group, minority group 6.6.6 membership, and other diversity indicators Human rights: child labour G4-LA13 77 Ratio of basic salary and 6.3.7 1, 6 [Tables with non-financial data] G4-HR5 62  Operations identified as having 6.3.3 1, 2, 5 [Compliance with law] remuneration of women to 6.3.10 significant risk for incidents 6.3.4 men by employee category 6.4.3 of child labour, and measures 6.3.5 6.4.4 taken to contribute to the 6.3.7 effective abolition of child 6.3.10 Assessment of suppliers labour 6.6.6 6.8.4 LA DMA 32  Management approach 6, 1, 3, 6 [Accident rates] 41 (regarding occupational health 7.3.1 Human rights: forced and compulsory labour and safety) 7.4.3 7.7.3 G4-HR6 62  Operations identified as having 6.3.3 1, 2, 4 [Compliance with law] 7.7.5 significant risk for incidents 6.3.4 of forced or compulsory 6.3.5 G4-LA14 41  Percentage of suppliers 6.3.5 [Accident rates] labour, and measures taken to 6.3.10 who were assessed against 6.4.3 eliminate such incidents 6.6.6 employment criteria 6.6.6 7.3.1 Assessment of suppliers G4-LA15 41  Significant current and 6.3.5 [Accident rates] HR DMA 60  Management approach 6, 1-6 [Fair principles in relations with potential risks of employee 6.4.3 7.3.1 counterparties] relations in the supply chain 6.6.6 7.4.3 7.3.1 7.7.3 7.7.5 Complaint transfer procedure G4-HR10 60  Percentage of suppliers who 6.3.3 [Fair principles in relations with G4-LA16 61  Number of complaints relating 6.3.6 [Code of Ethics] 61 were assessed against human 6.3.4 counterparties] to employment, addressed rights 6.3.5 and resolved through formal [Code of Ethics] mechanisms G4-HR11 60  Significant current and 6.3.3 [Fair principles in relations with Human rights: investment and procurement procedures 61 potential risks to human rights 6.3.4 counterparties] in the supply chain 6.3.5 [Code of Ethics] HR DMA 60  Management approach 6, 1-6 [Prevention of unethical conduct 6.6.6 7.3.1 and integrity in operations] 7.4.3 Complaint transfer procedure 7.7.3 G4-HR12 61  Number of complaints relating 6.3.6 [Code of Ethics] 7.7.5 to human rights, addressed and resolved through formal mechanisms 98 99 GRI Index BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT range range overall Area overall Area UN Global UN Global partial according partial according Indic. p. audit GRI guidelines Compact Comment / Description Indic. p. audit GRI guidelines Compact Comment / Description not reported to ISO not reported to ISO principle principle / not 26000 / not 26000 applicable applicable Local communities Compliance SO DMA 40  Management approach 6, 10 [Accident rates] G4-SO7 62  Total number of legal actions 6.6.1 [Compliance with law] 52 7.3.1 against the organisation for 6.6.2 [Reducing nuisance] 54 7.4.3 anti-competitive conduct, 6.6.5 58 7.7.3 anti-trust, and monopoly prac6.6.7 60 7.7.5 tices and their outcomes. 61 G4-SO8 –  Monetary value of significant 4.6 – No penalties were imposed. G4-SO1 52 Nature, scope and 6.3.9 – [Reducing nuisance] fines and total number of 55 effectiveness of programmes 6.5.1 [Compensating communities for non-monetary sanctions for and practices in the area of 6.5.2 nuisance] non-compliance with laws and evaluation and management 6.5.3 regulations of the organisation’s impact on 6.8 the local community, including Assessment of suppliers the impact of entering a market, operating and SO DMA 40  Management approach 6, 10 [Reducing nuisance] cessation of activities 52 7.3.1 54 7.4.3 G4-SO2 40  Activities with significant 6.3.9 [Reducing nuisance] 58 7.7.3 52 potential or existing negative 6.5.3 60 7.7.5 impact on the local community 6.8 61 Anti-corruption measures G4-SO9 54  Percentage of suppliers who 6.3.5 [Reducing nuisance] SO DMA 40  Management approach 6, 10 [Prevention of unethical conduct 60 were assessed against social 6.6.1 52 7.3.1 and integrity in operations] criteria 6.6.2 54 7.4.3 6.6.6 58 7.7.3 6.8.1 60 7.7.5 6.8.2 61 7.3.1 G4-SO3 60  Percentage and total number 6.6.1 10 [Monitoring of threats] G4-SO10 54  Significant current and 6.3.5 [Reducing nuisance] of business units analysed for 6.6.2 60 potential social risks in the 6.6.1 The report does not disclose risks related to corruption 6.6.3 supply chain 6.6.2 tools used in their monitoring, 6.6.6 recognising them as confidential. 6.8.1 Disclosure of such information, 6.8.2 regarding, in particular, the way of 7.3.1 conducting analyses, according to the company could contribute to Product responsibility: customer health and safety reducing their effectiveness and increasing the risk of unethical PR DMA 64  Product responsibility: 6, 1, 8 [Quality and safety of conduct. 66 customer health and safety 7.3.1 constructions] 7.4.3 G4-SO4 58  Percentage of employees 6.6.1 10 [Prevention of unethical conduct 7.7.3 61 trained in organisation’s 6.6.2 and integrity in operations] 7.7.5 anti-corruption policies and 6.6.3 Due to the nature of the business, procedures 6.6.6 G4-PR1 64  Life cycle stages in which 6.7.1 1 [Quality and safety of in particular the staff turnover 66 health and safety impact of 6.7.2 constructions] between contracts, the division 67 products and services are 6.7.4 into regions was omitted in the assessed for improvement, 6.7.5 indicator’s description. The procedures described in the and percentage of significant 6.8.8 G4-SO5 61  Actions taken in response to 6.6.1 10 [Code of Ethics] products’ and services’ content of the report are generally incidents of corruption 6.6.2 categories subject to such applicable and apply to all (100%) 6.6.3 procedures ongoing contracts. Participation in public life G4-PR2 67  Total number of incidents 4.6 1 [Quality and safety of of non-compliance with 6.7.1 constructions] G4-SO6 62  Total value of financial and in6.6.1 10 [Compliance with law] regulations and voluntary 6.7.2 kind contributions to political 6.6.2 codes concerning health and 6.7.4 parties, politicians, and related 6.6.4 safety impacts of products and 6.7.5 institutions by country services during their life cycle, 6.8.8 by type of outcome 100 101 GRI Index BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT range range overall Area overall Area UN Global UN Global partial according partial according Indic. p. audit GRI guidelines Compact Comment / Description Indic. p. audit GRI guidelines Compact Comment / Description not reported to ISO not reported to ISO principle principle / not 26000 / not 26000 applicable applicable G4-PR3 –  Type of product and service 6.7.1 8 Due to the specificity of Sector ratios information required by 6.7.2 construction projects, their procedures, and percentage 6.7.3 implementation is accompanied CRE6 32  Percentage of the organisation – – In the case of Budimex SA of significant products and 6.7.4 by very detailed construction operating in verified and Mostostal Kraków, the services subject to such 6.7.5 documents from the earliest stage. compliance with internationally implementation of ISO 18000 and information requirements 6.7.9 The requirements are specified recognised health and safety OHSAS 18000 was confirmed with by regulations and standards. management systems (e.g. ISO relevant certificates. As at the end These documents include not only 18000) of 2014, they employed 97.9% of the relevant consents, permits or the entire staff of the reported confirmations of acceptance by companies. different offices and departments. CRE8 70 Sustainability certification for – – Office and retail building at ul. Individual raw materials and new constructions, operation Grunwaldzka in Poznań received materials are accompanied by of existing constructions and the final BREEAM certificate at the certificates and declarations of dismantling of demolished Very Good level (copy attached). conformity, or hygiene certificates constructions and documents related to waste The Corporate Services Centre management. This ensures widely Complex in Płock, the documents understood safety for people and for the final certification have been the environment. filed. They are also supported by the Integrated Management System. G4-PR5 – Practices related to customer 6.7.1 – The specificity of the B2B market, satisfaction, including 6.7.2 in which the company mainly results of surveys measuring 6.7.6 operates and in which the number customer satisfaction of customers is very limited, is associated with the fact that it is not possible to conduct typical quantitative surveys of customer satisfaction. Nevertheless, the execution of orders is discussed with customers on an ongoing basis, and continuous dialogue ensures current knowledge about customer expectations. Product responsibility: compliance G4-PR9 62  Monetary value of significant 4.6 – [Compliance with law] fines for non-compliance 6.7.1 with laws and regulations 6.7.2 concerning the provision and 6.7.6 use of products and services. 102 103 GRI Index BUDIMEX GROUP 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT Budimex SA Stawki Street 40 01-140 Warsaw www.budimex.pl
