2015 Sustainability Report China Mobile Communications Corporation Contents 07 Connect | Communication New 4G Connections Speed Upgrade and Tariff Reduction Security and Reliability 14 Connect | Innovation Platform for Innovation Innovative Applications 21 Connect | Prospect Targeted Poverty Alleviation Philanthropy Support 26 Connect | Green The Green Action Plan Green Industry Development Green ICT Solutions 30 Connect | Growth 02 Chairman’s Statement Grow Together Develop Together 04 About China Mobile 36 Special Report: Steady Growth, 05 About This Report Healthy Development 06 Communication Report 38 Performance Report 53 Stakeholder Commentary 39 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Analysis 54 Feature: Ten-year Journey of CSR 41 Economic Performance 58 Report Rating 44 Environmental Performance 60 Report Disclosure Indexes 64 Feedback 46 Social Performance Chairman’s Statement China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report Connect the Future, with You In 2015, we made a critical step in our transformative development, and also made promising progresses in benefitting society with information and communication technologies. Since the issuance of our 4G license on 4 December 2013, we have built the largest 4G network in the world in just over two years. Our 4G base stations reached approximately 1.1 million, covering Chairman’s Statement a population of over 1.2 billion, and our customers could enjoy 4G roaming service in 114 countries and regions. We now have more than 300 million 4G customers, with a net addition of over 200 million 4G customers in 2015, which averaged to more than 400 new customers per minute. This was the 4G “Chinese Speed” created by all China Mobile employees with our responsibility, endeavour and passion. With the fast development and penetration of 4G, China Mobile has acted to show our sustainability core competence and our contribution to economic and social sustainability as a backbone telecommunications operator — namely, to build the new generation of fast, ubiquitous and secure network infrastructure, and to provide state-of-art information and communication services for the great mass of the population. In short, it is both the foundation and the obligation of us to provide quality “Connectivity” services, and to enhance “Connectivity” value. To connect and facilitate communication. In 2015, besides accelerating 4G development, we responded to customer needs and launched a variety of “speed upgrade and tariff reduction” initiatives such as data sharing, data rollover and lower roaming tariffs to promote information consumption. As a result, handset data tariff dropped by 43%, and data traffic service penetration rate reached 80%, enabling more people to enjoy our high-speed network and quality services. We also allocated designated personnel and adopted technological and management measures to prevent harmful information and telecommunications frauds and safeguard information security of our customers. The number of spam message complaints dropped by 29.4% compared to 2014. We connected villages and 02 SHANG Bing Committee Secretary & Chairman China Mobile Communications Corporation China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report remote areas with mobile and broadband services to narrow the digital “With perfect sincerity and integrity, we will strive to fulfil our divide. By the end of 2015, we had cumulatively invested about 45 triple-sided responsibilities: our economic responsibility, our social billion yuan in the Village Connected Project, covering 99.5% of rural responsibility and our environmental responsibility.” In 2015, China areas with mobile communication services, and enabling more than Mobile not only enhanced our own sustainability performance, but also 70% of rural villages to use our broadband service. contributed to sustainable development of society. We were listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) for the eighth consecutive To connect and stimulate innovation. “Internet+” set free year, and our CSR practices were widely recognised. We deeply Chairman’s Statement a wave of cross-industry integration and innovation and touched understand that China Mobile could never achieve any of these without every aspect of the economy and society. In 2015, we grasped this the attention, confidence, support and help from all our stakeholders. trend and implemented a strategic transformation. In doing so, we expanded our digital services, which in turn helped tap the value In the future, China Mobile will fully implement the development creation potential for individuals and supported entrepreneurship and concepts of “innovation, coordination, green, openness and sharing” innovation among the public. So far, China Mobile has established a and seize the historic opportunities of industry transformation specialised operational system for mobile Internet, Internet of Things and innovative development. We will focus on providing better and enterprise information solutions. Our digital services developed “Connectivity” services and creating greater “Connectivity” value. We rapidly. We have over 6,000 digital new media partners, which have will fulfil our responsibilities, support China’s “Cyberpower” strategy, employed over a million people and shared value of over 10 billion and build a new Internet of Everything ecology with stakeholders, yuan in total. Our Internet of Things has established more than 60 which will allow everyone to create and share value through million connections and reached over 800 partners with its openconnectivity, bringing to reality the new future of “Mobile Changes capacity platform cooperation. Life”. To connect and share development. China Mobile aims to achieve symbiosis with our stakeholders. Employees are our most valuable asset. In 2015, we explored various remuneration and incentive schemes and career development paths, in order to help employees achieve self-worth and growth in parallel with our development. For developing regions and vulnerable groups, we carried out a variety of empowerment-based poverty alleviation projects and strategic charity programmes such as infrastructure construction, information solution, education aid and healthcare support to enable them to overcome difficulties and enjoy equal development opportunities. Facing severe environmental challenges, we continued to implement the Green Action Plan, and our overall energy consumption per unit of information flow dropped by 17.6% compared to 2014. We worked with value chain partners to promote telecommunications equipment energy grading standards and green packaging solutions. We also explored environmental information solutions for pollution control and smog control to contribute to ecological civilisation. March 2016 03 About China Mobile Company Profile China Mobile Communications Corporation (“China Mobile”, “the Group” or “we”) was established on 20 April 2000. With registered capital China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report of 300 billion yuan, assets exceeding 1.6 trillion yuan, number of base stations exceeding 2.6 million and number of customers exceeding 820 million, China Mobile is the largest mobile operator in the world by network scale and subscriber base. China Mobile wholly owns China Mobile (Hong Kong) Group Limited. China Mobile Limited (the “Listed Company” for short), which is under China Mobile (Hong Kong) Group Limited, has set up wholly owned subsidiaries in 31 provinces (autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government) and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, and got listed in Hong Kong and New York stock exchanges. With mobile telephony, data, IP telephony and multimedia services as major lines of business, we also have the right to operate Internet services and international communications access services. In recent years, we have been taking the Internet+ opportunity, promoting strategic transformation, accelerating entrepreneurship and innovation, and enhancing our 4G leading position to maintain a favorable momentum. China Mobile will adhere to the development concepts of innovation, coordination, green, open and sharing, explore new opportunities, support the Cyberpower strategy and Internet+ action plan, and provide better service to customers. Sustainability Commitment By upholding our core value of “Responsibility Makes Perfection” and insisting on our corporate responsibility value of “With perfect sincerity and integrity, we will strive to fulfil our triple-side responsibilities: our economic responsibility, our social responsibility and our environmental responsibility”, we focus on achieving economic, social and environmental sustainability and strike a balance between ourselves and our stakeholders. As an official member of the UN Global Compact, we recognize and strive to comply with its 10 universally accepted principles. As one of the first group of Chinese companies being selected as Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Organizational Stakeholders, we participate in global sustainability report standards researches and formulations, and join G4 Pioneer Program as the only participant from Mainland China. In 2015, About China Mobile we participated in setting social responsibility standards for information and communication industry, and a research of Social Responsibility Strategy Plan for Central Enterprises in Thirteen-fifth Five-year Period, which was led by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Committee (SASAC). Honours and Recognitions • Received Grade “A” for eleven consecutive years on the SASAC operating performance assessment for executives of state-owned enterprises. • The Listed Company was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) for the eighth consecutive year. Also listed in the Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Index Series for the sixth consecutive year; • Ranked 55th in the Fortune top 500; • The Listed Company ranked 20th in the Global 2000 Leading Companies by Forbes Magazine, moving up from 28th last year; • The Listed Company ranked 11th in the Financial Times (FT) Global 500; • The China Mobile brand was named one of the BRANDZ™ Top 100 Most Powerful Brands by Millward Brown and Financial Times for the 10th consecutive year, ranking 15th globally; • Awarded the China Philanthropy Award, the top government award in charity, by the Ministry of Civil Affairs for six consecutive sessions; • Ranked 1st in China 300 CSR Development Index (2015) by Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Research Center of Corporate Social Responsibility; • Received the Public Transparent Enterprise Model Award given by the Chinese Institute of Business Administration Social Responsibility Committee and Beijing Rongzhi Corporate Social Responsibility Research Institute for the third consecutive year. 04 About This Report This report is the tenth Sustainability Report about China Mobile performed the “Materiality Analysis” to identify the material issues Communications Corporation’s economic, social and environmental and their boundaries (See P.40 for information about the process and performance related to sustainability for the reporting period from 1 result of our materiality analysis). China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report January to 31 December 2015. Report Scope Version Unless otherwise stated, all cases and data disclosed in this This report is written in both Chinese and English and published report are collected from China Mobile Communications Corporation both online and in print. This report can be viewed or downloaded at and its subsidiaries (for more information regarding to our www.10086.cn/aboutus/csr/report_new. subsidiaries, please refer to our annual report, which can be viewed or downloaded at www.10086.cn/aboutus/annual/index.htm). Furthermore, China Mobile Limited (the Listed Company) has also disclosed sustainable development performance under the framework of the China Mobile Communications Corporation report. Data Collection and Disclosure You can visit www.chinamobileltd.com to download or view both Data and information contained in the 2015 report were Chinese and English reports. collected primarily through: Reporting Reference • China Mobile’s internal data collection system and statistics reports; This report was prepared in accordance with common sustainability reporting guidelines and developed based on the • Quarterly provincial CSR best practice reports; characteristics of both our industry and the Company. • China Mobile 2015 Best CSR Practices Selection; Our 2015 report refers to the following guidelines: • Quantitative and qualitative questionnaires developed • G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines issued by the Global based on the reporting framework. Reporting Initiative (GRI); Currency About This Report • United Nations Global Compact Ten Principles; • ISO 26000 issued by the International Organisation for Unless otherwise specified, all monetary figures shown in this Standardisation; report are expressed in Renminbi (yuan). • Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide issued by The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited; Report Assurance In 2015, China Mobile engaged Ernst & Young Huaming • Chinese Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report LLP to provide an independent assurance report. For more Preparation Guide (CASS-CSR 3.0) issued by the Chinese information, please refer to page 58 to 59 in “China Mobile Limited Academy of Social Sciences; 2015 Sustainability Report”. We also disclosed the audited key performance indicators in the Group report. The data collection • China National Standard GB/T 36001-2015, Guidance on process and calculation method for the same indicator disclosed in Social Responsibility Reporting. the Listed Company report are identical. Content Selection In addition, we have invited the CSR Research Center of Economics Division of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences to make In accordance with the G4 reporting principles of stakeholder third-party professional rating on this report, for more information engagement, sustainability context, materiality and completeness, we on Rating Report, please refer to page 58 to 59 in this report. For more CSR information, please visit our website 05 Communication Report China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report Connect Growth Connect Communication Connect Green Connect, with You Communication Report Connect Innovation Connect Prospect Connectivity is a unique way for China Mobile to promote sustainable development: To connect and facilitate communication, we will build faster and more inclusive network infrastructures to provide a universal, instant and safe access for everyone, with more affordable services and faster speed. To connect and stimulate innovation, we will create digital services to enhance connectivity based on telecommunications services. We will help unleash entrepreneurship and innovations that will allow people to fully tap their creativity and potential for value creation. We will strive to extend connections to ten-billion level scale in terms of connecting people with things and between things, so as to form a new digital ecology of the “Internet of Everything” with stakeholders. To connect and achieve shared growth, we will encourage our employees and partners to realise their values together with our growth. We will also work together with our stakeholders to explore solutions to social challenges through capacity building for poverty alleviation, philanthropy support, and green innovation, so that the connectivity value will be inclusive and shared by all. 06 Connect Communication China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report “ S i g n i f i c a n t l y i n c r e a s e a c c e s s t o i n f o r m a t i o n a n d communications technology and strive to provide universal and affordable access to the Internet in least developed countries by 2020.” – United Nations, The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Sustainability • The development of information and communications technology (ICT) in the world is extremely unbalanced. By the end of 2015, 57% of the world population, nearly 4 billion people, who mostly Context live in developing countries or remote rural areas, still had no access to the Internet. • The 13th Five-Year Plan for National Economic and Social Development of the People’s Republic of China (the “PRC“) proposed to build universal and efficient information networks, to build fast, mobile, secure and ubiquitous new generation of information infrastructure, to promote the application of information network Connect | Communication technology… to accelerate development of information network technologies… and to promote speed upgrade and tariff reduction for broadband network. Our Approaches • We applied cutting-edge technologies to build a better 4G network and narrow the digital divide due to unbalanced information infrastructure. • We lowered tariffs and improved service availability to benefit a wide range of customers, while increasing the quality of our 4G network and services. • We ensured stable network connection for natural disasters and major events, protected customer privacy and information security, and fought telecommunications fraud cases to create a carefree environment for customers. Our 2015 Achievements Our 2016 Efforts • We had approximately 1.1 million 4G base stations. Our network • To develop a “Wider, Deeper, Thicker and Better” 4G network, covered over 1.2 billion people, becoming the largest 4G network and to accelerate infrastructure construction for both urban and globally. rural areas. • We connected mobile phone service to 1,754 natural villages and • To protect customer rights, respond to customer demands, broadband service to 5,066 administrative villages in 2015. build a simpler and more transparent tariff system, and implement a fast response system and closed-loop process • We increased our average 4G download speeds on urban roads to to manage complaints. more than 37 Mbps and lowered the handset data tariff by 43%, compared to the same period in 2014. We commercially launched • To enhance our emergency support capability and network 4G VoLTE in 100 cities. security, and to optimise the response process to strengthen such support. • We conducted 3,219 emergency support operations to ensure communications quality at key moments. • To further tackle spam and improper messages, stop telecommunications fraud cases using multiple measures to • Our customer complaints for spam messages decreased by 29.4% protect customer information security. in 2015, compared to 2014. 07 By the end of 2015, approximately New 4G Connections As the first operator to offer 4G service in Mainland China, 1.1 million China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report 4G base stations were built we accelerated the construction of our 4G infrastructure in order to provide a world-leading information network and connectivity services in 2015. This year was a key period for China Mobile to further develop our 4G network. Our network covered over 1.2 billion people The number of our 4G customers exceeded 300 million Building By the end of 2015, approximately 1.1 million base stations were built which offer continuous coverage at townshiplevel and above regions. Our 4G network effectively covers rural data hotspots, high-speed railways, metro subways Networks and tourism areas. With more than 1.2 billion people covered, it has become the largest 4G network in the world. Urged device manufacturers to develop more high-performance, lower-cost 4G handsets. By the end of 2015, there Developing were over 1,000 types of 4G handsets, and 300 million 4G terminals were sold. More than 300 million customers Customers have been using our 4G network by the end of 2015, accounted for 37.8% of our overall customer base. On average, there were over 400 new 4G customers per minute. Optimising Enhanced a support system for “easy subscription, convenient use, moderate fees, timely reminders, and fast Connect | Communication Services response”. Our 4G customer Net Promoter Score (NPS) was industry-leading. Expanding Expanded our 4G service internationally. We have launched 4G international roaming services in 114 countries and Globally regions by the end of 2015, and our roaming customers have increased by 21% compared to 2014. Since information infrastructure distribution in China is unbalanced in different regions, we are expanding our network coverage, opening new sales channels in urban and rural areas, and building infrastructure for remote or ethnic minority regions to help narrow the digital divide. By the end of 2015, we had over 2.6 million base stations, and invested nearly 45 billion yuan in the Village Connected Project. Our coverage in rural areas reached 99.5%, and more than 70% of Chinese villages are now able to use China Mobile broadband service. “Ten Households Defend Together” In Guizhou, many rural young people have left their home to work in cities, in order to give the elderly people In 2015, we connected mobile phone service to and children a better life. However, the seniors and children 1,754 left alone at home would always encounter problems, such as health or crime issues. Far from home, their family members can do nothing. natural villages and broadband service to We developed a”ten households defend together” service for Guizhou rural areas. As long as a villager calls”995”, the service can immediately connect all members in the same”defence group”. They would know 5,066 administrative villages about the emergency in time and can offer assistance. The seniors and children in the village could have the support of others to help solve their problems. The connections For more information about 4G network construction between the neighbours became stronger. and narrowing digital divide, please refer to P.42, P.51-52 of this report. 08 The Dulong People Entering The New Era of 4G China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report Connect | Communication Our employee was teaching villagers how to use information services Dulong is a special ethnic minority in Yunnan province, on applications, and assist industrial transformation in the receiving the “Dulong”name from Premier Zhou Enlai. They live prefecture. Tourism would be a key industry for transformation. in Dulongjiang township, Gongshan county, Nujiang prefecture in Yunnan province. This is a mountainous region with few roads In September 2015, the tourist information platform “Go and an undeveloped economy, making it highly difficult for them to Nujiang”, which was developed by China Mobile and the to communicate with the outside world. local government, was officially launched. By the end of 2015, this app had over 30,000 downloads and 400,000 views. During In October 2004, China Mobile built a hydropower station, the National Day golden week holiday in 2015, the number of and rented a satellite link to launch 2G service in the area. This tourists from within the province grew by 51%, and out-ofwas the first time this area had access to phone service. province tourists grew by 24%, compared to the same period in 2014. In May 2007, we enabled mobile phone service for all villages in the county. In October 2015, we launched more information platforms for Dulong such as “Mobile Internet + Education”, “Mobile In June 2014, we launched 4G service for the township, which Internet + Commerce” and “Mobile Internet + Travel”. made it the first minority township in Yunnan province with 4G service. In December 2015, we offered customised 4G devices and after-sale service to local residents. Dulong became the first In May 2015, we launched a pilot project for “Broadband ethnic minority in China to have full access to 4G network and Villages” in the township. So far, 35 out of 60 households have services. broadband access in their houses. In July 2015, China Mobile Yunnan Company signed a “Mobile Internet+” strategic cooperation agreement with the Nujiang prefecture government, according to which both would work together to build information infrastructure, innovate 09 Speed Upgrade and Tariff Reduction With the development of telecommunications technology, network increased to 98.4%, customer perception was improved, China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report mobile phones have become ”consumer goods” rather than and our network service quality continued to maintain an industry ”luxury goods”. The demands for telecommunications services lead. We boosted our 4G network speed by deploying carrier have changed, from clear calls and stable networks in the past, to aggregation technology and accelerated our VoLTE deployment to high-speed Internet connection and fast response in the present. provide a high definition voice communication experience. By the end of 2015, 304 cities were equipped with the basic audio and “Speed upgrade and tariff reduction” is an expectation video capabilities of VoLTE. of society and an initiative advocated by the government. We introduced 12 new initiatives for faster speed and lower costs, In respect of tariff reduction, we further reduced roaming including reducing roaming data traffic tariffs for international, tariffs for international and Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan regions Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan regions, sharing data traffic, data besides data sharing and rollover options. We added 30 countries roll-over options for the next month, and so on. We also cancelled and regions accessible to 3/6/9 yuan data traffic packages, covering roaming fee among Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei with the background 173 countries and regions in total. And 63 countries and regions of regional integration. were added to 30/60/90 yuan per day unlimited data traffic packages, covering a total of 80 countries and regions. Our overall In respect of speed upgrade, we continued to complete our international roaming tariffs dropped by 58% compared to last year. 4G quality management system, and optimised our end-to-end quality. Our network is now a high-speed network with an average Due to the effective implementation of “speed upgrade and download speed on urban roads exceeding 37 Mbps. Aimed at tariff reduction” initiatives, our handset data tariff dropped by 43% different scenarios and complex network circumstances, we adjusted compared to 2014, benefiting over 500 million customers, which is our 4G network using 110 indicators in six dimensions to reduce 80% of our data traffic customers. The dropped tariff allows more network overlap. By 2015, the CSFB completion rate of our 4G customers to use our data traffic services to enjoy the connectivity. Connect | Communication By 2015, the CSFB completion rate By the end of 2015, Our handset data tariff dropped by 304 43% of our 4G network increased to 98.4% cities were equipped with the compared to 2014 basic audio and video capabilities of VoLTE 10 “Faster Consumption of Data Traffic” Q&A In 2015, media raised a concern about “faster consumption of data traffic”. We explained in detail to our China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report customers through our Weibo, WeChat, website, hotline, and sales channels to eliminate this misunderstanding. Is it true that 4G consumes data traffic at a faster pace? Customer No. The billing system of China Mobile has been repeatedly checked and tested by authorities and independent third parties. The system is equipped with a rigorous inspection and verification mechanism. We implemented a policy of “double refund for billing errors” in order to protect our customers. In addition, for customers who subscribe China Mobile to our packages, we will send alert messages reminding them to avoid incurring high data costs when their data usage reaches 50%, 90%, and 100% of their packages, and when they are charged for extra data traffic use. Please rest assured and enjoy our services. Why did I use more data with 4G? Customer Connect | Communication With the rapid development of 4G networks, there are now more smart phone applications. Some apps may generate data traffic without your awareness. For example, weather apps automatically update data periodically, mobile anti-virus apps automatically download virus database, mobile e-mail apps regularly check for new emails, and some China Mobile apps regularly check and download for updates. Viruses may also cause unexpected data consumption. How can I avoid unexpected data traffic? Customer To avoid unnecessary data traffic, we suggest the following when using smart phones: 1. Use the”Quit” option rather than return to home screen if you want to exit an app. 2. Kill background apps regularly. 3. Turn off data pushing and automatic updates. Only update apps manually. China Mobile 4. Turn off the automatic e-mail pushing function. Scan the QR code for more information China Mobile Official WeChat China Mobile Official Weibo 11 Security and Reliability Mobile phone has become a vital part of our daily lives. Yet its convenience comes with China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report concerns and issues. Spam messages and crank calls are annoying, and telecommunications fraud is dangerous. For spam and improper messages and crank calls, we coordinated with 31 provincial companies in implementing a “White List+ Scientific Block” strategy in 2015. The companies upgraded their integrated control platform to prevent harassing phone calls and group calls. Spam and improper messages were intercepted and effectively blocked. • In 2015, by analysing the negative experiences of customers, the China Mobile Luoyang Information Security Centre formed a “prevention-surveillance-control” system for 16 types of harmful information including pornography, phishing scams, crank group calls and so on. We are able to protect the rights of customers through management and technology improvement. In the area of preventing and processing telecommunications fraud, we formulated an “International Fraud Calls Surveillance Interception Technological Requirement”, which was approved as an industry standard at the China Communications Standards Association (CCSA) meeting on 13 November 2015. • Since 2015, multiple fraud cases have occured in Beijing by using disguised base stations to pretend as “10086” customer service number to commit “redeeming points for cash” fraud. We use our own “Disguised Base Station Detection and Tracking System” to analyse the trajectory of disguised base stations and Connect | Communication cooperate with local law enforcement authorities to apprehend suspects. In Beijing, cumulatively 558 suspects were arrested and 406 disguised base stations were confiscated by law enforcement authorities with our help in 2015. • In 2015, we launched a “Phishing Scam Surveillance System Based on Domain Name Service” in Shandong province. The system has cumulatively monitored more than 1.184 million domains and blocked 955 phishing scam websites, effectively lowering the risks of fraud cases. We carried out researches on technologies and strategies for information security, and shared knowledge of telecommunications fraud identification and prevention to raise awareness. In 2015, we sent out 16 issues of fraud prevention information. These issues received over 7.3 million views from our Weibo followers. In 2015, we blocked more than spam messages 4.8 billion The number of spam message complaints dropped by 29.4% We sent 189 million 16 In 2015, we sent out issues of fraud prevention information SMS billing alert messages to customers per month on average 7.3 million These issues received over views from our Weibo followers For more information about customer information security and privacy protection, please refer to P.51 of this report. 12 We also continued to enhance emergency supports at key moments and major events to provide a reliable network connection. In the meantime, we applied strict management methods to ensure the electromagnetic field (EMF) of our base stations meets related safety standards. We also focused on public communication and demonstration of EMF information to address stakeholders’ concerns. China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report Emergency Support We developed specific plans to ensure network security during major events. In 2015, we successfully completed communication and information security supports for important events such as the Commemoration of the 70th Anniversary of Victory of the Chinese People’s Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War, the World Internet Conference, and other events. • In Guangdong, we formulated a rapid emergency disclosure system for early warnings. We can send out emergency warnings within 30 minutes to all local customers. Our 10086/12580 system can provide safety checks, alarm and recharge services In Liaoning, we work with local government to display for customers trapped by typhoons and rainstorms. radiation intensity using an EMF tour bus • After the explosion at a container storage station in Tianjin on 12 August 2015, we quickly launched a special plan for emergency support EMF Communication Connect | Communication including setting up emergency shelters, providing free “recharging for mobile phones” and free After years of interruption, local villagers from “family call” services. We helped 265,586 Dawan village, Bailongtan town, Mashan county, in customers prevent suspension of their phone Nanning city, Guangxi province, finally agreed to build service, and set up a safety check hotline so that a base station on 20 December 2015. The village people could look for their family members. head told us, “The villagers had a meeting last night. We agreed to build a base station and hope it can be • In 2015, Guangdong, Sichuan, Guizhou and other completed as soon as possible so that everyone can provinces suffered severe natural disasters, and enjoy a happy new year with a strong signal”. local telecommunications services were cut in certain areas. Our provincial subsidiaries launched To improve the signal for this village, we had emergency plans and dispatched emergency planned to build a base station as early as 3 years ago. support vehicles and employees to promptly However, the villagers were worried that base stations repair damaged base stations and restore and EMF radiation would cause sickness, so they communication at the earliest time. interrupted the construction several times. They would rather endure a weak signal and an unstable network, than have a base station near the village, despite what we repeatedly communicated with them. On 4 December 2015, an EMF tour bus arrived at Dawan village. Villagers could personally measure radiation levels. They watched a TV programme about 3,219 EMF, tested and compared the radiation levels of base Completed stations with that of televisions, electromagnetic ovens and other domestic appliances. They understood that emergency support operations the degree of radiation at base stations was much 208,000 lower than that of most household electric appliances Cumulatively dispatched by reading the actual numbers off the testing device. person-times of emergency support employees “The meeting helped us understand that base station radiation is not that scary. A weak signal is definitely more intolerable”, the village head said. Eventually, the misunderstanding of villagers was For more information about emergency support and EMF eliminated and the base station in Dawan was built management, please refer to P.49 and P.52 of this report. successfully. 13 Connect Innovation China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report “ T h e s p r e a d o f i n f o r m a t i o n a n d c o m m u n i c a t i o n s technology and global interconnectedness has great potential to accelerate human progress.” – United Nations, The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Sustainability • The 13th Five-Year Plan for National Economic and Social Development of the PRC proposed to build a modern Internet industry system, to implement the “Internet+” action plan, to promote deep and wide Context application of the Internet, to lead the transformation of both production models and organisational structure, and to form a new industrial mode that centred on network, intelligence, service and collaboration. • Made in China 2025: to accelerate the integration between a new generation of information technologies and manufacturing technologies, and to form an open and collaborative industry ecological system. To Connect | Innovation develop industrial Internet applications of smart monitoring, remote diagnosis and value chain tracing. To enhance infrastructure schemes of industrial Internet. Our Approaches • We supported the “Internet+” strategy by actively exploring the fields of mobile Internet, cloud computing, big data and the Internet of Things (IoT). We promoted specialised operation to build innovative capacity and built innovation platforms for our partners in order to support entrepreneurship and innovation. • We followed the national strategy to build strategic, fundamental and pioneering telecommunications infrastructure in certain areas, and to build a global network connection platform. • From connecting people to connecting things, we developed and innovated on IoT platforms and applications to build a new era of the Internet of Everything. Our 2015 Achievements Our 2016 Efforts • We established a specialised operation system for digital services. We • To strengthen research and innovation. To form a service integrated products of “and-Entertainment”, “and-Communication” platform to stimulate innovation by employees. To create more and “and-Life”, promoted integrated communication and home independent private-label products and services. To improve the products as potential portal of ten-billion-level connections, core competency towards the evolution of the next generation promoted centralised operation for IDC and Internet TV, and network. To build an open capacity platform to lead innovation launched industrial products such as “and-Education”, “and-Health”, and development in the industry. the Internet of Vehicles (IoV), and the Mobile Cloud. • To boost connectivity scale by expanding from wireless to • We built network infrastructure along the areas of “One Belt and wireline connections, from individual to household and enterprise One Road” in Xinjiang, Fujian, Shanghai, Shenzhen and Hong Kong, connections, and from domestic to global connections. and extended regional connections and helped Chinese enterprises operate globally. • To optimise connectivity services, concentrating on customer experience. To offer leading end-to-end information infrastructure • We completed an IoT development plan, developed more than services such as IDC, cloud computing and big data. 20 smart IoT modules, built the largest IoT network that could connect billions of IoT devices, and initiated IoT pilot applications • To strengthen connectivity applications by following customer in automobile, home appliances and industrial safety. needs, and expanding into digital life and digital production areas based on meeting fundamental connection and communication 14 demands. Platform for Innovation From 2G and 3G to 4G, in the past ten years, we have not China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report only upgraded the means of connection with our partners, but more importantly, we have built a platform for everyone to connect and 1,319 innovate. All of us can be innovative and creative, in realising various possibilities using this platform. In 2015, we submitted patent 576 In 2015, we established a specialised operation system and innovation platform for mobile Internet, IoT and enterprise information applications, and new patents were granted solutions. We also jointly set up the Zhongyi Innovation Fund to support value chain enterprises in mobile Internet, IoT, cloud computing and big data. We launched the Youth Entrepreneurs & Career Project, in which through entrepreneurship education, training and encouragement, we provided youths with a fast and efficient innovation environment to facilitate employment and entrepreneurship based on mobile Internet. We also worked with value chain partners on digital service innovation. By the end of 2015, we had over 6,000 6,000 partners in the digital new media area with over one million related employees. By the end of 2015, we had over partners in digital new media area New Research System for Better Innovation Connect | Innovation In 2015, we improved the innovative R&D system that • Innovation on cloud computing and big data: we consists of the Central Research Institute and the Suzhou formed research strategies for cloud computing and big data and Hangzhou research centres as inner circle, specialised technologies. We compiled a construction and evolution plan companies as middle circle, and provincial subsidiaries as outer for enterprise-level big data centres and a plan for big data circle. We enhanced collaboration among companies, facilitated management and specialised operations. We promoted the the commercialisation of R&D outputs to strengthen our selfdevelopment of network clouds to lower the entry barrier and owned core capabilities. In 2015, we enhanced our R&D costs of enterprise information solutions, and supported the capabilities in the following three areas: development of entrepreneurship in micro, small and medium enterprises. • The next-generation network: we kept driving the commercialization and deployment of evolved 4G • Innovation on digital products: by strengthening our technologies such as VoLTE to improve current network control over key products, improving our R&D and operation capability. To embrace the future changes, we initiated a abilities, and transforming our advantageous resources into research for the next generation network “NovoNet”to high-value core capacities through innovation, we kept on explore the future network architecture.In addition to that, expanding our information services and innovating on digital we have been actively working on 5G technologies and services. standards to lead the development of future network. W  e launched the Employee Independent Development Competition across our company 15 Supporting a Connected “One Belt and One Road” Strategy “One Belt and One Road” is a top strategic plan of China We are following national strategies and promoting overseas China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report to further open up its economy and stimulate the economies of deployment of China’s proprietary TD-LTE standards to provide network neighbouring countries. Xinjiang, Fujian, the Yangtze River Delta, the coverage and information solutions for areas along “One Belt and One Pearl River Delta, Guangdong, Hong Kong and Macao play to their Road”. We are seeking cooperation with international operators to respective location advantages in this strategy as they become the core invest in telecommunications infrastructure in these countries, so as to of the Silk Road Economic Belt and the 21st-Century Maritime Silk become a communication supporter and a value provider. Road. The strategy will expand China’s collaboration with Middle Asia, South Asia and West Asia, and build transportation hubs and centres of commerce, logistics, culture and education. In Xinjiang, we continuously In the Fuzhou Section of Fujian FTA In Shanghai, we entered improved network coverage in and the Pingtan Comprehensive into a strategic framework rural areas, border areas and Experimental Area, Mainland-Taiwan agreement with partners in highways. Our network covers ship routes and the Haixiahao cruise, respect of construction of more than 97.83% of the we completed and launched 867 4G a cross-border e-commerce local population so far. base stations by the end of 2015. ecosystem. This Asia-Pacific Our 4G network has fully covered e-port network would help these areas. connect major ports and promote the integration of the supply chain. Trading would become much One easier in this area, and and Shanghai could benefit Connect | Innovation from the network as a core node on the “One Belt and One Road”. China In Pakistan, we participated Belt in the construction of “One Belt and One Road” and One the China-Pakistan economy corridor. For locations with infrastructure, road and energy projects, we built base stations and provided signal Road coverage in remote areas with Taking Xishuangbanna, weak connection. We now Yunnan in Southwest provide voice, high-speed data China as a pilot site, we transfer, network access and accelerated the construction In Hong Kong, we opened our information solutions to almost of dedicated video lines and global network centre (GNC) 100 Chinese companies in 4G network infrastructure in 2014. By the end of 2015, local markets. at the border, international we had deployed 24 overseas ports and remote villages. network nodes distributed over We helped telecommunications Asia, America and Europe. 17 related Chinese companies additional nodes are planned in to do business in Pakistan. 2016. Our overseas nodes were Compared with 2007 when we In the Shenzhen Qianhai FTA, we built in major cities in the Asiafirst entered the market, more deployed a cross-border dedicated Pacific, America and Europe, and Chinese companies are now line to transfer data from Shenzhen through collaboration with local operating in this area to form to Hong Kong, with delay as low as operators, our information systems the China-Pakistan economy 0.002 seconds. The FTA dedicated were expanded to Eastern Europe corridor. line ensures real-time operations for for co-construction and sharing of Chinese financial firms. international transmission bandwidth. We are connecting neighbouring countries along the “One Belt and One Road”, building a global connection platform, and exploring a new trade route. China Mobile will grasp this historic opportunity, and build an information bridge to support this strategy. 16 Innovative Applications The small screen of a mobile phone enables information exchange to Affairs Bureau.” We can inquire and pay our utility bills, make a China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report take place and various day-to-day services to be enjoyed. We are exploring restaurant reservation while getting coupons... possibilities for “Mobile Changes Life” in different fields based on everevolving telecommunications technologies. China Mobile has launched the “and-Life” platform in 31 provinces and 355 cities. Over 8,000 apps are available on the On our “and-Life” platform, various apps connect us with platform. More than 130 million users have visited and used the different services. Through our phones, we can check on administrative platform in 2015. information such as “how to apply for a residence permit”, “how to buy and sell properties”, “what are the opening hours of the Civil Taking Bus with our “Bus Waits” app “It is never a pleasure to wait for a bus at a bus stop in winter. The temperature of Shenyang in winter often reaches as low as -10 to -20 degrees celsius. It is really tough when we do not know when the next bus will come.” Aiwei, a 21-year-old student who once was annoyed by the long wait for buses, is getting used to the app “Bus Waits”. This app shows real-time route and location of a bus to users, and estimates how long before the bus will arrive at a stop. Aiwei can leave her dormitory 10 minutes before the estimated arrival time, Connect | Innovation and still catch the bus at the stop. Although traffic in the city is still congested, people are now able to plan their journeys more efficiently and accurately. “Bus Waits” makes journeys more convenient Swipe “and-Wallet” for Mobile Payment There are four items that everyone carries with them: an ID, those who are in a hurry, and-Wallet is for them to save time. So a mobile phone, keys and a wallet. We fill our wallets with cash, far, more customers are using and-Wallet to enjoy the convenience debit cards, credit cards, transit cards, access cards, membership of mobile payment. cards, and discount cards. With so many cards in one wallet, the wallet itself becomes an annoying item. “and-Wallet” is a mobile payment app, which integrated financial cards from 70 banks, transit cards for 70 cities, campus cards for 25 universities, and different membership cards into one mobile app. As long as they are equipped with an NFC-enabled mobile phone, users can put the phone near a POS terminal to Scan the QR code for more information make a payment, without inputting a PIN code or signing. For 17 New Portable Entertainment with MIGU China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report In the subway or on a bus, most passengers will be reading books, watching videos, or playing games on their mobile phones. The commute is not that boring anymore, thanks to portable entertainment. We all have our favourite music, movies and books. We launched the largest licensed digital content platform in China with five apps: MIGU Music, MIGU Video, MIGU Read, MIGU Game and MIGU Cartoon, so that customers can easily access their likes. Over 500 million users are now using these apps to enjoy their favourite digital content. On 20 September 2015, we opened the very first MIGU Coffee brand store. Located in Suzhou, MIGU Coffee aims to offer an Internet-based digital experience within the store. Customers are able to try our online services in a comfortable environment with good coffee. The distinctive MIGU Coffee store Connect | Innovation Information Service Stations for a Better Farming Ecosystem In Jilin, we established an “Internet+Commerce+Service” safety from all service stations in the province. The province is agricultural ecosystem with local government based on information able to support each village directly via the platform. From the service stations in rural communities. From the management implementation perspective, we have built 1,557 information perspective, we have built a provincial-level command and control service stations in rural communities that help farmers get platform which collects information on e-commerce trading, information on markets, administration, and healthcare etc.. inventory, logistics, station distribution, product quality and This agricultural ecosystem covers 41 counties and more than 2 million farmers in the province. Every service station on average generates an addition annual income of over 20,000 yuan, and saves over 1,500 yuan for each farmer. The ecosystem helps boost crop output in Jilin by ten billion jin. The agricultural Internet platform connects farmers, agricultural experts, governments, agricultural value chains and consumers. Rural communities, once very far from outside agriculture information, now have access to the markets. The rural economy will boom because of internet connectivity if information can flow between farmers and consumers, and problems with inventory, logistics and sales can be solved. The information service stations help farmers prosper 18 “Escalator Guardian” In July 2015, a young mother in Jingzhou, Hubei saved her performance and status in real-time. Sensors collect data such China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report child but died in an escalator accident. The news drew public as the number of times the door opens or closes or the wire attention and raised public concerns over escalator safety. In 2015, rope moves up or down, and then transmit the data to a remote 46 people died in 58 escalator accidents in China, according to monitoring centre through 4G network. The centre analyses data the General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and and informs engineers so that they can fix problems accordingly. Quarantine. The operation and maintenance of escalators is under Since we installed the monitoring platform, the average repair scrutiny. time for escalators was reduced by 17% compared to a traditional telephone reporting mechanism, and the repair efficiency increased In Guangdong, we have used IoT technology to install by 25%. sensors and data collection devices on escalators to monitor their Connect | Innovation IoT escalator monitoring platform Safety under “Explosive Information Network” The 2015 explosion at a container storage station in Tianjin In Anhui, we developed an “Explosive Information Network”, broke our hearts, and raised alarm on hazardous materials which contains information of explosive operators and materials management. through specialised devices. The platform can dynamically monitor explosive material traces and authenticate the operators. Operators Management of enterprises with explosives storage and without effective authorisations from the platform are prohibited usage is always a pain for the regulators. There are a wide range from going on duty. Safety and police departments can use the and a great number of companies that operate explosives-related platform to monitor and track explosive operations, explosives businesses, using numerous categories of explosives. Safety and management processes, and employee safety coaching. police departments have limited manpower to visit and supervise so many companies, thus the supervision requirement can hardly be satisfied. 19 We have witnessed connections between computers, between mobile phones, and now between everything. IoT enables every item to be digitalised and informatised. IoT helps traditional manufacturing firms transform their processes to increase efficiency, improve safety management and have better quality control. We have made a “1+2+3+N” IoT development framework to accelerate the development of IoT platform and China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report expand the connectivity scale. By the end of 2015, our OneNet platform connected with over 800 partners, and our IoT network had over 60 million connections. The automotive industry is a promising industry for IoT. Real-time and accurate data collection and analysis is indispensable to conduct status checks, fix problems, manage energy consumption, and optimise navigation and traffic for cars. In the future, car owners can obtain all these data on a single smart device and better know their cars. Internet of Vehicles Helps “Safe Cars” China Mobile “1+2+3+N” IoT development framework: A China Mobile “Roadshang” smart terminal can be installed in the On-board Diagnostics (OBD) system of a car. The terminal is able to connect to an app to display car data and fault detection results. The app can keep tracking “1 core platform” A unified platform for energy consumption and driving behaviour, remind the operations management and driver to optimise driving behaviour and proactively manage the OneNet device cloud energy consumption through a comprehensive analysis, thus decreasing the oil consumption and carbon emission for a car. We developed a “Safe Cars” app in response to the automobile security issue, which integrates IoT technologies such as RFID (Radio Frequency Identification), GPS (Global Positioning System), GIS (Geographic Information System) To focus on “2+X horizontal and LBS (Location Based Service). The app can identify the healthcare and Connect | Innovation marketing structure” car owner via an Internet car platform, and initiate functions household markets under the car owner’s configuration of detecting car movements, calling the police, supervising and locating the car. Car owners can learn about their cars anytime using their phones. To focus on the According to an estimate, if the IoV was fully equipped, three key industries traffic congestion would be reduced by 60%, and throughput “3+3 vertical of public service, on current roads would increase by 2-3 times. If cars follow industry structure” energy, and navigation and driving behaviour advice offered by IoV, drivers transportation/ could avoid unnecessary stops by 30%, reduce driving times logistics by 13%-45%, and increase driving efficiency by more than 50%. IoV can also reduce car accidents by 20% and fatalities by 30-70%. In order to enhance the overall experience for IoV products and services, we will work with automobile manufacturers, on-board device manufacturers and map To promote an open industry providers to expand our service range and functions, improve alliance and an IoT ecoour service capacity and standards, reduce costs, and extend “N partner chain. To partner with the service to more customers. In the next 5 years, we are resources” software, module and device planning to apply our service to more than 10 million cars. manufacturers and application developers with high quality products and resources The Internet of Everything will extend connections from between humans to objects. The scale of connections will increase dramatically to tens of billions of devices. Connections will integrate with data information and services. Future smart devices will connect with cloud computing and big data, and will understand each user’s unique demands. Our imagination of the future, such as smart homes and self-driving cars, will be closer to us than just pure concepts. 20 Connect Prospect China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report “ B y 2 0 3 0 , e r a d i c a t e e x t r e m e p o v e r t y f o r a l l p e o p l e everywhere, currently measured as people living on less than $1.25 a day.” – United Nations, The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Sustainability • There are still 800 million people in poverty worldwide. In Chinese rural areas, there are 70.17 million people Context in poverty, which accounts for 7.2% of rural residents. • The 13th Five-Year Plan for National Economic and Social Development of the PRC proposed to promote targeted poverty alleviation, with more specifically targeted beneficiaries, targeted programme arrangement, targeted fund utilisation, targeted aid to each household, targeted personnel support for each village, and clear poverty alleviation targets. With these targeted measures, poverty alleviation efforts will become more efficient, ensure rural population in poverty do not worry about food and clothes, and guarantee their compulsory education, basic Connect | Prospect health care and safe housing. Our Approaches • We provided targeted aid to counties in poverty. We focused on solving transportation, water and power problems for them, in order to improve local infrastructure, production and living conditions. • We carried out targeted poverty alleviation. We promoted the construction of network infrastructure. With communication technologies, we helped them to obtain information regarding rural production, and empowered them to make changes using their own efforts. • We built a philanthropy platform to support projects in poverty alleviation, education, childcare, and others. We tried to drive both internal and external forces to participate in such philanthropy work. Our 2015 Achievements Our 2016 Efforts • We provided 40.68 million yuan in targeted aid and poverty relief • To carry out targeted poverty alleviation in accordance with support in 2015. practical conditions for different regions and people. To empower them to make changes using their own efforts. • We implemented the China Mobile “Blue Dream” Education Aid Plan, invested over 100 million yuan cumulatively, trained 80,981 • To expand the philanthropy platform to increase stakeholder principals of rural primary and secondary schools in central and participation in eradicating poverty and to promote inclusive social western China, and built 2,310 China Mobile Libraries and 1,260 development. multimedia classrooms. • To train 11,000 principals of rural primary and secondary • We launched new projects in Guangxi and Ningxia provinces for schools in central and western China, build 160 China Mobile the China Mobile Heart Caring Campaign – Aid for Children in Libraries and 160 multimedia classrooms. To provide more Poverty with Congenital Heart Disease Programme. This campaign books in minority languages for Tibet, Tibetan areas in four has so far cumulatively invested 87.7 million yuan, provided provinces and three prefectures in southern Xinjiang. free screening to 27,717 children in poverty, and sponsored the treatments for 2,744 children diagnosed with congenital heart • To sponsor the treatments of 860 children in poverty who are disease. diagnosed with congenital heart disease. 21 Targeted Poverty Alleviation Changes in Qipan Town China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report Qipan town in Yecheng county, Xinjiang autonomous In 2008, they donated tractors and other farming region, is located in a rural mountainous area. Since 2003, machinery worth more than 100,000 yuan for efficient farming. China Mobile has been conducting poverty alleviation programmes there. Musha Yasen, a “farmer reporter” in Qipan, In 2009, villagers from the three most remote villages witnessed and recorded how China Mobile had changed this of Qipan moved into earthquake-proof houses in the “China village over the past ten years: Mobile New Village”, with access to tap water and electricity. In 2003, people from China Mobile came to the village. In 2010, China Mobile worked with the local government They visited the village, and gave food, fertiliser, coal and to build a bridge for the village. More than 2,000 villagers clothes to those in need. They also donated 5,000 books to can now cross a river without having to walk through water. build the first China Mobile Library. Before that, during flooding or during winter when the water was frozen, it was difficult for villagers, students and patients In 2004, they donated over 60 TV sets, and set up to cross the river. Fruits and vegetables rotted in the village basketball hoops on a playground. They would organise because they could not be transported. basketball games with village youth. In 2014, they worked diligently for 48 hours with nearly In 2005, they finally set up a telecommunications tower 200 villagers from three villages to clear the sludge in a in this mountainous area, where the average altitude is around 3-kilometer canal, so that the farmland in the village could be 2,000 meters. Since then, we could use mobile phones, instead irrigated. They helped build demonstration farms of pigeons, of going to a county 70 kilometres away to make a call. rabbits and geese, and taught the villagers how to breed and feed them. They donated dovecotes and pigeons to villagers, Since 2006, they have supported 10 outstanding but poor and a brand-new Jetta car to make village production and life Connect | Prospect students to finish high school every year. Among them, over 10 more convenient. of them were admitted to universities. In 2015, they helped construct a motor-pumped well for In 2007, they donated computers to local schools and three villages, so that they did not have to drink water from a to the government, and set up broadband connections. They reservoir. taught children and villagers how to use computers, and how to access information and knowledge from the Internet. Residents received daily necessity packages 22 In 2015, we invested more resources to support poverty alleviation in five counties in Xinjiang and Heilongjiang provinces. We helped them build bridges, roads, canals, wells and supported their residence, breeding, education and livelihood, to solve problems with drinking water, travel, earnings power and education. China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report Poverty Funding Aid Initiative Alleviation Regions Luopu county of Hetian region, Xinjiang 1.5 million yuan Completed a safe drinking water project in Aqike village. Built 30 high-standard greenhouses for Baren village and helped 30 Shule county of Kashi region, Xinjiang 1.5 million yuan impoverished households increase production and incomes. Aketao county of Kezhou, Xinjiang 1.5 million yuan Built a bilingual kindergarten for Qiaerlong village. Helped 1,235 households in Xianjin village, Shuanglonghe village, Nanda Huanan county, Heilongjiang 2.74 million yuan village and Dalianpao village get access to tap water. Constructed a one-kilometre cement road for Xianglan village and built Tangyuan county, Heilongjiang 2.74 million yuan 4,100 meters of new drains for Qingdong village, Yongjiu village and Shuguang village. Philanthropy Support The China Mobile Charity Foundation launched a series of Honours in 2015 long-term charity programmes to promote education equality • “The Most Caring Enterprise” in the ninth China Charity and to assist vulnerable groups. In 2015, the China Mobile Awards; Charity Foundation continued the Heart Caring Campaign and the Blue Dream Education Aid Plan, donated 38.3 million yuan, increasing cumulative charity donations to 196 million yuan. • Ranked 2nd place in the “2015 Top 100 State-owned Based on these practices, we have been including more social Enterprises Charity Development Index”; Connect | Prospect forces towards supporting charities. • The China Mobile Heart Caring Campaign was ranked “Heart Caring Campaign” “Best 10 Five-Star Projects” in the “50 Best Charity Projects” from the “Corporate Philanthropy Blue Book At the lobby of a welfare centre in Chengduo (2015)”; county, Yushu prefecture, Qinghai province, a 14-yearold Tibetan girl named Baima Zhuoma leaned against • The Blue Dream Education Aid Plan was nominated by her mother, anxiously waiting for the doctor to check the ninth China Charity Awards for the Most Influential for congenital heart disease. Charity Programme and ranked first in the “2015 Survey on Awareness of Corporate Philanthropic Brands”. Zhuoma began to show symptoms of fainting since she was 7 years old. Her mother was not much aware of it, until the fainting became frequent. Her mother took her to a Tibetan hospital that was tens of kilometres away from home, where she was diagnosed with congenital heart disease. Her father had passed away a long time ago. Since their family income from selling mushrooms was only one thousand yuan per month, the family could not imagine how they could pay for surgery expenses. Assisted by China Mobile launching the “Heart Caring Campaign” Aid for Children in Poverty with Congenital Heart Disease Programme in Qinghai, Zhuoma was one of the children who received free surgeries. She and her mother received hope in their lives. China Mobile volunteers companied a child from Ningxia with China Mobile launched the “Heart Caring Campaign” congenital heart disease to Tianjin to receive free surgery Aid for Children in Poverty with Congenital Heart Disease Programme in 2011. In 2015, we started new projects in Guangxi and Ningxia provinces. Thus far, a total of 7 provinces have benefited from the programme. We have provided free screening to 27,717 impoverished children and have sponsored free surgeries for 2,744 children diagnosed with congenital 23 heart disease. Scan the QR code for more information “Blue Dream Education Aid Plan” China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report Tian Jing, the Principal of Riverside Primary School in Fengdu county, Chongqing city, attended the China Mobile Blue Dream programme in Putong Primary School, Shanghai for a one-day training. He wrote down what he learned in his diary: The aim of this school, which was founded one hundred years ago, is to ”Accept children from common families, and help The trainees of the programme were communicating  them to make extraordinary achievements from their ordinary with teachers from Putong Primary School positions”, so I respect this school. During my study, I was excited to discover new teaching I did not expect Principal Zhang Su of Putong Primary School methods such as “FUN Courses”, “Happy Practice Week” and to agree with my idea as soon as I put it forward. “Principal Tian, “Smart Homework Books”. It occurred to me that our teachers do you still recall our school motto? ‘Contribute to ourselves and could also learn these methods if we cooperated with this school, others, be sincere in speaking and responding’. We will do our best and so we sent our teachers here to attend “shadowing training” to help your school”. The motto of “Diligence and Honesty” has or invited teachers from this school to give guidance to our not changed for a hundred years, and I feel relaxed, touched and teachers. excited by it. Connect | Prospect Since we launched the Blue Dream – China Mobile Education Aid Plan in 2006, we have trained 80,981 principals of rural primary and secondary schools in central and western China, and have donated 2,310 China Mobile Libraries and 1,260 multimedia classrooms. Scan the QR code for more information The “Love Relay” and “Information Assistance” for Regional Education Development In Henan, we have carried out a “Love Relay” programme for ten years. We assisted 1,770 college students, 200 teachers and 1,600 children in poverty as well as 3,000 left-behind children, 350 orphans and 100 children with disabilities, and offered over 1,000 work-study positions in the province. In Fujian, many primary and middle schools in remote areas lack educational resources. We helped them install broadband optical cable, connecting them to a broadband network for free. We donated computers, whiteboards and other teaching equipment to them, connected these devices to our educational cloud platform, and trained teachers, students and parents on how to use computers, access online teaching videos and view online exercises. This programme has covered 1,000 schools, 20,000 parents, and 300,000 teachers and students in 23 counties in poverty. “ Love Relay” helps children in rural areas  with better study conditions 24 Volunteer Service We advocate a “volunteer spirit”, and have created a China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report volunteer charity platform along with volunteer projects to encourage employees and the public to participate in charities, pass on the power of love and promote a harmonious society. In 2015, the number of registered China Mobile employee 118,900 In 2015, we continued to commend China Mobile employees who dedicated their off-work time to philanthropic volunteers reached and activities and social services. Three “China Mobile Philanthropy Stars” were chosen by 90 thousand netizens: our volunteers served approximately 483,400 hours Ma Ke: Engage in Charity and Advocate Volunteer Spirit Ma Ke is an employee at the China Mobile Shandong Company Rizhao branch company. As the Executive Director of the”Love Rizhao” urban volunteer club, he leveraged the influence of the club and launched a “Love at Sunset” programme to visit seniors living alone, and a “Send Cool to the Migrant Workers” programme. These programmes have become well-known voluntary activities. In addition, he is Chief Editor of the”Love Rizhao” magazine and newspaper, spreading voluntary spirit to society. Connect | Prospect Su Qin: Electronic Mobile Library to Help Village Children Grow Up Su Qin is an employee at the China Mobile Sichuan Company Chenghua branch company. She became a volunteer in 2012 to help children in remote villages gain access to leisure reading. In 2014, she founded an NGO “Canbooks” with her volunteer partners to establish an ”electronic mobile library” for schools in Ya’an, Jianyang and other remote areas. Currently, there are more than 600 children from remote areas who read for leisure on electronic readers.”Canbooks” is one of the five projects nominated for the 2015 ”Aspen Ideas Festival Annual Outstanding Innovation Projects”. Wang Weixu: L ead in Green Action, Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction Wang Weixu is an employee at the China Mobile Liaoning Company Shenyang branch company. He has concentrated on network energy conservation for ten years, and implemented more than 10 projects such as “Optimise the power quality for communication buildings and base stations”, “Intelligent self-powered ventilation system of base stations”, etc. The latter project enabled us to reduce average consumption of electricity for a base station by more than 50%, with annual electricity costs reduced by 20,000 yuan. For more information about targeted poverty alleviation, philanthropy, volunteer work and overseas responsibilities, please refer to P.49-50, P.52 of this report. 25 Connect Green China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report “Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.” ——United Nations, The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development • The 13th Five-Year Plan for National Economic and Social Development of the PRC proposed to take positive Sustainability actions in response to global climate change, implement both mitigation and adaptation measures, actively Context control carbon emissions, fulfil emission reduction commitments, enhance adaptability to climate change, deeply engage in global climate governance, and contribute to tackling global climate change. • In 2015, most parts of China experienced severe smog. Beijing issued red alerts for heavy air pollution for the first time; the PM2.5 Air Quality Index (AQI) in Shenyang once reached over 1,000… • The ICT sector’s direct contribution to global warming is about 2%-2.5%, of which about 25% is from the Connect | Green telecommunications services. According to predictions by GeSI, with the application of ICT technologies, we could reduce CO2 emissions by 7.8Gt globally in fields such as manufacturing, transportation, construction and energy. Such reduction is equivalent to 15% of global CO2 emissions in 2020. Our Approaches • We continued to implement the Green Action Plan to promote energy-saving measures throughout all operational processes, and adopted more stringent environmental management to achieve a green and lowcarbon business. • We cooperated with supply chain partners to develop green standards and products to create a healthy and green industry ecosystem. • We innovated and developed green ICT solutions for energy conservation and environmental management to support governments, companies and the public in their eco-friendly efforts. Our 2015 Achievements Our 2016 Efforts • We optimised our energy management platform to accurately • To comprehensively promote the Green Action Plan, expanding analyse and control energy consumption. The accuracy of our coverage of our energy management platform and employee power consumption data from equipment rooms, office buildings participation in order to enhance the effectiveness of energy and base stations respectively reached 98.3%, 98% and 99.31%. conservation and emissions reduction efforts. • We reduced overall energy consumption per unit of information • To reduce overall energy consumption per unit of information flow by 17.6% compared to 2014. flow by 15%. • We promoted green packaging in 30 provincial subsidiaries • To lead our suppliers in developing and offering green products (except Xizang subsidiary) and the application ratio exceeded and services, and to promote communication and cooperation on 60%. The “Used Phone Trade-in Programme” recycled environmental issues in our industry. approximately 1.4 million used mobile phones. • To strengthen research and innovation efforts in green ICT • We launched a number of green ICT solutions such as the “Bluesolutions for aspects such as energy conservation and emissions sky Guardian” and a “Garbage Sorting Integration Management reduction, environmental management and ecological protection System” to help the public improve both the environment and life by applying advanced ICT technologies. 26 qualities. The Green Action Plan Management Commitment In 2007, we launched the Green Action Plan, focusing on energy China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report conservation and emission reductions. After years of practice and Energy exploration, we discovered a path towards the sustainable development Policy of both our business and the environment. In 2015, we implemented innovative technologies and management approaches to reduce our energy consumption and environmental impact. Continuously Planning Improving We installed a smart data-collection system for our base stations, facilities and equipment rooms across the country, and connected the system with our energy management platform to precisely Management Implementation analyse and control our energy consumption. We improved our Review and Operation energy management system and enhanced the application of energy conservation technologies. All employees were encouraged to improve the effectiveness of energy conservation and emissions reduction. Checking and Correcting Green Action Plan Management Process Energy Conservation During Phone Calls ”When do you usually make calls?” Many people make phone strategy, the energy consumption of each network cell can be Connect | Green calls at a specific time, which leads to a total effect on our network reduced by 10%, maintaining network quality without affecting load. When a network cell is underloaded and covered by other user perception. Communications quality and energy saving can cells, we can actually switch it off to reduce energy consumption both be achieved through this multi-network collaboration. without affecting communications quality. By implementing this Management, the Most Solid Foundation for Energy Conservation In 2013, Li Jie started to take responsibility for China Mobile “After this case, we conducted some investigations and Shanxi Company’s energy conservation and emissions reduction learned why we could not solve the problem. Even with the most work. advanced technology, without proper management we would fail.” With this experience, Li Jie and his colleagues adjusted their focus “At that time, we were overly focused on technologies. If any to energy conservation management. “Now in Shanxi, more than equipment room had high energy consumption, we would overhaul 96% of base stations are equipped with remote power monitoring it and adopt a new air conditioning technology. After a while, devices. We also hold an energy analysis meeting each month to we found this approach ineffective.” Li Jie clearly remembered compare the energy consumption indicators along horizontal and that once he and his colleagues installed a new ventilation facility vertical dimensions, and analyse the problems indicated by these for a high energy consumption base station. However, without a data.” management routine, the facility was not switched on or off as it should and even when the filter broke down, no one would replace In 2015, the air-conditioning energy-saving upgrade covered it. The reduced energy consumption soon increased again. 100% of the base stations in Shanxi, and is expected to save 25 million kWh each year. 27 Green Industry Development We are actively building a green value chain, and promoting China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report green development of the industry by reducing energy consumption and emissions over the full life cycle (production, transportation, usage and recycling). Energy Conservation Grading Standards With a focus on energy saving from the source, we developed energy conservation grading standards in seven areas to encourage manufacturers to innovate on equipment integration and intelligence, reducing energy consumption by at least 10% per year, and achieving reductions in equipment size and weight as well. We led the compilation of the Base Station and Controller Energy Conservation Grading Standards to promote industry-wide energy saving efforts. Green Packaging In our procurement of telecommunications equipment and facilities, we requested suppliers to adopt lightweight packaging considering logistics and transportation, environmental safety, reuse and recycling. With extensive use of green packaging materials, we are able to save timber resources and reduce wastes, leading to a value chain transformation to a circular economy. By the end Connect | Green of 2015, green packaging methods were applied by over 60% of suppliers among 30 provinces (except Xizang subsidiary). It was expected to save more than 100 thousand cubic meters of timber, reducing deforestation by 1,130 hectares. Green packaging has been applied by over 60% of suppliers, and is expected to save more than Device Recycling 100 thousand cubic meters of timber, 1,130 From the end of 2014, we implemented a Used Phone Tradein Programme for our customers within our sales channels with reducing deforestation by hectares manufacturers, distributors, and other recycling vendors. By introducing new recycling vendor partnerships, we provided a valuation service for old phones and gave discounts to trade in new phones. The initiatives have significantly reduced resource wastage and environmental pollution caused by discarded phones. Under the programme of “Green Deals for You”, customers could receive online coupons from China Mobile Online Store by sending used or broken mobile phones to us. Our employees also explained the negative impact of e-waste on humans and the environment to customers, and answered questions they often encountered. After In 2015, around 1.4 million customers participated understanding the hazards of e-waste, many customers purposely went home and gave old phones to us to recycle. In 2015, around in the Used Phone Trade-in Programme and approximately 1.4 1.4 million customers participated in the Used Phone Trade-in Programme and approximately 1.4 million used mobile phones were million used mobile phones were recycled recycled, which also drove sales of new mobile phones by about 1.3 million. In the future, we will further optimise the recycling process and call on more manufacturers to join this programme. We are For more information about energy consumption, greenhouse gas also planning to strengthen supervision on manufacturers to ensure (GHG) emission reduction, and waste recycling, please refer to P.44-46 that recycled mobile phones would be disposed of in a green way. of this report. 28 Green ICT Solutions We utilised our ICT technical advantages to connect innovative green solutions with urgent environmental management needs, and made China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report contributions towards energy-saving and emissions reduction processes in society by boosting environmental management and energy efficiency of traditional industries. Classifying Garbage and Swiping Cards to Enjoy Bonus Points In Fujian, we launched a Garbage Sorting Integration garbage and wet garbage”, “separation of hazardous waste” Management System with the cooperation of the Xiamen City and “accurate classification”, they could obtain bonus points Appearance & Environmental Hygiene Administration Bureau. By on the card reader and automatically convert the corresponding introducing the “e-Tong card” for accumulating and redeeming bonus during the next month to spend on bus trips or at “e-Tong bonus points, we jointly created an innovative household garbage card” alliance stores. By the end of 2015, we had carried out the classification reward mechanism. pilot scheme in 12 communities and distributed more than 6,000 cards, which greatly aroused enthusiasm and awareness by local When residents classified their garbage to meet the four residents to participate in garbage classification activities. requirements of “fixed time and place”, “separation of dry “Blue-sky Guardian”, Give Us Clear Sky ”What is the AQI today?” Since smog frequently occurs In Jiangsu, we launched the ”Blue-sky Guardian” HD video nowadays, air quality has become a common conversation monitoring platform. By installing HD network cameras on base starter. Smog pollution caused by large-scale straw burning stations in rural areas, we are able to monitor surrounding Connect | Green creates painful breathing problems, especially during the areas by way of visible light and infrared imagery and transmit harvest seasons. According to statistics, China has 1.5 billion the images in real time for 24-hour remote monitoring and mu of arable land, which produces 600 million tonnes of crop management in large-scale rural areas. By the end of 2015, residue each year. 80% of the residue will be incinerated, we had installed 4,320 cameras in 653 townships in Jiangsu causing wide-spread regional smog and adversely affecting province, deterring residue incineration and enhancing people’s lives and health. environmental management in rural areas. During harvest and planting seasons from 2013 to 2015, residue incineration cases declined by 51.2%. 29 Connect Growth China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report “ P r o m o t e d e v e l o p m e n t o r i e n t e d p o l i c i e s t h a t s u p p o r t productive activities, decent job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation.” ——United Nations, The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Sustainability • The 13th Five-Year Plan for National Economic and Social Development of the PRC proposed to carry out the strategy of giving priority to employment, implement more proactive employment policies, create more jobs, Context address structural employment problems, encourage entrepreneurship as a driver of employment, and achieve relatively full and high-quality employment. • According to research, there will be a shortage of 10 million skilled talents in the Internet industry in China within the next 5 years. Due to this shortage and fierce competition, we are inevitably facing challenges in terms of attracting and retaining talents. Connect | Growth • When the competition escalates to an industrial ecology level, the collaboration of companies and value chain partners will be key to success. Our Approaches • We kept on enhancing our employee career development system to offer employees a clear and smooth career development path. • We carried out employee care activities to help employees achieve work-life balance. • We explored innovative approaches to assisting supplier development and building a competitive business model that works and grows with value chain partners. Our 2015 Achievements Our 2016 Efforts • We performed researches on employee turnover, optimised our • To promote the Four Talent programmes, implement a core employee compensation system and built an H-shape career employee retention programme, establish an enlarged H-shape development path. diversified career development path, and initiate an internal 1,000 top-experts selection programme. • Our Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) has covered more than 300,000 employees. The participation rate of the “Happiness • To meet reasonable demands from employees, and keep on 1+1” programme reached more than 36%. carrying out EAP, “Happiness 1+1” and other employee care activities. • We allocated funds towards employee financial aid in multiple subsidiaries, and offered 2 million yuan in care funds to support • To strengthen our collaboration with supply chain partners, branch companies at high altitude areas over 2,500 meters. innovate our business models, and build an open, shared and collaborative ecology. • We developed more than 6,000 cooperative partnerships for MIGU Company, generating more than 12 billion yuan in revenues with our supply chain partners. 30 Grow Together In 2015, we faced the challenges of insufficient employee incentives and an increased risk of losing top talent. It has become an important China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report issue for us to enhance our market-oriented employee incentive mechanism and to build a diversified career development system. More Support for Career Development In 2015, we finished a report titled An Investigation into 2013-2014 China Mobile Employee Turnover, in which we looked into the reasons and current situation of employee resignations, and proposed a set of solutions. • Link the marketisation level of each business unit’s operating model to the marketisation level of its remuneration system. The more market-oriented a unit is, the more competitive its remuneration system would be. • Link performance to remuneration. Break the restraints on positions and levels, allowing elastic remuneration incentives to be based more on employee performance and value creation. • Explore the building of an H-shape career development channel and more talent programmes such as Millions of Talents Plan, One Thousand Talents Plan and special government allowance recommendation, according to the key areas and talents of our business. • Promote the construction of a job specification system to provide guidance for employee development in some provincial subsidiaries, with corresponding learning maps to systematically plan employee growth paths, thereby matching investments with organisational development and employee growth. “Broadband” Positions and Multi-Path Development Connect | Growth Compared with Internet companies, the previous position The new system is flatter, has fewer levels and wider level system at MIGU was unattractive to talents because of excessive ranges, and allows the remuneration of two adjacent levels to hierarchy, narrow level ranges and unclear promotion channels. partially overlap, so as to offer greater management flexibility. To solve this problem, MIGU designed an ability-based broadband This system is also equipped with a multi-path growth structure position management system through benchmarking with for employees by setting up promotion channels for administrative outstanding Internet companies. employees and also experts in different areas such as marketing, technology and products. We organised a best practices contest in 2015, “Elites Create the Future Together”. We selected the best internal practices in the four areas of digital leadership, marketing, technology and management, and summarised them into a series of micro-video lessons for our online university. In 2015, the Qimei Duoji and Bianba Zhuoma couple from China Mobile Xizang Company Ali branch company Taerqin store were named the “Ten Star Professionals i n S t a t e o w n e d E n t e r p r i se s” . B es i d es , t h e n et wo r k construction and maintenance team from China Mobile Hainan Company, Tian Fang (a customer manager from the China Mobile Shandong Company Yantai branch company Changdao Daqindao sale channel) and Huang Shaowen (a senior network support expert from the China Mobile Guangdong Company network management centre) were named the “Ten Most Beautiful Mobile Telecommunications Employees”. The Qimei Duoji and Bianba Zhuoma couple were named the “Ten Star Professionals in State-owned Enterprises” 31 More Happiness in Work and Life China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report Our employees are facing reform-induced shocks and increased competition because of significant development in the ICT industry. They require proper channels to destress and enjoy work-life balance. Since our experiment with the EAP programme in 2005, the programme has covered over 300,000 employees and helped many of them make positive changes in their lives for the past 11 years. Li Xiaoya: Beautiful Changes Brought by EAP “Imagine your boss was a dictator who never listens to your background as a senior trainer and a psychological consultant, she opinions or explanations whenever there is a problem and always accepted the offer when the chief EAP tutor of Anhui Company calls you and assigns work to you at mid-night and on weekends. invited her to be an EAP specialist. You just cannot go home even on weekends, and you are almost getting a divorce. Can you finish your work well and not getting “I myself had plenty of psychological problems before helping depressed?” At the beginning of Li Xiaoya’s EAP class, a customer others. However, when I focused on helping others, my mindset manager stood up and challenged her aggressively. Other shifted from negative to positive. Helping others is meaningful customer managers applauded loudly after this question, and Li and makes me happy despite tiredness.” Excitement could be seen understood the meaning behind that applause. “You are right. in her eyes. She was eager to help others and even sometimes It is undeniable that we all have our own problems not known seemed “insane”. Once she was in Wuhan for a business trip to one another. What we need is to have better communication during which she always had breakfast at a steamed dumpling to build mutual understanding. Firstly…Secondly…Thirdly…” store in Hangzhou. The owners were a couple, and they frequently Applause was raised again, but this time it was filled with quarrelled with each other. Li assumed the role of a mediator and understanding. The customer manager who asked this question helped them reach an agreement to go back to their hometown walked towards Li Xiaoya and gave her a big hug. to stay with their children and find jobs there. Li also supported other EAP specialists in putting theories into practice by organising Connect | Growth Li Xiaoya started her career from a grass-root level. With activities designed to discuss the dilemmas they encountered in 3 years of EAP experience, she has helped many colleagues real life. find happiness at work and in life again. In front of others, she is always passionate, joyful and full of energy. As a matter of “When you realise that everyone around you becomes fact, she once suffered from depression due to stress in 2013 better, it means you are better. When you are in a positive as well. At that time, a colleague responsible for EAP gave her mood, everything around you works well.” Li Xiaoya herself, her much help. Afterwards, out of personal interest, Li got a secondcolleagues, other EAP specialists, and even strangers, all became level certificate as a national psychological consultant. With her better because of EAP. Li Xiaoya was sharing how EAP made her happier during a training session 32 To help employees develop a healthy lifestyle, we started a “Happiness 1+1” activity to boost their physical and mental health. With “1” sport plus “1” hobby, they can be happier than “1+1”. In 2015, the participation rate of “Happiness 1+1” reached more than 36%. China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report Hand-drawing Posters, From Work to Fun “I joined the hand painting POP poster workshop twice. I applied what I had learned to my work and even to assist my kid’s studies.” Liu Xinxin, an employee from China Mobile Beijing Company Miyun branch company, officially joined China Mobile in 2005 and has worked here for more than 11 years. During these years, she got married and had a baby. When her child went to kindergarten, she had one more task: to finish homework together with her child, which normally would be some paintings and drawings. Before participating in the POP workshop, Xinxin lacked confidence in drawing and was stressed out. She signed up for the POP workshop at the moment she heard about it. Now, it is much easier for her to draw with her child together. “I am thankful to the company for arranging these useful workshops.” Hand-drawing Posters brought Liu Xinxin more happiness Connect | Growth to her work and life We launched a “Happiness 1+1” public account in WeChat to show employees’ personal charisma, to boost activity innovation, and to increase activity impact and coverage. We will establish “Happiness Scan the QR code for more information 1+1” files for employees from which we can choose experts and talents, and offer them a platform to showcase their hobbies and skills. Shanghai Company organised a series of “Happiness 1+1” activities (the picture above and to the right) 33 More Warmth for Employee Care China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report The “Mother Care Rooms” “Since we launched the Mother Care Rooms, there are fewer mothers who need to use toilet booths for a long time to save breast milk. Saving breast milk has become a happy and sweet ‘burden’ for me.” “Since we had the Mother Care Rooms, our family need not worry about baby’s food anymore.” With more working mothers insisting on feeding babies with breast milk, there are more “milk saving” mothers in the company. If there was nowhere to save milk, they would have to occupy a toilet booth or a warehouse. It was both embarrassing and inconvenient. In order to solve this problem, since early 2014, Shanghai Company has built Mother Care Rooms in 20 branches to offer a convenient environment for them to save milk. These rooms are used 250 times per day on average, which are welcome among female employees. Connect | Growth The “Mother Care Rooms” To increase employees’ sense of belonging and to connect employees with the company, we organised many employee care activities. • For female employees, we organised a Transformation and 2 million Development Forum, and produced a video named “Heroines Contributing to the China Mobile Dream” to encourage them We allocated yuan as care to work hard for the company while maintaining good worklife balance. funds to support county-level companies in high altitude areas above 2,500 meters • We allocated 2 million yuan as care funds to support branch companies in high altitude areas above 2,500 meters. • For employees with financial difficulties, we offer financial aid in many provincial subsidiaries. In 2015, Henan Company offered 453,800 yuan to 44 employees. Tietong Company increased the amount of one-off financial aid to employees 94% with serious illness and of regular financial aid to other employees with special needs. In 2015, of our employees received health check-ups For more information about occupational health and safety, training and education, and diversity, please refer to P.42 and P.46-49 of this report. 34 Develop Together On 14-16 December 2015, we held the third China Mobile Global Partner Conference in Guangzhou. 5,000 professionals from device China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report manufacturers, distributors and Internet application providers attended the conference. This is only a small part of how China Mobile collaborates with value chain partners to explore development opportunities. We will build an open, sharing-based and competitive digital industrial ecology based on a new generation of infrastructure, platforms and applications, and expand our cooperation with partners. Cooperation for New Development At Present, Increase Customer Value For the Future, Explore New Areas Wireline Mobile Cloud 4G Broadband Data Traffic Internet IoT Computing, Big Data Back-end Front-end Big Data Billing Location Open Centralised Capability Capability Capability Platform Support System Fast-track Small Payments and Order Financing Connect | Growth To reduce suppliers’ management costs and to increase suppliers, Guangdong Company cooperated with Shanghai Pudong payment speeds, Guangdong Company adopted a “performance Development Bank to offer order financing to suppliers. As of the deposit + one-off payment” method for strategic and long-term end of 2015, 69 suppliers had had access to 400 million yuan of partners. All payments are made as soon as goods are received. financing through this service. Currently, 9 suppliers have benefited from this service. Moreover, in order to support small and medium-sized and high-technology Build a “MIGU+” New Ecology During the 2015 World Mobile Conference (Shanghai), MIGU MIGU Company now has more than 6,000 partners. More released the “MIGU+” One-stop Service System. This system would than 12 billion yuan in revenues were created for its supply chain change the modes of digital content, product operation, capability partners. MIGU signed strategic cooperation agreements with opening, product packaging, channel distribution and business more than 10 partners in the areas of video, music, games, books settlement, and would increase industry cooperation efficiency. and cartoons. By regularly holding ”thinking, sharing, gathering” In respect of business models, MIGU introduced various forms of events among MIGU partners, we shared opportunities with them cooperation on top of the usual revenue sharing, such as buyout, to push forward cross-sector integration. minimum guarantee plus royalty and joint production, in order to speed up the establishment of industrial ecology and achieve winwin outcomes. For more information about supply chain management, please refer to P.43 of this report. 35 Special China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report In 2015, by continually implementing the responsibility Report: of party governance, enhancing party leadership, improving our anti-corruption regulations, punishing violators, raising awareness of integrity and building an Embedded Integrity Risk Prevention and Control Mechanism, we conducted antiSteady corruption work in tandem with business development. This ensures our steady growth and healthy development during Growth, the period of strategic transformation. Healthy Development Implemented Comprehensive and Strict Party Governance Special Report: Steady Growth, In 2015, the Group formulated policies of Working Rules for oneself. Be steady in planning matters, starting undertakings and Leading Party Group at China Mobile Communications Group and conducting oneself”, and rotation training for party secretaries. These Opinions on Implementing Comprehensive and Strict Party Governance education and training activities improved the structure, working Healthy Development and Enhancing Party Leadership, set a leading party group office which style, and anti-corruption mechanism of party governance, promoted is responsible for party governance execution and coordination. We development of both the party governance and our business, which conducted the special education program of “be strict in cultivating ensured a stable reform and growth environment for the company. one’s moral character, preventing abuse of power and disciplining Supported Disciplinary Inspection and Correction A team of disciplinary inspection conducted a inspection of China After the inspection team reported their findings, the Group Mobile in March and April, 2015. The Group formed a leading team, formed a leading team of rectification, which was chaired by our party administrative team and communication team for the inspection. We secretary. Seven special teams was formed to solve key problems. They formulated a inspection work flow, and kept communicating with the formulated 95 rectification tasks, and assigned these tasks to specific inspection team. A mechanism of clue verification, material review, personnel and deadlines. All problems were verified and disciplined external personnel support and problem consultation was established accordingly. to inspect problems identified by the inspection team. Embedded Integrity Risk Prevention and Control Mechanism We embedded specific management and control processes into basic framework and components of this mechanism. In 2015, we our production and business operations. These processes could match applied this mechanism to 6 key areas, including planned investments, and operate synchronously with our business operations to form an construction, network operations and maintenance, procurement Embedded Integrity Risk Prevention and Control Mechanism with tendering and bidding, business support, and device marketing. We China Mobile characteristics. We also formulated the Guidelines for identified 145 important risk areas and introduced 107 prevention Promoting the Construction of an Embedded Integrity Risk Prevention and control measures to further promote the deep integration of antiand Control Mechanism to define both short-term and long-term corruption work and business management, thereby establishing a targets and work plans. We compiled templates to standardise the sound anti-corruption system with China Mobile characteristics. 36 Strengthened Regulatory Framework China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report We formulated the China Mobile Discipline Inspection Group integrity in the procurement process. We applied both the principle Work Rules (Trial) to standardise organisational structure, work of conflicts of interest and a market supervision mechanism to the responsibilities, meeting mechanisms and work methods for our procurement process. We distributed the China Mobile Honest discipline inspection groups at our headquarters and subsidiaries. For Government Interview System (Trial) to promote regular and systematic procurement and other high-risk processes, we issued the Integrity integrity-related interviews. We urged relevant departments to include Risk Warning Notice and the Declaration of Special Relationships terms of supervision, inspection and responsibility investigation into and Particular Matters. Through establishing and implementing the new regulations in order to promote closed-loop management and systems of Special Relationship Declarations, Integrity Rules Notices strengthen the regulatory framework. and Integrity Risk Notices, we made clear the specific requirements of Enhanced Accountability We standardised the investigation process to make sure that 2015, we internally dealt with 96 cases, punished 140 employees, provincial subsidiaries follow the same processes, requirements and imposed organisational sanctions for 219 times, and held 4 subsidiaries rules made by higher authorities and the company. As of the end of accountable. Special Management Measures to Prevent Interest Transfers Through rigorous investigation and review of problems, partners. More than 26,000 managers and executives at we carried out special management measures in respect county-level companies or above submitted declaration Special Report: Steady Growth, of connected transactions between businesses run by our forms and written undertakings. The employees concerned corporate executives, their spouses, children and other also surrendered their gifts on their own initiative. relatives, and our executives’ receipt of gifts from business Healthy Development Advocacy of Integrity We carried out various integrity education activities with rich content and in diverse forms to increase employees’ awareness of integrity, honesty and ethics. We focused on disciplinary education and carried out the “Month In 2015, we received 1,605 of Anti-corruption” education programme for the fourth consecutive year, covering more than 90% of management personnel and 75% cases of of employees. We also further expanded our educational channels, using formats such as manager lectures, external expert reports, whistle-blowing, among which 90.28% typical case analysis, educational films, educational tours MMS lectures and learning experience sharing, and media such as office networks, were closed online university, SMS and MMS, WeChat, animations, games and micro video, to launch various practical, innovative and effective anticorruption education activities. Meanwhile, we tried to enhance the warning effect of our integrity and anti-corruption education. We analysed all our corruption cases since 2011 to reveal their features, patterns and negative impacts. In 2015, we held 5 educational meetings with these cases used as examples. In 2015, we conducted 1,986 anti-corruption education events with a total attendance of For more information about anti-corruption, please refer to P.50 of this 761,800 report. person-times 37 Performance Report Economic Performance Connect, Environmental with You Performance China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report Social Performance China Mobile benchmarks itself with international and domestic sustainability guidelines and best practices of the industry to improve its sustainability management approaches and Performance Report performance. We follow the requirements of GRI G4 Guidelines, UNGC Ten Principles, ISO 26000, HKEx ESG Reporting Guide, CASS-CSR 3.0 and GB/T 36002-2015 to disclose our management approaches to and performance data of material economic, environmental and social issues in the following performance report. We make efforts to ensure that the information is comprehensive, objective and accurate. 38 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Analysis To effectively achieve sustainable development, a company must comprehensively listen to its stakeholders, understand their concerns and respond to their needs. In 2015, we maintained close communication with our six stakeholder groups including customers, employees, shareholders and investors, government and regulators, value chain partners, and community and environment. In preparation of this report, we conducted a stakeholder survey to identify their key issues of concern and to determine what to disclose in this report through a materiality analysis. Stakeholders Key Issues of Concern (Top 5)* Engagement Approaches Customers 1. Network Quality 1. Customer Day 2. EMF Safety 2. 10086 Hotline 3. Information Security and Privacy Protection 3. Weibo and WeChat Communication 4. Customer Rights Protection 4. Online and Mobile Customer Service Platforms 5. Corporate Charity 5. Customer Satisfaction Surveys 6. Mobile App 7. CEO Mailbox Employees 1. Information Security and Privacy Protection 1. Employee Representative Conferences 2. Network Quality 2. Regular Trainings 3. Workplace Health and Safety 3. Performance Communication 4. Information Benefits for the Society 4. MMS Magazine Mobile Weekly 5. Employee Training and Career Development 5. Employee Recognitions 6. Employee Grievance Mechanism China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report 7. CEO Mailbox Shareholders and Investors 1. Information Benefits for the Society 1. Annual Reports, Interim Reports and Announcements 2. Network Quality 2. Annual General Meetings 3. Stakeholder Engagement 3. Investor Briefings and Conferences 4. Corporate Governance and Risk Management 5. Economic Value Creation Government and Regulators 1. Information Benefits for the Society 1. Routine Reports 2. Stakeholder Engagement 2. Specific Researches and Meetings 3. Network Quality 3. Relevant Forums 4. Corporate Charity 4. CEO Mailbox 5. Narrowing Digital Divide Value Chain Partners 1. Network Quality 1. Procurements 2. Information Security and Privacy Protection 2. Suppliers Website, Service Sites and Hotline 3. Supply Chain Management 3. Trainings and Assessments 4. Customer Rights Protection 4. Forums and Meetings 5. Economic Value Creation 5. CEO Mailbox Communities and Environment 1. Corporate Charity 1. Community Development Activities 2. Stakeholder Engagement 2. Mass Media 3. Information Security and Privacy Protection 3. New Media (Weibo, WeChat) 4. Carbon Emission and Waste Management 4. Charity Platform 5. Information Benefits for the Society 5. CEO Mailbox Performance Report *Note: For the top 5 key issues of concern, please refer to the conclusion of the stakeholder survey for materiality analysis on P.40 of this report. Indicators 2013 2014 2015 Indicators 2013 2014 2015 Number of sustainability training and Number of participants in Customer 79,970 93,000 106,289 promotion programme participants 131,350 216,038 276,519 Day (person-times) (person-times) Number of complaints and inquiries 78,096 101,000 101,560 Number of emails received in CEO responded to on Customer Day 2,194 2,378 2,058 Mailbox 39 In 2015, we conducted a materiality analysis over our social responsibility issues, covering both their impacts on our stakeholders and their importance to China Mobile’s development. The analysis revealed a set of high-materiality issues to be covered in this report. Identification International Standards Best Practice Sustainability Context We identified 16 social responsibility issues Studied standards such as Benchmarked against Reviewed global sustainability related to China Mobile by benchmarking GRI G4 and DJSI to select sustainability disclosures made trends, government international standards and industry best practices issues reflecting global by industry peers to identify macroeconomic policies and with our communications with stakeholders in the last sustainability trends and industry specific issues. social responsibility related media year. requirements. coverage to identify issues and concerns of sustainability and society. Evaluation 3.09% 7.16% Customers We conducted an online stakeholder 1,034 individuals 6.97% 2.32% 27.56% Employees survey in respect of 16 sustainability issues responded to the survey, Shareholders and Investors and invited various groups of stakeholders with internal and external Government and Regulators to prioritise the 16 issues based on each stakeholders each accounting issue’s importance to them. Value Chain Partners China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report for approximately 50%. Communities and Environment 52.90% Issue Report Content Boundary Prioritisation Connect | Communication; Social Network Quality Internal We prioritised the 16 issues based Performance on their importance to China Mobile and Information Security and Connect | Communication; Social Internal constructed an issue materiality matrix with Privacy Protection Performance High results from the stakeholder survey. This Materiality Connect | Communication; Social Customer Rights Protection Internal matrix revealed the material issues to be Issues Performance covered in this report. Information Benefits for Connect | Innovation; Social Internal the Society Performance High Stakeholder Engagement Ten-year Journey of CSR Internal 1 Connect | Innovation; Economic 2 Economic Value Creation Internal Performance 4 Steady Growth Healthy 9 3 Corporate Governance and 5 Development; Economic Internal Importance to Stakeholders Risk Management Performance 11 13 Anti-corruption and Steady Growth Healthy Internal Compliance Development; Social Performance 14 10 6 Connect | Prospect; Social Moderate Corporate Charity Internal Performance Report 15 8 7 Materiality Performance 12 Issues Workplace Health and Connect | Growth; Social 16 Internal Safety Performance Importance to China Mobile High Connect | Communication; Social EMF Safety Internal Performance 1. Network Quality 9. Corporate Charity 2. Information Security and 10. Workplace Health and Employee Training and Connect | Growth; Social Internal Privacy Protection Safety Career Development Performance 3. C  ustomer Rights 11. EMF Safety Connect | Communication; Social Protection Narrowing Digital Divide Internal 12. Employee Training and Performance 4. Information Benefits for the Career Development Society Carbon Emission and Connect | Green; Environmental Internal & 13. Narrowing Digital Divide 5. S takeholder Engagement Waste Management Performance External 14. Carbon Emission and Low 6. E conomic Value Creation Waste Management Environmental Resource Connect | Green; Environmental Internal & Materiality 7. C  orporate Governance and 15. Environmental Resource Conservation Performance External Issues Risk Management Conservation Connect | Growth; Economic Internal & 8. A  nti-corruption and 16. Supply Chain Management Supply Chain Management Performance External Compliance 40 Economic Performance Corporate Governance Why Is This Material? 3. Internal Control: in compliance with Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we established a systematic and standard A sound corporate governance structure is crucial for a company internal control system. This system is risk-oriented and to protect shareholder interests and balance stakeholder relationships. deeply integrated with our business, and explicitly defines Stringent risk management and internal control are important for our the responsibilities of each business unit. Our internal audit reaction to changes and sustainable development. team independently and objectively monitors and assesses the suitability, compliance and effectiveness of our operation and Our Management Approach internal control processes to improve our corporate governance, risk management and control processes. 1. Governance Profile: The board of directors always represents the interests of shareholders, aims at the target of enhancing China Progress in 2015 Mobile’s competence, and being responsible for strategic leading, decision making and risk elimination. The decision-making, 1. In 2015, the board followed the requirements of the execution and supervision mechanism has been improving in third, fourth and fifth Plenary Session of 18th CPC Central terms of responsibilities, board operation and balance. Our overall Committee, and the SASAC requirements of establishing a governance quality remains improving. formal board of directors. The board led the Company for development, researched on key issues of company operation By March 2016, our board of directors is composed by seven and management, prevented and controlled risks effectively, members: Mr. Shang Bing as chairman, Mr. Li Yue as director and and improved the research on corporate governance. The board general manager, Mr. Yu Ning, Mr. Tong Bao’an, Mr. Li Yuling, China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report has been performing its duty on decision making effectively Mr. He Qingyuan as outside directors, and Mr. Li Xiuchuan as and in compliance, which ensured a consistant and healthy staff director. development for the Company. In 2015, we convened 7 board meetings. 2. Risk Management: in line with our business features, we continuously optimise our comprehensive risk management 2. We enhanced monitoring of high-risk operations such as framework by tracking risk management theoretical research procurement, construction and collaboration, and strengthened trends both in China and abroad. We established the principles audit over overseas subsidiaries. We carried out special audits of of hierarchical risk assessment and classified risk management key processes and IT systems to plug the loopholes and improve and control. We specified roadmaps and plans for risk management. We actively promoted informatised auditing and management progresses to provide guidance for all business formally adopted computer-aided continuous auditing. lines and subsidiaries across the company. 3. We aimed at establishing an internal control system that covers all employees and is integrated with our business operation policies, processes and systems. When we adopt new management methods, commence new business operations or launch a new system, the corresponding internal control requirements will be followed. Performance Report 41 Financial Performance Indirect Economic Impacts Why Is This Material? Why Is This Material? The creation of economic value is the fundamental way for us In addition to the creation of direct economic value, economic to create value for stakeholders, and is also the foundation of our and social development are also affected by infrastructure investments, sustainable growth. employment, entrepreneurship and so on Corporations can bring longterm positive impacts on the economy and society in an indirect way. Progress in 2015 Meanwhile, due to the uneven economic development in different regions, the difference in the penetration rate of telecommunications Indicators 2013 2014 2015 services such as network and broadband between urban and rural areas still exists. It is our mission to help narrow the digital divide and enhance Operating revenue (billion yuan) 661.9 662.5 670.9 the overall informatisation level of society. Mobile data traffic revenue (billion yuan)* 105.4 150.6 198.3 Our Management Approach Taxation (billion yuan) 87.9 72.3 69.6 1. We continuously carry out the Village Connected Project (VCP) to provide communication and information services to remote rural areas and narrow the digital divide. *Note: Data of China Mobile Limited. 2. We built more 4G base stations nationwide, expanded our 4G Please refer to our 2015 Annual Report for operating costs, coverage, and promoted a “Wider, Deeper, Thicker and Better” employee remuneration and welfare, payments to providers of capital 4G network. and other financial performance data. China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report 3. We launched the Mobile Market (MM), which aims to foster an open, Market Presence collaborative and win-win mobile Internet value chain for developers and service providers. Based on the MM platform, we launched the Why Is This Material? Youth Entrepreneur Project to provide entrepreneurship incubators Benefiting local communities with our operations and cofor young developers to achieve self-worth. developing and sharing growth value with local communities can Progress in 2015 create a stable external environment for our further development. In 2015, with our operations, we generated more than 2.6 million Our Management Approach job opportunities across the value chain. We comply with local labour laws and regulations and actively support local employment, and all of our employees receive salaries Indicators 2013 2014 2015 Infrastructure Construction higher than local minimum wage standards. Cumulative number of remote Progress in 2015 villages covered by VCP 118,236 121,243 122,997 Cumulative number of natural The percentage of local employees in our Hong Kong Company villages obtained access to mobile was about 94.7% for all employees and 99.4% for management phone service via VCP 72,659 75,666 77,420 personnel. Cumulative number of administrative villages obtained access to broadband service via VCP 20,544 27,995 33,061 Number of sales channels in township-level areas (10,000) 65.4 60.2 59.5 Performance Report Number of Rural Information Service users (10,000) 6,029 6,266 6,349 Cumulative number of rural information sent via Rural Information Network (100 million) 217.4 350.2 532.4 The percentage of local Total number of 4G base stations employees in our Hong (10,000) — 72 110 Kong Company was about Promoting Employment and 94.7% Entrepreneurship Cumulative funding for Entrepreneurship support (10,000 yuan) 1,308 4,207 6,873 Number of registered developers in MM (10,000) 384.5 391.0 394.6 Cumulative application 42 distribution in MM (100 million) 41.97 93.07 129.42 Supply Chain Management Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. It is the only system in the ICT industry that was included in the first batch of national Why Is This Material? electronic procurement, tendering and bidding trial platforms. In 2015, 48,345 experts and 49,283 suppliers were registered in Supply chain partners are one of our six stakeholder groups, the system, and we finished over 37,000 electronic procurements and one of the most important partners for us to achieve sustainable through the system, accounting for 95% of total procurements. We development. By operating our business with standards and ethics and reduced approximately 600,000 paper documents for tendering and fulfilling social and environmental responsibilities together with our bidding, and hence reducing usage of 1,500 tonnes of paper, 754 value chain partners, we can achieve our sustainability goals better and tonnes of coal, 1,312.4 tonnes of timber, 962,000 tonnes of water faster. and 904,000 kWh of electricity, emission of 3,468 tonnes of carbon dioxide and 452,000 tonnes of sewage, and 18 million yuan of social Our Management Approach costs. 1. In the procurement process, we conduct strict qualification preassessments and after-assessments to verify the qualifications of Indicators 2013 2014 2015 potential suppliers. Regarding issues that have been identified, we would evaluate the impacts and then take actions such Number of suppliers 7,037 6,751 6,235 as clarification, rectification or cancellation of qualifications accordingly. Number of first-level suppliers 455 500 419 2. We promote a fair and transparent procurement process. Through Percentage of first-level local suppliers1 100 100 100 regulating a formal procurement decision-making process and embedding standard procedures into our information systems Number of second-level suppliers 6,829 6,605 6,105 and electronic procurement tendering and bidding system, we China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report reduced human intervention and ensured stringent execution of Percentage of second-level local procurement policies and requirements to reduce procurement suppliers2 47.65 44.80 47.41 risks. All procurement documents must disclose key information such as suppliers’ qualification requirements, auditing standards Number of assessments on firstand methods, and bid-winning principles. For all public level suppliers3 814 1,502 2,252 procurements, bidding announcements are required to be published. All procurement outcomes that ought to be published Percentage of assessed suppliers in all confirmed first-level suppliers 100 100 100 must be published. Number of suppliers disqualified 3. In the process of procurement evaluation and audit, we take SA8000 because of quality problems found certificate (or other certificates of occupational health and safety during on-site assessments 0 0 0 system) and ISO 14000 certificate of environmental management system as one of the evaluation criteria. As for suppliers who have Number of contracted service not obtained a SA8000 certificate, we require them to provide providers 227 120 210 information (for our evaluation) about employees’ working hours, salary and payment status, safety and healthcare. As for suppliers Percentage of outstanding level who have not obtained an ISO 14000 certificate, we require them SMS partners 11.8 11.7 9.6 to provide information (for our evaluation) about their product environmental friendliness undertakings and natural environment Percentage of outstanding level MMS partners 10.4 13.3 8.6 protection management to help evaluate environmental performance. Progress in 2015 Note: 1. We published the Guidelines on Regulating Procurement Decision 1. Percentage of first-level centralised procurement suppliers means Management for Subsidiaries of China Mobile, which aimed at the proportion of domestic suppliers (registered in Mainland enhancing procurement management at all levels and ensuring Performance Report China) in all suppliers for the first-level centralised procurement. consistent and unbiased evaluation of all suppliers to guarantee fair procurements. We did not conduct any international tendering projects in 2015, thus did not have any international suppliers. 2. We shifted changed our procurement specifications of USIM cards to smaller and thinner packaging. The new specifications allowed 2. Percentage of second-level centralised procurement suppliers USIM card suppliers to reduce packaging materials and resource means the proportion of suppliers registered in a province for consumptions, and thus reduce their carbon emissions. the second-level procurement of that particular China Mobile provincial subsidiary. 3. Our electronic procurement and bidding system has covered all provincial and prefecture-level subsidiaries, units directly under the 3. Number of assessments on first-level suppliers refers to the Company as well as specialised companies. This system took the lead number of supplier assessments carried out by our Procurement in the industry to integrate with the communication construction Shared Service Centre, covering both winning and non-winning project tendering and bidding information management system of the suppliers. This number does not cover second-level procurements. 43 Environmental Performance 142 energy saving measures of 20 categories. 5. We actively attended the carbon trading programme in Beijing, Energy Consumption and completed third-party verification, third-party spot checks, Why Is This Material? quota applications and implementation at our headquarters and Beijing Company. Reducing energy consumption and increasing energy efficiency are the direct ways to cut GHG emissions, which is a core target of 6. We were named “Sustainability Leadership Model Enterprise” our Green Action Plan. Although our total energy consumption goes again by the international carbon emission organisation authority up along with the expansion of our network scale and our business CDP (China). growth, we are striving to continuously reduce the overall energy 7. China Mobile International Information Port’s data centre won the consumption per unit of information flow. 2015 “Award for Energy Efficiency Technology Innovation” by the Our Management Approach Chinese Data Centre Energy Efficiency Technology Committee. 1. Implemented energy conservation grading standards for wireless Indicators 2013 2014 2015 network, core network, IT supporting network and IP bearer network. Energy Consumption These standards act as our management basis. Total electricity consumption (100 GWhs) 156.6 176.8 206.3 2. Researched and promoted new technologies of energy conservation and Natural gas consumption emissions reduction. Extended usage of renewable energy to substitute (million m3) 7.2 7.3 9.7 fossil energy. LPG consumption (100 tonnes) 7.1 5.1 3.7 3. Established an energy management system that covers 30 provincial China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report Coal gas consumption subsidiaries to monitor the energy consumption data. Conducted third(million m3) 1.2 1.1 0.5 party energy audits each year to ensure the accuracy of our energy Coal consumption management and data. (10,000 tonnes) 1.8 1.1 1.3 Gasoline consumption 4. Optimised air flows for core equipment rooms to increase (million litres) 152.6 142.1 151.4 efficiency of cooling systems and save electricity. Deployed Diesel fuel consumption natural cooling equipment for base stations. Used IP system, (million litres) 24.1 22.0 23.2 cloud computing and virtual technologies to increase IT system Purchased heating costs efficiency. (million yuan) 155.81 150.81 167.87 5. Proposed the next generation of network scheme C-RAN, which Alternative Energy Consumption would reduce the number of equipment rooms and cut energy Number of alternative energy consumption through centralised construction of stations. If the base stations – total 11,863 12,776 12,816 C-RAN scheme was fully deployed, we would improve wireless Solar energy 8,501 9,219 9,068 network performance while at the same time reduce 60% of average energy consumption. Wind energy 589 604 522 Solar and wind energy 1,765 1,931 1,940 6. Encouraged our employees to use IT solutions such as video Others 1,008 1,022 1,286 conferencing and our Integrated Information Network to avoid CO2 emissions reduction from unnecessary business trips and reduce our carbon footprint. alternative energy base stations (10,000 tonnes) 3.9 4.3 4.3 Progress in 2015 Energy Conservation Total electricity saving in this year 1. We invested a total of 180 million yuan into the Green Action (100 GWhs) — 7.9 3.0 Performance Report Plan. Equivalent costs saving by saving electricity (100 million yuan) — 10.7 3.9 2. Our overall energy consumption per unit of information flow Equivalent GHG emission reduction decreased by 17.6% as compared to 2014, and electricity per by saving electricity frequency carrier decreased by 4.5%. (10,000 tonnes) — 59.2 22.7 Green Office 3. Our energy management platform has covered 30 provincial subsidiaries to remotely collect energy data from 280,000 base Cross-provinces video conferences usage at headquarters (times) 942 851 855 stations, 3,000 equipment rooms and 336 building systems. Green Operation 4. We conducted on-site inspections for 10 provincial subsidiaries, 20 Online business sales of selfcities, 50 equipment rooms and 50 data centres. We implemented operating electronic channels (100 million yuan) — 2,089 3,209 44 Water Emission Why Is This Material? Why Is This Material? China does not have abundant water resources. Reducing water Climate change is one of the issues with greatest concern in the consumption can save the Company’s cost and ease the resource crisis world right now. If telecommunications enterprises and their value in areas facing water shortage. chain could reduce emissions, climate change can be significantly slowed down. Our Management Approach Our Management Approach We encourage the use of recycled water in our operations, and arrange property technicians to inspect water supply systems and 1. Our main emission source is scope 2 emissions. Thus the key to equipment regularly. During the construction of our data centres, we our emission management is to reduce energy consumption and use municipal reclaimed water and reuse underground water to reduce increase energy efficiency. We implemented the Green Action consumption. Plan for the ninth consecutive year, and established an energy management system which has been continually strengthened to Progress in 2015 achieve these goals. We did not find any incident which had significant influences on 2. We annually respond to CDP questionnaires and disclose our water source in this year. climate change strategies, risks, opportunities, third-party verifications, emission data and emission information from our top Indicators 2013 2014 2015 20 suppliers. Total amount of water used Progress in 2015 China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report (million tonnes) 33.11 33.92 40.06 In November 2015, we were named “Sustainability Leadership Average amount of water used per Model Enterprise” again by CDP (China). employee (tonnes) – 124 96 Indicators 2013 2014 2015 Biodiversity CO2 emissions Why Is This Material? (million tonnes) 12.22 13.58 16.24 We must install and maintain base stations in natural reserves Direct GHG emissions to enlarge our network coverage and improve network quality. (Scope 1) (million tonnes) – 0.40 0.43 Biodiversity in these reserves is extremely fragile and needs special Indirect GHG emissions attention and protection from us in order for man to live in harmony (Scope 2) (million tonnes) – 13.18 15.81 with nature. Carbon emission intensity Our Management Approach (tCO2e/10,000 yuan) 0.185 0.205 0.242 We conduct rigorous project evaluations and reviews according to Carbon emission from business relevant provisions regarding base stations located in nature reserves. travel (10,000 tonnes) — 16.49 15.87 Progress in 2015 Drop rate of carbon emission from In 2015, we did not find any species which were materially business travel (%) — — 3.8 affected by our operating activities. Performance Report 45 Effluents and Waste Social Performance Why Is This Material? Employment Effluents and discarded e-wastes would have severe negative impacts on our environment if not properly processed and disposed. Why Is This Material? Our Management Approach It is a basic requirement for a responsible company to make sure its behaviour throughout the processes of recruitment, working and 1. All waste water generated in our operation is treated by our dismissal meets legal requirements, and make sure it offers adequate sewer system to ensure zero emission of waste water. welfare to employees. 2. Wastes generated from equipment rooms, base stations and data Our Management Approach centres are recycled by qualified third parties. 1. We provide employees with insurance and welfare coverage in 3. We promote mobile device recycling through our Used Phone accordance with labour laws and regulations. Trade-in programme all over the country. The programme recycles used phones from consumers and increases public awareness of 2. We carry out EAP throughout the entire Company, which covers environmental protection. more than 300,000 employees and provides them with psychology consulting service. Progress in 2015 3. We carry out the “Happiness 1+1” activity to enhance employees 100% of the waste water generated in our operation was emitted physical and mental well-being. into sewer system and no non-compliance was found regarding China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report emission of effluents. 4. We set up special funds at provincial subsidiaries for employees who are suffering from serious diseases. 2014 2015 2014 Value 2015 Value Progress in 2015 Indicators Weight (10,000 Weight (10,000 (Tonnes) yuan) (Tonnes) yuan) 1. Held EAP specialist advanced training seminars to enhance the EAP capability of the Company’s core EAP team. We have a Waste Recycled by Qualified Third Parties dedicated team of 180 EAP specialists at subsidiaries at provincial, municipal and township levels, as well as at headquarters, Network Wastes 32,499 15,992 26,637 13,546 specialised companies, customer service centre and other units. Acid batteries 19,916 9,674 19,195 10,392 2. Officially launched the “Happy 1+1” activity with more than 36% of Communication employees participating. equipment 6,797 3,950 4,598 1,914 3. We offered 2 million yuan as caring funds to support township Cables 2,153 1,158 907 578 level subsidiaries in high altitude area over 2,500 meters. Others 3,633 1,210 1,937 662 Indicators 2013 2014 2015 Office Wastes 1,631 976 1,323 551 Employee Age Structure Total number of employees 231,546 274,347 416,895 Electronic equipment 1,036 743 937 473 Percentage of employees under 30 years old 25.12 35.24 39.64 Other wastes 595 233 386 78 Percentage of employees Performance Report between 30 and 50 years old 67.36 59.94 55.85 Devices 50 53 44 142 Percentage of employees above 50 years old 7.52 4.82 4.51 Total 34,180 17,021 28,004 14,239 Employee Turnover Total number of newly hired employees 7,555 19,726 28,512 Number of newly hired female employees 3,026 9,664 15,452 Number of newly hired male employees 4,529 10,062 13,060 46 Indicators 2013 2014 2015 Training and Education Total number of resigned Why Is This Material? employees 2,322 6,443 10,711 Number of resigned female Employees are the most valuable assets to us. Employees’ employees 867 2,455 5,088 professional skills are not only important to their personal career Number of resigned male development, but also a key driving force for our long-term innovation employees 1,455 3,988 5,623 and growth. Providing our employees with diverse and in-depth Total number of dismissed trainings is crucial to our talent retention. employees 65 436 510 Number of dismissed female Our Management Approach employees 31 164 199 1. Focusing on our business technical development, we gradually Number of dismissed male improve our talent selection mechanism through the Millions of employees 34 272 311 Talents Plan, One Thousand Talents Plan and special government allowance recommendation. Workplace Health and Safety 2. We revised the China Mobile Expatriate Management Measures Why Is This Material? according to the needs of business development and actual situations of expatriate management. We regularly select Avoiding safety accidents during production and protecting expatriates for overseas companies, including executives, middleemployees’ health and safety in workplace are important parts of our level and key employees of general management, finance, human business operations and employee rights protection. resources, marketing, network maintenance and other fields to set up our international talent system. Our Management Approach China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report 3. We keep optimizing our senior engineer evaluation system. We 1. We provide employees with annual health checkups to help them recommend middle-level managers to participate in the evaluation understand their health conditions. of professor level senior engineers held by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council. 2. We organise annual “Safe Production Month” events to examine We regularly coordinate all units to participate in different kinds safety issues and to ensure implementation of safety standards of national evaluation of professional titles to improve professional throughout the production process. skills. Progress in 2015 4. We carry out employee training programmes every year. Catering for our employees’ career development as well as our business 1. In June 2015, we carried out “Safe Production Month” events growth, we provide our employees with tailored trainings. We also with the theme of “enhance safety policies, guarantee safety in offer employees diverse off-work trainings to help them develop production”. We also organised production safety inspections interests and hobbies that are good for both life and work. from August to December. 5. We carried out research on professional skill certification system. We set up standard mechanisms and procedures for 2. We launched a “looking back” safety supervision and inspection skill development and implementation, skill courses database campaign. We organised production safety supervisions and development, and skill certification examination. The system lays inspections in more than 10 units. For identified safety problems a foundation for overall professional skill certifications. We set and potential hazards, we urged for rectification within a specified up promotion paths for twelve areas, including wireless network period. and core network management. We have compiled the training resources for all professional areas. 3. We held trainings for management in charge of the safety management departments, and organised a lecture about “to 6. We completed a full-cycle management and evaluation system, be a quick responder in emergencies” to increase their safety a training design and implementation system, and a platform to Performance Report consciousness and skills. share training resources, so as to strengthen our development of courses and training of lecturers. In order to cultivate a learning 4. In 2015, we had no major incident of workplace safety. culture in the Company, we constantly explore innovative training methods. Indicator 2013 2014 2015 7. Our Online University offers a variety of trainings to all employees such as corporate strategy, corporate culture, business strategy Participation rate of employee communication, skill certification for certain positions, and health check-up (%) 91 92 94 personal development, by means such as PC, mobile phone, Number of safety emergency drills 1,120 1,130 1,156 WeChat, live streaming and MOOC. It provides comprehensive learning support to our employees’ career development and Participation rate of safety professional growth, and promotes the implementation of our emergency drills (%) 85 86 86 business strategies. 47 Progress in 2015 Diversity and Non-discrimination 1. In 2015, about 330,000 employees participated in our Online Why Is This Material? University, of whom more than 140,000 used mobile phones Treating every job seeker and employee equally is the basic to access our Online University. They studied for 10.24 million behaviour for a responsible company. hours in total, representing an average study time of 31 hours per participating employee. Our Management Approach 2. China Mobile University won the China Top Enterprise University 1. It is explicitly provided in our employee manual that we will not Award and the American Society for Training and Development tolerate any discrimination based on employees’ age, ethnicity or (ASTD) Excellent Implementation Award in 2014. And it won gender. In recruitment and promotion, we also make sure that external recognition such as the Engine Award: 2015 China Top gender, ethnicity, and other unrelated factors would not influence Enterprise University, the China E-learning Industry Application final decisions. Innovation Award and the BooAoo Awards: 2015 Best Learning Management System Application Award in 2015. 2. We attach great importance to female employees’ reproductive rights, and fully respect their rights to take maternity leave. 3. In 2015, about 155,800 person-times participated in our professional skill trainings cumulatively. We organised skill 3. We provide female employees with a suitable work environment, certification examinations for 12 specialisation areas at junior including nursing rooms and mother caring rooms. and intermediate levels, and examinations for 4 specialisation areas at advanced levels. 110,000 person-times attended those Progress in 2015 examinations. 1. We organised a Transformation and Development forum, and China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report produced a video named “Heroines Contributing to the China Indicators 2013 2014 2015 Mobile Dream”, to show female employees’ proactive and Training expense per employee optimistic spirits and hard work. (yuan) 2,632 2,429 1,944 Number of persons trained 2. In 2015, 100% of our female employees at our headquarters (10,000 person-times) 98.9 116.8 116.9 returned to work after maternity leave. Number of senior management trained (person-times) 686 734 741 Indicator 2013 2014 2015 Number of mid-level Percentage of female employees 40.92 47.05 54.79 management trained (person-times) 15,126 12,327 12,139 Percentage of female employees at Number of general employees senior management level1 18.17 17.60 14.15 trained (10,000 person-times) 97.9 115.5 115.6 Ethnic minorities as Percentage of employees who have a percentage of total attended diploma courses (%) 4.13 0.85 0.98 employees 6.92 6.86 6.80 Average training time per employees (hours) 61.2 57.5 57.6 Note: Average training time per senior 1. Senior management refers to management personnel at management (hours) 60.1 68.4 92 vice president level or above at provincial subsidiaries and Average training time per midmanagement personnel at department general manager level or level management (hours) 61.7 56.6 66.4 above at headquarters. Average training time per general employees (hours) 61.8 57.5 57.3 Labour Grievance Mechanisms Employees studied in online Performance Report Why Is This Material? university (10,000) — 32 33 Average studying hours of To offer employees smooth channels of communication and employees in online university (hours) 25 25 31 complaining can allow us to understand employees’ needs, protect Employees studied in online employee rights and identify blind spots of our management in time, university via mobile phones (10,000) — 14 14 thus improving our general management. Our Management Approach Employee grievances, suggestions and feedback are collected through channels such as the CEO Mailbox, the Petition Office and the labour union. Collected materials will be handled promptly. 48 Progress in 2015 Local Communities 1. In 2015, 83 emails relevant to human resource management were Why Is This Material? received in the CEO Mailbox. All these emails have been sent to relevant departments to process. Our business significantly impacts local communities and residents. It is a vital part of our sustainability strategy to help the development 2. We held video conferences about optimising labour issues of communities by using our resources and technologies. communication channels to summarise and promote good practices such as labour union chairman’s mailbox, inspection and Our Management Approach reception day. 1. We have pre-arranged plans of emergency support to ensure Business and Human Rights quick response of network maintenance when emergency occurs, in which case we will maintain local communication Why Is This Material? facilities and telecommunications networks to secure basic telecommunications service for the public. Human right protection shows the value of a company, and reflects its basic attitude towards society and people. China Mobile 2. The China Mobile Charity Foundation carries out key programmes adheres to the value of “Responsibility Makes Perfection” to respect of Blue Dream and Heart Caring Campaign to help rural primary and protect human rights. and secondary schools and children in poverty with congenital heart disease. Our subsidiaries undertake charity and volunteer Our Management Approach programmes for local communities. 1. We have been a member of the United Nations Global Compact 3. In Qinghai, Xizang, Heilongjiang and Xinjiang, we undertake since 2007, and we support and implement the UNGC Ten poverty alleviation programmes at targeted areas. We offer Principles. We fully respect and protect internationally recognised China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report human rights and forbid any involvement in human rights abuses manpower, in-kind resources and investments for infrastructure, and violations. industrial development, education and household donations. 2. We actively protect the rights of employees to participate in Progress in 2015 corporate affairs and their freedom of expression. We organise labour unions and employee representative conferences. At We provided 40.68 million yuan as targeted aid and poverty relief these conferences, major concerns to the interests of employees support in 2015. or major activities are presented to employee representatives. All of our headquarters, provincial subsidiaries and specialised Indicators 2013 2014 2015 companies signed equal collective agreements with all employees. We forbid the hiring of child labour or forced labour. Emergency Communication Support 3. In addition to strictly protecting employee rights, we also take efforts to encourage our suppliers to protect employee rights. We Number of emergency revised the Supplier Management Methods and developed the support 4,005 3,126 3,219 supplier certification template to require human right certification from our suppliers. We also conducted labour practice Major political or assessments during first-level centralised procurement process. economic events support 3,416 2,728 2,807 4. Through evaluating our business and service, we consider that Significant natural customers’ privacy, employees’ rights protection and suppliers’ disasters support 491 350 371 human right protection are essential for us. Moreover, through our efforts on poverty alleviation and digital divide narrowing, Significant accidents or we are able to contribute to the development of human rights in catastrophic events support 85 31 24 poor and remote areas. Public health incidents Performance Report support 2 3 0 Progress in 2015 Public safety incidents 1. We formulated the Guidance on Promoting Transparent Corporate support 11 14 17 Operation to further promote the development of democratic management. Number of emergency support vehicles deployed 5,127 6,135 8,212 2. For our achievements in customer privacy protection, employee rights protection, supply chain management, poverty alleviation Number of sets of emergency and digital divide elimination, please refer to relevant sections of support equipment installed 50,741 33,421 58,624 this report. Personnel involved in Indicators 2013 2014 2015 emergency support Union participation rate for regular (person-times) 465,443 314,212 207,822 employees (%) 100 100 100 Union participation rate for all contracted workers (%) 98 98 98 49 systems of Special Relationship Declaration, Integrity Rules Indicators 2013 2014 2015 Notices and Integrity Risk Notices, we made clear the specific Philanthropy and requirements of integrity in the procurement process. Volunteering 2. In 2015, we applied the Embedded Integrity Risk Prevention and Number of registered Control Mechanism to 6 key areas, namely planned investments, employee volunteers constructions, network operations and maintenance, procurement (10,000) 9.85 11.52 11.89 biddings, business supports, and device marketing. We sorted Hours of employee volunteer out 145 important risk points and introduced 107 prevention services (10,000 hours) 52.20 46.05 48.34 and control measures, thus establishing and improving the anticorruption work system of “education, prevention and control, Cumulative number of children in poverty who punishment, and accountability”. received free congenital heart disease screenings 17,788 23,840 27,717 3. We worked with the central inspection team to conduct special inspections. We enhanced communication with the central Cumulative number of inspection office and the team, and formulated a set of inspection assisted children in poverty mechanisms and processes to clearly convey the requirements who were diagnosed with congenital heart disease 1,341 2,260 2,744 proposed by the inspection team in time. We carefully verified the whistle-blowing reports and established the coordination Cumulative number of China Mobile mechanism integrating material verification, external investigation Libraries built 1,910 2,110 2,310 support and special case coordination. We formed 43 verification Cumulative number of teams to verify 112 reports. multimedia classrooms built 880 1,070 1,260 China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report 4. We carried out the “Month of Anti-corruption” education Cumulative number of programme for the fourth consecutive year, which covered more principals of rural primary and secondary schools trained 59,000 70,539 80,981 than 90% of our management and 75% of our employees. 5. We published the Notification on 2014 Disciplinary Inspection Anti-corruption Results and required all subsidiaries to conduct self-inspections. In particular, the six subsidiaries subject to headquarters’ inspection Why Is This Material? in 2014 formulated and amended 138 policies, and 110 employees were held accountable for their violations. Corruption cases cause serious damage not only to our interests but also to our reputation. 6. We implemented a standard investigation process and ensured Our Management Approach that provincial subsidiaries strictly followed the requirements set by higher authorities and the companies. By the end of 2015, 1. We have always paid much attention to building an integrity we internally dealt with 96 violations. 140 employees received management, punishment and prevention system. We studied disciplinary punishments. We disposed 219 person-times cases, the 2013-2017 Work Plan on Establishing and Improving an and held 4 subsidiaries accountable. Anti-Corruption System, and formulated detailed implementing 7. In 2015, we received 1,605 cases of whistle-blowing, among guidelines. which 90.28% were closed. 2. Our employees can learn the requirements and progresses of our 8. In 2015, we carried out 114 efficiency supervision projects. anti-corruption efforts from our website, internal publications, trainings and so on. Indicators 2013 2014 2015 3. We have set up a designated mailbox, an email address Anti-corruption education Performance Report (jubao@chinamobile.com), CEO mailbox, a telephone hotline (010programmes organised (times) 3,908 3,071 1,986 52616186) and a fax number to encourage whistle-blowing from our employees and the public. We strictly protect the identities Attendance of anti-corruption and interests of whistle blowers, carefully verify issues involved education and trainings (person-times) 428,146 461,137 761,800 and properly handle confirmed cases. Number of confirmed and disciplined Progress in 2015 corruption cases 16 54 96 1. We amended our anti-corruption policies. We formulated the Number of employees dismissed and China Mobile Discipline Inspection Group Work Rules (Trial), disciplined for corruption 16 87 140 Integrity Risk Warning Notice, Declaration of Special Relationship and Particular Matters, and Interview Provisions on China Mobile Honest Government Interview System (Trial). By adopting the 50 Fair Competition Progress in 2015 Why Is This Material? 1. In 2015, based on the “Vault Mode”, we enhanced our compliance management on key points of control, such as In order to create an open and fair market, each participant shall position and clearance, accounts and authorisation, and customer behave properly. A well-ordered market will provide participants with a information processing. We performed company-wide on-site better development environment. inspections. In this year, we did not have any major incident of customer data leakage. Our Management Approach 2. We carried out special activities against pornographic content. We attach importance to our marketing activities during special Nearly 100,000 customer complaints were handled. promotions, including campus promotions and holiday promotions, as which have a relatively high incidence of unfair competition 3. In 2015, we blocked more than 4.8 billion spam messages, and behaviours. For example, we set up mechanisms to effectively shut down more than 3.41 million crank call numbers. 260 million regulate campus marketing activities and hold special sessions to international fraud calls were intercepted, 4 million pieces of give provincial subsidiaries guidance on rational competition. As a mobile pornographic content were deleted, 160,000 websites result, there was no wide-ranging and long duration major incident were blocked, 128,000 types of malware were detected, and in 2015. 4,400 malware ports were disposed. 4. Our “Monitor Technology Requirements for Mobile Fraud Base Progress in 2015 Station” and “International Fraud Phone Surveillance Interception Technological Requirement” were approved as China’s industry In 2015, we were not charged with any lawsuit for antistandards at CCSA. competitive behaviours. China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report Customer Information Security and Privacy Indicators 2013 2014 2015 Protection Percentage decrease of complaints for spam messages (%) — 64.9 29.4 Why Is This Material? Number of fraud numbers Issues concerning information security and customer dealt with — 5,600 96,000 privacy have been hot topics in recent years but are difficult to be completely solved. There are always new types of Network and Service Security telecommunications fraud, which not only result in financial losses for customer, but also bring challenges to our management. Why Is This Material? Our Management Approach In order to maintain our competitive advantages, it is essential for us to build a network that is suitable for future Internet and mobile 1. We implemented the “White List + Scientific Block” strategy Internet development, and to provide wider range of connections, for spam messages, upgraded the integrated control platform better networks and services. It is also the foundation of sharing for crank calls, collectively managed “voice group crank calls”, connectivity value with society. and cooperated with law enforcement authorities to deal with disguised base station fraud. Our Management Approach 2. We continued to promote the “Vault Mode” to realise strict control 1. We constantly optimise our networks system, and continue to of sensitive customer data following the principle of “multiple be an industry leader in respect of network quality. We improve authorisation and double checking for key operations”. our customer-oriented quality control mechanism, reformed our Performance Report operation and maintenance mechanisms, optimise the 4G wireless 3. We upgraded our international fraud call interception system. All and core networks, and fully promote the VoLTE (Voice over LTE) 31 provincial subsidiaries are able to intercept international fraud network renovation and maintenance system. calls. 2. We focus on 4G customers and conduct customer satisfaction 4. We supported network and information security for major events. surveys. By introducing the NPS (Net Promoter Score), we have During such events we developed special supporting plans and adopted Internet research methods to investigate 4G customers’ assigned tasks to different specialised teams. perception during the whole consumption process on the basis 5. We conducted monthly security inspections on our business of CATI (Computer-Assisted Telephone Interview). We conduct systems. We also worked with external security experts to monitor 360-degree monitor on the perception of 4G customers and our network and business systems. all the key elements, which provides important information to improve our products and services. 51 Progress in 2015 Our Management Approach 1. In 2015, our daily 4G data retention rate was 96.2%, and our We strictly implement regulations such as the Environmental mobile phone click rate was 85.8%. Protection Regulation for EMF to strengthen EMF management and build our EMF management system. 2. We promoted network renovation in connection with VoLTE in ten areas, which covered 90% of network units and over one We regularly inspect and monitor the EMF management in million equipments. By the end of 2015, the comprehensive provincial subsidiaries. Trainings regarding EMF standards and laws and completion rate was 96%, and 304 cities were equipped with the EMF risk communications are offered to employees to make sure that basic audio and video capabilities through VoLTE. our base stations meet requirements provided in relevant regulations and their EMF is within the regulatory limits. We also carry out a 3. According to the customer satisfaction survey conducted by variety of activities to help the public understand EMF and address the the PRC Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, our public’s concerns about EMF. customer satisfaction was 78.72%, continuing to maintain an Progress in 2015 industry leading level. We used EMF Awareness Raising and Experience Tour Buses to Indicators 2013 2014 2015 encourage public to measure the EMF levels in a variety of sites, such Network Service as their homes, base stations, crowded areas, streets, etc. We directly Number of customers (million)* 767 807 826 explained EMF regulations and standards and its impacts on health to the public to ease their concerns about EMF. Number of 4G customers (million)* — 90 312 In order to make EMF information more transparent to the Number of countries and regions China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report public, we participated in regular events organised by environmental with 4G international roaming protection authorities including the Earth Day, the Environment service — 71 114 and Development Forum, annual sustainable meeting of Chinese Number of countries and regions environmental NGOs and the World Environment Day. with GSM international roaming service 242 248 255 Overseas Responsibility Number of countries and regions with roaming data Why Is This Material? traffic service 197 208 215 International transmission When we enter a foreign market, our operation would have bandwidth (G) 1,300 1,579 2,983 impacts on the local communities. It is necessary for us to be CSFB completion rate responsible for overseas communities to achieve further business of 4G network (%) — 97.65 98.38 expansion and co-development. Successful connection rate of GSM network (%) 99.12 98.57 98.32 Our Management Approach Successful connection rate of 3G 1. In Hong Kong, we have started recruitment and training network (%) 98.53 97.49 97.43 programmes with the local government, including the Youth Call drop rate of 4G network — — 0.14 Employment and Training Programme with the Labour Call drop rate of GSM network (%) 0.43 0.46 0.45 Department and the Internship Programme with the Vocational Call drop rate of 3G network (%) 0.21 0.22 0.19 Training Council. In Pakistan, by working with our partners, social Customer Rights Protection channels, agents and retailers, we have created over 200,000 jobs indirectly there. Meanwhile, we launched a management trainee Complaint rate per million customers (cases) 32.3 30.7 38.5 programme GTO, which provides 1.5-year internship opportunities to outstanding graduates. Performance Report Number of reported spam messages handled 2. In terms of employee caring, we have set up a Employee Caring (10,000) 435 195 145 Committee in Hong Kong to help employees achieve better *Note: Data of China Mobile Limited. communication and work-life balance. Progress in 2015 EMF Management and Communication Why Is This Material? 1. We won the “Partner Employer Award” and Job Market’s “Best Employer Award 2015”in Hong Kong. Currently, the public still deeply misunderstand the EMF of telecommunications base stations. This brings difficulties to the base station 2. On 26 October 2015, an earthquake struck Hindu Kush on the planning and construction work. Communication with the public about EMF Afghanistan-Pakistan border. We actively participate in earthquake is not only a manifestation of the public’s right to know, but also a necessary relief and mobilise employee donation. We also offered free process for us to maintain a harmonious relationship with the community. communication services to customers affected by the disaster. 52 Stakeholder Commentary China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report Guo Xiuming Deputy lnspector, Department of Policies and Regulations Ministry of Industry and Information Technology Connect to Create a New Sustainable Ecology Stakeholder Commentary In 2015, “Connectivity” played an unprecedentedly significant Plan, the Blue Dream and the Heart Caring Campaign. It is worth role in China’s national strategies of economic and social development, mentioning that this report also responds to and explains issues such including promoting “Cyberpower”, implementing the “Internet+” as “speed upgrade and tariff reduction” and “telecommunications initiative, building a manufacturing giant, and facilitating the “Made frauds” which are of customers concern. This is the tenth sustainability in China 2025” plan. It has become a mission and responsibility report of China Mobile and a significant milestone of China Mobile’s of China’s information and telecommunications industry in these efforts in fulfilling its corporate social responsibility. I sincerely areas: acting a fundamental, strategic and leading role in the congratulate China Mobile in its achievements in sustainability and economy; building the fast, mobilised, safe and ubiquitous new social responsibilities. generation of information infrastructure; integrating information and telecommunications technologies with the manufacturing industry in In this report, China Mobile depicted a picture of Internet of all areas and segments; and transforming production and development Everything in the future. With the range of connections expanding from patterns to drive economic growth, structural adjustments and human to things, a wave of industry transformation and innovation livelihood improvements. will be stimulated and enormous possibilities created. Looking ahead, I wish China Mobile will grasp the new opportunities of “Internet+” to I am happy to learn from this report that “Connectivity” has support the “Cyberpower” strategy and create more connectivity value become a core competence and responsibility of China Mobile. In for better life and social development. I expect that China Mobile will terms of faster connections, China Mobile made great efforts to lead the information and telecommunications industry and other statepromote and develop the 4G network in a “Chinese speed”, with a owned enterprises in performing social responsibilities, and connect million base stations and over 300 million customers. In terms of easy more social forces to build a new sustainable ecology. access, China Mobile launched initiatives such as data sharing, data rollover and lower roaming tariffs so that more customers could enjoy high-speed, high-quality connections. In terms of connecting with vulnerable groups, China Mobile carried out the Village Connected Project to enable remote villages and underdeveloped regions to enjoy fast and convenient connections brought about by the new generation of information communication network. In terms of innovation in connectivity applications, China Mobile developed various innovative digital applications for key areas of transportation, mobile payment, digital content and security. It also supported entrepreneurship and social innovation to create and share industrial value in the order of tens of billions, and established an open and win-win digital service ecology. In terms of sharing connectivity value, China Mobile made March 2016 great contributions to energy conservation, emission reduction, education equality and aid of children in poverty with congenital heart disease through many long-term projects such as the Green Action 53 Feature: The year 2006 was considered the first year of corporate social responsibility (CSR) in China as the revised Company Law of the China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report PRC specified that ”companies need to fulfil social responsibility” for the first time. It was exactly the same year when China Mobile announced its vision of corporate responsibility” with perfect sincerity and integrity, we will strive to fulfil our triplesided responsibilities: our economic responsibility, our social responsibility and our environmental responsibility” and compiled its first CSR report. Since then, China Mobile has been continuously improving its CSR philosophy and management system. We have been exploring to integrate CSR into our Ten-year corporate strategy, operations and culture, and improving our CSR practices to better address stakeholders’ key expectations. Journey of CSR We summarise our ten-year journey of CSR as follows: 10 Years of CSR Practice Feature: Ten-year Journey of CSR “Economic Responsibility” Economic Responsibility: we will secure our own sustainable development through honest and responsible economic activities. To this end, we will build on all our strengths, pursue excellence and continue our efforts in innovation. Value Creation Customer Service Communication Reliability Operating revenue increased Number of customers increased From 2006 to 2015, we from 295.4 billion yuan in 2006 to from 301 million in 2006 cumulatively conducted 36,043 670.9 billion yuan in 2015 to 826 million in 2015 emergency support operations, with over 3.7 million person-times Tax paid during the deployed period from 2006 to 2015 In 2015, compared to 2006, tariff of cumulatively exceeded voice services decreased by 65.6% , 630 billion yuan We handled over 13 million and handset data tariff decreased by spam messages reported from 2009 Created an average of 97.3% to 2015 about 2.5 million employment opportunities each year from 2006 to 2015 Complaint rate per million customers Number of registered developers in MM reached remained the lowest in the industry for six consecutive years 3.946 million 54 Universal Service Poverty Alleviation and Philanthropy Efforts China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report We implemented the Village From 2006 to 2015, From 2006 to 2015, Blue Dream – Connected Project, bringing mobile we invested over 300 China Mobile Education Aid Plan phone service to 122,997 million yuan in targeted trained 80,981 principals of rural administrative villages and natural aid and poverty alleviation primary and secondary schools in villages and broadband service to support central and western China, and built 33,061 administrative villages China Mobile Charity Foundation has 2,310 China Mobile Libraries and donated 196 million yuan since The number of sales channels 1,260 multimedia classrooms its establishment in 2009 in township-level areas reached From 2008 to 2012, the 595,000 From 2006 to 2015, China Mobile Warm China 12.1 Project 11.8 employees spent more than sponsored 15,749 Employee Caring million hours on volunteer work children orphaned by AIDS or living in extreme poverty EAP has covered 300,000 employees From 2011 to 2015, China Mobile Heart Caring Campaign provided free More than 1 million person-times of congenital heart disease screening to employees were trained on average each 27,717 children in poverty, and year sponsored the treatments for 2,744 children diagnosed with the disease “Social Feature: Ten-year Journey of CSR Responsibility” Social Responsibility: while pursuing our own excellence, we will strive to achieve synergy with the sustainable development of the society and enable the public to reach their full potential by using our network and services. “Environmental Responsibility” Environmental Responsibility: we will endeavour to protect the natural environment and build ecological civilisation by reducing our consumption of resources and minimising the impact of our operations on the environment. Energy Conservation and Environment Protection Our electricity consumption We reduced timber use Since 2008, we have formulated per unit of business volume in packaging materials by a variety of energy saving grading decreased by 86% in 2015 over 600,000 cubic standards for telecommunications equipment, which have promoted compared to 2007 through metres by applying the our Green Action Plan, the use of smart equipment and green packaging solution for equivalent to saving 36.7 telecommunications products achieved over 10% of electricity billion kWh electricity from 2008 to 2015 saving per year, leading the green calculated at the 2007 level development of the whole industry 55 of energy efficiency 10 Years of CSR Since 2006, China Mobile has implemented strategic CSR management China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report by following global CSR standards and best practices, adapted to the Management needs of our operations and management, and focused on results and management innovation. Strategic: We take our corporate strategy as both a starting point and a guidance to develop an integrated strategy of fulfilling CSR and achieving strategic development. Comprehensive: We pursue a dynamic balance of our economic, social and environmental performance, which is integrated with all aspects of our operations and processes, and focus on impacts on all stakeholders. Systematic: We aim to achieve coordinated CSR management with effective organisation structures, systems and processes. Open: We attach great importance to the engagement of our stakeholders and take their feedbacks into our consideration in our business decision-making processes and management improvements. China Mobile CSR Organisation Structure Chaired by the Chairman of the Company, with other members from CSR related CSR Steering Committee headquarters departments, the CSR Steering Committee is responsible for reviewing and (Decision-making) making decisions about CSR strategies, targets and programmes as well as other major Feature: Ten-year Journey of CSR issues. Under our Strategic Planning Department, the CSR Office is responsible for organising CSR Office and coordinating sustainability issues for headquarters departments and provincial (Coordination) subsidiaries to ensure effective implementation of our sustainability strategies and goals. Headquarters departments manage specific sustainability issues, following the closed-loop Headquarters management process of Plan-Do-Check. Departments and Business Subsidiaries Strategic management departments at subsidiaries are responsible for establishing cross(Implementation) level and cross-sector teams and implementing CSR management decisions. China Mobile CSR Management Structure Set sustainability philosophy and vision CSR Strategy Management Develop sustainability strategy and work plans Sustainability training Responsible CSR Execution Operation Sustainability issue benchmarking Management Culture Sustainability information collection & monitoring Organisation System Integrate sustainability into performance management CSR Performance Process Sustainability capability assessment Management Sustainable Best CSR Practices Selection Development CSR Communication Sustainability reporting & communication Management Stakeholder engagement 56 China Mobile CSR Management Milestones 10 Years of Honours and Recognitions China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report 2006 Started strategic CSR management by establishing our CSR vision The Listed Company was included in the of “With perfect sincerity and integrity, we will strive to fulfil our Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) for triple-sided responsibilities: our economic responsibility, our social the eighth consecutive year (2008-2015). responsibility and our environmental responsibility”. Also listed in the Hang Seng Corporate 2007 Published the first CSR report in China’s telecommunications Sustainability Index Series for the sixth industry and started regularly disclosing our economic, social and environmental performance comprehensively, systematically and consecutive year (2010-2015); objectively. Awarded the China Philanthropy Award, 2008 Set up the CSR Steering Committee and an integrated CSR the top government award in charity, by the management system involving senior management, functional departments and subsidiaries. Ministry of Civil Affairs for six consecutive sessions (the fourth to ninth session); 2009 Released the China Mobile Corporate Social Responsibility Management Policy and formally established a close-loop CSR Awarded “Sustainability Leadership management system. Enterprise Model” by CDP (China) for two 2010 Conducted a sustainability capacity assessment of all 31 provincial consecutive years; subsidiaries for the first time, guiding our subsidiaries to conduct annual sustainability capacity benchmarking and make improvements in weak issues. Ranked 1st in China 300 CSR Development Feature: Ten-year Journey of CSR Index (2015) by CSR Research Centre, 2011 Formed a DJSI issue management system by benchmarking with DJSI Chinese Academy of Social Sciences; sustainability issues, and established a close-loop, cross-function issue management system. Selected as the Top 10 Responsible State2012 Comprehensively improved the CSR management, summarising our owned Enterprises by the Information CSR practices and striving for better CSR issue management and Centre of State-owned Assets Supervision external recognition. and Administration Commission of the 2013 Adopted the G4 sustainability reporting guidelines and participated State Council and CASS. Our 2007 in GRI’s G4 Pioneer programme and Knowledge Sharing programme as the only participating company from Mainland China. CSR report was selected as the Top 10 Responsibility Reports, and our Heart 2014 Jointly released the Chinese Corporate Social Responsibility Report Preparation Guide – Telecommunications Service Sector with the Caring Campaign was selected as the Top CSR Research Centre, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, raising 10 Philanthropy Programmes; the bar of information disclosure for the industry. China Mobile Rural Communications 2015 Published our sustainability report online for the first time, entering a new phase of CSR communication with stakeholders in a more Strategy case, Green Action Plan case, interactive and open way. Health Insurance in Rural China case and E-Mining case were selected by Harvard Business School, University of Michigan and Looking Cranfield School of Management. Forward To enhance CSR strategies and management, improve CSR policies and management processes to better serve business strategies. 2016 To enhance issue management by benchmarking with international best 2020 practices and focusing on weak issues identified to ensure good overall sustainability performance. To enhance sustainability communication and brand by enhancing stakeholder engagement mechanism, adapting to the flexible interaction of new media, and building an integrated communication of CSR brand. 57 Report Rating Rating report on China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report Upon the request of China Mobile Communications Corporation, Chinese Expert Committee on CSR Report Rating invited experts to form a rating team. The team rated China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report (hereinafter “the Report”) as follows: 1. Rating Criteria Chinese Corporate Report Preparation Guide (CASS-CSR 3.0) – Telecommunication Sector and Rating Standard on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises (2014). 2. Rating Process (1) The process assessment team interviewed members from the social responsibility related department and viewed the relevant materials involving the preparation of the Report on site. (2) The rating team evaluated the management process and information disclosure of the Report and drew up the rating report. (3) The vice chairman of Chinese Expert Committee on CSR Report Rating and the team leader of the rating team signed the rating report together. 3. Rating Results Process Management (★★★★★) The Department of Development Strategy took a leading role to form a reporting team. The senior management of the corporation reviewed the reporting progress and approved the report. The reporting team identified stakeholders, consulted their advices by conferences, discussion sessions and surveys, and defined material issues based on corporation major issues, domestic and foreign government policies, industrial Report Rating benchmarking results and stakeholder feedbacks. The corporation prepares to release the Report on new media, and deliver the Report in Chinese and English, in print and electronic, and in full and summarise versions. Thus, the Report process management is super excellent. Materiality (★★★★★) The Report systematically discloses key performance issues on telecommunication industry such as “Communication Quality”, “”, “Product and Service Innovation”, “Transparent Tariff”, “React to Customer Complaints”, “Customer Information Protection”, “Emergency Support”, “Narrowing Digital Divide”, “EMF Safety” etc. The Report discloses the issue of “Faster Consumption of Data Traffic” in a Q&A form. The Report has a super excellent materiality performance. Completeness (★★★★★) The Report systematically discloses key information through “Connect | Communication”, “Connect | Innovation”, “Connect | Prospect”, “Connect | Green”, “Connect | Growth”, “Economic Performance”, “Environmental Performance” and “Social Performance”, with 90.0% of core indicators disclosed for telecommunication industries. The Report has a super excellence completeness performance. Balance (★★★★★) This report discloses negative data information on “Complaint rate per million customers”, “Number of confirmed and disciplined corruption cases”, “Call drop rate of 4G/3G/GSM network”, etc. It also presents the cases of “EMF communication” and “Special management measures to prevent interest transfers”. The Report has a super excellent balance performance. Comparability (★★★★★) This Report discloses data on more than 110 key performance indicators of at least three consecutive years, including “Operating Revenue”, “Taxation”, “Participation rate of employee health check-up”, CO2 emissions”, and “Number of emergency support”, and compared data such as “Global 4G network scale”, “4G customer NPS “, “Customer satisfaction” to domestic and foreign data. The Report has a super excellent comparability performance. Readability (★★★★★) The Report is themed “Connect, with You”, and written in five chapters of communication, innovation, prospect, green and growth. Each chapter is started with sustainability context, our approaches, 2015 achievements and 2016 efforts. The logic is strong, the language is clear, and the case demonstration is diversified. Photos and figures are presented in various forms and in accordance with the context. The layout and colour of the Report is bright and easy to read. The Report has a super excellent readability performance. 58 Innovativeness (★★★★★) The stakeholder survey and issue framework for performance report are in accordance with DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index) China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report requirements, and formed a closed-loop management process with responsibility management and responsibility assessment of the corporation. The Report consists of “Communication Report” and “Performance Report” for general readers and professional readers respectively. “Ten-year Journey of CSR” restates the corporation’s performance on responsibility practices, responsibility management and honours and recognitions. Stakeholders can learn the decade responsibility history of the corporation. QR codes are inserted in multiple locations of the Report to extend reporting information. The Report has a super excellent innovativeness performance. Overall Rating (★★★★★) Through evaluation and deliberations, the rating team agreed to rate China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report as a five-star, super excellent corporate social responsibility report. 4. Suggested improvements Match reported cases to the report theme to improve the persuasion and communication effect of the report. Rating team Team leader: Cheng Duosheng, Director of Corporation Innovation Department of China Enterprise Confederation Team member: Zhang’en, Vice Director of the Research Center for Corporate Social Responsibility Chinese Academy of Social Science Fang Xiaojing and Wang Zhimin, Process Evaluators Report Rating Wei Zichuan Cheng Duosheng Vice chairman of the Chinese Expert Committee on CSR Report Rating Team leader of the expert rating team Date of Issuing: April 19, 2016 59 Report Disclosure Indexes GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4) China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report No. Page/Omissions No. Page/Omissions No. Page/Omissions No. Page/Omissions STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS We plan to establish such Currently we do not Supplier Assessment for Labour G4-46 G4-1 2-3 process in the future have an in place scope 3 Practices G4-47 56 GHG emission statistics G4-DMA 43 G4-2 2-3 G4-EN17 system,we plan to G4-LA14 43 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-48 56 establish such a system in G4-3 4 G4-49 56 G4-LA15 43 the future G4-4 4 Labour Practices Grievance G4-50 41,56 G4-EN18 45 Mechanisms G4-5 4 G4-51 Annual Report G4-EN19 26-28,45 G4-DMA 48 G4-6 4 G4-52 Annual Report ODS is not one of G4-LA16 49 G4-7 4 G4-53 Annual Report G4-EN20 our major emission HUMAN RIGHTS G4-8 4 G4-54 Confidential Information substances Non-discrimination G4-9 42,46-47 G4-55 Confidential Information Our major emission G4-DMA 48 G4-10 46-47 G4-EN21 substances do not ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-HR3 48 G4-11 49 include such emissions G4-56 54,56-57 Freedom of Association and G4-12 43 Effluents and Waste G4-57 37 Collective Bargaining G4-13 42,43,46-47 G4-DMA 45-46 G4-58 37 G4-DMA 49 G4-14 12-13,41 G4-EN22 45 G4-HR4 49 ECONOMIC G4-15 5,49,60-63 G4-EN23 46 SOCIETY Economic Performance G4-16 49,57 No significant spills Local Communities G4-DMA 42 G4-EN24 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS occurred during the year G4-DMA 21,49 G4-EC1 42 Our operation does not AND BOUNDARIES G4-SO1 21,49 G4-17 4 G4-EC2 26-29 G4-EN25 involve hazardous waste G4-SO2 21,49 Report Disclosure Indexes We participate in Social or emission G4-18 5,39-40 Anti-corruption Insurance System in G4-EN26 45 G4-19 40 G4-EC3 G4-DMA 36-37,50 accordance to Chinese Products and Services G4-20 40 G4-SO3 36-37,50 Law G4-DMA 26,28-29 G4-21 40 G4-SO4 36-37,50 G4-EC4 Annual Report G4-EN27 28-29 G4-22 5 G4-SO5 37,50 Market Presence G4-EN28 46 G4-23 5 Compliance G4-DMA 42 Compliance STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-DMA 41,45,50 G4-EC5 42 G4-DMA 45-46 G4-24 39 G4-SO8 41,45,50 G4-EC6 42 G4-EN29 45-46 Supplier Assessment for Impacts G4-25 39 Indirect Economic Impacts Supplier Environmental on Society G4-26 39-40 G4-DMA 7–9, 15,42 Assessment G4-DMA 43 G4-27 39-40 G4-EC7 7–9, 15,42 G4-DMA 43 G4-SO9 43 REPORT PROFILE G4-EC8 42 G4-EN32 43 G4-SO10 43 G4-28 5 Procurement Practices G4-EN33 43 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY G4-29 5 G4-DMA 35, 43 LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT Customer Health and Safety G4-30 5 WORK G4-DMA 12-13,52 G4-31 64 G4-EC9 43 Employment G4-PR1 13,52 G4-32 5,58-61 ENVIRONMENTAL G4-DMA 46 G4-PR2 52 G4-33 58-59 Energy G4-LA1 46 Product and Service Labelling GOVERNANCE G4-DMA 26-27,44 G4-LA2 46-48 G4-DMA 8,10-11,51 G4-34 41,56 G4-EN3 44 G4-LA3 48 G4-PR3 10-11,52 G4-35 56 Currently we do not have G4-PR4 52 G4-36 56 an in place external energy Labour/Management Relations G4-PR5 52 G4-37 39,56 G4-EN4 statistic system,we plan to G4-DMA 49 Marketing G4-38 41, Annual Report establish such a system in G4-LA4 49 G4-DMA 51 the future Training and Education G4-39 41 G4-PR6 51 G4-EN5 44 G4-DMA 31,47 G4-40 Annual Report G4-PR7 51 G4-41 Annual Report G4-EN6 26-27,44 G4-LA9 48 Customer Privacy G4-42 56 G4-EN7 26-27,44 G4-LA10 31,47-48 G4-DMA 51 G4-43 56 Emissions G4-LA11 31,47-48 G4-PR8 51 We plan to establish such G4-DMA 26-27,45 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Compliance G4-44 process in the future G4-EN15 45 G4-DMA 48 G4-DMA 51 G4-45 56 G4-EN16 45 G4-LA12 48 G4-PR9 51 60 The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report No. Index Page Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human Principle 1 9,21-24,49 rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 49 Labour Standards Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the Principle 3 49 right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Labour 49 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour 49 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 48 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 26-27,44-46 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 26-29,44-46 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 28-29,44-46 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 36-37,50 Report Disclosure Indexes ISO26000 Core Issues Index Page Core Issues Index Page Organisation 1. Anti-corruption 36-37,50 4,41,56-57 Governance 2. Responsible political involvement – 1. Due diligence 49 Fair Operating 3. Fair competition 51 2. Human rights risk situations 49 Practice 4. Promoting social responsibility in 43 3. Avoidance of complicity 49 the value chain 4. Resolving grievances 39,48 5. Respect for property rights 35,43 Human 5. Discrimination and vulnerable 1. Fair marketing, factual and Rights 8-9,21-24 unbiased information and fair 10-13,51 groups contractual practices 6. Civil and political rights 49 2. Protecting consumers’ health and 7. Economic, social and cultural rights 49 13,52 safety 8. Fundamental principles and rights at 3. Sustainable consumption 8-9 30-34,46-48 Consumer work Issues 4. Consumer service, support and 1. Employment and employment 11,39,52 46-47 compliant and dispute resolution relationships 5. Consumer data protection and 2. Conditions of work and social 51 30-34,47 privacy protection Labour 6. Access to essential services 9-10,42 Practices 3. Social dialogue 39,49 7. Education and awareness 9-13,24,52 4. Health and safety at work 47 1. Community involvement 21-25,49-50 5. Human development and training 46 2. Education and culture 24,49-50 in the workplace 1. Prevention of pollution 45-46 3. Employment creation and skills Community 15,42 development 2. Sustainable resource use 26-28,44-47 Involvement 4. Technology development and 3. Climate change mitigation and and 14-20 26-28,44-47 access Environment adaptation Development 5. Wealth and income creation 42 4. Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of 46 6. Health 13,21-24,49-50,52 natural homes 7. Social investment 21,23,49 61 Chinese CSR Report Preparation Guide (CASS-CSR 3.0) – Telecommunication Sector China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report No. Page No. Page No. Page No. Page P. Report Forward M1.3 5 M4.1 14-20 S3.5 43 P1.1 5,58-59 M1.4 7-8,14-20 M4.2 42 S3.6 20-25,55 P1.2 5 M1.5 42 M4.3 – S3.7 23,55 P1.3 5,40 M1.6 14-20,36-37,41 M4.4 15 S3.8 52 P1.4 5 M2.1 8-13,51-52 M4.5 – S3.9 23,55 P1.5 64, Back Cover M2.2 8-13,51-52 M4.6 14-20 S3.10 25 P2.1 40 M2.3 13-14,51 S. Social Performance S3.11 25 P2.2 40 M2.4 12-14,51 S1.1 36-37 E. Green Operation P2.3 39-40 M2.5 51 S1.2 37 E1.1 26-27,44-46 P3.1 2-3 M2.6 8-11,39 S1.3 36-37,50 E1.2 28,44-46 P3.2 2-3 M2.7 14-20 S1.4 37,50 E1.3 28 P4.1 4 M2.8 51 S1.5 42 E1.4 44 P4.2 4 M2.9 51-52 S1.6 7,14,21,26,30 E1.5 27,29 P4.3 4 M2.10 7-8,51-52 S1.7 8,42 E1.6 27 P4.4 4 M2.11 8,42,55 S1.8 42,46 E1.7 44-46 P4.5 46 M2.12 52 S2.1 49 E1.8 44 P4.6 9 M2.13 52 S2.2 49 E1.9 26,44 P4.7 5 M2.14 8,52 S2.3 49 E1.10 – P5.1 2-3,7,14, M2.15 8,52 S2.4 49 E1.11 44 Report Disclosure Indexes 21,26,30 M2.16 12-13,51-52 S2.5 49 E2.1 44 P5.2 41-52 M2.17 12,51 S2.6 – E2.2 44 P5.3 4 M2.18 12,51 S2.7 49 E2.3 – G. Responsibility Management M2.19 12,51 S2.8 42 E2.4 44 G1.1 54-55 M2.20 51 S2.9 46-47 E2.5 – G1.2 57 M2.21 51 S2.10 – E2.6 44 G1.3 40 M2.22 51 S2.11 – E2.7 44 G1.4 56 M2.23 13,49 S2.12 46-48 E3.1 44 G2.1 56 M2.24 49 S2.13 48 E3.2 44 G2.2 39 M2.25 49 S2.14 48 E3.3 45-46 G2.3 56 M2.26 8-9,22-24 S2.15 – E3.4 45-46 G2.4 56 M2.27 10 S2.16 – E3.5 – G2.5 56-57 M2.28 8-9,22-23 S2.17 47 E3.6 43 G3.1 56 M2.29 8,42,55 S2.18 47 E3.7 – G3.2 43 M2.30 – S2.19 47 E3.8 43 G4.1 41-52 M2.31 – S2.20 47 E3.9 43 G4.2 41-52 M2.32 9 S2.21 32-34 E3.10 28-29 G4.3 25,57 M2.33 52 S2.22 47 E3.11 28,46 G4.4 41,45-46,50 M2.34 11-12,51-52 S2.23 49 E3.12 28 G5.1 39 M2.35 51-52 S2.24 31,47-48 E4.1 26-27,44 G5.2 39 M3.1 35 S2.25 47-48 E4.2 44-45 G5.3 39 M3.2 36-37 S2.26 47-48 E4.3 45 G5.4 56 M3.3 51 S2.27 34,46 E4.4 45 G5.5 39 M3.4 – S2.28 34 E4.5 29 G5.6 56-57 M3.5 43 S2.29 33-34 E4.6 28-29 G6.1 56-57 M3.6 43 S2.30 34 A. Report Afterword G6.2 57 M3.7 43 S2.31 – A1 57 G6.3 57 M3.8 43 S2.32 46-47 A2 53 G6.4 57 M3.9 43 S3.1 13,52 A3 60-53 M. Market Performance M3.10 43 S3.2 13,52 A4 64 M1.1 41, Annual Report M3.11 43 S3.3 22-24 M1.2 Annual Report M3.12 35,43 S3.4 42 62 People’s Republic of China National Standard GB/T 36002-2015 Guidance on Classifying Social Responsibility Performance China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report No. Page No. Page No. Page No. Page Organisation Governance (Z) L-3-5 49 G-1-7 37 X-7-5 11 Z-1-1 2-3,54-55 L-4-1 47 G-1-8 37 X-7-6 Not Applicable Z-1-2 2-3,56 L-4-2 47 G-1-9 36,50 X-7-7 29 Z-1-3 56-57 L-4-3 47 G-1-10 43 X-7-8 Not Applicable Z-1-4 – L-4-4 47 G-2-1 51 X-7-9 Not Applicable Z-1-5 41-52 L-4-5 – G-2-2 51 X-7-10 28 Z-1-6 48 L-4-6 47 G-2-3 51 Community Support and Z-1-7 39 L-4-7 – G-2-4 51 Development (S) Z-1-8 39 L-4-8 47 G-2-5 – S-1-1 39 Z-1-9 24,26,31-33 L-4-9 32-33,47 G-3-1 28,43 S-1-2 13,22 Z-1-10 56 L-4-10 47 G-3-2 43 S-1-3 – Z-1-11 56 L-4-11 47 G-3-3 43 S-1-4 36-37 Z-1-12 56 L-5-1 31,47-48 G-3-4 28,43 S-1-5 25 Human Rights (R) L-5-2 – G-3-5 28 S-1-6 21-24 R-1-1 47-49 L-5-3 31-34,46-48 G-3-6 43 S-2-1 22-24 R-1-2 – Environment (H) Consumer Issue (X) S-2-2 22-24 R-1-3 49 H-1-1 26-27,44-46 X-1-1 10-11,51 S-2-3 22-24 R-1-4 49 H-1-2 45-46 X-1-2 10-11,51 S-2-4 9,22 Report Disclosure Indexes R-1-5 47-48 H-1-3 45-46 X-1-3 51 S-2-5 9 R-1-6 49 H-1-4 45-46 X-1-4 – S-3-1 15,42 R-2-1 13,52 H-1-5 28 X-1-5 – S-3-2 15,42 R-2-2 21-24 H-1-6 28,45-46 X-1-6 – S-3-3 42 R-3-1 49 H-1-7 – X-1-7 – S-3-4 22 R-3-2 46-48 H-1-8 Not Applicable X-1-8 10-11 S-3-5 22-23 R-3-3 49 H-1-9 Not Applicable X-1-9 – S-3-6 – R-3-4 48 H-2-1 44-45 X-4-1 11 S-3-7 14 Labour Practice (L) H-2-2 44-45 X-4-2 – S-3-8 14,42 L-1-1 46 H-2-3 27,44-45 X-4-3 Not Applicable S-4-1 14-19,22-24 L-1-2 46-48 H-2-4 44 X-4-4 11 S-4-2 22-23 L-1-3 46-49 H-2-5 45 X-4-5 8-9,42 S-4-3 – L-1-4 49 H-2-6 Not Applicable X-4-6 Not Applicable S-4-4 16-19 L-1-5 48 H-2-7 28,43 X-4-7 Not Applicable S-4-5 – L-1-6 46-47 H-2-8 28,43 X-5-1 51 S-5-1 42 L-1-7 – H-2-9 28 X-5-2 51 S-5-2 42 L-1-8 – H-3-1 44-45 X-5-3 51 S-5-3 43 L-1-9 – H-3-2 45 X-5-4 51 S-5-4 35 L-2-1 32-34,46-48 H-3-3 44-45 X-5-5 51 S-5-5 – L-2-2 32-34,46-48 H-3-4 44 X-5-6 51 S-5-6 – L-2-3 – H-3-5 44 X-5-7 51 S-5-7 – L-2-4 32-34,48 H-3-6 26-28,44 X-5-8 51 S-5-8 – L-2-5 42 H-3-7 44 X-5-9 – S-5-9 14,42 L-2-6 – H-3-8 26,44 X-6-1 13 S-5-10 42 L-2-7 – H-3-9 26-28,44-45 X-6-2 13 S-6-1 13,23,52 L-2-8 46 H-3-10 29 X-6-3 10-11 S-6-2 13,23,52 L-2-9 46 Fair Operation Practice (G) X-6-4 8-9 S-6-3 13,23,52 L-2-10 33-34 G-1-1 36-37,50 X-6-5 8-9,13 S-6-4 23 L-2-11 – G-1-2 37 X-6-6 13 S-7-1 22-23 L-3-1 49 G-1-3 37 X-7-1 13 S-7-2 – L-3-2 49 G-1-4 36-37,50 X-7-2 – S-7-3 22-23 L-3-3 49 G-1-5 – X-7-3 10-11 S-7-4 24 63 L-3-4 49 G-1-6 36-37,50 X-7-4 11 Feedback Dear reader, Thank you for reading China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report. In order to further improve our sustainability China Mobile Communications Corporation 2015 Sustainability Report performance and report quality, your comments and suggestions are very much appreciated and we hope you could help us continuously improve our work. China Mobile Report Team March 2016 Please score from 1 to 5 (1 being the lowest and 5 being the highest) for the following questions: 1. Your overall opinion on China Mobile Sustainability Report 2. Your opinion on whether this report reflects significant economic, social and environmental impacts of China Mobile 3. Your overall opinion on our communication with stakeholders 4. Your overall opinion on information disclosure in this report 5. Your overall opinion on the format and design of this report You are welcome to make more comments: Feedback Your Contact Information: Name: Company: Phone Number: Email: You may send an email to China Mobile 2015 Sustainability Report Team at CR@chinamobile.com, or fax the form to +86-10-52616167. We will take your comments seriously and promise not to disclose your information to any unauthorised third-party. 64 With perfect sincerity and integrity, we will strive to fulfil our triple-sided responsibilities: our economic responsibility; our social responsibility and our environmental responsibility China Mobile Communications Corporation Address: NO. 29, Jinrong Avenue, Xicheng District, Beijing, P.R.China Post Code: 100033 Website for Report Download: www.10086.cn/aboutus/csr/report_new/ All copyrights reserved. No reproduction by any means is allowed without acknowledgement. This report is printed on environmentally friendly paper
