COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS for Holiday Inn Dubai-Al Barsha (HIAB) Sheikh Zayed Road PO Box 115443, Dubai UAE 15/7/2016 This report provides detailed information about the policies, actions and measurable outcomes of Holiday Inn Dubai-Al Barsha in addressing the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact that fall under four main areas: Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption 1 Commitment Letter by CEO Date: 3rd July 2016 FAO: H.E. Ban Ki-moon United Nations Secretary General. Dear Sir It has been a year since Holiday Inn DubaiAl Barsha joined the world's largest corporate responsibility initiative and is pleased to re-affirm its commitment to the principles of UN Global Compact. Over the past year we have made numerous efforts to set in motion changes to our business operations, so that our business strategies are guided by the Ten Principles, as is our working culture channeled on the same principles, top down. We wish to express our clear determination to advance these principles in our sphere of influence, and our commitment to mainstream them into our corporate strategy, business culture and operational practices. As we continue to passionately promote our alliance with UNGC we are proud to have been nominated on UNGC’s UAE Network and will do our utmost to bring awareness to the hospitality industry. We are furthermore committed to report openly and publicly on our results, and to inform our employees, business partners and customers about our performance. In the perspective of accountability and transparency, please find attached our 2015/16 Communication on Progress backed by our Sustainability Report 2015. We report publicly on our results of our initiatives in favor of a sound enforcement of the Ten Principles. We look forward to continuing our thrust as we re-affirm our commitment for the future. Yours sincerely Roxana Jaffer CEO 2 Table of Contents INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................................... 3 A. HUMAN RIGHTS........................................................................................................................... 3 I. POLICY........................................................................................................................................... 4 II. ACTIONS....................................................................................................................................... 4 COMMUNITY ACTIONS .................................................................................................................... 5 III. MEASURABLE OUTCOMES .......................................................................................................... 5 B.LABOR ........................................................................................................................................... 6 I. POLICY........................................................................................................................................... 6 II. ACTIONS..................................................................................................................................... 14 COMMUNITY ACTIONS .................................................................................................................. 19 III. MEASURABLE OUTCOMES ........................................................................................................ 20 C. ENVIRONMENT .......................................................................................................................... 21 I.POLICY ......................................................................................................................................... 21 II. ACTIONS..................................................................................................................................... 22 ACTUAL ACTIONS ........................................................................................................................... 22 COMMMUNITY ACTIONS............................................................................................................... 23 III. MEASURABLE OUTCOMES ........................................................................................................ 24 D. ANTI-CORRUPTION.................................................................................................................... 26 I. POLICY......................................................................................................................................... 26 II. ACTIONS..................................................................................................................................... 27 III. MEASURABLE OUTCOMES ........................................................................................................ 27 E.GOVERNANCE ............................................................................................................................. 28 F. FUTURE OBJECTIVES (2016) ....................................................................................................... 29 3 INTRODUCTION What makes a Business Responsible? A business is deemed responsible, when it goes beyond its normal business operations and makes an effort to make a difference to the community it operates in. This can be done when an organization engages in activities that benefits the society as a whole. In addition, a responsible business addresses issues such as environmental sustainability and human rights. Most importantly, the company’s employees should be actively engaged in making these contributions to society. Doing so will not only help the company generate more profits and build customer loyalty but at the same time it can help the company to strengthen its brand name in the market. Based on the definition it can be concluded that Holiday Inn Dubai-Al Barsha is a indeed a responsible business, having in place policies pertaining to Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption that addresses the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. Furthermore, HIAB is pro-active in ensuring that these policies are abided by its employees and suppliers and have in place measurable outcomes. Details of each of the policies, actions and measurable outcomes have been highlighted in this report. A. HUMAN RIGHTS HIAB, as a responsible hotel protects all human rights both internal and external dealings through its stringent policies. Our belief that a strong moral system should go hand in hand with good business has given rise to the company's mission that we are committed to uphold. Further in complying with laws and regulations of the country, three policies are in force directly relating to human rights issues. At HIAB, employment only commences after an employee appends his signature on the Human Rights Policy, which is translated in 9 languages to avoid misunderstanding. Moreover, all other HR Policies that are enforced related to upholding Human Rights and staff welfare are shared at the outset. 4 I. POLICY: ‘We support and protect human rights wherever we can.' As a responsible franchisee of a company with operations in nearly 100 countries and territories, we believe that strong ethics and good business go hand in hand and we are committed to complying with the laws and regulations of the countries and jurisdictions in which we operate. We: • Support protection of human rights, particularly those of our employees, the parties we do business with and the communities where we operate • Respect our employees’ rights to voluntary freedom of association, under UAE law • Provide a safe and healthy working environment • Do not support forced and compulsory labor or the exploitation of children • Support the elimination of employment discrimination and promote diversity in the workplace • Provide our employees with remuneration and tools for growing their careers, and take their wellbeing into consideration • Promote fair competition and do not support corruption • Conduct our business with honesty and integrity in compliance with applicable laws • Develop and implement company procedures and processes to ensure we comply with this policy. II. OUR ACTIONS: Actions Demonstrating Commitment • Recruit and promote individuals based solely on their suitability for the job without discriminating on the grounds of race, colour, ethnic or national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, religion, marital status or disability unrelated to the role. • We get a buy-in by all new staff having to sign the Human Rights Policy Document at the outset. • Partnership with Al Noor Training Centre for Children with Special Needs School • In keeping with HIAB’s policy to ensure that recruitment is on merit without gender, culture and color discrimination and avoiding nepotism and in line with our long term goal and commitment of fairness to society, HIAB partners with the above school. This allows dignity and worth to be accorded to the challenged individuals and helps to spread the understanding that there is diversity and it should not be considered a weakness. • We offer internships and employment for challenged students in our housekeeping 5 department and awareness is created about the challenged and colleagues learn to appreciate their own faculties. • Further we send our staff to the school to help with open days and IT workshops so they can integrate with the challenged lenged children. • Mohamed Rafey, a mentally challenged child from Al Noor Noor, diagnosed with Down Syndrome is a great example and has be been en in our employ in the laundry department since Oct 2012. Despite his disabilities, he proudly performs his tasks with excellence and commitment. His happiness is transmittable to our entire team members. Employing Rafay, has been a very gratifying experience at HIAB. • He has brought an awareness of how people man manage age challenges and helps his work colleagues to embrace tolerance and adopt a culture of awareness in diversity. COMMUNITY ACTIONS • 'ALS Bucket Challenge' : Initiative with clear oobjectives: To make aware of global issues To raise funds to alleviate global needs. • 'Embracing Ramadan': A full months pledge that every booking for daily Iftar at our dedicated restaurant The Gem Garden will enable a donation to o feed 4 hungry persons in the world with United Nations World Food Programme • Partnership with United Nations World Food P Programme rogramme (UNWFP), the largest humanitarian agency ency fighting hunger worldwide to help further WFP's Strategic Plans in achieving a world with zero hunger, under its operational framework. • HIAB has always pursued its activities, in the MENA region, sanctioned by Islamic Affairs And Charitable Activities Department of the Government of Dubai since opening. opening • Patronage with NGO an Advent for B Building human Capital that supports and trains individuals in 'English for or Hospitality Professionals' upholding the SDG of 'No Poverty' III. MEASURABLE OUTCOMES 6 B. LABOUR The labor policy has three components as listed below, all being in compliance with UAE Labor Law: I. LABOUR POLICY (3 tiered) a) Grievance Policy HIAB has a precise “Grievance Grievance Policy” for its employees under which all employees have to be dealt with in a timely fashion in order to alleviate miscommunication and demoralization at allll levels of the organization organization. Comprehensive omprehensive and consistent guidelines with respect to handling of employee grievance so a fair and just solution to 7 the employees problems is provided, to create an ethos so the leadership team conforms to being a “Listening Management'.' b) Harassment and Unprofessional Conduct Policy HIAB upholds a specific “Harassment and Unprofessional Conduct Policy” prohibiting discrimination based on race, color, national origin, gender, physical or mental stability religion, sex, sexual orientation, age, disability and veteran status, or any other characteristic, as well as other unprofessional and discourteous actions. Such prohibited harassment may be evidenced by verbal, non-verbal, or physical conduct as described in the sexual harassment category. HIAB strives to provide a professional and congenial work environment, for all employees and will take all necessary steps to ensure that the work environment remains pleasant for all employees to treat each other with consideration and professionalism. The policy states that all employees will be provided a work environment free from sexual and other forms of harassment. HIAB will actively investigate any allegations of inappropriate conduct in violation of our policy prohibiting harassment. If it is determined that such conduct has occurred, the company will take appropriate disciplinary action, which may include dismissal/termination of the offending employee. c) Policy Prohibiting Sexual Harassment Under his policy, the company prohibits not only unlawful harassment, but also other unprofessional and discourteous actions deemed as Sexual Harassment, to include unwelcomed sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, or any other visual, verbal, or physical conduct of a sexual nature. Each employee is required to exercise his or her own good judgment to avoid engaging in conduct that may be perceived by others as sexual harassment. The following is a partial list of conduct that would be considered sexual harassment: • Verbal-Repeated sexual innuendoes, sexual epithets, derogatory slurs, sexually explicit jokes, obscene or sexually suggestive comments about a person’s body, offensive or 8 unwelcome flirtations, unwanted sexual advances or propositions, or suggestive or insulting sounds • Visual/Non-verbalDerogatory or sexually explicit posters, cartoons, photographs, magazines, drawings, or other printed items; suggestive objects, or pictures; emails, screen-savers, or other electronic communications; graphic commentaries; leering, or obscene gestures • PhysicalUnwanted physical contact, including touching, interference with an individual’s normal work movement, or assault 2. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT POLICY HIAB has a specific “Employee Engagement Policy” for its employee. The Staff Welfare Committee provides a platform to facilitate staff interaction and strengthen ties within the closely-knitted HIAB family. The Committee coordinates with HR to organize various fun-filled activities and events for team members throughout the year. It also works towards improvements in systems and processes relating to staff and staff welfare. 3. LABOR UNDER SUPPLY CHAIN POLICY HIAB has a specific labor section as part of its supply chain policy which refers to the following: Discrimination HIAB respects cultural differences and does not do business with a supplier if the supplier practices discrimination at work based on race, religion, gender, age, nationality or sexual orientation. Supplier’s employees must not be exposed to any physical punishment, threats of violence or physical, sexual, psychological or verbal harassment or maltreatment in the work place or in work related situations. Forced Labor The Code does not permit forced or involuntary labor at the Supplier. This includes forced prison work; work on a forced contract, slavery and other forms of work, which are done against one’s will or choice. HIAB does not tolerate employment which confines the employee in unreasonable debt bondage, for example, through fee-charging employment agencies. 9 Working Environment HIAB supports the fundamental human right to have sound working conditions. Suppliers in turn must ensure a good and safe working environment which complies with all applicable rules and laws. As a minimum we expect the following: • Workers must not be exposed to dangerous work without proper protection. Workers must be provided personal protection equipment and be instructed in its proper use • Facilities must comply with applicable laws and rules about construction safety as well as fire protectionand fire alarms • Facilities must provide appropriate light and ventilation. • All dangerous materials must be stored in safe places and used in safe and controlled ways • All machinery must be properly maintained and shielded. • Facilities for meals, resting and sleeping, must, if provided, be kept clean and safe Working Hours and Salary HIAB recognizes the need for a sound balance between working time and leisure time for all employees. Unless the law provides otherwise, the maximum working time at the Supplier’s sites is 48 hours per week plus maximum 12 hours overtime work. All workers shall be allowed to have at least one day off in a period of seven days unless the national law/rules provides otherwise. Salaries for work and overtime shall be in accordance with the applicable national law or applicable national rules. Deductions in salary due to company fines or penalties must never com-promise minimum salary. Right to Privacy Supplier shall respect his employees’ right to privacy when it gathers or keeps personal in-formation or implements employee-monitoring practices. Child Labor Holiday Inn Dubai-Al Barsha respects the children’s right to development and education. Therefore, HIIAB does not accept the use of child labor as a part of the full-time work force at the Supplier. This includes employing children under the age of 15, children 10 younger than the legal minimum age or children younger than age of completing compulsory school. Juvenile (children between the age of 15 and 18) are only allowed to be employed by Supplier, provided that the work complies with local laws and the ILO Minimum Age Convention. In general, all children under the age of 18: • must not be employed in hazardous work* • must not work night shifts • are entitled to more breaks than adults * Hazardous work is work which, by its nature or the circumstances, is likely to harm the health, safety or morals of children. Processes to address specific policies a) Grievance: To put this policy into action, HIAB follows the following procedure: • When an employee has a grievance, it is brought to the notice of his/her direct supervisor in writing • On receipt, the supervisor is then given two (2) working days to give an appropriate response and/or solution to the grievance • If no solution and/or reply is received by the employee within two (2) working days, then the employee may elevate his/her grievance to the next level of authority i.e. his/her Department Head • The Department Head has two (2) working days to solve the grievance • If no resolution is achieved then the grievance is elevated to the Human Resources Department (Director of Human Resources) who has three (3) working days, to provide a solution. • If the Human Resources Department is not able to provide a solution after three (3) working days, is the only time when the employee can seek audience with the Hotel’s General Manager. 11 NOTE: 1. All solutions to grievances should be within Hotel’s Policy and Procedures 2. All grievances and solutions should be put in writing 3. All documentations will be placed in the employee personal file • All new staff have to sign the Hotel Grievance Policy Document • Employee Feedback • Dissatisfaction, ideas and suggestions are allowed to be aired anonymously or publicly through advertised channels like drop box at “Rainbow” (our staff canteen), or a dedicated log book where staff are welcome to write their suggestions • All comments are given its fair dues by special grievance committee members and a remedial action plan for immediate action and implementation are prepared • Further designed surveys, are in place and carried out regularly so improvements for staff welfare and job satisfaction are constantly updated. The Human Resources team constantly monitors these tools and ensures feedback is taken b) Harassment and Unprofessional Conduct Policy To put this policy into action, Holiday Inn Al Barsha follows the following procedure: Employee Responsibility: Any employee who believes that they are being harassed by anyone should promptly take the following steps: • Politely but firmly confront whoever is doing the harassing. State how he/she feels about his or her actions and request that the person cease the inappropriate conduct immediately • Do not encourage encounters with smiles or friendly gestures which may be misconstrued by the other party • If the harassment continues or if the employee believes some employment consequences may result from your confrontation, he/she should go to his/her immediate supervisor. If circumstances prohibit this response, report the behavior to the Director of Human Resources or his/her designee. The employee may be asked to put this in writing, stating specific details of the offending behavior. If, however, the employee fails to put the complaint in writing, the director of Human Resources or his/her designee is still responsible for investigating the complaint • Any complaint (verbal or written) of sexual or other forms of harassment must receive the immediate attention of the manager to whom it is made, and must be reported immediately to the Director of Human Resources or his/her designee 12 • The Hotel Manager must be advised prior to the beginning of the investigation. The Hotel Manager and Director of Human Resources will work together to ensure that a thorough investigation is completed • Hotel Manager may form an “Investigation Team” or assign the task to Director HR. While conducting the investigation of alleged harassment, management will assure all parties involved that no retaliation will occur during and after the completion of the investigation Due to their sensitive nature, complaints harassment should, to the extent possible, remain strictly confidential Under no circumstances should information concerning harassment complaints be released to any outside third parties or to persons within The Holiday Inn Dubai-Al Barsha who do not have a legitimate need to know about the allegations. Any type of Harassment will be considered employee misconduct if complaints are found to be valid; General Manager (GM) & Director of Human Resources will work together to implement appropriate disciplinary action, up to and including verbal or written warnings, suspension, demotion, or termination of offending employees. In all cases, management should make follow-up inquires to ensure that the offensive conduct has actually stopped. Upon completion of each investigation, the complaining employee must be informed that appropriate action was taken and that any further complaints of harassment or retaliation should be immediately brought to management’s attention. Complaint Procedure: • Employees who believe that they have been subjected to objectionable conduct should immediately tell the harasser to stop the unwanted behavior and report it immediately to immediate manager or supervisor. However, if the unwelcome behavior involves a manager or supervisor to whom they directly or indirectly report, they can also seek help from any other manager or Director of Human Resources • Do not allow an inappropriate situation to continue by not reporting it, regardless of who is creating the situation. No employee in this organization is exempt from this policy. In response to every complaint, the company will conduct an immediate, thorough and objective investigation. The company will, to the extent possible, protect the confidentiality of harassment complaints. If the company determines that a violation 13 of this policy has occurred, it will take corrective and preventive actions where necessary. A determination regarding the harassment alleged will be made and communicated to the person claiming harassment as soon as practical • Employees violating the policy, however, are subject to discipline up to and including termination. The Hotel strictly prohibits retaliation against any person by another employee for using this complaint procedure, reporting harassment, or for filing, testifying, assisting or participating in any manner in any investigation, proceeding or hearing. An employee who brings such a complaint to the attention of the Hotel in good faith will not be adversely affected as a result of reporting the harassment c) Employee Engagement • To put this policy into action, Holiday Inn Al Barsha follows the following procedure: • To create a Staff Welfare Committee (SWC) who has representation of all departments • Each department to nominate 1 or 2 representatives who the Head of Department thinks are the proactive and interested in Staff Welfare to be member of the Welfare Committee • The Committee will be liaising with one member of the HR team • Regular meetings of the Committee will be conducted each month as per availability of most of the committee members • Social & Sports activities calendar will be implemented in consultation with the Staff Welfare Committee (SWC) • The committee members will have direct coordination with respective department heads to convey staff grievances and to chalk programs for the welfare of the staff. • Minutes of the meeting will be shared with Head of Departments and the General Managers • The members will work as a bridge between management and staff • They will suggest the improvements in employees’ conditions i.e. Housing, Cafeteria etc. based on feedback from staff d) Labor under Supply Chain Policy • All suppliers are required to sign the Nominated Supplier Regulation form before being enlisted • Suppliers are barred from being recognized if not conforming to policy 14 INITIATIVES FOR EMPOWERING LABOUR The 5th Star of the month • A popular employee recognition program, has been in play since inception • HIAB proudly believes in the tag line “The 4Star Hotel with a 5Star Look” and professes that the 5th Star is fulfilled by its Human Element. Encouraged by each head of department to motivate every staff member to nominate their colleagues of those who exceed customer expectations and go the extra mile • Winners are recognized in a monthly staff get together, where certificates of recognition and a bonus voucher is offered to “the employee of the month” recognized with a picture on the wall in the “Heart of the House” Measurement of enforcing policies 15 Use of Special Tools • 'My Learning' Tool: By virtue of HIAB being a franchisee of Intercontinental Hotel Group (IHG), we subscribe to this Front line Training special program. This tool helps to ensure that employees whether under training or in responsible positions are monitored evaluated and assessed through several diagnostics that encourage the individual to strive better 16 • 'Skill Enhancement Program Program' (SEP): A specially designed program by the CEO for assessing and developing 70 Management and mid mid-Management Management level colleagues so growth can be given through self-realization realization of performance has been introduced on an ongoing basis. Through gh this program, lleadership assesses their own personal shortcomings and with self-realization realization can request ffor or development avenues. avenues HIAB gives advice on how leadership should improve, providing on several instances special training programmess that enhances individual growth. Acumen is thus matched to their position. If the individual has not improved in a set time, a choice is given to the individual to step down from the position • 'Employee Development Agenda' Agenda': A special committee designated from the Heads of Department called the EXCOM meet on a monthly basis to ensure that the above mantra on employee development lopment and satisfaction is met • “Way of Life @ Holiday Inn Dubai Al Barsha”: The Role of the “Way of Life” focus group is to develop a unified work culture, so that all 264 colleagues follow a remit of upholding a moral understanding of ethical values, tolerance, accepting diversity at the workplace, caring for nature, the environment and society, championed through core ideals titled Show We Care , Celebrate Difference , Aim Higher , Work Better Together and Do the Right Thing . • 'Training Passport': This passport monitors mandatory training for every employee for different stages on upholding a unified culture at HIAB, “Way of Life @ Holiday Inn Dubai Al Barsha”. Under its title “Learning and Growth” IHG’s core values are brought to life,, so they reflect in staff's everyday actions and thoughts. HIAB is committed to provide continuous growth to retain staff in today’s competitive hospitality industry. We believe that development of skills & knowledge has a positive impact on providing pro excellent guests service 17 • 'Celebrate Service ' Week, (held in the 2nd week of June annually), as the name denotes, is essentially to acknowledge and appreciate the work, group morale and impeccable service of our team members that makes HIAB the most sought-after sought name in the hospitality industry. It also gives an opportunity for all colleagues to unite as one family and build lasting relationships” Celebrate Service was created as a way of recognizing the hard work and dedication of the employees who work at IHG’s managed and franchised properties around the world. This is the industry’s largest rrecognition ecognition program of front line teams that looks to acknowledge that the success of any hotel, brand or Hotel Company is built on the quality of servicee that front line teams deliver “Celebrate service” week 2015 started with members of the staff being w welcomed elcomed by the management team greeted as the first bus arrives at crack of dawn with cold towels, a welcome drink and a handshake thanking the colleagues for their service. Further management visited each department with sweet offering to gi give ve their appreciation appre in person • 'Staff Survey' titled ‘13 Reasons Why I should Work at HIABHIAB’: This is an online Employee Engagement Survey conducted every two years to understand why retention of staff rates are so favorable favorable. Feedback taken from employees is taken on board and necessary improvements are made for staff welfare on quality of food, lodgings transport and recreation facilities. • 'HIAB Family Face book': Creation of HIAB Family Face book as a tool for colleagues’ motivation, engagement readiness and feedback for sustainabil sustainability ity and SGE standards to 18 follow has been very encouraging. Comments and likes by staff on the following have helped to drive our learning at a very wide scope: • Living in the Core Value • Training through creating ‘Human Formation Symbols’ below is image of ‘Aim Higher’ symbol • 'Fire Life and Safety' (FLS) :Training is conducted monthly by internal and external professionals. Monthly Risk Assessment seminars are conducted by all operational departments to ensure compliance with the health and safety policy of the hotel . HIAB strives to comply with relevant health and safety legislation, and to provide a safe environment. In house champions oversee work standards to minimize risk of injury at work • “An Advent for Building human Capital (abc) : Active participation with the NGO enabled development of 20 individuals who could not speak basic English by providing free learning of the intense English curriculum “English for Hospitality Professionals”. Most of the graduates moved up in their hospitality career. Two of these abc graduates have since left to become entrepreneurs • 'Staff Karaoke/DJ Nights’: HIAB organizes 3 evenings a year where work colleagues all get a chance to sell entry cards to their friends. HIAB provides a complimentary venue and gives complimentary drinks (2 vouchers per person) and food. All revenue from door sales are donated to the planned cause that Holiday Inn Loves You Campaign supports This brings awareness to all for people in need in the world 19 • 'Healthy Healthy Body, Healthy Mind Mind' Awareness Initiatives: Colleagues are our number one focus and indeed a priority for the hotel and its manage management ment team and since opening many initiatives have been put in place, to support this concept. • Healthy Cooking classes • Treasure Hunt: All colleagues walked 2 km to the local park competing against teams and collecting items to support a Green Environment • Nonn Smoking Campaign: Through awa awareness reness and counseling sessions. Results have shown that on average every ssix months 14 smokers are converted to become nonsmokers • Awareness of different cultures and lessons in tolerance are given through special organized trips to Mosques, Churches and Temples • Special occasion trips to malls, parks and the Global Village • Annual sports day (Sports participation) COMMUNITY ACTIONS FOR LABOUR ENGAGEMENT • HIAB encourages people with special needs to be in our employ. Presently HIAB has in employment a physically challenged youngster in the Housekeeping Department hailing from 'Al Noor Training Centre for Children with Special Needs', since 2013. • The “Holiday Inn Dubai, Loves You Campaign” (HI (HI-LUC) LUC) campaign was initiated in 2007 and is devoted to developing a self self-contained contained civil society in the UAE. The campaign extends a helping hand also to the worldwide victims of ecological calamities, political and economic crises. Charitable programmes that fall under the HI HI-LUC LUC include tea parties for children with special needs, Iftar for orphans and under privileged children, and various marathons. HIAB through this medium helps organisations like Adopt-a-camp, Action Care ‘’ Ajman Orphans’’, etc. to bring awareness of local issues 20 HI-LUC LUC mandate is to support initiatives for compassionate causes, to plan initiatives for raising resources and funds for building civil society and upholding global partnerships, helping inn global disasters and ensuring that pledges are realised. HI-LUC LUC is unique in its appeal that all members of the staff, regardless of rank, color or creed, come together to achieve its objectives. The backdrop of Prophet Mohammed’s words ‘Life is only worth rth living if lived for someone else’ helps to inculcate an ethos of giving, of putting another person before oneself that in turn reflects into service accorded to the guest that in turn helps to deliver the business objectives. • Hotels Mission:: Placards of the hotels mission, so the vision can be realised are taught to all our employees and which stress participation of all in the community community.. To make a difference in the lives of the individuals we touch every day, by working together, to deliver er commitment, personalized service and a superior hospitality product by upholding a strong moral system and actively participating in the community.’’ III. MEASURABLE EASURABLE OUTCOMES a) Grievance • No grievances were reported by any of the employees. b) Harassment and Unprofessional Conduct Policy • 1 staff terminated due to bein beingg guilty of sexual harassment. Our highest positioned employee General Manager of the hotel was terminated due to being held guilty of staff harassment. 21 c) Employee Engagement • Training and Development • 10, 705 training hours during 2014 by training 300 colleagues. • HIAB has 16 Certified First Aiders, to cover 24hrs. They ensure that sufficient resources and information are available and that good management systems address all labor issues. d) Labor under Supply Chain Policy • 100% compliance was reported by all suppliers and no case of violating the supplier agreement was reported. C. ENVIRONMENT HIAB has policies in place that address environmental issues and ensure that they operate in a sustainable manner. The hotel’s employees regularly engage in activities such as recycling, reusing and waste management. I.POLICY a) Environment under Supply Chain Policy • Environmental considerations are an integral part of Holiday Inn Dubai-Al Barsha business practices. Supplier shall commit to reducing the environmental impact of its manufacturing process. • Pollution Prevention and Resource Reduction Supplier shall avoid pollution and actively strive to reduce material consumption. • Chemicals and Hazardous Materials Supplier shall ensure that chemicals and hazardous materials handled, stored and disposed in an environmentally safe way. • Air Emissions Supplier shall ensure that air emissions of volatile organic chemicals, aerosols, corrosives, particulates, ozone depleting chemicals and combustion by-products generated from operations are to be characterized, monitored, controlled and treated equally as required by law prior to discharge. 22 • Wastewater and Solid Waste Supplier shall ensure that wastewater and solid waste generated from operations, industrial processes and sanitation facilities are to be monitored, controlled and treated as required by law prior to discha discharge or disposal. • Recycling and Reuse of Materials and Products Supplier shall contribute to the recycling and reuse of materials and products to the extent possible. II. ACTIONS ACTUAL ACTIONS • Sent 11.05 metric tons of wood for recycling to Union Paper Mill instead of disposing. • The Role of the “Green Engage” focus group is to enthuse both, our internal and external customers to constantly abide to best practices of 4 “Rs” of Sustainability i.e. rethink, reduce, reuse and recycle, as an continual innova innovative tive sustainable process by helping the environment through energy saving methods and reduce carbon footprint for a better tomorrow . • Implementation of a waste compactor and bailing machine. • Use of Eco Friendly Products • Our purchasing department works closely with vendors to source eco eco-friendly friendly products by analyzing the cost and effectiveness to help reduce our environmental footprint. • Chemicals/ Detergents used in kitchen operation cleaning and housekeeping are biobio degradable and eco-friendly riendly such as all all-purpose purpose cleansers, glass mirror cleansers, toilet bowl cleansers and room fresheners. Further refrigerants used for refrigeration and airair conditioning are eco-friendly friendly such as 134a and 410a. • We also strive to use recycled items where po possible, ssible, including corporate gifts bags and bags for delivering newspapers to guest rooms, which are made from jute an ecoeco friendly and recyclable material. Laundry pick pick-up bags are made of non-woven woven material and are ecofriendly. • Fresh Water Quality 23 • To give ve clean and fresh drinking water to staff, we have invested in reverse osmosis water system technology which has been designed to tackle most of the water pollution problems. Through this system we always get fresh healthy water and not stored bottled water.er. This does not required physical efforts to handle heavy bottles and there is no risk of manual handling. The system is 100% chemical free and no need of preserving. The positive environmental Impact is great: • Most bottled water is packaged in Polyethyl Polyethylene ene Terephthalate (PET) plastic bottles which are derived from crude oil. It can take up to 3 Ltr of water to produce 1 Ltr water bottle • Transportation of bottled water around the world required burning of fossil fuels. • Although plastic bottles are recyclable, many end up in landfill and take up to 1000 years breaking down. When littered they often end up in the sea where they break up in small pieces, killing marine life that mistake them for food. • Since 2014, guest left-over over soaps, instead of being discarded are being sent to “Sealed Air Diversey Care” for recycling to help improve lives of laborers. COMMMUNITY ACTIONS • Participated in drives that enhanced staff's understanding of looking after the environment: Earth Hour, Clean up the World, Clean up the Emirates, Planting a Tree through Can Collection Campaign. 24 III. MEASURABLE OUTCOMES 25 Compactors implementation has helped: • Improve Staff efficiency • Increase productivity • Improve sanitation • Improve image • Improve staff enthusiasm • Improve customer service • Soap For Hope Campaign • From Jan 2015 to Dec 2015 HIAB managed to donate 1433 standard soap bars (30gm each) 26 • Dubai Green Tourism Award“The Best Waste Management Hotel” by virtue of Best Waste Management Practices in 4 Star Category. • Certificate of appreciation from Government of Dubai and Dubai Municipality for adhering to the “Grease trap cleaning and waste transport” guidelines and caring for Emirates of Dubai’s environment and sewer infrastructure for year 2014/15. D. ANTI-CORRUPTION HIAB has anti-corruption policies in place to make sure their business operates in an ethical manner. HIAB also makes a conscious effort to be as transparent as possible in its day to day operations and dealings with suppliers and employees and expects that same from them. I. POLICY a) General Anti-Corruption Policy • Holiday Inn Al Barsha has a specific anti-corruption policy called the zero tolerance policy: • Business integrity is our hotel’s strong point, embraced by all of our employees being conveyed at the outset of our zero-tolerance policy for corruption or bribery. Further, confidentiality, safeguarding proprietary information of both employees and customers maintaining a high level of privacy of personal information is mandatory. • Follow -ups of any reported concerns are carried out jointly with the Human Resources Director. Further all concerns are immediately reported and advice always taken from the CEO, especially for corrective action that needs to be effected. b) Anti-Corruption under Supply Chain Policy • Corruption and bribery are recognized as barriers to sustainable development and free trade. Holiday Inn Dubai-Al Barsha does not accept these practices and therefore does not offer or accept any kind of undue payment in any of our business transactions. Supplier shall act accordingly. 27 II. ACTIONS a) General Anti-Corruption Policy • HIAB’S Code of Ethics and Business Conduct defines standards relating to records, disclosure, and communications and ‘inside information. Guidelines, available to employees, set out the Group’s policy for identification, control and dissemination of inside information as well as mentioned in their employment contracts. • HIAB has strict communication channels and follow-up mechanisms in place for reporting concerns or to seek advice on anti-corruption policies in force. • Internal accounting controls and auditing procedures related to anti-corruption are in force when periodic checks are carried out on purchase officers, sales contracts and front office personnel and where cash is handled. b) Anti-Corruption under Supply Chain Policy • HIAB insist on both suppliers and clients signing a MOU at the outset, that foul practices like retainers, bribery will not be tolerated and business relations will be cancelled. III. MEASURABLE OUTCOMES a) General Anti-Corruption Policy • 100 % compliance with the policy. No case of violation of the policy was reported. b) Anti-Corruption under Supply Chain Policy • 100% compliance was reported by all suppliers and no case of violating the supplier agreement was reported. 28 E.GOVERNANCE HIAB has a great governance system in place that helps the hotel to do business in the most fair and responsible way possible. The following are the main principles of the governance system of HIAB. • Principles of Governance Code include Transparency, Fairness, Accountability and Responsibility. • The primary responsibility of HIAB's CSR Executive Board (CEB)s to conduct an assessment of risks and opportunities for environmental and social governance. • Clear responsibilities for environmental, social and governance issues are given to members of the 3 SC Green Engage, Way of Life & HI-LUC reporting directly to the CEO as the Chair of the CSR Executive Board (CEB) making her totally accountable. • HIAB in its annual Strategic Business Revenue Plan budgets for inclusive investment with stakeholder partnerships to further the organization's Socio, economic and environmental goals. 29 F. FUTURE OBJECTIVES (2016) Every year Holiday Inn Dubai Al Barsha (HIAB) sets objectives for the next year and makes an honest effort to accomplish all of them. The following are the future objectives of HIAB for the year 2016:
