Contents Message from the CEO.........................................................3 Organizational Profile...........................................................5 About VirtusaPolaris............................................................ 8 Our Services......................................................................... 8 Economic Performance........................................................ 9 Financial Data.................................................................... 10 Our Sustainability Program.................................................12 About this Report.............................................................. 16 External Commitments...................................................... 19 Supply Chain Management................................................ 20 Our Clients.......................................................................... 21 Our Strategy and Approach............................................... 23 Client Engagement............................................................. 24 Technology and Innovation................................................ 25 Global Innovation Process................................................. 26 Platforming Approach........................................................ 27 Governance and Ethics.......................................................28 Our Strategy and Approach............................................... 29 Corporate Governance...................................................... 30 Information Security and Data Privacy ............................. 36 Risk Management.............................................................. 37 1 Environmental Stewardship................................................38 Our Strategy and Approach............................................... 40 Data Computational Methods........................................... 41 Managing Impacts............................................................. 41 Goals and Targets............................................................... 43 Environmental Data........................................................... 44 Spreading the Green Message........................................... 47 Our People.......................................................................... 49 Our Strategy and Approach............................................... 51 Nurturing a Millennial Workforce...................................... 51 Employee Engagement and Recognition........................... 52 Performance Management ............................................... 54 Diversity............................................................................. 55 Health and Safety............................................................... 55 Nurturing Talent................................................................. 56 People Data........................................................................ 58 HR Awards and Recognition............................................... 61 Social Good.........................................................................62 Our Strategy and Approach............................................... 64 CSR Committee.................................................................. 64 Campus Reach................................................................... 64 Tech Reach ........................................................................ 65 Community Outreach Projects.......................................... 67 CSR Awards and Recognition............................................. 71 Global Compact Principles and GRI Indicator Mapping......72 GRI Reporting Framework G4 (Core): Content Index..........73 2 Message from the CEO The year 2015 renewed the focus on sustainability with the launch of the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement. At VirtusaPolaris, we believe that technology – a key enabler of sustainable development – helps us to create shared value. Consequently, our sustainability strategy is focused on creating value for our clients through digital transformation and innovation; for employees through diversity and collaboration; and for our communities through technology enablement as well as environmental stewardship. This sustainability report – our first report published in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines – highlights our progress in the above areas. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), this report also forms our sixth Communication on Progress (COP). FY16 proved to be a momentous year for us as Virtusa Corporation acquired a majority interest in Polaris Consulting & Services Limited. VirtusaPolaris, our new market-facing brand, represents the combined strengths of Virtusa and Polaris. While you will find detailed information on all our sustainability initiatives within this report, I would like to share some specific highlights from our FY16 program. Client value: We continued to focus on improving our client services. This is evidenced by the increase in perfect 10/10 Client Delight Index (CDI) scorecards from 125 in FY15 to 225 in FY16. Our focus is to help our clients navigate the rapidly changing technology landscape. Advances in technology such as mobility, big data analytics, social media and cloud computing, Internet of Things (“IoT”), artificial intelligence (“AI”), and robotics process automation (“RPA”), are disrupting traditional business models. We have invested in these technologies and our millennial technology labs and innovation hubs foster the development of innovative business solutions for our clients. Environmental stewardship: Code Green, our environmental management system, encompasses measures to manage the significant environmental aspects of our business operations. Started in FY09, Code Green has continued to grow in terms of scope and maturity. Our 2015 Carbon Disclosure Project submission resulted in an 87 out of 100 disclosure score – a 13-point increase from 2014. We aim to build on our success and continuously improve our environmental footprint. To this end, in FY16 we joined the CDP Climate Change Program, whereas previously we had been responding to the supply chain program. We also extended third party assurance to our Scope 3 emissions data in addition to the Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions data. 3 People value: Due to the acquisition of Polaris Consulting our headcount increased from 11,741 in FY15 to 18,226 in FY16. We aim to create a work environment that values diversity and innovation, where our team members can do their best work and be recognized for their passion and creativity. V+, our innovative social business platform, has provided the platform that nurtures such creativity and innovation. As we grow our organization, we also aim to grow 75% of our leaders from within. Social value: Our CSR pillars—Campus Reach, Digital Reach and Tech Reach—focus on creating positive social impact. In FY16, a CSR Committee was set up to manage CSR activities across our Indian operations. Detailed information about these initiatives are provided in the section, Social Good. The backbone of our CSR programs has always been our employees who generously volunteer their time and effort. Whatever the need, from the earthquake in Nepal to the floods in Chennai and Sri Lanka, our team members were quick to respond generously. Future Direction With the integration of Polaris Consulting, we aim to include environmental data from additional geographic locations in our future reports and also to implement the use of renewable energy in our operations. We also aim to strengthen our diversity initiatives. The participation of women is low in the IT industry and we have initiated several schemes to increase the number of female employees in our operations, especially in leadership positions. While we have achieved many goals in our sustainability journey, there is still much to do. As such, not only do we seek to improve our own sustainability practices but also to collaborate with our clients, supply chain and other stakeholders to address the sustainability issues that impact all of us. Kris Canekeratne Chairman & CEO 4 Organizational Profile 5 United States Canada United Kingdom India Netherlands Sri Lanka Germany UAE Austria Malaysia Switzerland Singapore Sweden Hong Kong Hungary Philippines China Australia Japan New Zealand Virtusa Corporation (NASDAQ: VRTU) is a global information technology services provider. Virtusa and its subsidiaries have offices in North America, Europe, Asia, and Australia and New Zealand. OUR VISION OUR VALUES Apply domain and technology innovation to PASSION: To inspire our global teams to deliver accelerate business outcomes for our clients. extraordinary results INNOVATION: Apply intellectual curiosity to OUR MISSION reimagine better business outcomes for our To enable our clients to create the distinctive clients millennial experience, transform their business and deliver platform efficiencies. To build a great RESPECT: Protect our environment, honor our global firm that attracts, develops, inspires and diversity and treat everyone with dignity retains exceptional talent. LEADERSHIP: Take personal responsibility when things go awry and always ascribe success to the team 6 FY16 FAST FACTS 18,226 people across the globe* More than 80% of our workforce are millennials 27% of workforce are women Revenue: $600.3 million Net income: $44.8 million 25.3% increase in revenue 174 clients** 225 perfect 10/10 Client Delight Index scorecards 85% of revenue from repeat business 17% reduction in emissions per employee*** 25% reduction in energy consumption per employee 45% reduction in water consumption per employee *Due to Polaris acquisitions **Including clients from the Apparatus, Agora and Polaris acquisitions ***Scopes 1 and 2 7 About VirtusaPolaris Virtusa Corporation is a global information technology services provider. Headquartered in Massachusetts, we have offices in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland, Sweden, Austria, the United Arab Emirates, Hong Kong, Japan, Australia and New Zealand, with global delivery centers in India, Sri Lanka, Hungary, Singapore and Malaysia, as well as multiple near shore delivery centers in the United States. We view our operations and manage our business as one operating segment. Our corporate structure also spans multiple jurisdictions, with Virtusa Corporation incorporated in Delaware and its operating subsidiaries organized in India, Sri Lanka, the United Kingdom, Hungary, Germany, Singapore, Austria, Malaysia, Sweden, Switzerland and the Netherlands, as well as Polaris and its operating subsidiaries which are incorporated in Australia, New Zealand, the United Arab Emirates, Japan, Hong Kong and Canada. From time to time, we have also supplemented organic revenue growth with acquisitions. During the reporting period, we completed the acquisition of Apparatus, which expands our infrastructure management service offerings. On July 28, 2015, we acquired the business of Agora Group, Inc., an IT consulting organization headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, USA and its Indian Affiliate, which expands our business process management service offerings. On March 3, 2016, we acquired a controlling interest in Polaris Consulting & Services Limited, which expands our banking and financial services offerings and domain expertise. Due to the Polaris acquisition, our facilities increased from 25 to 53, expanding operations to Hong Kong, Ireland, United Arab Emirates, New Zealand, Japan, Australia and Canada. Our headcount increased from 11,741 to 18,226 worldwide. For information on changes in structure and capital, please see the 10K filing available at: http://phx. corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?c=211246&p=irol-sec. Our Services Using an enhanced global delivery model, we provide end-to-end information technology (“IT”) services to Forbes Global 2000 companies. These services include IT and business consulting, digital enablement services, user experience (“UX”) design, development of IT applications, maintenance and support services, systems integration, infrastructure and managed services. Our millennial solutions support the business growth imperative of our clients by delivering targeted and differentiated solutions that help expand their addressable markets as well as develop go-to-market strategies supporting new revenue streams. To improve IT efficiencies and reduce the cost of IT operations, we help our clients consolidate applications into platforms, rationalize IT infrastructure, and deliver transformational, industry-focused solutions, thereby enabling our clients to deliver modern, efficient and agile enterprise application platforms. Our deep expertise in core technology services allows us to help our clients to lower total cost of ownership of their overall IT investments. We also combine industry specialization with our core services to deliver high-impact solutions in critical business functions that help our clients transform their business performance and gain competitive advantage in the markets in which they operate. 8 We provide our IT services primarily to enterprises engaged in the following industries: communications and technology (“C&T”); banking, financial services and insurance (“BFSI”); and media and information (“M&I”). Detailed information of our service offerings is available on our website, http://www.virtusapolaris.com/services/. Economic Performance For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, we had revenue of $600.3 million and income from operations of $45.3 million. In our fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, our revenue increased by $121.3 million, or 25.3%, to $600.3 million, as compared to $479.0 million in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. This was due primarily to broad based growth, particularly our non-top ten clients, and revenue from the Apparatus, Agora and Polaris acquisitions of $55.2 million. Our net income increased from $42.4 million in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 to $44.8 million in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. We serve clients across North America, Europe and Asia, and with the Polaris acquisition, added operations in Hong Kong, Ireland, United Arab Emirates, New Zealand, Japan, Australia and Canada. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, 70% of our revenue was generated in North America, 22% in Europe and 8% in rest of the world. Our Advanced Technology Centers in India and Sri Lanka help contribute to the economic development of these countries through job creation. The Polaris acquisition added eight locations to our Indian operations, increasing our footprint in India. In Sri Lanka, we are the largest IT service company and contribute to the development of the IT/BPO industry which is one of the top five export revenue earners for the country. In fact, we have been recognized as the highest foreign exchange revenue earner in the IT/BPO sector for Sri Lanka, having won the gold award for ‘Export of Business & Professional Services Sector’ in the ‘extra-large’ category at the National Chamber of Exporters Awards for four consecutive years since 2012. We provide indirect economic benefits in two areas. Through our Campus Reach program we collaborate with the academia to advance IT education in India and Sri Lanka. Through our Tech Reach program we develop software applications for social good at zero cost to stakeholders. These programs are described in detail in the section “Social Good” along with details of community investments made during the reporting period. We do not make any political donations as per our corporate policy. 9 Financial Data Fiscal Year Ended March 31 (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Revenue 600,302 478,986 396,933 333,175 277,771 Costs of revenue 389,310 304,422 250,533 215,866 177,434 Gross profit 210,992 174,564 146,400 117,309 100,337 Operating expenses 165,672 121,996 103,988 84,450 76,438 Income from operations 45,320 52,568 42,412 32,859 23,899 Other income 12,349 4,832 3,512 3,000 2,547 Income before income tax expense 57,669 57,400 45,924 35,859 26,446 Income tax expense 12,649 14,954 11,549 7,461 6,411 Net income 45,020 42,446 34,375 28,398 20,035 Less: Net income attributable to the non218 controlling interest Net income attributable to Virtusa common 44,802 42,446 34,375 28,398 20,035 stockholders Basic earnings per share 1.53 1.48 1.32 1.14 0.81 Diluted earnings per share 1.49 1.44 1.27 1.11 0.79 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding Basic 29,233,861 28,753,102 26,116,516 24,937,162 24,643,063 Diluted 30,004,982 29,555,624 26,973,001 25,638,839 25,383,650 Table: Consolidated Statements of Income Data (in US$) 10 Year Ended March 31 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Customer Revenue North America 421,215 319,285 278,318 251,219 215,723 Europe 134,639 129,904 97,178 65,863 49,839 Other 44,448 29,797 21,437 16,093 12,209 Consolidated revenue 600,302 478,986 396,933 333,175 277,771 Table: Revenue Breakdown According to Geographic Locations (in US$) Revenue by Industry Group BFSI 54% Communications and Tech 35% Media & Information and Other 11% Revenue by Product Type Time & Materials 61% Fixed Bid 39% Revenue by Service Offering Application Outsourcing 54% Consulting 46% Table: Breakdown of Services Provided (FY16) 11 Our Sustainability Program 12 SUSTAINABILITY AT A GLANCE OHSAS 18001:2007 Certified Occupational Health and Safety System ISO 14001:2004 Certified Environmental Management System ISO 22301:2012 Certified Business Continuity Management System ISO 27001:2013 Certified Information Security Management System 13 Our Sustainability Program Our aim is “to reduce our environmental footprint, with ethical maturity, respect and dignity to all”. Premised on our core corporate values of Passion, Innovation, Respect and Leadership (PIRL), we believe in doing more, and better, with less. Accordingly, we leverage unique and industry leading tools to increase “right first time” and reduce “cycle time” by aggressively measuring and improving quality and reuse at the source. By doing so, we effectively reduce the environmental footprint of the products and services offered to clients. Our sustainability program is based on the following core elements. Area Framework Current Status Health and Safety OHSAS 18001:2007 All major offices in India and Sri Lanka are certified.* Environment (Code Green) ISO 14001:2004 (EMS) All major offices in India and Sri Lanka are certified for ISO 14001.* ISO 50001:2011 Guidance (Energy) Encompasses climate change, emissions, ISO 14064 Guidance (Climate energy, water and waste management. Change) We report GHG emissions to the Carbon Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Disclosure Project. Business Continuity Management ISO 22301:2012 All major offices in India and Sri Lanka are certified.* Information Security ISO27001:2013 All major offices in India and Sri Lanka are certified.* Labor Standards SA 8000 Guidance Policies formulated under SA 8000 guidance since July 2016. Modern Slavery Act 2015 (UK) Anti-Bribery and Corruption Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 1977 Policies signed in line with framework. Bribery Act 2010 (UK) Management Engagement, Social ISO 26000 Guidance We create social impact through the Impact & Diversity following: Companies Act 2013 section 135 (India) • Digital Reach – Creating a digitally inclusive society. • Campus Reach – Supporting the next generation of IT professionals to be workforce ready. • Tech Reach – Using technology for good. CSR Operating Committee for pan India formed in 2015. * Excudes offices from Polaris Consulting. 14 Our Chief Operating Officer, reporting to the Board, has responsibility for all aspects of sustainability. Crossfunctional teams at each geographic location oversee and implement components of the sustainability strategy that are specific to their operations. Goals and Commitments Increase renewable energy to 10% of total energy by Grow 75% of our leaders Maintain Net Promotor 2020 from within Score at 60% Maintain Client Delight Index Maintain Graduate Fast Track Maintain Intern Delight at 8.5 Delight Index at >90% Index at >90% Sustainability Policy and Sub-Polices Our Sustainability Policy, which was formulated in FY14, has the following sub-policies: Energy Policy, Climate Change Policy, Waste Policy, Water Policy, and the Social Responsibility Policy. In FY16, we reviewed and updated all of the above policies. 15 About this Report REPORT QUICK FACTS We have used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines as the foundation for our sustainability reporting Reporting period: April 2015 to March 2016 and this report is prepared in accordance with the Core option. This report also forms our sixth Communication Date of previous report: November 2015 on Progress (COP) to the United Nations Global Compact and documents our progress in implementing the UNGC Reporting cycle: Annual Principles in our operations. Contact Point for Questions: Roger Keith Modder EVP and Chief Operating Officer keith@virtusapolaris.com Materiality and Reporting Boundary A complete list of subsidiaries that comprise our reporting boundary is provided on page 162 of our 2016 Form 10K (Exhibit 21.1). Since we manage our business as one operating segment, aspects related to economic, labor practices, human rights, governance and ethics, and customer privacy are reported for all entities except, Polaris Consulting and Optimus Global Services. As the acquisition of Polaris Consulting took place in March 2016, only limited information on the above aspects are provided for Polaris Consulting and Optimus Global Services. Environmental data is reported only for our technology centers in India and Sri Lanka. Environmental data also excludes data from Polaris Consulting and Optimus Global Services. Apparatus InSource TradeTech Polaris Optimus Global Material Aspects Virtusa Corp. Inc. Holdings Consulting Consulting* Services Limited* Economic Environment Labor Practices and Decent Work Human Rights Governance and Ethics Customer Privacy Social Responsibility Note: As the acquisition of Polaris Consulting took place on 3rd March 2016, only Material and fully Reported with Not significant limited information on the above aspects are provided for Polaris Consulting and reported constraints Optimus Global Services. 16 Stakeholder Engagement The stakeholder groups with which we engage include clients, investors, employees, academia, suppliers, governments, NGOs and local communities. Of the listed stakeholders, clients, investors and employees have the greatest impact on our operations. Stakeholder engagement is an important aspect of our sustainability program as it provides inputs on the topics that are important for our stakeholders. The following table lists the channels of engagement we use with each of our stakeholders as well as the key concerns for each stakeholder group. Stakeholder Engagement Mode Key Concerns • Request for proposal • Client visits and meetings • Business value • Client Delight Index (CDI) • Business continuity Clients • Net Promoter Score (NPS) • Good corporate governance • Client initiated surveys and audits • Ethical business practices • Sustainability report • Environmental responsibility • Media interactions • Revenue growth • Profit margins • Annual general meeting Investors • Good corporate governance • Media interactions • Ethical business practices • Transparency • Internal Support Group Framework • EHS Committee • Career growth • Open Door Policy • Compensation • Social media Employees • Learning and development • Internal Service Group Survey • Work/life balance • On-boarding Survey • Safe work environment • 5th Month Survey and 18 Month Survey • Exit Survey • Curriculum development and advice • Internship program • Career guidance and awareness • Mentoring for final year projects • Internship opportunities for students Academia • Industrial visits • Curriculum advice • Career fairs • Social media • Media interactions • Supplier Survey • Supplier Guidelines • Business opportunities Suppliers • Supplier awareness sessions • Ethical business practices • Media interactions • Membership in global associations • Good corporate governance • Collaborations with government bodies on • Ethical business practices Governments sustainability • Environmental responsibility • Media interactions • Development of IT industry in India/Sri Lanka NGOs • Ethical business practices and Local • Media interactions • Responsible corporate citizenship Communities • Job opportunities We did not undertake an engagement process in specifically for the preparation of the report but have utilized the existing mechanisms. 17 In order to determine the report content, we used the matrix below to identify the issues and aspects most material to us and our stakeholders. We have made every effort to submit a comprehensive report with regard to dimensions of scope and boundary for the reporting period. Our goal is to improve our reporting as well as work towards obtaining external assurance. Restatements We have revised the e-waste numbers for FY15, FY14 and F113 due to recalculations. We also revised the methodology used to calculate energy intensity and emissions intensity from per full time employee to per employee as this provides more accurate number. 18 PARTNERSHIPS • National Association of Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM) External Commitments • Sri Lanka Association of Software and Service Companies (SLASSCOM) • American Chamber of Commerce, India United Nations Global Compact We have been a signatory and a member of the United • American Chamber of Commerce, Sri Lanka Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2008. We embody and practice the 10 principles through our management • Information Technology & Services Industry approach to sustainability and sustainable business. Association of Andhra Pradesh (ITsAP) We have been on the Steering Committee of the Sri Lankan • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Network since 2010. A representative from VirtusaPolaris is on the Board of Directors of the Network and we have • Central Environmental Authority of Sri Lanka supported and encouraged the activation of both the Network and the UNGC principles in Sri Lanka. We also • Biodiversity Sri Lanka support the Network to organize conferences and training sessions, thus enabling the dissemination of sustainability • Indian Green Building Council training to corporates in Sri Lanka. UNGC Business for Peace (B4P) We are also a member of the UNGC Business for Peace (B4P) initiative. In 2013, we were featured as a case study in the UNGC’s Responsible Business Advancing Peace publication for our contribution to national reconstruction in post-war Sri Lanka. The case study highlights activities carried out through our Digital Reach and Tech Reach initiatives where we helped to build a digital learning center in the North of Sri Lanka to be used to provide IT training to war rehabilitees. More details are provided in the Social Good section. Carbon Disclosure Project We have been responding to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since 2011, and in 2015 we received a score of 97 out of 100 and our Performance Band was “C”. From 2016, we will be responding to the CDP Climate Change Program as well as the Supply Chain Program. Central Environmental Authority of Sri Lanka E-waste Management Program We are one of 14 companies to sign an MOU with the Central Environmental Authority of Sri Lanka to properly and effectively manage e-waste. With the increase in use of electronic devices, proper disposal of e-waste is a growing problem in Sri Lanka as the country does not have mechanisms for recycling e-waste. This initiative has set up an island wide network for the collection of the e-waste from individuals and organizations in order to avoid such waste ending up in landfill and causing pollution. 19 Supply Chain Management As an information technology services provider, our operations do not consume significant amounts of raw materials, nor do we sell products that require packaging and shipping. We have a large supplier base that provides goods and services to support our operations across the following categories: workplace and facilities, transport, IT and telecom, food service providers and security services. Accountability for the execution of our procurement strategy begins with our local and regional procurement teams and ultimately resides with our Chief Financial Officer. Our policy is to depend on local suppliers at all locations of operations unless to do so would be a cost disadvantage. In order to incorporate responsible business practices in our supply chain we utliizing the initiatives described below. Supplier Sustainability Survey Our Supplier Sustainability Survey was created in 2010 to review supplier sustainability practices. In 2016, the Survey was updated to include a scoring mechanism to enable us to grade our suppliers in terms of sustainable business practices. Supplier Guidelines The Supplier Guidelines was formulated in 2013. The Guidelines set out the standards and practices that suppliers are required to uphold in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and business ethics. These include complying with all applicable laws and regulations, ensuring that they are not complicit in human rights abuses, ensuring that child labor and forced or compulsory labor is not used in any operations and providing safe working conditions for employees. In addition, suppliers are expected to ensure the protection of the environment and follow ethical business practices. Supply Chain Sustainability Awareness Session This event is held annually for our Tier 1 suppliers. The intention is to share sustainability best practices and to create awareness on current sustainability issues. The session has been held at our Sri Lanka facilities since 2013 and we intend to expand the practice to other locations. Procurement Process We have implemented a robust approval process for procurement, which includes evaluations not only on cost and quality aspects but also aspects such as user safety and climate change impact. We also include risk management aspects into the procurement process. Starting in 2016, we incorporated the Supplier Survey and Guidelines into our procurement selection process at our Sri Lanka operations. Our aim is to expand this practice to other locations in future. Checks and Inspections We strive to ensure that our suppliers operate responsibly. Suppliers are required to ensure that any employees performing work on behalf of us use the correct health and safety equipment and procedures. For transport providers are required to undergo vehicle inspections and drivers are required to provide police reports. Food service providers are required to submit themselves for inspections conducted by the Public Health Inspector (PHI). 20 Our Clients 21 FY16 FAST FACTS 174 clients 65 new clients* 85% of revenue is from repeat business 225 perfect 10/10 client delight scorecards *Including clients from the Apparatus, Agora and Polaris acquisitions 22 Our Strategy and Approach A majority of our revenue for the reporting period was generated from Forbes Global 2000 firms or their subsidiaries. Our expertise in core technology services allows us to help our clients lower total cost of ownership of their overall IT investments. We also combine industry specialization with our core services to deliver highimpact solutions in critical business functions that help our clients transform their business performance and gain competitive advantage in the markets in which they operate. Our solutions provide our clients with the consultative and high-value services associated with large consulting and systems integration firms, the cost-effectiveness associated with offshore IT outsourcing firms and the ongoing benefits of our innovative platforming approach. We believe that our regular, direct interaction with client senior executives, the breadth of our client relationships and our reputation within these clients as a thought leader, differentiates us from our competitors. The strength of our relationships has resulted in significant recurring revenue from existing clients. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, 85% of our revenue came from clients to whom we had been providing services for at least one year. Strategic Alliances We have strategic alliances with software companies, some of which are also our clients, to provide services to their customers. We believe these alliances differentiate us from our competition. Our extensive engineering, quality assurance and technology implementation and support services to software companies enable us to compete more effectively for the technology implementation and support services required by their customers. In addition, our strategic alliances with software companies allow us to share sales leads, develop joint account plans and engage in joint marketing activities. 23 Client Engagement Account Management Our experienced account managers build and regularly update detailed account development plans for each of our clients. These managers are responsible for developing strong working relationships across the client organization, working day-to-day with the client and our service delivery teams to understand and address the client’s needs. Our account managers work closely with our clients to develop a detailed understanding of their business objectives and technology environments. Clients also contribute to innovation and improvement as their ideas and experiences are incorporated into our body of knowledge. We also seek regular informal and formal client feedback. Our global leadership and executive team regularly interact with client leadership and each client is typically given a formal feedback survey on a quarterly basis. Client feedback is qualitatively and quantitatively analyzed and forms an important component of our teams’ performance assessments and our continual improvement plans. Client Delight Index Measuring and ensuring high client satisfaction is an integral part of our delivery process. The Client Delight Index (CDI) is a key performance measure that has Board-level visibility. Client feedback is collected each quarter from stakeholders identified for each account and a consolidated report is published for each Advanced Technology Center. The CDI helps us to identify areas of client engagement that may need attention. Internally, all negative responses require action plans from our staff, ensuring that any problems are corrected. The survey can be customized depending on the project or project phase. Net Promoter Score Along with the CDI we also gather information on the Net Promoter Score. This metric is also reviewed at Board level on a quarterly basis. 24 Technology and Innovation New advances in areas like internet of things (“IoT”), artificial intelligence (“AI”) and robotics process automation (“RPA”) are pushing the boundaries of how technology can disrupt traditional business models and deliver significant value in several areas, including delivering new products and services, enhancing consumer experience and improving operational efficiencies of the business. We have invested in developing deep capabilities in these new areas, fostering a strong partner ecosystem and building a rich platform for nurturing innovation and rapidly constructing prototypes that use IoT, AI and/or RPA to solve specific business problems for our clients. Our Global Technology Office has extended its award winning ERA Platform to include a comprehensive RPA tooling capability and is leveraging it to drive innovation and operational efficiencies for our clients. Our millennial technology labs and innovation hubs foster the development of emerging technology solutions and enable our clients to become millennial enterprises. GTO Tools and ns Empowering every team member with a comprehensive SDLC 2.0 ecosystem CODE TEST DEPLOY OPERATIONS Engineering excellence Smart tes ng and tool Automa on and Next-Gen r through developer agnos c automa on standardiza on of and applica on support engagement DevOps processes Kry 10 • Lean startup • 40% less e ort and 60% less • Extreme agile with design factory me to market • Stakeholder value management • Model driven pla orm Lean Startup Applica on • End-to-end traceability Model Driven Rapid • Near-zero code backend Lifecycle Management Innova on Pla orm • Modern UX • Social/gami ca on Solu on 25 Global Innovation Process Our proprietary Global Innovation Process (GIP) is a software lifecycle methodology that combines our experience building platform-based solutions for global clients with leading industry standards such as CMMI Level 5 (Capability Maturity Model Integration), Agile, ITIL v3, Rational Unified Process, and Product Line Engineering. By leveraging GIP templates, tools and artifacts across diverse disciplines such as requirements management, architecture, design, construction, testing, application outsourcing and production support, each team member is able to leverage software engineering and platforming best practices and extend these benefits to clients. During the initial process-tailoring phase of an engagement, we work with the client to define the specific approach and tools that will be used for the engagement. This process-tailoring takes into consideration the client’s business objectives, technology environment and currently-established development approach. A dedicated business excellence group provides three important functions: they continually monitor, test and incorporate new approaches, techniques, tools and frameworks into GIP; they advise project teams, particularly during the process-tailoring phase; and they monitor and audit projects to ensure compliance. Clients also contribute to innovation and improvement as their ideas and experiences are incorporated into our body of knowledge. All of our major delivery centers, located in Hyderabad, Chennai, Bangalore in India and Colombo, Sri Lanka have been assessed at CMMI Level 5 maturity. During our fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, as part of the CMMI re-assessment process (every 3 years), the Chennai and Colombo delivery centers first assessed during the fiscal year 2013, completed the reassessment successfully and maintained their CMMI Level 5 rating. In the fiscal year ending March 31, 2017, both Hyderabad and Bangalore centers will be going through their second reassessment. CMMI’s process levels are regarded as the standard in the industry for evolutionary paths in software and systems development and management. 26 Platforming Approach We apply our innovative platforming approach across our business and IT consulting, technology implementation and application outsourcing services to rationalize IT application portfolios and reduce costs, increase productivity and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our clients' IT application environments. Platforming is a structured approach to software development that organizes discrete software components into related functions in a layered architecture of common services. This enables development teams to write code once and utilize it multiple times. Unlike in traditional enterprise application development where different applications remain isolated, thus replicating business logic, technology frameworks and enterprise data, platforming helps to combine common business processes and rules, technology frameworks and data into reusable application platforms that can be leveraged across the enterprise. Through platforming our clients are able to continually improve their software platforms and applications in response to changing business needs and evolving technologies while also improving business agility and realizing long-term and ongoing cost savings. 27 Governance and Ethics 28 Our Strategy and POLICIES Approach • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics • Anti-Bribery Policy Our core values – Passion, Innovation, Respect and • FCPA Policy Leadership (PIRL) – are the guiding principles in all • Whistleblower Policy our interactions. Sound governance along with strong • Business Continuity Management Policy policies have helped to maintain a reputation of corporate • Information Security Management Policy excellence. • Intellectual Property • Harassment-Free Workplace Policy Instilling our business ethics and culture in our employees • Sustainability Policy forms an important part of people development. All • Environment, Health and Safety Policy employees are educated on the PIRL values and corporate • Energy Policy policies through several mediums from the on-boarding • Climate Change Policy program to awareness mailers. All corporate policies are • Waste Policy also available on our V+ platform for easy reference. • Water Policy • Social Responsibility Policy As a responsible corporate citizen, we adhere to the laws and regulations relevant to our operations. During the CERTIFICATION reporting period, there were no instances of monetary or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws • CMMI Level 5 and regulations related to any aspects of our business • ISO 22301:2012 operations including the provision of services, anti• BS OHSAS 18001:2007 competitive behavior and environmental regulations. • ISO/IEC 27001:2013 • BS EN ISO 14001:2004 29 Corporate Governance Board of Directors Name AgeP ePosi on Commi Membership Inside Directors Chairman and Chief Execu ve Kris Canekeratne 50 O er and Class III Director Outside Directors Robert E. Davoli 68 Class I Director William K. O'Brien 71 Class I Director Al-Noor Ramji 62 Class I Director Izhar Armony 52 Class II Director Mar Trust 81 Class II Director Rowland T. Moriarty 69 Class II Director Ronald T. Maheu 74 Class III Director Barry R. Nearhos 58 Class III Director Member of the Compensa on Comm Member of the Audit Comm Member of the Nomi g and Corporate Governance Comm Chairperson Financial Expert * Mr. Maheu’s term expired at the 2016 annual meeting of stockholders, and he did not stand for reelection. 30 Board Structure Our Corporate Governance Guidelines sets out the qualification standards for directors, their responsibilities, their access to management and independent advisors, their compensation and training. It also describes the board structure, management succession plans, annual performance evaluation of the board and its committees, and the security holder communication with the board. Mr. Canekeratne, a founder of our company, serves as our chief executive officer and chairman of the board. The board of directors believes that having our executive officer as chairman of the board facilitates the board of directors’ decision-making process because Mr. Canekeratne has first-hand knowledge of our operations and the major issues facing us, and is most capable of effectively identifying strategic priorities and leading the discussion and execution of strategy. This also enables Mr. Canekeratne to act as the key link between the board of directors and other members of management. Independence of Members of the Board of Directors Seven members of the board of directors are independent within the meaning of the director independence standards of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc., or NASDAQ, and the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Rule 10A-3(b)(1) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Furthermore, each member of each of the committees of the Board of Directors is independent within the meaning of the director independence standards of NASDAQ and the Securities and Exchange Commission. To maintain effective independent oversight, the board of directors annually appoints a lead independent director. The board of directors believes the combined role of chief executive officer and chairman, together with a lead independent director is in the best interest of stockholders because it provides the appropriate balance between strategy development and independent oversight of management. Mr. Martin Trust currently serves as the lead independent director. In this role, Mr. Trust serves as chairperson of the independent director sessions and assists the board in assuring effective corporate governance. 31 Committees of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors has three standing committees: Audit Committee; Compensation Committee; and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. NOMINATING AND CORPORATE AUDIT COMMITTEE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE • Oversees our accounting • Responsible for developing • Developing and and financial reporting executive compensation recommending to the processes, internal controls policies and advising the board criteria for board and and audit functions. board of directors with committee membership. respect to such policies • Focuses on risks and issues and administering the • Administers enterprise risk related to accounting, Company’s cash incentive, management program. internal controls, and stock option and equity financial and tax reporting. incentive plans. • Identifies and oversees risks and issues associated with • Assesses economic and • Identifies and oversees risks director independence, business risks and monitors and issues associated with related party transactions compliance with ethical our executive compensation and the implementation standards and applicable policies and practices. of corporate governance regulations. policies and our code of ethics. Committees of the Board of Directors Each committee operates pursuant to a separate charter that has been approved by the Board of Directors. A current copy of each charter is available at the Corporate Governance section of our website at http://www.virtusa.com/investors/corporate-governance/. 32 Role in Risk Oversight by the Board of Directors The Board of Directors’ role in overseeing the management of the Company’s risks is primarily accomplished through management’s reporting processes, including receiving regular reports from members of senior management on areas of material risk to the Company, including operational, financial, legal and regulatory, and strategic and reputational risk and assessments and prioritization of such risks. The standing committees of our Board of Directors, pursuant to the respective charters, represent a key element of enterprise risk management. The nominating and corporate governance committee of our board of directors has been appointed by our board of directors to administer the enterprise risk management process as the enterprise risk management committee. The enterprise risk management committee provides oversight of the recommendations of management and associated timeline to identify and assess severity of enterprise risks, the prioritization of such risks and development of any action plans to mitigate such risks. Our audit committee focuses on risks and issues related to accounting, internal controls and financial and tax reporting. The audit committee also assesses economic and business risks and monitors compliance with ethical standards. The compensation committee identifies and oversees risks and issues associated with our executive compensation policies and practices, and the nominating and corporate governance committee identifies and oversees risks and issues associated with director independence, related party transactions and the implementation of corporate governance policies and our code of ethics. All of these committees are ultimately subject to oversight and direction of the full board of directors and report directly to the board of directors on these matters. 33 Communications with the Board of Directors Our stockholders who wish to communicate directly with the board of directors or an individual member of the board may do so by sending such communication by mail (including courier or expedited delivery service). Attention To: • Chairman of the Board (as a representative of the entire board of directors); • OR to the individual director or directors. U.S. Mailing Address: c/o Secretary Virtusa Corporation 2000 West Park Drive Westborough, Massachusetts 01581 USA Board of Directors’ Evaluation Program The board of directors performs annual self-evaluations of its composition and performance, including evaluations of its standing committees and individual evaluations for each director. In addition, each of the standing committees of the board of directors conducts its own self-evaluation, which is reported to the board of directors. The board of directors retains the authority to engage its own advisors and consultants. Additional Information Detailed information on corporate governance is available in the Proxy Filings on our website http://www.virtusa. com/investors/annual-report-and-proxy-statement/. Information on the members of the board of directors and executive officers is available at: http://www.virtusa. com/investors/corporate-governance/management-and-board/. 34 Ethics and Compliance Our Ethics and Compliance program is enforced through the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Corruption Program, and the Whistleblower Policy. These policies are applicable to all our employees in all locations and are supported by ongoing training programs and annual certification requirements for employees. Overall responsibility for administering our Ethics and Compliance Program rests with our Compliance Officer who is also the General Counsel. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics provides the ethical and business standards all directors and employees of the company are expected to adhere to. The Code covers areas such as conflict of interest, confidentiality, fair dealing, money laundering and illicit finance, and anti-bribery. A current copy of the Code is available at: http:// www.virtusa.com/investors/corporate-governance/. Anti-Bribery and Corruption Program Our Anti-Bribery Program is implemented through the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Policy and the Virtusa UK Anti-Bribery Act Policy. The policies set a zero tolerance approach to acts of bribery and corruption and reaffirms our commitment to complying with all relevant anti-bribery legislation wherever we do business. Our Finance and Administrative systems are regulated to ensure that anti-corruption practices are maintained in all transactions performed within. Whistleblower Policy Employees and other interested parties can report any behavior that contravenes the Code of Ethics, any accounting irregularities or conduct that undermines the integrity of the Company’s financial statements or the Anti-Bribery Policy using the Whistleblower Hotline, through a web-based submission tool or in writing. Complaints are forwarded to the Chairman of the Audit Committee as soon as reasonably practicable following receipt of such Complaint. More information on the Whistleblower Hotline is available in the Audit Committee Complaints Procedure at http://www.virtusa.com/investors/corporate-governance/. Protection of Intellectual Property We have policies in place to protect intellectual property by ensuring that utilized software have proper licenses. In addition, we have non-disclosure and assignment of inventions agreements with all of our employees to ensure the confidentiality of our work product and title to work that we create for us or our clients. We also monitor and have rigorous software engineering standards designed to prevent or detect any use of software or intellectual property not properly owned or licensed to us. 35 Information Security and Data Privacy Cyber security has become a priority for businesses due to increasingly sophisticated threats. As a provider of IT consulting and technology services, cyber security is of paramount importance as we have access to sensitive client data in the course of business. As such, the success of our business depends on the protection of our clients’ data as well as the protection of our employee data. Our Chief Information Security Officer is responsible for information security. In addition, the Enterprise Risk Management Team is responsible for taking 360 view on risks that could affect our business operations. The team executes an annual program to monitor the implementation of solutions for those areas deemed high risk for the company. Our Information Security Management Policy sets out the governance structures, monitoring, and compliance requirements for protecting client data. Information Security Management Program is certified for ISO 27001:2013. The Enterprise Risk Management Program ensures that the annual re-certification is performed by a qualified external third party agency. The review examines our information security framework and comments on its strengths and weaknesses. Since the original certification in 2008 the reviewer has not reported any material or significant observations. The most recent review was performed in October 2014. We provide guidelines and training to employees on how to handle client and sensitive business data as well as protect intellectual property. The Chief Information Security Officer’s organization monitors and reports any breaches to the Senior Leadership Team, Enterprise Risk Management Team, client representatives, relevant business unit heads, and human resources teams for corrective action. We do not report the total number of complaints as this information is governed by confidentiality agreements with our clients. External Penetration Program The Penetration Testing Program is governed by our Global Penetration Testing Policy and is administered by the office of the Chief Information Security Officer. An external penetration testing is performed by a selected and qualified service provider once every financial year. Penetration testing service providers are rotated to optimize the program. The program provides assurance that our external infrastructure is hardened to industry standards and safeguards in place are effective. Data Loss Prevention Industry accepted Data Loss Prevention (DLP) solutions have been implemented to ensure that business critical information including client information, financial information, personally identifiable information, and personal health information is not disclosed to external parties. The DLP program is jointly administered by the Chief Information Security Officer’s office and Information Technology Team. 36 Software Compliance We have a strong Software Compliance framework. In May 2014, we were independently assessed and granted Verafirm certification by BSA, thus becoming the fourth company in the world to receive Verafirm certification. Periodic Auditing Our Internal Audit Department (IAD) conducts periodic audits of the information technology infrastructure and the information security framework based on risks and request. IAD’s reports are provided to the Vice President of Information Technology and Chief Information Security Officer for review and correction and updates are provided to the Audit Committee during quarterly meetings. Risk Management Our Risk Management Team, headed by the Head of Risk Management, applies risk management frameworks to identify any risks to our operations, including risks related to laws and regulations, reputation, customer behavior and requirements, and weather/climate change. While these risks are considered at the company level, we also undertake significant advanced planning at contract, asset, and geographic location level. Risks from extreme weather conditions due to climate change such as heatwaves, drought, storms and floods are assessed under our Business Continuity Risk Assessment guided by ISO 22301. For instance, the severe flooding that occurred in Chennai in December 2015 shut down our facilities and impacted our operations so that business continuity plans were enforced to mitigate the impact to our business and employees. The results of risks related to climate change and the action plans are presented annually to the executive board and to the audit committee, and conclusions reported to the board of directors. Detailed information on risks and opportunities from climate change are provided in our CDP response, which is available at: https://www.cdp. net/en/responses/20186. 37 Environmental Stewardship 38 FY16 FAST FACTS 97 Carbon Disclosure Project score 17% Reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions per employee since FY13 25% Reduction in energy consumption per employee since FY13 45% Reduction in water consumption per employee since FY13 85% of real estate certified for ISO 14001 environmental management 30% Office space LEED certified Won the Bronze Flame in the Large Scale Category of the Commercial Buildings Sector at the National Energy Efficiency Awards – Sri Lanka 39 Our Strategy and Approach The significant environmental aspects of our business operations such as emissions, energy and water usage, and disposal of waste material is managed through Code Green, our environmental management system. Since we started monitoring and measuring our environmental footprint in 2008, we have been able to consistently improve our environmental performance. Our commitment to reducing our environmental footprint and adhering to all environmental regulations is set out in the following policies: Environment, Health and Safety Policy, Energy Policy, Climate Change Policy, Waste Policy, and Water Policy. These policies were formulated in 2013 and are reviewed annually. Our environmental strategy focuses on three areas: operating energy efficient facilities that reduce our environmental footprint, reducing the environmental footprint of software developed for clients and researching on energy improvement technologies. While our Chief Operating Officer is accountable for our overall environmental strategy, the Facilities Management teams in each location manage day to day activities related to environmental management such as tracking emissions, energy and water usage, recycling activities, ISO14001 certification and aspects of environmental reporting. We seek certification to ensure transparency and adherence to international standards. Our facilities in Chennai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Pune and Colombo, which constitute 85% of our real estate, is certified for ISO 14001 by the British Standards Institute. Our Hyderabad Campus was awarded the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) India ‘Gold’ rating by the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) in 2013. In addition, 43,000 sqft, which amounts to 22% of our office space in Colombo, has been rated LEED Silver. 40 Data Computational Methods Environmental data is only gathered and monitored for our offices in India and Sri Lanka, which accounts for approximately 80% of our total headcount. We follow the guidelines set by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol to calculate Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. We have used FY13 (April 2013 to March 2014) as our baseline year. Information on employee numbers are obtained based on the employee’s current location. This provides a more accurate figure than using the headcount based on the permanent location as it takes into account employees who are working at client sites and who do not contribute to emissions in our offices. For FY16, we used the emission factors published in the 2015 Climate Registry Default Emission Factors for India and Sri Lanka, which were as follows: Location Emission Factor Unit India 926 grams CO2/kWh Sri Lanka 546 grams CO2/kWh To calculate Scope 3 emissions from air travel and employee commute, we used the World Resources Institute (2015) GHG Protocol tool for mobile combustion version 2.6. From 2014 onwards, we have received limited assurance under ISAE3000 from Ernst & Young for our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions calculations. In 2016, we extended the verification to our Scope 3 emissions as well. Managing Impacts Emissions Our main source of emissions is from the usage of purchased electricity, and to a lesser extent from business travel (both air travel and road travel). Emissions from the usage of the diesel generator forms a minute percentage of our emissions (see Chart: Percentage Breakdown of Emission for FY16). While we have been able to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per employee by 17% from our baseline year of FY13, during the reporting period emissions per employee increased from 1.26 MTCO2eq in FY15 to 1.34 MTCO2eq in FY16. This was due to expansion in business operations as well as increase in emission factors. Emissions factors for India increased from 904 to 926 and emissions factors for Sri Lanka increased from 426 to 546. Emissions per dollar revenue reduced by 0.39%. In order to further reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, future goals include purchasing renewable energy to offset 10% of our total energy consumption. In the last two years we have improved the quality and scope of the transport services offered to our employees through improved shuttle services. In addition, air travel for business requirements has increased, especially due to activities related to the acquisition and integration with Polaris Consulting. Both these factors have increased our absolute Scope 3 emissions. Measures to reduce the impact from business air travel include the use of audio and video conferencing. Measures to reduce impact from road travel include the use of an automated system to track and manage shuttle services, the use of optimized transport routes and where possible the use of hybrid vehicles for transporting employees. In January 2016, we initiated a project to promote carpooling among employees at our Hyderabad Campus. Using a third party app, users can either offer their cars to riders or get a car that is going towards their destination. From January to March 2016, our employee avoided 1.07 MTCO2eq by using the service. This initiative will be expanded to our other facilities in India in future. 41 Energy As an IT services company, approximately 70% percent of our emissions are generated from the use of electricity in our offices. We initiated our energy management program in April 2008. We have optimized our energy usage through space and server consolidation as well as the use of building management systems (BMS) and energy efficient products. In 2012 we implemented an initiative to convert the lighting system in the Sri Lanka, Hyderabad and Chennai facilities to LED. By the end of FY16, we had converted 73% of lighting to LED in Colombo, 45% in Hyderabad, 49% in Chennai and 65% in Pune. Lighting in the Bangalore facility is 100% LED. We also a have a policy to hibernate or switch-off idle machines wherever possible. Due to the above measures, we achieved a 25% reduction in per employee energy consumption over our baseline year of FY13. The intensity of energy consumption per employee reduced from 187 kWh in FY13 to 140 kWh in FY16. Water As a services company, our operations are not water-intensive. Water is used mainly for drinking, hygiene, facility operations and landscaping. However, we seek to be responsible in our water consumption, especially since we have operations in locations that face water stress. Our main source of water is the municipal water supply and our operations do not affect any local water body significantly. The water management data provided in this report is for our operations in Sri Lanka, Hyderabad, Bangalore and Pune. This data does not include drinking water, which we do not target for reduction. Since FY13 per employee water usage reduced by 45% from 0.66kl in FY13 to 0.36kl in FY16. Total water used at our facilities in Hyderabad, Bangalore and Sri Lanka in FY16 amounted to 36,024.13kl. Strategies for water management include more efficient water usage in facilities maintenance and creating awareness among employees about conserving water. At present, we are able to recycle waste water only at the Hyderabad Campus. In FY16, 11,113kl of water was recycled, which amounted to 30% of our total use and 85% of water withdrawal at the Hyderabad Campus (12,993kl). The Hyderabad Campus also has rain water harvesting facilities with two tanks of 50kl and 75kl. Waste As an IT services company, e-waste forms a large component of the byproduct of our operations. As a result, we have in place a program to hand over e-waste to a certified vendor for recycling. We are one of 14 companies to sign an MOU with the Central Environmental Authority (CEA) of Sri Lanka to properly and effectively manage e-waste. We were also the first IT company in Sri Lanka to receive a Scheduled Waste Management License from the CEA. Another source of waste from our operations is paper. We have reduced paper usage through several measures such as duplex printing with usage and paying for farmed paper. All departments are encouraged to use paperless forms, notifications and reports wherever possible. Waste paper is handed over to a certified vendor for recycling. Apart from e-waste and paper, no other types of waste were donated for recycling during the reporting period. 42 Goals and Targets Goal Performance FY13 ▪▪ Standardize environmental management ▪▪Sri Lanka, Bangalore, Chennai and Hyderabad across locations. ATCs certified for ISO 14001. ▪▪ Currently, targets for environmental ▪▪ Targets set and achieved for emissions, water performance is set only for energy. Identify and waste. additional environmental aspects to monitor. ▪▪ Extend water management to more locations ▪▪ Water management implemented at Hyderabad as water consumption is not measured in all ATC. locations. FY14/FY15 ▪▪ Implement third party audits for ▪▪ Obtained limited assurance under ISAE3000 from environmental performance. Ernst & Young for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions calculations. ▪▪ Implement waste management in Chennai, ▪▪ Paper recycling implemented in all three locations. Hyderabad and Bangalore ATCs. E-waste management is not implemented in Bangalore as the facility is less than five years and all equipment is under warranty. ▪▪ Extend water management to Chennai and ▪▪ Extended to Bangalore ATC. Chennai ATC will not Bangalore ATCs. be monitored due to difficulty of gathering data. FY16 ▪▪ Extend third party assurance to Scope 3 ▪▪ Obtained limited assurance under ISAE3000 from emissions. Ernst & Young for Scope 3 emissions calculations. ▪▪ Explore possibility of measuring water ▪▪ Flow meters fixed at Chennai ATC to measure consumption in Chennai ATC. water consumption. FY17 ▪▪ Increase the renewable portion of total energy consumption to 10% by 2020. Achieved Partially Achieved 43 Environmental Data 1.8 200 1.6 180 1.4 160 140 1.2 120 1 100 0.8 187 1.53 1.50 80 1.34 154 0.6 1.26 140 140 60 0.4 40 0.2 20 0 0 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 Graph: GHG Emissions (MTCO2eq per employee)1 Graph: Energy Consumption (kWh per employee)1 0.7 Notes: 0.6 • (1) Headcount data is only for India and Sri Lanka, which 0.5 accounts for 80.242% of our total headcount. It excludes 0.4 employees from India and Sri Lanka working long term at 0.3 0.66 other locations. 0.54 0.2 0.43 • (2) All ATCs except Chennai and Pune. 0.36 0.1 • (3) All per capita figures is average for the year. During 0 years of growth this provides a more conservative figure. FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 • (4) Emissions and energy data have received limited Graph: Water Consumption (kl per employee)2 assurance under ISAE 3000 by Ernst & Young. 44 Emissions 1% 28% Scope 1: Fuel (Diesel) Scope 2: Grid Power Scope 3: Business Air Travel and Road Travel 71% Chart: Percentage Breakdown of Emissions for FY16 (Metric Tonnes CO2e) 35% Emissions from Air Travel Emissions from Road Travel 65% Chart: Breakdown of Scope 3 Emissions for FY16 (Metric Tonnes CO2e) FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 Scope 1: Fuel (Diesel) 102.981 71.51 44.38 350.12 Scope 2: Grid power 11,830.786 9,487.94 9,341.69 9,317.55 Scope 3: Business air travel and road travel 4,616.684 2,503.73 2,171.01 2,340.24 Total GHG emissions 16,550.451 12,063.18 11,557.08 12,007.91 Table: Total Direct and Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Weight (Metric Tonnes CO2e) FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 Emissions from air travel 3,006.880 1,302.65 1,922.54 2,115.21 Emissions from road travel 1,609.804 1,201.08 248.47 225.03 Total Scope 3 emissions 4,616.684 2,503.73 2,171.01 2,340.24 Table: Breakdown of Scope 3 Emissions (Metric Tonnes CO2e) 45 Energy FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 Direct energy consumption (non-renewable 1,389.87 965.11 598.93 4,697.78 source – diesel fuel) Indirect energy consumption (purchased 52,392.63 45,066.29 43,493.40 43,580.92 electricity) Total energy consumption 53,782.50 46,031.40 44,092.33 48,278.70 Table: Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption in Gigajoules Water FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 Total water used 36,024.13 39,279.00 29,929.00 31,414.02 Total water recycled* 11,113.00 14,284.00 9,173.00 1,528.00 Table: Water Used and Recycled in Kiloliters *Water is recycled only at the Hyderabad Campus E-waste FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 E-waste recycled 19,520.80 9,561.96 2,314.50 7,519.50 Table: E-waste Recycled in Kilograms Paper FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13* Paper used 15,073 10,033 3,620 4,820 Paper recycled 10,263 4,476 2,487 4,234 Percentage recycled 68% 44% 69% 88% Table: Paper Recycled in Kilograms 46 Spreading the Green Message Earth Hour Employees in all locations observe Earth Hour as an annual event. As the official Earth Hour is held on a Saturday, non-essential lights and equipment is switched off for one hour during a working day. Some locations observe Earth Hour at the official time as well almost doubling the saving on emissions! In 2016, we were able to save 38% of hourly energy used. Also, many employees pledged to observe Earth Hour at individual level in their homes. 47 World Environment Day World Environment Day (WED) is an annual event that our employees across the globe observe. Activities for WED include tree planting, vehicle emission testing, walkathons, etc. 48 Our People 49 FY16 FAST FACTS 18,226 people across the globe 27% of our workforce is women We aim to groom 75% of leadership from within Invested more than 1 million USD in employee Training and Development Average Employee Delight Index for FY16 was 62% 50 Our Strategy and Approach Our success depends upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly-skilled and multi-dimensional team members. At March 31, 2016, we had a total headcount of 18,226 as compared with a total headcount of 9,247 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, primarily due to the Polaris acquisition. We are committed to ensuring the protection of human rights and maintaining a harassment free workplace. As such, we strive to maintain a workplace that complies with all applicable laws and regulations and have a Harassment Free Workplace Policy to prevent any form of discrimination based on age, race, color, national origin and ancestry, religion, sex or gender, sexual orientation, disability and other areas protected by law. As a technology services company child labor, forced labor and bonded labor are not significant risk factors in our operations. The Global Head of HR is responsible for all labor practices with location HR leaders reporting to him. Within location HR, separate teams focus on specific areas such as recruitment, training, career development, and compensation and benefits. The HR team is also responsible for investigating any violations related to HR policies and procedures. Nurturing a Millennial Workforce More than 80% of our employees are Millennials, the generation of people born after 1984, who have grown up in an environment guided by social media and mobility. Managing this “wired” generation of employees has created the need for newer ways of working. As a result, the entire employee lifecycle from Hire to Retire (H2R), commencing with attraction, through recruitment, onboarding, deployment and recognition, right through to offboarding or retirement is engineered to engage Millennials. Our work environment is characterized by an emphasis on collaboration, learning and innovation. Through our V+ platform, employees can learn, share and co-create with colleagues as well as clients. Learning mechanisms range from activity based classroom learning, online learning, gamification, crowd-sourcing, TechTalks, learning circles, use of Yammer, and coaching ensure a distinctive millennial experience in learning and development. Our Mentor time initiative is another development tool that embraces peer learning. The exclusive mentorship program, “Virtusa Ambassadors”, caters to all our new hire technical engineers and Delivery teams. This engagement enables the new recruit/mentee to be mentored in their field, role, larger organizational strategy and developmental chart. Each mentee is assigned to six different leaders (mentors) who hail from discrete functions and geographies. This program not only helps the mentee to develop functional strengths but also enables them to discover strengths and ensure value addition to the organization. The average feedback from the mentees is 78% depicting the superiority and high impact of the program. We have built robust scorecards and metrics to build this engagement for level 3 assessment. We have several programs, policies and management projects conducted that support mentee development. Our aim is to groom leaders from within with a target rate of 75%. In order to achieve this target, we have launched graduate fast tracker programs, leadership trainee programs and internship programs across locations in order to strengthen the internal pipeline with identified high potential individuals. 51 Employee Engagement and Recognition Channels of employee engagement range from company-wide updates and town hall sessions to open social media forum such as Yammer. These are supplemented by multiple surveys such as the Internal Service Group Survey that allows employees to provide feedback on all service groups within the company. Employees also have the opportunity to provide their feedback through pulse check surveys conducted periodically during their career (e.g. On-boarding Survey, 5th Month Survey, 18 Month Survey and Exit Survey). The input from these surveys is reviewed to arrive at solutions to create a great place to work. None of our team members are covered by a collective bargaining agreement or are represented by a labor union. This is partly due to the open communication and cordial relations maintained with employees, which includes an open door policy as well as the transparent and open channels of communication that are encouraged across all levels. V+ Platform V+, our proprietary social business platform, has transformed the way employees work, learn, share and connect ultimately improving business agility, productivity and innovation. V+ creates a millennial work environment by providing a social experience akin to applications like YouTube, Google, Facebook, LinkedIn and Wikipedia. It also uses social practices such as gamification and crowdsourcing to create an engaging platform. Yammer V+ provides a vibrant platform for employee engagement through Yammer. Utilizing social media for employee engagement has proved to a hit where employees, irrespective of role or designation, can share ideas, request for information, share items of interest, and even conduct surveys and publish company announcements. Overall, Yammer provides a transparent channel that enables intra-personal communication, a free-flow of ideas and even a forum for recognition and appreciation. CHANNELS OF EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT • Company updates • V+ (Yammer, RAVE) • On-boarding Survey • 5th Month Survey and 18 Month Survey • Internal Service Group Survey • Exit Survey • Facebook • Voice of Europe 52 RAVE RAVE is a 360 degree recognition and appreciation portal, that allows employees to thank, recognize and reward contributions by their colleagues. RAVE incorporates gamification, badges and leaderboards to enhance employee recognition and morale. Employee Delight Index The Employee Delight Index (EDI) is an index of a combination of key matrix that the HR management and the business tracks based on the employee lifecycle. The direct feedback on engagement from an HR management perspective gives a snapshot of how well received the engagement initiatives have been. A series of structured employee engagement surveys measured on a quarterly basis is incorporated in to an index called the Employee Delight Index (EDI). Each geographic location, Strategic Business Unit (SBU) and practice is measured quarterly on the EDI score in order to measure employee engagement. The surveys used to compute the EDI are: Onboarding, Five Month Completion Survey, 18th month survey, Exit Survey and the Internal Service Excellence Survey (for shared services). Employee engagement levels are measures through a Net Promoter Score (NPS). 53 Performance Management All employees in our permanent cadre have regular performance appraisals, on which career development, compensation and promotions are based. We recruit, develop, measure and reward based on a structured, performance based approach. Our performance philosophy is deeply embedded in the achievement of business goals, competency assessments (behavioral and technical), as well as employee engagement in the case of senior managers. 360 degree assessments are conducted for the leadership (managers and above) and the input supports individual development plans and promotions. All leaders at manager-level and above are also assessed for behavioral indicators using the Harrison Assessment Test. In addition, we have also created platforms where individual achievement is highlighted, such as the Personal Excellence Program (PEP) for all our engineers to promote engineering excellence and the opportunity to recognize innovations through vInnovate. We also have leaderboards which provide transparent performance scores, visibility and ranking. They drive competition, thereby, improving overall performance and build reputation for agile revenue growth. Our compensation philosophy rewards performance by linking both variable compensation and salary increases to performance. Benefit plans vary by location, depending on legal requirements. More information on benefit plans is available on page 119 of our 2016 Form 10K (Post-retirement Benefits). We remain committed to improving and sustaining our voluntary attrition levels in-line with our long-term stated goals. Our voluntary attrition rate dropped 13.3% for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 from 14.7% in the previous reporting period. We follow a systemic approach to control attrition and increase retention. We have a robust tool called “Proactive Attrition Warning System” which is rigorously managed by the Business Unit HR teams. This lever enables us to stall attrition and plug it with appropriate customized developmental initiatives. Our amicable exit policy consists of a formal granular exit interview which is more than a retention discussion. 54 Diversity We value diversity in nationality, gender and the differently abled. We have in place a Harassment Free Workplace Policy to ensure a workplace free from discrimination, harassment or any type of abuse. While we aim to have a balanced ratio of men to women in the workforce, the participation of women is low in the IT industry as a whole. At present, women comprise 27% of our overall global workforce Women of VirtusaPolaris The Women of VirtusaPolaris (WoV) initiative was launched in March 2012 in an effort to facilitate longer, more fruitful careers for our female team members. WoV objectives are to: • Increase gender diversity hiring ratio across levels (Fresher Middle Management Leadership) • Create a platform for women to learn, share, exchange ideas and build leadership skills • Measure the impact of gender diversity hiring and attrition data (long term strategy) WoV has a committee at each Advanced Technology Center and focused training on career development and leadership grooming, health and safety, and work/life balance for women. WoV offers our female employees an opportunity to network and promotes the success of women within the company and within the IT industry. Focus areas for FY16/FY17 include a study of the leadership mindset towards women’s empowerment in the workplace and a study of metrics such as salary ratios, promotion ratios, attrition and recruitment analysis. These studies will feed into future WoV initiatives and targets. We also have a second career initiative where women are offered to initiate a new career after a break (family reasons) of a few years. This has enhanced the retention of women and ensure long careers with us. Health and Safety We strive to provide a safe and secure work environment for our employees. Our Advanced Technology Centers in Chennai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Colombo are OSHAS 18001 certified. Health and safety committees at each location are responsible for the Environment, Health and Safety initiatives for their respective location. These committees consist of members from the HR and Facilities teams as well as volunteers from across the organization. Training on environment, health and safety is provided as part of our on-boarding program and all employees are assessed on their knowledge of these tools. Basic training on First Aid and Fire Safety are available to employees on a voluntary basis. Apart from these, we provide flexible time and work-from-home options to employees whenever there is a need for agile business outcomes. 55 Nurturing Talent Sports and extra-curricular activities are an important part of employee engagement. Cricket, rugby, football, badminton and athletics are all sports where employees take part in mercantile championships. VirtusaPolaris Women’s Rugby Team Runners-Up in Mercantile Rugby 7s The VirtusaPolaris Colombo Women’s Rugby Team became Runners-Up in the Mercantile 7s Rugby tournament. This is the first time in the history of the Mercantile tournament that a women’s edition has been played alongside the annual men’s tournament. 56 Innovation Hubs Innovation is a significant part of our business and we provide opportunities for employees to conceive new ideas that would add value to clients, and be recognized. Two such initiatives are: • vInnovate: vInnovate, the crowd sourced ideation engine of V+, enables team members to share ideas, which can then be implemented for clients. There has been a 150% jump in the generation of ideas since the platform was created, with 50% of the ideas coming from the junior level team members. • Hackathons: These are 24 hour coding competitions that provides employees the opportunity to develop new solutions which can be applied to our consulting process. 57 People Data Total Workforce India Sri Lanka US & Europe US Other APMEA ANZ Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Permanent 8883 3806 1800 919 1765 257 269 38 344 72 79 21 Cadre Contract 79 22 78 37 316 43 49 4 27 8 Outsourced 278 55 33 1 1 2 Table: Total Workforce by Employment Contract, Gender and Region New Hires India Sri Lanka US & Europe US Other APMEA ANZ Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Under 30 1889 1366 399 238 246 30 85 11 35 11 2 4 30–49 977 180 61 20 309 54 113 13 63 17 17 5 Over 50 8 1 48 4 14 1 Table: Total Number of New Hires by Age Group, Gender, and Region Employee Turnover India Sri Lanka US & Europe US Other APMEA ANZ Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Under 30 840 366 162 98 33 10 17 4 10 8 1 30–49 843 178 90 30 227 34 53 7 39 8 8 2 Over 50 7 3 18 7 6 1 Table: Employee Turnover by Age Group, Gender, and Region 58 Diversity India Sri Lanka US & Europe US Other APMEA Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Tier 0–Tier 1 87% 13% 85% 15% 91% 9% 90% 10% 77% 23% Tier 2–Tier 4 64% 36% 64% 36% 88% 12% 87% 13% 82% 18% Table: Percentage of Employees by Gender and Level (Virtusa) India US & Europe APMEA ANZ Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Tier 0–Tier 1 86% 14% 86% 14% 90% 10% 91% 9% Tier 2–Tier 4 72% 28% 83% 17% 82% 18% 73% 27% Table: Percentage of Employees by Gender and Level (Polaris) India Sri Lanka US Europe Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Tier 0 1.01 1.0 0.93 1.0 1.12 1.0 1.61 1.0 Tier 1 1.08 1.0 1.10 1.0 1.06 1.0 1.05 1.0 Tier 2 1.08 1.0 1.14 1.0 0.99 1.0 1.00 1.0 Tier 3 1.05 1.0 1.20 1.0 1.11 1.0 1.06 1.0 Tier 4 1.08 1.0 1.10 1.0 0.93 1.0 0.81 1.0 Table: Ratio of Basic Salary and Remuneration of Women to Men at Significant Locatoins of Operation* *Significant locations of operations is defined as where headcount is >=300 Legend: Tier 0 Top Management/Senior Management; Tier 1 Manager Level; Tier 2 Middle Management; Tier 3 Entry Level Middle Management; Tier 4 Executive/Engineer Level 59 Training Data India Sri Lanka US Europe Tier 0 1.23 9.53 0.4 0.7 Tier 1 3.29 13.75 2.4 2.6 Tier 2 2.43 13.64 4.0 1.4 Tier 3 2.10 14.16 5.3 1.3 Tier 4 10.73 84.06 6.7 4.2 Table: Average Hours of Training per Year per Employee by Employee Category (Virtusa) India US UK Europe APMEA ANZ Tier 0 7.4 10.3 8.0 3.0 Tier 1 8.0 13.0 8.0 3.0 3.0 8.0 Tier 2 12.5 14.3 8.0 2.0 10.1 2.3 Tier 3 16.7 10.4 8.0 10.6 Tier 4 18.9 8.0 2.0 Others* 13.7 11.4 3.0 2.0 4.7 3.0 Table: Average Hours of Training per Year per Employee by Employee Category (Polaris) Legend: Tier 0 Top Management/Senior Management; Tier 1 Manager Level; Tier 2 Middle Management; Tier 3 Entry Level Middle Management; Tier 4 Executive/Engineer Level 60 HR Awards and Recognition Named as one of Britain’s Top Employers for six consecutive years by the Top Employers Institute from 2016 to 2011. Recognized in the Stevie American Business Awards under the “Human Resources Department of the Year” category for four consecutive years from 2012 to 2015. Won the Silver Trophy at the 2015 International Business Awards in the HR category Computer Services and Telecommunication on the title Employee Delight Index. Won Gold in the Human Resource category at the 2015 Asia Pacific Stevie Awards. Listed in the Achievers 50 Most Engaged Workplaces™ in North America for 2015. Also selected as one of the Elite 8 for Accountability and Performance. 61 Social Good 62 Social Responsibility Focus: Three Pillars Making talent future Creating a digitallyTechnology for good ready inclusive society 850 70+ RMS 4 Internships School IT Labs Tech solutions 17,240 200,000 Campus training hours IT training hours provided for war rehabilitants at Vavuniya Clean Chennai App Digital Learning Center 117 Disaster Management App 63 Our Strategy and Approach We believe in using our skills and knowledge to create a digitally-inclusive society. Our strong culture of volunteerism means that many employees offer their time, knowledge and skills to drive our corporate social responsibility projects. Our corporate social responsibility initiatives fall under three pillars: Campus Reach, Tech Reach and Digital Reach. The projects carried out under these pillars are described in the sections that follow. CSR Committee In 2015, we set up a CSR Committee to oversee corporate social responsibility activities across our Indian operations. The Committee has identified several Youth For Seva (YFS) projects to support, which are described below. • Support four Abhyasikas run by Youth For Seva. Abhyasikas are after school tuition centers for children in slum areas across Hyderabad. Currently, the Abhyasikas reach over 700 children. • Support for a Skill Development Center run by YFS for unemployed youth. • Provide 1270 school kits for children through YFS. Each school kit consists of a school bag, year planner, five notebooks, pens/pencils, dictionary, water bottle and a label sheet. Campus Reach Our Campus Reach initiative is an industry-academia partnership designed to support the next generation of IT professionals to be workforce ready, and thereby, contribute to the growth of the IT/BPO industry. Through Campus Reach we provide the following: Curriculum development and advice, Internship Program, teaching and teacher training, career guidance and awareness, mentoring for final year projects, Academic Excellence Awards, Placement Engineer Scholarship Program, knowledge sharing through TechTalks and industrial visits. Internships 233 Career guidance sessions 7 TechTalks 6 Industrial visits 8 Excellence awards 1 Table: FY16 Campus Reach Stats 64 Tech Reach Through Tech Reach we utilize our software development and consulting expertise to contribute to projects of social benefit. Tech Reach projects include the following: Sahana We built the coordination portal for the Government of Sri Lanka (CNO) after the 2004 tsunami. Sahana has since been donated for public good and has been used around the world, including in the United States, Japan, Pakistan and the Philippines for disaster management. Àkura Àkura is an open source school management system that helps schools to manage their administrative tasks more efficiently. In FY14 Àkura was moved to a billing model, though we will continue to support the open source version. Rehabilitation Management System (RMS) RMS was first developed as a solution to expedite the re-integration of war rehabilitees in Sri Lanka and manage their vocational training needs. Now that the re-integration process has concluded, Phase II of RMS (named Arambaya) has been developed so that is can be re-purposed for substance abuse rehabilitation. Digital Scoreboard Mathota Sports Arena We designed and donated the software to operate a digital LED scoreboard at the Mathota Sports Arena in Mannar, Sri Lanka. This is the first multi-purpose/multimedia scoreboard in Sri Lanka. The software was developed by the Global Technology Office. The theme of the Mathota Stadium is “Reconciliation through sports” and it is intended to be part of the reconstruction and development of the North and East of Sri Lanka. 117 Disaster Response Application In response to the severe floods in Sri Lanka in May 2016, we created an online solution for the Disaster Management Center (DMC) to facilitate better tracking and responsiveness to requests for aid. The application was built on the latest technologies so that citizens could submit their requests through a mobile phone or tablet, making it more accessible in the field. The system incorporates a dynamic dashboard that instantly informed response teams when requests were made, and gamifies it so that the daily goal is to close more requests than are open. This improved transparency and transformed the DMC processes so that requests that were previously open for days were closed in minutes. Overall, more than 73,000 people were supported through the system. 65 Digital Reach Through Digital Reach we aim to create a digitally-inclusive society by IT enabling communities in Sri Lanka and India. Labs for Rural Schools Since its inception, Digital Reach has helped set up IT labs in rural schools in India and Sri Lanka. So far more than 70 IT labs have been set up with a student reach of 7000+. The Digital Reach model was adopted by the Sri Lanka Association of Software and Service Companies (SLASSCOM) for a countrywide community outreach program. Digital Learning Center In 2010 we set up a fully-equipped Digital Learning Center (DLC) to help war rehabilitants in Sri Lanka gain IT skills. The DLC was used to provide a variety of IT skills training, covering over 200,000 training hours. Once the rehabilitation process was completed, the DLC was handed over to the local higher education authorities to offer IT education to university students in the area. Partnership with Herron High School IT Club Employees at our Apparatus Infrastructure Services (AIS) office have been volunteering their time for the past two years with the Herron High School IT Club. The club was started when Apparatus staff members approached Herron High School with the offer of mentoring or assisting with any active technology programs. Some of the primary goals of the club from the Apparatus perspective was to help students become familiar with IT, the IT workplace, and to gain confidence in their skills. Herron and AIS are located just three blocks away from each other in downtown Indianapolis and each week, club members gather at the AIS office to meet community leaders, engage with technical experts and work on fun technology projects. Projects have involved building PCs and servers, creating websites, programming and coding, and learning about information security and social media. One project was to build and maintain a website in Amazon Web Services (AWS). The website contains information about the club, its members, and many blog posts about club activities. There are also ongoing blog posts written entirely by the students on technology, gaming, programming, and more. AIS employees enjoy working with the students and aim to foster self-driven learning and encourage leadership both in the Club and in the other student activities as well. 66 Community Outreach Projects Floods in Chennai and Sri Lanka When the city of Chennai was affected by floods in December 2015, the “Chennai ATC Flood Relief Fund” was initiated, so that non-Chennai employees could donate funds, while the company committed to matching the total collected amount. Many team members worked tirelessly to ensure the safety and comfort of their colleagues and the general public. Efforts included distributing necessary food supplies, setting up collection boxes across Asia ATCs to collect clothes, medicine, blankets and other essential items, and advance salary payment for December for all Chennai employees. Our team members were again quick to respond when floods devastated many parts of Sri Lanka in 2016. In the immediate aftermath, essential items were collected and donated to flood victims. Later, the Toastmasters and PM CEG donated books and stationery items to affected school children so that they could continue with their education. 67 In addition, our office in Colombo collaborated with Asiri Hospital to conducted a health camp for those affected by the floods. Doctors and nurses from Asiri Hospital treated 2,000+ patients, with the help of volunteers from VirtusaPolaris. We also collected and distributed milk powder packets which were essential for the nutritional needs of the children in the area. Rings of Support Supporting Children with Thalassemia The Chennai CSR team formed the ‘Rings of Support (RI-SUPP)’ to support children affected by Thalassemia. RI-SUPP comprises four groups of 10 donors, who will support one ‘thalassemia child’ lifelong. The objective is to create a more personalized support system for the children as they need blood transfusions every 24 days depending on the severity of the case. 68 Mathematics Lab for Rajasinghe Maha Vidyalaya Our employees donated the equipment needed to set up a Mathematics Lab at neighboring school, Rajasinghe Maha Vidyalaya, Colombo 9. The newly-refurbished room and mathematics tools will be used by students from all grades in the school, which will further benefit their studies. Several students had also painted a maths themed mural on the wall of the new lab. We have been working with Rajasinghe Maha Vidyalaya on several initiatives. In 2013, we helped to refurbish the play area for the primary school and the students are regular participants at events organized by VirtusaPolaris to commemorate Earth Hour and World Environment Day. 69 YFS – Chiguru 2016 A team of more than 60 from the Hyderabad Campus collaborated with Youth for Seva (YFS) to manage the lunch at the YFS – Chiguru 2016 event. Around 3600 students from government schools, destitute homes, slum centers, etc. participated in the event and took part in competitions, games, and other activities. The volunteers worked tirelessly to ensure that every child was served lunch. 70 CSR Awards and Recognition Sahana won the Free Software Foundation Award for Projects of Social Benefit (2006) Sahana was selected as a finalist in the Secretary of State Award for Corporate Excellence (2008) RMS and Vavuniya DLC were nominated in the Computerworld Honors Program Laureate (2011) Àkura won the Digital Opportunity Award at the WITSA Global ICT Excellence Awards (2012) RMS and Vavuniya DLC was featured as a case study in UN Global Compact Responsible Business Advancing Peace (2013) RMS and Vavuniya DLC won the Special Award for Emergency Response at the 18th Annual Japan Sri Lanka Cultural Association (JASTECA) Awards (2013) 71 Global Compact Principles and GRI Indicator Mapping Category UNGC Principle GRI Indicators Page Principle 1: Businesses should Disclosures on Management Approach: 51, 55 support and respect the protection of Human Rights, Diversity and Equal internationally proclaimed human rights; Opportunity and Human Rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure G4-12, 20, 51, 55 that they are not complicit in human Disclosures on Management Approach: rights abuses. Human Rights, Diversity and Equal Opportunity Principle 3: Businesses should uphold G4-11 52 the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: Businesses should uphold G4-12, 20, 51 the elimination of all forms of forced or Generic Disclosures on Management compulsory labour; Approach: Human Rights, Forced Labor Labour Standards Principle 5: Businesses should uphold G4-12, 20, 51 the effective abolition of child labour; Disclosures on Management Approach: and Human Rights, Child Labor Principle 6: Businesses should uphold Generic Disclosures on Management 51, 55 the elimination of discrimination in Approach: Non-Discrimination respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should Disclosures on Management Approach: 40, 41, 42 support a precautionary approach to Energy, Water, Emissions, Waste, Transport environmental challenges; Principle 8: Businesses should Disclosures on Management Approach: 40-48 undertake initiatives to promote greater Energy, Water, Emissions, Waste, Transport Environment environmental responsibility; and G4-E3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN8, G4-EN9, G4-EN10, G4-15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4EN18, G4-EN23, G4-EN30 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage Disclosures on Management Approach: 41, 42 the development and diffusion of Energy, Water, Emissions, Waste, Transport environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work G4-56, G4-SO4, 29, 35 Anti against corruption in all its forms, Disclosures on Management Approach: Corruption including extortion and bribery. Anti-Corruption 72 GRI Reporting Framework G4 (Core): Content Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the G4-1 3 organization ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization 6 Full description available at: G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 8-9 http://www.virtusapolaris. com/services/ G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters. 8 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant G4-6 8 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 8 G4-8 Markets served 8, 11 G4-9 Scale of the organization 8, 10, 58 G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract and gender 58 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining G4-11 52 agreements G4-12 Desciption of supply chain 20 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the G4-13 8 organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain G4-14 How the precautionary approach or principle is addressed 40 Externally developed economic, environmental and social G4-15 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization 19 subscribes or which it endorses Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and G4-16 19 national or international advocacy organizations IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial 2016 Form 10K (Page 162 G4-17 statements or equivalent documents Exhibit 21.1) G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries 16 Material aspects identified in the process for defining report G4-19 16 content G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization 16 Restatements of information provided in previous reports, and G4-22 18 the reasons for such restatements Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope G4-23 8, 16 and aspect boundaries STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 17 73 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom G4-25 17 to engage Approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an G4-26 17 indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process Key topics and concerns that have been raised through G4-27 17 stakeholder engagement REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 16 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 16 G4-30 Reporting cycle 16 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 16 G4-32 The selected ‘in accordance’ option 16 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external G4-33 16, 73 assurance for the report GOVERNANCE Full details available in Proxy Statement Governance structure of the organization, including committees (http://www. G4-34 30-33 of the highest governance body virtusa.com/ investors/annualreportand-proxystatement/) ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as G4-56 6, 35 codes of conduct and codes of ethics PECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CATEGORY: ECONOMIC ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 9 G4-EC1 Report the direct economic value generated and distributed 10 Available in our CDP response (https:// G4-EC2 Report risks and opportunities posed by climate change www.cdp.net/en/ responses/20186) CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 40, 42 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 41, 46 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 44 Reductions in energy consumption achieved as a result of G4-EN6 41, 42, 44 conservation and efficiency initiatives ASPECT: WATER G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 40, 42 G4-EN8 Total volume of water withdrawl by source 46 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal 42 G4-EN10 Total volume of water recycled and reused 42, 46 74 ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 40, 41 G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 41, 45 G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 41, 45 G4-EN17 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 41, 45 G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity ratio. 41, 44 GHG emissions reductions achieved as a direct result of initiatives G4-EN19 41 to reduce emissions ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 40, 42 Total hazardous and non-hazardous waste by weight and G4-EN23 46 disposal method ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 29 G4-EN29 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance 29 ASPECT: TRANSPORT G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 41 Significant impacts of transporting products and other goods G4-EN30 and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting 41, 45 members of the workforce CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 51, 52, 53 Total number and rate of new employee hires and total employee G4-LA1 58 turnover by age group, gender and region ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 51, 52, 53 ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 55 ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach. 51 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per employee by employee category 60 Percentage of employees who receive regular performance and G4-LA11 54 career development review ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach. 55 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees G4-LA12 per employee category according to gender, age group, minority 30, 59 group membership, and other indicators of diversity ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach. 55 Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men by G4-LA13 59 employee category, by significant locations of operation. 75 SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 51 ASPECT: CHILD LABOR G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 20, 51 ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 20, 51, SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 64, 65 Percentage of operations with implemented local community G4-SO1 63-70 engagement ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 29, 35 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and G4-SO4 35 procedures ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 35 Total number of legal actions pending or completed during G4-SO7 the reporting period regarding anti-competitive behavior and 35 violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach. 35 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of G4-SO8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and 35 regulations SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 23, 24 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 22, 24 ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 36, 37 Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning G4-PR8 37 breaches of customer privacy ASPECT: COMPLIANCE 23-27, G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 35-37 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws G4-PR9 and regulations concerning the provision and use of products 29 and services 76 © 2016 All rights reserved. VirtusaPolaris and all other related logos are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Virtusa Corporation in the United States, the European Union, and/or India. All other company and service names are the property of their respective holders and may be registered trademarks or trademarks in the United States and/or other countries. Cover image and icons from Freepik.com 77
