COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – CITIZENCE, INC. Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 11/1/2015 To: 11/1/2016 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT November 7, 2016 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Citizence reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours Nish Acharya Chief Executive Officer, Citizence, Inc. 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights  Ensured that our team, staff and collaborators are safe, secure and sanitary work conditions  Developed human rights training for stakeholders and partners  Developed processes to prevent workplace harassment of any kind. Labor  Provide a strong living wage, higher than minimum wage  Ensure that the company does not participate in forced/bonded labor  Ensure that decisions on employees are reviewed by independent directors Environment  Avoid environmental damage of any kind by the company by minimal utilization of environmental resources, such as paper or air conditioning and fossil fuel usage.  Promote smart transportation and resource utilization  Train stakeholders and clients in strong sustainability strategies Anti-Corruption  We do not collaborate with corrupt individuals or organizations  We will not provide, participate in, or accept a bribe from another individual or organization  We train our clients and stakeholders to identify and fight corruption. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES As a startup organization, we do not yet have measurable outcomes for our own organizations. But we have done the following:  Curriculum and training to help clients improve their environmental footprint and sustainability  Curriculum and training to help clients improve their anti-corruption and human rights awareness and engagement
