2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 1 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Summary TIM 04 Our profile 05 Chairman’s letter 06 About this report 07 COMMITMENT 10 Our goals 15 Corporate governance 16 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT EACH ONE 22 Taking care of business 23 Taking care of customers 28 Taking care of people 31 Taking care of society 41 Taking care of the environment 50 TRANSPARENCY 63 Legal compliance 64 INNOVATION AND AGILITY 68 SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 3 TIM Our profile Chairman’s letter About this report SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 4 OUR PROFILE [G4-3, G4-4, G4-5, G4-6, G4-7, G4-8, G4-9] As the first operator in Brazil to have a nationwide presence, innovation is in TIM’s DNA. The company has always driven changes and will continue along this path, as evidenced by its new portfolio launched at the end of 2015. TIM was the first to invest in new offer formats, such as charging for the use of voice 82% and mobile Internet on a per day basis or through Leadership in of the urban population monthly plans paid with credit card. The company 4G coverage with 3G coverage also took the lead by eliminating the differentiated charging of calls to other operators. TIM will continue working towards the expansion and improvement of its network, to provide more quality to individual and corporate customers, in addition to increasing benefits and offering more affordable rates. 13.7 TIM Participações S.A. is a holding company, with shares traded on BM&FBovespa (São Paulo’s stock thousand exchange) and on NYSE (New York Stock Exchange). employees in all TIM is the only company in the telecommunications regions of Brazil industry listed on BM&FBovespa’s “Novo Mercado” – considered the highest level of corporate governance – and is also part of the Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) and the Carbon Efficient unemployment and inflation, TIM generated Index (ICO2). R$ 25.8 billion in gross revenues, with annual negative variation of 12.1%. The company’s net TIM is based in Rio de Janeiro and employs 13.7 equity was R$ 16.9 billion and the amounts of thousand people in all regions of Brazil. Its current and non-current liabilities totaled R$ 2.3 quality-oriented services include mobile, fixed million and R$ 5.6 million, respectively. Read more and long distance communication, as well as information about TIM’s economic performance data transmission. The company achieved the in Taking care of business. leadership in 4G coverage in Brazil. TIM also provides extensive data coverage in the country, based on a robust 3G network reaching more than 82% of Brazilian urban population. Our customers For the eight year in a row, can count on more than 450 network agreements TIM integrates the Corporate for international roaming available in almost every country across the six continents. Sustainability Index (ISE) created by BM&FBovespa. In a conjuncture influenced by a series of macroeconomic challenges that affect growth, SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 5 CHAIRMAN’S LETTER [G4-1] EVOLVING IS DOING THINGS DIFFERENTLY The year 2015 saw a macroeconomic conjuncture We led the process of sharing mobile communications in continuous deterioration, affecting the exchange infrastructures in Brazil, bringing efficiency gains from rate, inflation and growth, both for the company and investments, deadlines for network development, the industry. Total customer base dropped for the first sustainability to the industry and environmental time after years of continued growth. We also saw the preservation, reducing the need to build new towers. accelerated replacement of voice service by the use of data, an increase in the use of messaging applications Our work on sustainable development and social and reduced use of multiple chips and the community responsibility was recognized by the inclusion of TIM effect by customers in the prepaid segment. for the eighth year in a row in the BM&FBovespa’s Corporate Sustainability Index and, for the sixth Faced with this scenario, we focused on the consecutive year, in the Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2). implementation of our planning to protect TIM’s financial position, despite a year of lower revenues Our Social and Environmental Responsibility Policies and operating margin. We reduced the mobile device are based on the ten principles of the UN’s Global sales volume, and eliminated the differentiation Compact, commitement to which TIM has been between calls from our network to others. In addition, signatory since 2008. We also reinforced the principles we reversed the numerical portability balance with set out in the Code of Ethics and Conduct and in the other operators, which became positive in all offer Anti-Corruption Policy. As such, this report serves as segments. Except for interconnection revenues, which the company’s Communication on Progress (COP) further declined due to regulated fees, we managed regarding the application of those principles. to stabilize the revenues generated by our customers. This set of commitments and policies is part of our As the telecommunications industry and the country corporate governance structure, based on a culture go through a transition period, we intend to redefine of responsibility, control and accountability that has our relationship with customers, with fewer promises made TIM the only telecommunications operator and more facts: we want to hear from consumers and listed on the BM&FBovespa’s Novo Mercado. provide honest and reliable answers. From this view of the future, TIM repositioned its brand and renewed I invite everyone to learn about TIM’s sustainability its purpose as a company with regard to quality, offer goals and achievements described in this report. I thank innovation and customer experience. our collaborators and partners who have worked hard to achieve these results. For the 2016-2018 period, we have planned the same level of investment of the previous plan, which Franco Bertone Chairman TIM Brasil amounted to R$ 14 billion. Our focus on infrastructure and efficient development is determinant to achieve growth and improve customer experience. We attained leadership in 4G coverage and featured voice and data “We want to hear from performance indicators above the quality goals set by consumers and provide Anatel1. honest and reliable 2 Brazilian Telecommunications regulatory agency. answers.” SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 6 ABOUT THIS REPORT [G4-17, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-31, G4-32, G4-33] This is TIM’s eighth sustainability report, developed according to the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), version G4, Core option. For the period of 2015 (January 1 to December 31), the reporting of indicators comprises activities of TIM Participações S.A. in Brazil, including its two subsidiaries – TIM Celular S.A. and Intelig Telecomunicações Ltda. Throughout this report, TIM seeks to be accountable to society for its actions, results and commitments in the economic, social and environmental aspects for the year 2015 and, where applicable and for comparison purposes, presents the historical series of the previous year. We demonstrate our performance through the 46 indicators reported and through our management practices. The last report for the year 2014, published in 2015, comprised 65 indicators. The decrease in the number of indicators reflects the effort to provide a more concise report, in line with the GRI G4 Guidelines, with increased focus on material topics to the business and our stakeholders. TIM discloses the sustainability report on an annual basis, as part of its sustainability practices. TIM believes that this practice strengthens its mission of connecting and caring about each one so that everyone is able to achieve more. As in previous “Throughout this years, Our values served as a basis for structuring this report. report, TIM aims to be accountable To learn more about our sustainability initiatives, go to www.tim.com.br/sustentabilidade. Queries, suggestions or to society for its comments on the content of this report can be sent to actions, results and respsocialcorp@timbrasil.com.br. The information contained in this publication has commitments within been audited by KPMG, based on limited assurance, according to statement on page 76. economic, social and environmental aspects.” SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 7 MATERIALITY [G4-18, G4-19, G4-22, G4-27] The company’s first materiality test was undertaken in 2008, and since then we’re working on improving the process of building our materiality, which involves identifying critical topics that are essential for managing the company, its corporate strategy and its positioning on sustainability. The second materiality test was undertaken in 2011. This included the company’s first stakeholder panel, which involved consultations with representatives of the main stakeholder groups at TIM (employees, suppliers, commercial partners, customers and public authorities). The material topics compiled The list below features the nine topics in this consultation guided the communication of considered material, which are addressed the company’s progress in social, environmental in this report and taken into account for and economic affairs. The following year, with the managing sustainability. introduction of the Engagement Policy, the company defined principles for dialogue with and involvement • Customer satisfaction and service of its stakeholders. quality At the beginning of 2014, a third materiality test was • Incentives for innovation applied to conducted based on GRI guidelines version G4. As products and services internal perspectives, the 2014 TIM materiality matrix • Transparency and accountability took into account: consultations with employees via to stakeholders face-to-face dynamics and online surveys; face• Ethical conduct in business to-face interviews with senior executives; and the • Digital inclusion analysis of strategic internal documents (policies and • Dialogue and communication with guidelines). The ‘Relations and impacts’ face to face stakeholder groups* dynamics involved the participation of key personnel • Managing electronic products* of 11 areas of the company, and its main outcome was • Investment in infrastructure and the Stakeholder Map, presenting TIM’s stakeholder development of new technologies groups and their impacts on the business. From this *For better understanding of the material topics, TIM joined map, TIM selected stakeholders to participate in the “Communication between the company and its stakeholder groups” and “Dialogue with stakeholder groups.” In the topic described as “Managing external perspective stage, which included online electronic products,” the term “waste” was substituted with “products.” consultations with customers, commercial partners and suppliers, and an interview with a representative In addition to the aspects related to the topics of the Ministry of Communications. The process also above, the company kept monitoring and reporting counted with the analysis of internal policies and other GRI aspects and indicators considered relevant procedures, as well as comparative studies with to accountability and aligned with its culture of other companies in the industry. transparency. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 8 IMPACTS WITHIN AND OUTSIDE THE COMPANY [G4-20, G4-21] MATERIAL TOPICS GRI G4 ASPECTS INDICATOR LIMITS LEARN MORE IN Customer satisfaction Customer privacy Internal and External Taking care of customers and quality services Product and Service Labeling Incentives to innovation Taking care of the applied to products and Energy Internal and External environment services Materials Water Emissions, Effluents and Waste Taking care of people Transparency and Procurement Practices Taking care of society accountability to Labor practices and decent work Internal and External Taking care of the stakeholders Human rights environment Local communities Biodiversity Indirect economic impacts Compliance Corporate Governance Ethical conduct Anti-competitive behavior Internal and External Taking care of the in business Anti-corruption environment Public Policy Digital inclusion External Taking care of society Dialogue and Marketing communications Taking care of society communication with Internal and External Stakeholder engagement Legal compliance stakeholder groups Electronic product Taking care of the Products and Services External management environment Investment in infrastructure and Economic Performance Internal and External Taking care of business development of new technologies SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 9 COMMITMENT Our goals Corporate Governance SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 10 [G4-56] The telecommunications industry and the country are going through a new transition period that requires new approaches to overcome its challenges. The telecommunications industry and the country go through a new transition period that requires new approaches to overcome its challenges. TIM aims to redefine the relationship between customers and operators: with fewer promises and more facts, by hearing the consumer’s desires and wishes and responding with honesty and truth. To this end, the company realized the need to reposition its brand based on this new context. For TIM, quality, offer innovation and customer experience were the main drivers of this change, which led the company to restate its vision of the future and renew its Purpose with regard to people. OUR MISSION Connecting and caring about each one, so that everyone is able to achieve more. OUR VISION We are constantly evolving and innovating in all aspects. We fulfill our promises. We take care of our customers respectfully and efficiently. We make continuous investments in a competitive and up-to-date infrastructure. We offer user-friendly and quality services and plans. We lead the transformations in the industry. We are sustainable and add value to our shareholders, customers, collaborators and stakeholders. OUR VALUES Costumer care We ask legitimate questions to find We rely on creativity to go further. out what customers truly want. We listen carefully and curiously to what Commitment customers have to say. We are responsible. Our decision making process takes heavily We recognize we are part of a broader into account our customer’s experience. common project. We are proud to have a positive impact We collaborate by investing our talent on the lives of our customers. and effort in each and every action. Transparency Agility We establish clear and true relationships with We make “more”, “better” and “faster” in an everyone. increasingly complex and dynamic world. Transparency and integrity in our actions We plan decide and execute quickly, making things build trust. easier for everyone around us. Innovation We innovate by finding new ways to do things. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 11 PRINCIPLES OF SUSTAINABILITY TIM believes its strategies, goals and results should be aligned with its stakeholders’ expectations, in order to ensure business longevity. The company groups its stakeholders in eight categories: customers, suppliers, competitors, institutions, the environment, community, human resources and shareholders. Based on the concept of the triple bottom line, TIM manages sustainability in the following three dimensions: Economic Sustainability Is aimed at maintaining and increasing capital, balancing value generation with societal demands. Environmental Sustainability Requires responsible management of natural resources (raw materials and energy) and the waste generated by company production processes in order to ensure balance in the ecosystems. Social Sustainability Seeks to ensure fairness and equality between people by respecting human and civil rights, ensuring access to development opportunities and participation in decision making. This is related to both current needs and those of future generations. POLICIES In addition to these principles, TIM counts on a set of regulatory policies and documents, such as the Code of Ethics and Conduct, which guide the company’s practices and actions on different subjects. TIM believes that complying with such tools to fulfill the commitments undertaken with its stakeholders translates into responsible management. The full versions of some of the policies highlighted below can be found on the investor relations site. Social Responsibility Policy Climate Change Management Policy Reports our guidelines on matters such as health and Comprises principles to be applied to TIM’s activities with safety, diversity, child labor and slave or forced labor, the goal of promoting proper, efficient management freedom of association and the right to collective of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, complying with bargaining, discrimination, psychological and sexual existing legislations, regulatory authorities, and the harassment, working hours and remuneration. guidelines of the Telecom Italia Group. Environmental Sustainability Safety and Occupational Health Policy Establishes principles aimed at fostering continuous Establishes principles to be applied to all our activities improvement in environmental performance. This in Brazil, aimed at promoting continuous performance includes compliance with existing legislation, with the improvement in safety and occupational health requirements of regulatory authorities and with the initiatives, in compliance with existing legislations, directives of the Telecom Italia Group, reinforcing the regulatory authorities, and the guidelines of the company’s commitment to sustainable development. Telecom Italia Group, reinforcing TIM’s commitment SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 12 to preventing occupational diseases and accidents in Marketing Communication Policy its companies in Brazil. Aims to align TIM’s marketing communication actions Free Market Defense Policy and projects with its Purpose and sustainability principles. This process should be conducted This document is aimed at informing employees and responsibly and transparently, minimizing risks in workers of the principles concerning fair competition in the company’s commercial activities and respecting Brazil. Thus, professionals, in particular those who deal the self-regulatory codes of the industry and the with external stakeholders, are apprised of antitrust legislation, as well as incorporating guidance from legislation and of the activities of the authorities recognized and respected authorities. responsible for its application in Brazil, being able to identify and avoid breaches of laws and standards. Corporate Risk Management Policy Related-Party Transaction Policy Published in 2013, this document is aimed at defining a methodology to enable production of a Established in 2013, this policy sets forth the standardized process for risk management, as a guidelines and procedures to be followed by TIM reference for the analysis, assessment, treatment companies in Brazil with respect to transactions with and provision of information on risks in the company. related parties. The policy prohibits transactions between private individuals or companies that have Anti-corruption Policy any link with each other that may characterize a relationship of dependence or control. In accordance Approved by the Board of Directors in 2013, with the law, no special favors may be granted in the Anti-corruption policy includes global antithese operations. bribery rules that prohibit offering, paying, asking for or accepting advantages or favors of any Relations with Suppliers in a TIM Purchasing nature, and ensuring employees are aware of Process how they should act in such situations. Learn the mechanisms to control and apply the policy in In Brazil TIM adopted measures to establish a more Ethics and transparency. efficient purchasing process, aimed at reducing costs, while maintaining quality and excellence and Conflict of Interest Management Policy ensuring social and environmental responsibility in the goods and services acquired. Additionally, Approved by the Board of Directors in 2013, the purchases should be made within technical policy is aimed at preventing and managing specifications, should involve supplier qualification situations involving conflicts of interest, in order assessments and should be priced competitively. to avoid or contain impacts that are detrimental Similarly, suppliers are expected to behave ethically, to the interests of the company and to support respecting freedom of association, the right to and protect the persons involved, of whom collective bargaining and diversity, combating impeccable, transparent behavior is expected. discrimination and harassment, as well as having This policy applies to all TIM employees and to proper monitoring and control systems in place. the areas involved in managing potential cases of conflicts of interest. Engagement Policy Intangible Asset Management Policy This policy is aimed at guiding and encouraging This policy aims to establish the main guidelines company employees to stimulate dialogue that serve as the basis for an efficient and effective and increase the involvement of TIM’s main management of intangible assets (those assets stakeholders, promoting engagement initiatives that are not physical or financial in nature and and encouraging the multiplication of these originate from innovation, organizational practices actions in their spheres of influence. and human resources) in TIM Companies in Brazil. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 13 INSTITUTIONAL PARTNERSHIPS [G4-15, G4-16] TIM reaffirms its commitment to social, environmental and ethical demands by taking part in several global treaties and initiatives. TIM believes that engaging in this resolutions will not only broaden the visibility of important subjects for society, but will also allow the company to keep pace with the best practices in the market and incorporate more efficient actions to its management. Learn the company’s key initiatives below. In addition, TIM is an active member of entities in the telecommunications industry, such as the National Union of Fixed and Mobile Telecom Companies of Brazil (SindiTelebrasil), the Brazilian Association of Competitive Telecommunications Service Providers (Telcomp) and the Inter-American Association of Telecommunications (Asiet). Read more on Public policies. Global Compact management and reduction of GHG emissions, The Global Compact is a United Nations (UN) climate risk management and the proposition of public initiative aimed at mobilizing the corporate policies and positive incentives in the context of climate community to adopt, in their business practices, change. Read more on Climate change. essential and internationally accepted values in the areas of human rights, work relations, Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) environment and anti-corruption. TIM has been a CDP is a non-governmental organization that has signatory since 2008 and has incorporated the ten built the largest global database of corporate principles of the Global Compact in its strategy, information about climate change, queried by culture and daily operations. investors, government agencies, legislators, the academic community, and society. Since 2007, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) company has answered the CDP questionnaire In 2008, TIM adopted GRI’s international sustainability about its GHG (Greenhouse Gas) emissions and its reporting guidelines, an important tool to assess results strategy regarding climate change. and reflect on actions taken within the three pillars of sustainability (economic, social and environmental), Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2) identifying gaps and points for improvement. In January 2016, TIM was selected for the sixth consecutive year to join BM&FBovespa’s Carbon Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) Efficient Index, with the commitment to measure, For the 8th year in a row, TIM integrates the disclose and monitor its GHG emissions. The company Corporate Sustainability Index (in Portuguese, Índice develops the inventory of emissions according to de Sustentabilidade Empresarial ISE) created by the guidelines of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol BM&FBovespa. ISE was designed as a reference for (GHG Protocol), a globally used methodology that socially responsible investments. Rated for fomenting enables mapping improvement points in emission good practices and encouraging the implementation management, allowing identification of the main of new actions each year, the index is composed of emission sources. shares of companies renowned for their commitment to corporate and social sustainability. MSCI Global Sustainability Index Since June 2015, TIM integrates the MSCI ESG Companies for the Climate (EPC) (Environmental, Social and Governance) Research Since 2010, TIM has participated in the Companies for Global sustainability index. MSCI (Morgan Stanley Climate (Empresas Pelo Clima, in Portuguese). This Capital International) is an independent organization voluntary initiative – coordinated by the Center of with 40 years of experience in governance assessments Sustainability Studies of FGV (GVces) – is a permanent and analyzes of social and environmental indexes for corporate platform, whose goals are to mobilize, raise the global investor community, covering more than awareness and articulate corporate leaders towards 5,700 open capital companies throughout the world. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 14 OUR GOALS To move forward with its Corporate Social Responsibility program, TIM sets out annual performance goals in specific subjects, based on goals and outcomes recorded in the previous year. The table below displays the performance in 2015 and the targets for 2016. UNIT OF SUBJECT INDICATOR 2015 TARGET OUTCOME 2016 TARGET MEASURE One working day allowed for the employee who % 1 Volunteering voluntarily participates 2 1.4 1.5 in the Citizens Without (own staff) Borders program. Training (total hours: in Nº of hours Training the classroom + online + (own staff and 900,000 1,085,614 820,000 on the job). third party)2 New employees trained in % Training 90 90 90 sustainability issues. (own staff) Collection of end-of-life Environment / mobile phones, batteries 3 Tons 2 1.2 2 Batteries and other accessories for recycling. 4 Environment / Recycling of waste % 68% 19% 25% Waste generated in the office. Reduce water Environment / Limit of increase in water % 10% 4%5 consumption Water consumption in the offices. reduction in the offices by 1% Limit of increase in the Energy / mobile network power % 21%6 16% 22%7 Network consumption. Management of Suppliers evaluated on No of 60 357 200 suppliers sustainability issues. suppliers Achieved Not achieved 1 The Citizen Without Borders Program is undergoing a revitalization process, in line with TIM’s Key strategic pillar. 2 TIM’s resellers and outsourced call center staff. 3 The company is redesigning this process. 4 The goal could not be achieved due to service interruption caused by change of supplier. 5 The 2015 goal was intended to limit the water consumption increase by 10% (due to construction works and increase in the number.of employees). However, the company obtained a 4% reduction see more on TIM’s initiatives for saving this natural resource in the water chapter. 6 Based on the network infrastructure expansion, the expected increase in power consumption was 23% for 2015. Our target was to limit the increase in power consumption by 21% compared to 2014. 7 Based on the network infrastructure expansion, TIM estimates the power consumption will increase by 24% in 2016. The established target for 2016 is to limit the increase in power consumption by 22% compared to 2015. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 15 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE [G4-34] OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE TELECOM ITALIA TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES’ GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE 100% GENERAL ASSEMBLY TELECOM ITALIA INTERNATIONAL N.V 100% TIM BRASIL SERV. E PART S.A MINORITY SHAREHOLDERS 67% 33% BOARD OF DIRECTORS FISCAL COUNCIL (1,611,969,946) (808,249,742) RISK & CONTROL BOARD TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A STATUTORY AUDIT COMMITEE 100% 100%* COMPENSATION BOARD TIM CELULAR S.A. INTELIG STATUTORY BOARD OF OFFICERS *TIM Celular S.A. owns one share of Intelig Telecomunicações Ltda. TIM’s Board of Directors is a joint deliberative body responsible for the senior management of the company. It consists of at least five and at most 19 members, who may be elected and removed by the General Assembly. They serve a term of two years, with re-election permitted. The Board currently comprises ten members, three of whom are independent, in compliance with the rules of the “Novo Mercado” index that establishes the Board must have at least five members, of which at least 20% must be independent. It is up to the members of the Board to choose their president, and it is forbidden for a person to accumulate the positions of Chairman and CEO or main executive of the company. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 16 To increase its corporate performance, the Board period of ten years. The Control and Risk Board has counts on three specialized committees with five members and the Compensation Board, three. defined goals: Control and Risk Board , Statutory The Board of Directors chooses all members of Audit Committee and Compensation Board . The these specialized committees, and each committee Statutory Audit Committee currently consists appoints its chairman/coordinator. The mandate of of three independent members, appointed for a the Control and Risk Board and Compensation Board mandate of two years, which coincides with the members will coincide with the mandate of the mandate of members of the Board of Directors, Board of Directors, i.e. two years, and reelection or with their indication being allowed for a maximum dismissal by the Board is permitted at any time. MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE BODY COMPOSITION AND ATTRIBUTIONS TIM’s Board of Directors consists of ten members, who may be elected and removed by the Board of General Assembly. They serve a term of two years, with re-election permitted. Three members are Directors independent. The board is responsible for the overall administration of the company. Comprising at least three and at most five members, indicated by the Board of directors. Attributions include oversight of internal and external audit processes, as well as efficiency, quality and integrity Statutory Audit of internal control systems. Plays the role of the Audit Committee of the company for purposes of Committee the Sarbanes Oxley Act and evaluates contracts between related parties to determine if they meet market conditions. Compensation Consisting of three members elected from the Board of Directors, who report to such body, making Board assessments and recommendations related to compensation. Comprising up to five members of the Board of Directors (two of whom must be independent). This Control and committee evaluates controls and risks (including social responsibility regarding sustainability subjects Risk Board addressed in meetings), making recommendations to the Board of Directors. Statutory Board The CEO and executive directors are selected by the Board of Directors and are responsible for the of Officers executive management of the company. Comprising at least three and at most five independent professionals, and an equal number of Fiscal Council alternates. The body oversees company management and provides information to shareholders. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 17 The Investor Relations area offers the Fale com RI (Speak to IR) channel. Another way to contact the company is the Whistleblower Channel, which aims to receive reports of violations or “TIM has adopted an suspicious acts of non-compliance and any existing irregularity, from any person, including employees. The complaint is submitted to the company’s Internal Audit department, which then submits it organizational model to the responsible areas and subsequently to the Statutory Audit Committee. that details guidelines and lays down The compensation for the Board of Directors and Executive Board is recorded in the Minutes of the procedures to avoid Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of the Organization, held on April 14, 2015 (available fraud and corruption” on the site www.tim.com.br/ri). The compensation for members of the Board of Directors is not linked with TIM’s social, economic and environmental performance. Unified Whistleblower Channel for internal and external stakeholders. The Code of Ethics and Conduct applies to all corporate bodies, directors and executives, service providers from all TIM companies, as well as employees and anyone doing business with TIM. It is worth emphasizing that Telecom Italia is a signatory and encourages all companies in the is the percentage of completion of group to adhere to the UN’s Global Compact, online training on the Code of Ethics enforcing this institutional commitment through 96% and Conduct. the implementation of social and environmental initiatives. Based on the Italian legislative Decree 231/01, TIM adopts an organizational model that comprises the Code of Ethics and Conduct, the General Principles of Internal Control, Principles In 2015, TIM created the internal of Behavior towards Public Administration and Ethics and Compliance Channel. Internal Control Structures. All these documents detail the guidelines and establish the to avoid frauds and corruption. This model also prevents the personal responsibility of those committing crimes described in the law from extending to the corporation. This contributes to More information on TIM’s governance model, on guide an ethical and responsible management that the composition of the Board of Directors, as well strives to preserve business feasibility and minimize as the Internal Rules of this management body are exposure to risks that may compromise its longevity. available on the website www.tim.com.br/ri. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 18 ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY According to TIM’s anti-corruption policy, ethics is stakeholders can report complaints concerning the paramount for conducting the business. The values violation of any rule or conduct described in TIM’s Code and principles of the Code of Ethics and Conduct of Ethics and Conduct, such as discrimination, moral are the foundation of its activities. TIM rejects and sexual harassment, human rights, unlawful and condemns unlawful and improper behaviors or illegal behavior, conflict of interests, corruption, (including acts of corruption of any kind) aimed at and fraud, among others. Available on the website attaining economic goals. www.tim.com.br/ri, the user of the channel has their identity preserved and the information received is Its Anti-Corruption Policy applies to corporate treated with confidentiality. Through this channel, bodies, directors, executives, employees and TIM received two fraud complaints. Both were duly anyone doing business with TIM. forwarded and appropriately addressed (the main facts are confidential). No cases of corruption we TIM created the Ethics and Compliance Channel brought against the company or its employees with the aim to promote an environment where during the reporting period. [G4-SO5] internal stakeholders can share information they found in the media, including through police/ The Anti-Corruption Program comprises risk judicial authorities, relating to illegal and/or assessment activities, which contemplate criminal activities that may bring potential risks monitoring and assessment of processes involving for the company, as well as to solve doubts about sensitive subjects, such as the acceptance of gifts, subjects and rules related to the Anti-corruption donations and sponsorships. TIM also applies Program. This channel does not address reporting due diligence questionnaires to its suppliers and of complaints; it is rather intended to support analyzes complaints received in the Whistleblower collaborators and ensure our processes will comply Channel and queries from the Ethics and Compliance with internal guidelines. Channel. Through the Program, TIM was able to map third parties related to government agencies The company also offers the Unified Whistleblower and improve its contracting process, including the Channel, through which internal or external determination of potential conflicts of interests. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 19 TIM is strengthening its measures with suppliers in alignment with its Transparency value, in an effort to build trust through integrity. The company has made improvements to compliance clauses in contracts, and applies a due diligence questionnaire to identify suppliers who may pose any risks to the company. From this diagnosis, specific training sessions are conducted to reinforce anti-corruption policy guidelines. One example was the course designed to the law firms hired by the company, held in 2015. There was a need to reinforce the program with these stakeholders, especially for conducting activities related to government agencies on behalf of TIM. Internally, TIM also conducted a workshop for 200 collaborators, among leaders and professionals directly related to government agencies. The event was intended to address the impacts of the Anticorruption Act and its decree on internal processes, and stimulate discussions about the importance to raise awareness to transparency, ethics, small day-to-day attitudes and work relations. In December 2015, TIM also started an online training on the intranet, which was completed by 50% of employees just after two months from its launching. In addition to this tool – available to all employees – TIM plans to hold its face-to-face meetings on an annual basis. [G4-SO4] ONLINE TRAINING The company continuously monitors compliance CODE OF ETHICS AND CONDUCT with its Code of Ethics and Conduct, well as the completion of online training. This is to ensure that Position Number of participants all employees are aware of its guidelines, including expected attitudes and non-accepted illegal or Directors 51 improper behavior (including acts of corruption Managers 348 of any kind). The percentage of completion of the Other collaborators 12,155 course is 96%, divided as follows: Total 12,554 Additionally, TIM collaborators receive the ‘Ser e Estar Compliance’ [Be Compliant] training, which emphasizes topics such as ethics, anti-corruption, conflict of interests, and the benefits of the Whistleblower Channel. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 20 PUBLIC POLICIES The telecommunications sector has conducted Cybercrimes, the Chamber of Deputies’ Special major debates that gave rise to important public Telecommunications Commission, Consumer policies for the society. The 2015 agenda comprised Protection Commission and Science and Technology subjects such as the Civil Rights Framework for Commission, Parliamentary Commissions of Inquiry Internet Use (in Brazil) and the New Regulatory on Telecommunications in legislative assemblies Model for Telecommunications. and city councils regarding the quality of services and rural coverage. TIM recognizes the importance of engaging in dialogue with government agencies, actively participating in these and other discussions as a member of Antenna Law (Law no 13.116/2015) the National Union of Fixed and Mobile Telecom Companies of Brazil (SindiTelebrasil) and the Brazilian Signed in April 2015, this law sets out general standards Association of Competitive Telecommunications for deployment and sharing of telecommunications Service Providers (Telcomp). Internationally, TIM also infrastructure. TIM believes this new law means a integrates industry associations, such as the GSM considerable progress for the industry, as it is the first Association, and the Inter-American Association of key step within the federal framework to overcome Telecommunications Companies (Asiet), which bring the over 250 state and municipal regulations for together Latin American companies to take part deployment of infrastructure and antennas. Through in discussion forums. The company is a corporate Sinditelebrasil and Telcomp, the company made partner of International Telecommunications Society proactive interventions and contributions, issuing (ITS) and participates in meetings, events and debates opinions that supported the legal and technical of the International Institute of Communications (IIC). discussions around the subject with the National All entities seek to contribute for the regulation of the Congress until such bill was finally approved. industry using a constructive and ethical approach. TIM performs its activities based on international In relation to political-party activities, TIM`s Code of laws of corporate governance, on Brazilian and Ethics and Conduct prohibits any kind of contribution to North-American anti-corruption laws, on the politicians, political parties or related institutes. [G4-SO6] Code of Ethics and Conduct and on internal transparency and efficiency policies. One of the great challenges the telecommunications industry faces when developing public policies is to align the rapid technological evolution to long-term laws and regulations. There are many examples of “TIM performs its activities standards that no longer reflect the reality of the industry after they are approved. based on international laws of corporate governance, The subjects TIM has been considering as priority in these debates include high tax burden, restrictive Brazilian and North-American legislation related to the implementation of the telecom infrastructure, coverage expansion, anti-corruption laws, on the competition in the industry, service quality and customer service. Activities include participation Code of Ethics and Conduct in public hearings in the National Congress, in and on internal transparency legislative assemblies and city councils. Some of the topics addressed include standard of services and efficiency policies.” – especially in the northern region –, taxation, the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 21 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT EACH ONE Taking care of business Taking care of customers Taking care of people Taking care of society Taking care of the environment SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 22 R$ 14 billion 500 70 thousand R$ 2.7 billion in investments in the new cities gained kilometers of invested in information 2016-2018 period 3G coverage own fiber optics technology and network TAKING CARE OF BUSINESS Economic performance The year 2015 saw a conjuncture influenced by a series of macroeconomic challenges that brought a negative impact on growth, inflation and unemployment in the country. Faced with this scenario, TIM focused on the implementation of its strategic plan and goals for the medium and long term, particularly the heavy investments on infrastructure. For the 2016-2018 period, the company is holding the same level of investment of the previous plan, which amounted to R$ 14 billion, and quickly repositioned its portfolio to match the structural changes in the industry. TIM enhanced efficiency measures, which helped to protect the financial results of the company and, despite a year of lower revenues, expanded its operational margin and the EBITDA2 margin (to a lesser extent). Despite short-term challenges, TIM kept its vision towards the strategic importance of developing a robust infrastructure for data growth, focusing particularly on 4G technology, which provides better quality of service and more cost-efficient networks. With this vision, TIM achieved the mark of R$ 4.7 billion in investments during the year, not just reaching, but also surpassing its goals for infrastructure development in 2015, even with the significant exchange rate depreciation of the Brazilian currency. These investments allowed TIM to end the year with 411 cities covered with 4G, that is, 59% of the country’s urban population. TIM became the leader in 4G coverage in Brazil, both in the number of cities served and the percentage of the urban population covered. In addition, the company brought the 3G coverage to more than 500 new cities, implementing over 70 thousand kilometers of its own fiber optics, which will enable a rapid growth in its high capacity data infrastructure – critical for current and future competitive positioning. Also worthy of note is the fact that, from the total investments made in 2015, TIM allocated R$ 2.7 billion to information technology and network alone, in order to expand coverage and capacity to support the growth of voice and data traffic. The company also carried on energy efficiency initiatives, such as RAN Sharing, which brought approximately R$ 68 million in savings (Opex). Learn more on Energy. For 2016, TIM will focus on three main pillars: Investments in infrastructure and 4G leadership Development and generation of positive outcomes from our new portfolio and offerings launched in the end of 2015 Ongoing reinforcement of efficiency actions that will allow TIM to keep increasing its operating margin 2 Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 23 TIM firmly believes that these guidelines, added to the growing use of data services and the evolution of its positioning in quality/offers/user experience will lead the company to end 2016 in an ascending path with continuous improvement of results. VALUE GENERATION (IN THOUSAND REAIS) [G4-EC1] 2014 2015 (A) Revenues 25,973,031 23,156,529 (B) Goods and services acquired from third parties 10,906,860 7,526,175 Costs related to services rendered and goods sold 7,232,375 5,167,254 Materials, energy, third-party services and others 3,674,485 2,358,921 (C) Gross added value (A B) 15,066,171 15,630,354 (D) Retentions (depreciation and amortization) 3,052,579 3,361,971 (E) Net added value (C D) 12,013,592 12,268,383 (F) Transfers 1,003,425 1,996,752 (G) Added value for distribution (E + F) 13,017,017 14,265,135 DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE (DVA – IN THOUSAND REAIS) 2014 2015 Personnel and charges 782,589 850,362 Salaries 446,788 498,148 Social security contributions 63,398 70,207 Private pensions 15,030 18,325 Benefits 139,576 159,978 Profit sharing 117,797 103,704 Government 8,843,917 8,441,124 Taxes, charges and contributions, 8,843,917 8,441,124 deducting allowances (exemptions) Financiers 1,844,092 2,902,504 Interest and rents 1,844,092 2,902,504 Shareholders 367,274 468,616 Interest on own equity and dividends 367,274 468,616 Retained 1,179,145 1,602,529 Profit/loss in the year 1,179,145 1,602,529 SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 24 Total financial benefits received from the government (thousands of R$) 2014 2015 [G4-EC4] Tax and charge reductions 137,192 93,123 Grants and incentives for investments, 13,283 18,670 research and development and other types Economic profit Economic targets Every year, TIM calculates and tracks its economic In TIM’s strategic plan for the 2015-2017 period, the profit3, which is a financial indicator that takes into amount of investment (Capex5) was updated and account the opportunity cost in the businesses, the net revenue and EBITDA6 growth targets became calculated based on the net operating profit after qualitative, in line with Telecom Italia group’s new tax (Nopat4) and the cost of capital invested. strategic plan and reflecting the changes in the In 2015, the economic profit was minus R$ 73.4 Brazilian macroeconomic environment. In August million compared to minus R$ 18.2 million in 2015, in response to the deepening economic crisis the previous year. This performance is explained in the country, TIM disclosed a new guidance, with by two main factors: strong acceleration in the focus on operational efficiency and cost reduction. average capital invested – a result of successive increases in infrastructure investments – and At the end of 2015, the company’s net revenue was an increased cost of capital due to poorer R$ 17.1 billion, with negative annual growth of 12.1%, performance of economic indicators, which strongly affected by the drop in the interconnection affected its composition. tariff and by the macroeconomic environment. The EBITDA performance experienced a slight The improvement of Nopat – already considering drop of 2.6%, totaling R$ 5.4 billion, demonstrating the earnings with the divestment of non-strategic the positive impacts of efforts to reduce costs and assets held throughout the year – was not expenses – approximately R$ 350 million derived from sufficient to counterbalance all these negative the Efficiency Plan. The investments, disregarding factors combined. the acquisition of licenses, totaled R$ 4.7 billion. 3 Economic profit = operating profit after income tax in the period (average capital invested in the period x cost of capital). 4 Net Operating Profit After Tax 5 Capital expenditure 6 Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 25 INDICATOR DEFINITION MEASURE MEASURE HORIZON GUIDANCE RESULTS Evolution in revenues after Continuous payment of taxes, sales Continuous Net Revenue n/a 2015, 2016 and 2017 n/a returns and discounts in Growth Total services. Evolution in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization: Total net EBITDA Continuous revenues minus costs and n/a 2015, 2016 and 2017 n/a Growth Growth expenses, which represents the company’s cash generation Mid to long-term investments in the purchase, improvement, development Sum for the or extension of infrastructure, Investments three year period R$ 4.7 billion equipment, systems and R$ 2015, 2016 and 2017 (Capex) surpassing R$ 14 In 2015 properties. Excluding billion* amounts invested in the acquisition of frequency licenses. R$ 1 billion in savings for the sum Achievement, of the three-year Savings in operating costs in 2015, of Opex period. In 2015, and expenses, excluding R$ 2015, 2016 and 2017 approximately Efficiency7 achievement of interconnection effects. 35% of the approximately total savings 35% of the total savings *Not considering acquisitions of frequency licenses. 7 Operational expenditure. Following the annual planning of the group, in February 2016, TIM disclosed the updated strategic plan, with new indications for the market. Indicators received some adjustments to fit to the new goals of the company and the Brazilian macroeconomic reality. The Efficiency Plan indicator was the only indicator that kept its original measure horizon, unlike the others that began to be measured under the new three-year period, starting in 2016. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 26 INDICATOR DEFINITION MEASURE MEASURE HORIZON GUIDANCE Data as the main Revenues after payment of taxes, Net Revenue revenue component sales returns and accounting of n/a 2016, 2017 and 2018 from Services as of 2016, focus on discounts in services. revenue share. Earnings before interest, taxes, Margin expansion in EBITDA Margin depreciation and amortization n/a 2016, 2017 and 2018 all the years between (EBITDA) on the Total Net Revenue. 2016 and 2018. Medium and long-term investments in purchase, improvement, development or expansion of Sum of the thee-year Capex infrastructure, equipment, systems R$ 2016, 2017 and 2018 period is less than and properties. Excluding the R$ 14 billion*. amounts invested in the acquisition of frequency licenses. Savings in Operating Costs and Savings of over R$ 1 Opex Efficiency Expenses, excluding interconnection R$ 2015, 2016 and 2017 billion in the sum of effects. the three-year period. *Not considering acquisitions of frequency licenses More information about TIM’s financial performance can be found on www.tim.com.br/ri. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 27 TAKING CARE OF CUSTOMERS Transparent communication The main asset of TIM’s business is its customer the access to other users that would still be using their base, which totaled 66 million customers by the data package, leading them to perceive the service end of 2015. TIM invested in 4G with the aim to offer provided as one of bad quality. innovation and quality service, and managed to end the year with the broadest national coverage with New technologies often require new communications this technology. The company seeks to understand and, as a leading company, TIM has the role of promoting its customers’ needs, embrace their opinions and this industry-wide debate and searching clear and solve any issues. Customer experience not only is transparent ways to communicate with customers. one of TIM’s values, but will also be at the core of its new positioning. TIM believes that no other operator The Telecommunications Industry is also seeking to have stood out for providing satisfactory customer improve the communication of mobile Internet offers, experience. TIM wants and must take that position. as part of the public commitment undertaken in April 2015 by TIM and other mobile telecommunications In 2015, customers, consumer protections operators, alongside the Ministry of Communications, organizations and telecommunications regulatory the National Consumer Secretariat of the Ministry agencies started questioning our company and of Justice of Brazil (Senacon, in Portuguese) and other mobile telecommunications providers Anatel. Some of the initiatives are: regarding the decision to limit the mobile Internet access to the data package chosen, avoiding reduced speed. This triggered a broad discussion, Development of an education campaign particularly within the communication aspect, addressing the features of the service and exposed the need to build an industry-wide Creation of a Code of Conduct for the campaign to help consumers understand the Communication of Mobile Internet Offers concepts related to data service and the impacts Refining information about TIM plans the voice-to-data service migration has caused Improvement and disclosure of tools that enable on telecommunications. consumers to track their mobile data package consumption The main concept is that the data network is shared among users; therefore, the amount of data On the www.tim.com.br website, users can access traffic consumed by one customer corresponds to the page “Entenda o consumo da internet” (Internet the space they occupy in this environment. In this consumption query) to learn how the mobile Internet scenario, a large amount of users connected in low works, through a series of tutorials and tips about speed after the data package was consumed hinders data package usage. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 28 Customer service channels In order to improve service, TIM conducts periodic (CRC) also helped the company to map some critical satisfaction surveys with its own customers, applied points and carry out the necessary improvements. by external research institutes, providing a space to Tim has four CRCs located in the city of Curitiba, customers voice their opinions. In 2015, the overall São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro e Recife, and counts on average score for the satisfaction survey was 7.29. another seven owned by third parties. The Customer TIM resolved 100% of complaints submitted to its Relationship Management (CRM) system records all channels, 92.5% of which addressed within 5 days, contacts made and, when the call requires a more and 97.75% solved in Anatel. specific analysis, answers are provided online within five working days. In addition, the company remained in the fifth position in the ranking of complaints registered by Contact is also possible through letter or emails Procon agencies with Sindec (the National System (submitted to the www.tim.com.br/Fale com a TIM of Information on Consumer’s Defense). Tim has website) and at TIM stores. Telephone access can be the best ranking compared to the other companies made via the Portal *144# – which uses Unstructured in the industry. 52.2 thousand complaints were Supplementary Service Data (USSD) technology registered in 2014. In 2015, there were 72.6 thousand to activate diverse services automatically from the complaints, 64% less than the operator ranked first mobile. Self-service is also available via an Audible for complaints. In most cases, complaints were Response Unit, for options such as the blocking or related to bills. To minimize the problems identified unblocking lines and requesting copies of bills. by customers, TIM developed “Meu TIM” (My TIM) – a service channel where customers can check their TIM employees may air doubts and problems minute package – and started sending information reported by customers using the Fale pelo Cliente via SMS to those who have consumed 80 to 100% of (Speak for the Customer) channel, which uses the their minutes, among other measures. company intranet to ask the questions directly to the CRM area. Finally, TIM provides three online channels Other service channels, such as chat, the Content for direct real time customer service: the Twitter Portal *144# and the Customer Relationship Centers profile @TIMAjuda, chat online, and Facebook. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 29 Customer service information [G4-PR5] 2014 2015 Total numbers of calls answered by Call Center 137,078,489 147,454,650 Total Ombudsman contacts 5,479 4,993 Total complaints received In the company 6,175,552 6,924,976 In Anatel 345,067 493,724 In court 94,630 152,316 Total complaints and criticisms solved In the company 99.94% 100% In Anatel 91.69% 99% In court 106.51% 86.34% Customer satisfaction survey – on a scale from zero to 10 Overall average satisfaction score individual customer 7.54 7.29 Average satisfaction rating with CRC service for individual customers 7.30 7.25 From August 2014 throughout 2015, there was a information in the course of their professional duties. substantial increase of lawsuits with complaints of TIM conducts its activities based on ISO 27001 – the undue VAS (Value Added Services) charge (mainly international standard that describes best practices TIM Recado, TIM Protect and interactivity services). for information security management – although These cases specifically took place in the regions the company has not yet acquired its certification. using the Area Codes 43 and 44, and in the state of Paraná. In the end of 2015, TIM received favorable When a client brings a privacy violation complaint, decisions against moral damages in lawsuits, which TIM will assess the situation and provide clarifications led to a decrease of new cases. in order to solve any potential problems. Clients have access to data privacy practices when signing Costumer data privacy up for its plans, under the terms and conditions of the contract. In 2015, there were no cases of loss of With its Customer Data Privacy Policy, TIM seeks to privacy recorded. [G4-PR8] protect the personal information of its users and prevent unauthorized access and unwarranted use of this information. The company guarantees that Customer registration and telephone communication access to customer registration and communication data is provided to authorities only to the extent data is permitted only to employees who require such required by law. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 30 TAKING CARE OF PEOPLE Managing our human capital TIM believes that achieving growth across the company requires the development of its main capital – the people. The human resource department (People Value) has the task of ensuring productivity and performance improvement, by continuously helping our collaborators develop their skills, enhancing their talents and creating an inspiring and challenging work environment. In 2015, TIM’s workforce comprised 13.7 thousand employees – 54% women and 46% men – most predominantly in the Southeast region. The total number of employees remained stable, compared to the previous year. [G4-10] DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES, BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY REGION BY AGE GROUP 2% 3% 7% 0% 18% 21% 65% 12% 72% Southeast Midwest South Up to 35 years From 36 to 45 years Northeast North From 45 to 60 years Above 60 years SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 31 EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT 2014 2015 Employees 12,860 13,062 Trainees 276 278 Apprentices 415 402 TOTAL 13,551 13,742 EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF CONTRACT 2014 2015 Permanent contract 12,860 13,062 Fixed term contract* 691 680 *Interns and apprentices. One of People Value’s management cornerstone is to enable the self-development of collaborators through training programs. The area plays a major role in encouraging employees to seek success, motivating them to achieve their goals. To get everyone aligned with the company’s strategy, TIM offers integrated communication, fostering the organizational culture, in addition to recognizing every collaborator’s dedication and performance. Yet the search for balance among people’s expectations, the needs of the business and market conditions represent the main challenges for TIM’s human resources department. The turnover rate was 28.5%, a reduction of 6.7 percentage points compared to 2014. [G4-LA1] TURNOVER 2014 2015 Overall 35.2% 28.5% By Gender Men 29.9% 26.5% Women 39.6% 30.2% SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 32 Salary Policy There is no discrimination in TIM’s salary policy, which reflects market behavior. In 2015, the decrease in the difference between men and women’s average salary remained the same. [G4-LA13] PROPORTION OF MEN’S TO WOMEN’S SALARIES, BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY* 2014 2015 Directors 1.56 1.17 Managers 1.13 1.13 Professionals 1.11 1.12 Sales Force / Stores 1.08 1.11 Relationship consultants (CRCs) 1.10 1.07 *The average compensation amount indicated corresponds to the following calculation: (men’s salary / women’s salary). The amount indicates how much more men received, based on the base salary, compared with women, in the years presented, by functional category. With regard to the ratio between the highest and lowest compensation paid by the company, this variation increased from 50 to 53.5 between 2014 and 2015. Conexão TIM (Tim Connection) Training at TIM is managed through the Conexão ranging from institutional to technical and TIM system (TIM Connection), which contains all behavioral programs to help professionals excel types of capacity-building and training courses, in their job tasks. In 2015, TIM invested 11,336 seminars and actions that will contribute to the thousand reais in education – a 21% reduction professional development of its employees, in compared to the previous year. The migration of the classroom or online. Education goals are classroom course contents to online platforms aligned with TIM’s Training Policy guidelines and has enabled a reduction in investments and with its strategic goals, competence models, contributed to the company’s plan to increase purposes and values. At TIM, employees receive efficiency in costs, processes, systems and training throughout their employment cycle, enhancements being implemented. [G4-LA9] FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY HOURS TRAINING* 2014 2015 Directors 1,320 2,537 Managers 42,222 31,768 Other positions 105,453 130,852 Sales Force 216,720 112,155 Relationship consultants (CRCs) 721,499 630,349 TOTAL 1,087,215 907,662 *Hours spent on training and development (technical, management, specific and others). Does not include coaching by supervisors in the company, nor hours of financed formal education. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 33 AVERAGE NUMBER OF HOURS SPENT ON TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE, BROKEN DOWN BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY (H) Directors 46 Managers 39 Other positions 23 Sales force 28 Relationship consultants 119 Total Average 51 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES IN FORMAL EDUCATION FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY COURSES FINANCED BY THE COMPANY 2014 2015 Directors 1 2 Managers 10 4 Other positions 48 53 Sales Force 2 1 Relationship consultants (CRCs) 72 75 TOTAL 133 135 TIM also supports the development of young talent, allowing them to experiment different areas within the company, acquire new knowledge and further develop in such a dynamic and booming market. As a result, trainees and interns are eligible to undertake important positions in the company. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 34 New Skills TIM undertakes a performance appraisal of its employees on an annual basis. In 2015, 96% of employees and 100% of the relationship consultants (CRCs) were evaluated9. One important change in this process was the evolution of behavioral skills, which The three key concepts are: in addition to evaluating new attributes, became the same for the leadership and professional stakeholders. Leading the future The new model follows the Telecom Italia group It is possible to build and lead the future. standard, based on the concept of self-leadership, where employees should become their own leader Living value and the main actor of their professional growth. Value comes to life and is created by people Aligned these new skill set, TIM also made progress and their daily actions. on the program targeted to change its organizational culture. These two actions are believed to be the Linking networks cornerstones that will drive greater productivity and We can multiply our value by being connected. better management of costs, in addition to encouraging a discussion about which aspects really add to the business. [G4-LA11] The Leadership Development Program is aimed at current and future TIM managers, and comprises four EMPLOYEES RECEIVING PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL stages of leadership: Operational, Team, Managers and Strategic. The total training comprised 19.8 thousand hours, and 82% of participation. The Per functional category 2015 company also implemented improvements to the communication flow, reviewed tracks and created new training modules. Directors 47.8% Managers 82.2% Relationship consultants (CRCs) are appraised on a monthly basis via the Five Star Consultant program. Supervisors 96.0% Linked to the technical evaluation of the consultant, (CRCs) Experts 93.4% it generates opportunities for reviewing content Analysts and Advisors 91.4% and enhancing learning, and is directly connected to variable remuneration. About 3.9 thousand Assistants 85.6% consultants were assessed each month, almost 50% achieved all the service goals expected and 30% have reached the 5-star level, being promoted By Gender 2015 at least once during the year. Men 91.1% Women 89.6% 9 The percentage displayed refers to the employees who received performance appraisals compared to the total number of employees who are eligible to such appraisal. The eligibility criteria include, among other specific factors, the employee’s length of service in the company. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 35 85% The second stage of the Climate Management cycle starts with the planning of improvement measures that prioritize the critical topics raised, and of participation in the 2015 Organizational Climate subsequent development of action plans. The high Survey. 12 percentage rate of participation revealed that TIM employees are points higher than in 2014 increasingly committed to the future of the company. Diversity TIM recognizes the importance of promoting diversity Organizational Climate Survey in all its relationships, both as a value and a practice. As described in its Social Responsibility Policy, the The TIM Brasil 2015 Organizational Climate Survey company does not allow any expression or form of had a record of participation, with adherence of discrimination, whether based on sexual orientation; 85% of employees compared with 73% in the ethnic origin; gender; disability; age, among others. previous year. The methodology identifies the TIM believes that an attitude of respect and factors influencing employee engagement and appreciation for diversity is the way to promote a organizational support one as a lever to the other healthy work environment and bring competitive to reflect on the effectiveness of the professionals of advantage to the company. the company. The results highlighted a favorability index (level of employee satisfaction) of 64%, an With its Human Resources Policy and internal increase of three points in relation to 2014. selection and recruitment standards, TIM sets out 100 guidelines to emphasize this subject. The Comparing the results of two years of research, group responsible for corporate governance (see and despite the country’s challenging economic composition in Management Structure) comprises situation, those who were unfavorable and neutrals 20 white members, 18 men, two women, of which became favorable. There was a major change in the ten belong to the 30 to 50 year age group and 10 are aspects of clarity and direction regarding company over 50 years old. The following charts display the goals, which increased seven points from one year current portrait of diversity at TIM. TIM recognizes the to the next, showing that employees are placing need to make continuous efforts in order to create more trust in their leaders and in the future of the an increasingly heterogeneous work environment. [G4-LA3, G4-LA12] company. For TIM, this achievement was inspired by the strategic breakdown implemented in 2014. Despite these significant developments, the company still faces the challenge of promoting actions to further increase productivity among its collaborators. The question “At TIM, are the plans implemented within the deadlines?” scored 46 points, compared to 41 points in 2014, still way below the market average of 59 points. In addition, the factor that evaluates whether the work conditions contribute to the employee’s productivity received 53 points, six below the overall average. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 36 EMPLOYEES BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY Other Positions 12,889 Managers 801 Directors 52 0 2000 4000 6000 8000 10000 12000 14000 BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY GENDER WOMEN Relationship consultants (CRCs) 3,251 Sales Force/Stores 1,476 Professionals 2,040 Managers 264 Directors 9 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY GENDER MEN Relationship consultants (CRCs) 1,084 Sales Force/Stores 1,478 Professionals 2,880 Managers 537 Directors 43 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 37 BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY COLOR/RACE Not informed 83 Indigenous 48 Yellow 165 Mixed race 3,831 Black 900 White 8,715 0 2000 4000 6000 8000 10000 LEVEL OF EDUCATION Post-graduate / master’s / doctorate 6% Higher 38% Secondary 54% Primary 2% Illiterate 0% 10% 20% 40% 60% Note: Illiterate including functional illiteracy person who has learned to read, write and count, however does not have reading comprehension, writing and arithmetic skills. Empresa Cidadã (Corporate Citizen Program) TIM was one of the first companies to join the Empresa Cidadã program (Corporate Citizen program), which extends the maternity leave in 60 days, in addition to the 120 already foreseen in Law, allowing mothers to take up to six months to stay at home with their children. The extension of this right is reflected in improved health for both mother and baby, enabling the mother to breastfeed for at least six months. TIM also allow all its male collaborators to take up to ten consecutive days of paternity leave, starting from the first working day after the child is born, i.e., five days longer than provided by law. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 38 Inclusion and human rights Health & Safety To promote the inclusion of people with disabilities TIM’s priority is to foster ongoing performance (PCD) in the company, TIM developed the PCD improvement in all its safety and occupational program (People with Disabilities Program), health and initiatives. Safety & Occupational aiming to ensure that the available positions are Health and Social Responsibility Policies guide the also accessible to this group. The company has company’s activities and commitment to managing implemented several actions towards this goal, any potential risks to the physical safety and health including workshops, disclosing information on of its collaborators, contractors and visitors in the specific websites and trade fairs and even carrying workplace. TIM has also implemented mandatory out adaptations in its facilities. In 2015, TIM employed measures for prevention of work-related accidents 105 professionals with disabilities, in compliance and occupational diseases in all its operations. with the Conduct Adjustment Agreement, signed with the Brazilian Public Prosecutor’s Office (Law Its units have emergency plans in place designed No. 8213/91, which establishes the quota system). to remedy and minimize damages arising out of potential work accidents and fire incidents. Customers with hearing disabilities also count on In addition, periodic audit or inspections are specialized text communication service. The service conducted to assess the efficiency of preventive is free and operates 24/7. To access it, customers measures in work processes and facilities, targeting must call 0800 741 2580. the continuous development of health and safety conditions. As explained before, TIM does not tolerate any form Currently, TIM has 13 Internal Commissions for of discrimination or harassment. In addition to the Prevention of Work Accidents (Cipas) distributed Whistleblower Channel (read more on Ethics and across company units with over 50 collaborators. Transparency), TIM collaborators can count on the Fale These commissions are formed by collaborators com People Value channel (Speak to People Value), appointed by the company’s management body available on the corporate intranet. The latter was and the by employees chosen by their peers, in a 50designed to open the communication and relationship 50% ratio. For units that do not reach the minimum between all employees and the HR, through submission level of 50 collaborators to form a Cipa, training is of suggestions, queries, compliments or complaints. provided to one employee, who will be the person To disseminate the subject of human rights, the responsible for performing those activities. company carries out two half-yearly diversity awareness campaigns in its internal communication channels. The Diversidade na Empresa Workshop (Diversity in the Company Workshop) guides employees on how to approach the relationship between people with disabilities and the labor market, and how to interact in a diverse workplace. This training also addresses the Quota Law. All employees can access the Code of Ethics and Conduct (available on TIM’s intranet and on the website), and attend a specific training with cases and practical situations that will help them learn, apply and duplicate the instructions and guidelines of the Code in the workplace. New collaborators also receive this training at the time of admission. All attendees are required to sign a declaration of acceptance to seal the commitment with the Code guidelines. In 2015, there were no cases of discrimination against employees in labor suits concerning the company. [G4-LA16, G4-HR3, G4-HR12] SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 39 To prevent work-related illnesses and accidents, policy via the company intranet. No serious Cipas operate according to the Regulatory accidents were registered in 2015. [G4-LA6] Standard (“NR”)-05 issued by the Ministry of Although TIM employees do not perform Labor and Employment. Actions are developed in activities with high incidence or risk of specific conjunction with the Specialized Service in Safety occupational diseases, the company conducts Engineering and Labor Medicine (“SESMT”) or inspections in all facilities, identifying potential with the company’s Labor Safety representative. risks and establishing control measures, through The percentage of employees represented by the annual Program for Medical Control of health and safety committees in 2015 was 58%, Occupational Health (PCMSO) and the annual compared to 60% in 2014. [G4-LA5] Environmental Risk Prevention Program (PPRA). All work accident cases are filed with the Brazilian In addition to these initiatives, TIM also holds an Social Security Institute (INSS) through the Internal Week for Prevention of Work Accidents Occupational Accident Communication System (SIPAT), and develops the Qualidade de Vida TIM (CAT), and are subject to analysis and investigation, Program (TIM Life Quality Program), counting on in line with the procedures set forth in the OHSM the Cipas’ support to implement flu vaccination System Assessment Method. All incident records campaigns and stimulate healthy habits among are available in each responsible area. Employees the employees, by disclosing information via have access to the Work Accident Communication intranet. [G4-LA7] OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY INDICATORS [G4-LA6] 2014 2015 Total Number of Employees 12,860 13,062 Number of accidents without leave registered in the CAT (Work Accident No. 1 3 Communication System) Number of accidents with leave registered in the CAT (Work Accident No. 23 29 Communication System) Frequency rate Number of accidents with leave per million man-hours worked Number 0.4 0.4 Severity rate Number of days lost due to accidents per million man-hours worked Rate 3.99 5.92 Number of days lost No. 216 395 SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 40 TAKING CARE OF SOCIETY Generating value Benefits to the population For TIM, companies create and distribute value through TIM maintained its partnership with the Ministry its activities, but also can cause indirect impacts on the of Science, Technology and Innovation (MCTI, in economy. The Brazilian telecommunications industry Portuguese) for the installation of Rainfall Data accounts for 5 to 6% of the GDP, generating significant Collection Platforms (PCDs, in Portuguese). The municipal, state and federal tax revenues. In this Technical Cooperation Agreement was signed in scenario, TIM believes its activities contribute towards 2013 in an effort to help monitoring rainfalls and the country’s economic growth, and that its services droughts. The Ministry received free-of-charge are critical to society. TIM was the first operator to access to data, infrastructure, and antennas for adopt affordable rates for unlimited on-net calls (TIM installation of equipment and connection signal. to TIM calls), allowing the inclusion of low-income citizens and access to connectivity and information, The rainfall meters placed in TIM’s Radio Base Stations and introduced innovation once again by eliminating (RBS) are able to measure rainfall conditions every charges for calls between different operators. Its 5 minutes, using the TIM mobile communication business also help corporate and industrial clients to network. TIM also provided 400 Sim Cards to be seek technological innovations, providing increased installed in the platforms, enabling data connection efficiency and competitiveness, in addition to enabling between rainfall meters and the disaster-monitoring the creation of new jobs. center Cemaden (Brazilian Center for Monitoring and Early Warning of Natural Disasters). In 2015, the company launched the TIM Multibank Caixa10 service, in partnership with Caixa Econômica By the end of 2015, approximately 3,000 automatic Federal and MasterCard. Through this service, rainfall meters had been installed nationwide, users can pay bills, transfer money to other users, covering 886 municipalities and most part of the buy credits for their phones, shop in MasterCardpriority regions. accredited merchants, and deposit and withdrawal money in lottery outlets, using a prepaid account All data collected by this equipment is available from Caixa Econômica accessed via TIM mobile at Cemaden’s website, allowing municipalities, phone. To sign up, users do not need to have bank states, partner organizations and other users to account or proof of income. share the information used for the local natural disaster risk management. This is a permanent TIM also makes efforts to foster and open access to project and does not involve transfer of funds technological solutions through Instituto TIM (TIM among partners; therefore each one shall bear all Institute). Learn more about the initiatives of this costs and expenses arising out of their respective organization in the following page. [G4-EC8] obligations. [G4-EC7] 10 Service available in the states of Paraná, Santa Catarina, Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Norte, Ceará, Paraíba, Pernambuco, Piauí, Alagoas, Bahia and Sergipe, in May 2016. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 41 Instituto TIM Instituto TIM (TIM Institute) is committed to creating and strengthening resources and strategies for democratization of science and innovation that promote human development in Brazil, with mobile technology as one of the main facilitators. The institute operates in four dimensions: Education Work Creating and democratizing resources and Creating and democratizing teaching resources strategies for teaching science and math. and strategies to foster a productive technological inclusion of young people. Applications Investing in technological solutions that will Inclusion improve people’s lives. Disseminating new information and communication technologies that will help spread this knowledge. Since 2013, the Institute has implemented actions in 350 cities, in 26 states and the Federal District, mobilizing 49 education departments, three ministries – the Ministry of Education (MEC), the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation (MCT) and the Ministry of Culture (MinC) – and over two thousand public schools, benefiting 8,900 teachers and 383,000 students. PRINCIPLES AND STRATEGIES Teaching Applications Work Inclusion The Math Circle Brazil ZUP TIM Tec Fora da Escola Não Pode! TIM Does Science Cultural Maps Academic Working Capital Transformation Agents Instituto TIM Scholarship OBMEP Support to Science and Technology Museums and Centers SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 42 2015 MAP OF ACTIVITY ZUP RR AP TFC MC CMB QBMEP TFC CMB PA AM TFC PI TFC CE CMB CMB CMB MA RN QBMEP TFC MC QBMEP TFC PB TFC TFC PE TFC QBMEP MUS TFC AC CMB AL TO TFC QBMEP Tec SE RO QBMEP TFC BA TFC CMB MT TFC TFC TFC TFC CMB ZUP MC GO PROJECTS QBMEP TFC TIM Does Science MG ES MS Tec TFC Tec TIM Tec TFC CMB The Math Circle Brazil SP TFC CMB AgT Tec RJ QBMEP ZUP QBMEP AWC BAT MC Cultural Maps PR QBMEP TIM Institute Scholarship OBMEP Tec TFC TFC CMB ZUP UNICEF Out of School Children UNICEF QBMEP AWC UNICEF MC SC REGIONS ZUP ZUP Tec TFC ZUP QBMEP MC AWC Academic Working Capital RS Southeast TFC Tec QBMEP MC CMB AgT Transformation Agents South Support to Science and Technology MUS Museums and Centers Mid-West BAT TIM Institute Drumming Band North Northeast Some of the main projects developed by Instituto TIM (TIM Institute) are: Math In an effort to change the paradigm that Math is too difficult, this project brings to the Circle country the Math Circle approach, created by Harvard professors Robert and Ellen Kaplan, according to which, student participation and reflection are essential elements in order to build up mathematical knowledge and skills. The idea is to work on the concept: “tell me and I’ll forget, ask me and I’ll find out.” Targeting students from 2nd and 4th grades of public elementary schools located in underprivileged areas, the project offers Math Circle sessions as an after school activity and also provides teacher training. In 2014, the mathematics skills of the participating students increased by 7.3%, compared to 5.7% in 2013. UNESCO recognized the success of the project in 2016, and launched a partnership to implement the initiative in Brazil. TIM does Science This project was developed to disseminate basic scientific concepts in this challenging area of education in Brazil. Carried out in partnership with Municipal Departments of Education, TIM Faz Ciência provides public schools with teaching materials, videos and other aids, and conducts training sessions with teachers, who also receive support from a relationship center throughout the school year. The program materials can be downloaded for free on the TIM Faz Ciência website, and can used by any teacher, in any school in the Country. Since its creation, 44 municipal education departments have adopted the program, training over 6.4 thousand teachers and benefiting 194,000 students between 2014 and 2015. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 43 TIM Tec Aiming at the expansion of vocational and technological education in Brazil, the project is based on three pillars: courses, free software development and support to public education institutions that intend to install and use the software. TIM Tec offers free online courses in line with the Pronatec’s Technology Axis: Information and Communication. It has become the MOOC (Massive Open Online Courses) platform whose technology and content are being shared with public education institutes from Rede e-Tec Brasil, with support from the Department of Professional and Technological Education of the Ministry of Education (Setec/MEC). Eight Federal Institutes have already launched their platforms created from TIM Tec software, and other six are in the installation phase. In addition to offering the courses developed by the project, Institutions can add their own courses to the tool. Between 2013 and 2015, 17 courses were created and 18.8 thousand students registered in the platforms. Cultural Maps Instituto TIM (TIM Institute) engaged in the construction of a platform for collaborative mapping and culture management, to enable cultural agents, administrators and the society to learn, share and manage the cultural production of a region in Brazil. Mapas Culturais (Cultural Maps) is a software that allows the mapping and dissemination of cultural activities, enabling the development of networks, promoting access and visibility to the general population, the government and the market. A cooperation agreement signed in 2015 between the Instituto TIM (TIM Institute) and the Ministry of Culture (MinC) will take the platform to a national level. In two years of existence, platforms were created and implemented in the states of Ceará, Rio Grande do Sul, Tocantins, Mato Grosso and São Paulo, and the cities of Blumenau (SC) and João Pessoa (PB). Almost two thousand projects and 53.8 thousand agents have been registered. ZUP: ZUP Zeladoria Urbana Participativa (Participatory Urban Governance) is a free software Zeladoria created to help public administrators and citizens participate in urban governance Urbana activities and operations. The initiative is aligned with the guidelines of the Brazilian Digital Participativa Government Policy, which guides public managers to interact with citizens, improve the internal management and integrate with partners and suppliers. ZUP is an important management tool that can be used by any municipality that has an interest in managing their public services in a more efficient and participatory manner. It comprises four modules: ZUP Cidadão (ZUP Citizen), ZUP Gestão (ZUP Management), ZUP Inventários (ZUP Inventories) and ZUP Fiscal (Fiscal ZUP), through which administrators are able to collect, analyze, organize, share and monitor information about their cities. In addition, the tool automates document flows and allows the management of inventories and services provided by partner companies, among other features. All information contained in the system are stored in a database, enabling the analysis of information and facilitating decision-making. Awards Winner of the 2015 Governarte contest for two categories: Cities and Big Data. Eduardo Campos Award: the ZUP platform VcSBC application developed by Instituto TIM (TIM Institute) competed with other 94 initiatives. Targeting public administrators and citizen participation, the initiative was considered one of the best and most innovative public management practices in municipal governments of Latin America and the Caribbean. The awards ceremony took place in April 2016 in Washington, D.C., in the United States, in an event sponsored by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 44 Private Social Investment The company’s social investment initiatives comprise donations, projects developed by the Instituto TIM (TIM Institute) and sponsorship of cultural and sports actions carried out in communities. In 2015, TIM provided donations to the following institutions: Casa de Passagem, Instituto Ronald McDonald, Escola Técnica Redentorista, Instituto Ayrton Senna and Fundação Amazonas Sustentável. PRIVATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT 2014 (R$) 2015 (R$) Donations 1,933,354 686,281 Instituto TIM‘s projects1, 2 15,291,709 13,859,339 Education 4,663,916 7,194,606 Applications 1,570,685 1,305,838 Work 2,202,000 3,329,385 Inclusion 1,960,000 927,160 Others 4,895,108 1,102,350 Initiatives in the community3 23,919,30 18,967,342 Sports sponsorships 1,112,300 3,749,475 Cultural sponsorships 22,806,930 15,217,867 Learn about other projects and initiatives developed by Instituto TIM on institutotim.org.br 1 In 2015, Instituto TIM has invested R$ 12.9 million as a mandatory social contribution to the credit granted by the Brazilian Social and Economic Development Bank (BNDES, in Portuguese) to TIM Celular S.A. (mediated by TIM Participações S.A.). The credit was opened in December 2013. 2 In 2015, TIM reviewed the classifications and decided to start considering only the projects developed by Instituto TIM (TIM Institute) in this category. Projects with return on image were reclassified in the category of Initiatives in the community. 3 Tax incentives are included in the total amounts invested in that category and, in 2015, accounted for 46% of the investment in initiatives in the community. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 45 Digital inclusion TIM was the first operator to enable the digital inclusion of low-income groups, offering services that allowed these customers to increase the use of voice and data. For example, the introduction, in 2009, of the billing model for customers in the pay-as-you-go segment, and the creation of the Infinity Plan, where customers making TIM to TIM calls would be charged per call, not per minute. In 2015, TIM was the first company to include calls to other operators in a pre-paid plan, and launched a new portfolio of plans for all segments. For customers of the pre-paid segment, the package combines data (150 MB), voice calls to all operators, including long distance calls (100 minutes) and unlimited SMS, for a reasonable value. Throughout 2015, TIM also held workshops free-ofcharge to the population. The Café com Android initiative, carried out in partnership with LG, had several editions in different cities of Brazil. The meetings were conducted for 1.5 hours at TIM stores, where participants learned how to install applications, listen to music and watch movies through streaming, and make video calls, among TIM makes use of competitive methods to select its other tips on the use of smartphones. suppliers -– equally, without preferences –, always seeking the best commercial agreement and the best Suppliers technical service quality. By local supplier, the company Business ethics, transparency and commitment towards means one that is located in the same country of TIM’s sustainability comprise the guidelines for Relations with headquarters. Although its purchasing procedures Suppliers in a TIM Purchase Process. To strengthen such and policies do not contain guidelines for prioritizing commitments, all agreements include clauses requiring local suppliers, TIM seeks to build relationships with compliance and fulfillment of TIM’s Code of Ethics and those located in Brazil, whenever possible. Conduct and the Principles of the Global Compact, such as respect to labor and human rights, environmental All suppliers with contracts over one million reais are protection and anti-corruption. subjected to social and environmental assessments during the qualification stage, within social, The company’s value chain comprises suppliers of environmental, and occupational health and safety telecommunications network equipment and proaspects. Suppliers considered critical in any aspect ducts (mobile phones, modem, etc.), technology serwill undergo a supplementary profile assessment. vice providers, electric utilities, as well as providers of At the end of that stage, the reviewers will issue an services to other areas that support TIM’s business opinion indicating the level of compliance with the purposes, such as consulting firms, audit companies, criteria addressed. Those who are still considered communication agencies, among others. [G4-12] critical shall commit to implement an action plan. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 46 Assessment and monitoring TIM monitors supplier performance through its own are required to fill out a due diligence questionnaire, performance evaluation methodology (Vendor Rating), used to collect information exclusively for the using a specific questionnaire to support penalties set out purpose of verifying compliance with Brazilian and in contractual clauses and in general terms of delivery international anti-corruption laws, as well as with of purchase orders. To control compliance with labor internal standards. rights, the company checks the suppliers’ reputation on the websites of the Business Pact for Integrity and TIM also requires its suppliers to comply with a Against Corruption and the Brazil’s National Pact for the specific clause under the terms and conditions Eradication of Slave Labor. Suppliers that appear in any of the purchase order, providing that no products of the two lists may not be qualified. All TIM suppliers purchased by TIM contain conflict minerals. In the also sign a declaration stating their commitment to document, the supplier agrees to abide by the rules comply with the company’s Code of Ethics and Conduct and regulations established by the Securities and and its sustainable development principles. Exchange Commission11, and adopt a reasonable and appropriate due diligence conduct to ensure Those registered under procurement and which their products do not contain these minerals. joined the company from November 2015 onwards [G4-EC9] 11 The Securities and Exchange Commission of the United States created by the U.S. Congress to regulate the securities markets and protect investors. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 47 SPENDING ON LOCAL AND INTERNATIONAL SUPPLIERS 2014 2015 Local suppliers 9,458,859.74 8,226,002.31 Network Infrastructure 2,999,020.86 3,239,382.96 Trade products 3,557,420.02 2,154,926.00 Information technology 698,211.49 761,615.82 Professional technical services 1.762.406,19 1.632.133,53 Energy purchase 127,888.18 137,739.00 Others 313,913.00 300,205.00 International suppliers 140,074.26 146,120.69 Network Infrastructure 30,293.14 32,721.04 Trade products 3,560.98 0,00 Information technology 93.411,51 101,894.18 Professional technical services 12,423.81 11,505.47 Energy purchase 384.82 0.00 Others 0.00 0.00 Total 9,598,934.00 8,372,123.00 Among the suppliers who responded to the social and environmental questionnaire, the company did not identify possible risks for occurrence of forced, slave or child labor. [G4-SO9, G4-LA14, G4-HR5, G4-HR6, G4-HR10] Stakeholder Engagement [G4-24, G4-25, G4-26] The company addresses the need to engage stakeholders and their concerns in the company’s activities and decision-making processes through the principles set forth in its Engagement Policy, which guides and encourages participative relations among its collaborators. It also promotes the debate and greater involvement with the company’s key stakeholder groups, seeking to create, maintain and strengthen trustworthy, inclusive, ethical and mutually beneficial bonds. Our • Employees • Consumer protection and stakeholders • Service providers defense organizations • Consumers/customers • Community • Suppliers • Government • Shareholders • Regulatory agencies • Financial institutions • Competitors • Unions • Society SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 48 In addition to the initiatives to maintain contact and develop relationships described throughout this report, TIM has permanent channels to engage and communicate with stakeholders. STAKEHOLDERS FORMS OF ENGAGEMENT • Customer Service via the Customer Relationship Center (CRC), MeuTIM, Portal *144# and Audible Response Units (URA) for requests, queries to accounts and balances, doubts, complaints and changes in data • Social Networks: Facebook and Twitter (@TIM_Ajuda); Customers • Monthly satisfaction surveys • Fale pelo Cliente (Speak for the Customer), used by employees to address customer requests • Portas Abertas website (http://portasabertas.tim.com.br), a relationship portal through which customers may keep track of antenna deployment, and network and coverage expansion. • Social and environmental questionnaire (assessment and identification of Suppliers improvement opportunities) • TIM Commerce website (www.timcommerce.com.br), for registration and information. • Cooperation and collaboration with various associations and working groups aimed at Competitors advancing the industry as a whole • Fair Competition Information Guide (aimed at TIM employees). • Regular contact with bodies associated with the relevant state and municipal authorities and with the Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Environmental Resources (Ibama) regulatory agencies • Environment and Climate Change channel: ssma@timbrasil.com.br (questions and suggestions). • Contact with the communities via e-mail (respsocialcorp@timbrasil.com.br, projetosocial@timbrasil.com.br and ssma@timbrasil.com.br) and in the regional offices Community and civil • Donation and volunteer work campaigns, investments in specific causes and social society organizations action projects • Support for social, environmental, cultural and educational initiatives. • Corporate Intranet • Internal corporate TV • E-mails with newsletters • Safety and Occupational Health Channel (ssma@timbrasil.com.br); Employees • Induction week for new employees • Organizational Climate Survey • Speak to People Value Channel • Ethics and Compliance Channel. • IR Site (www.tim.com.br/ri) with relevant information and integrated and Shareholders complementary services • Speak to IR channel, to resolve doubts and provide information. • Information about offers and campaigns via Mundo TIM (intranet), Sales Business Business partners Newsletter (e-mail), SMS messaging and email marketing. All stakeholders • Unified Whistleblower Channel SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 49 TAKING CARE OF THE ENVIRONMENT Impact management The environmental impacts linked to our business are of the sites, ensuring compliance with internal considered impacts of low magnitude. They relate standards, legal and regulatory requirements, as set to the implementation and operation of Radio Base forth in its Environmental Policy. TIM monitors and Stations (RBS or antennas) connecting client mobile analyzes its RBS electromagnetic emissions based phones to TIM’s fixed stations. There are two types on Ruling No. 303 methods, remaining within the of RBS – Greenfield, which is installed on the ground, limits established. This procedure also extends to and Rooftop, a tower built on the roof of the buildings. the structures shared with other operators. All RBS premises have urban and environmental Noise emissions are measured upon the installation licenses, where applicable. In the case of potential of new antennas, for licensing purposes and upon the environmental impacts, TIM carries out reparations as request of the municipal government, government required in the environmental licensing process, which agencies, the Public Prosecutor’s office, the local may include the replanting of trees to compensate community and as required by law, although no federal for the vegetation removed for the installation of RBS. regulation directly addresses this procedure. In 2015, the Antennas emit noise and non-ionizing radiation12 as percentage of TIM sites that received electromagnetic they come into operation. emission and noise emission measurements were 27% and 1% respectively. Compared with 2014, In Brazil, the National Telecommunications Agency the measurement of electromagnetic emissions (Anatel) is the regulator of radio frequency bands for decreased by 22 percentage points, due to a smaller mobile telephony, also responsible for regulating the demand for this type of measurement by the relevant limits of exposure to electromagnetic fields according environmental authorities. to Resolution No. 303 and the Law No. 11934 of 2009. Both the resolution and the law provide for Given its nationwide presence, TIM has RBSs installed reference standards listed in the guidelines of the in 152 preservation areas, such as hilltops and International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Conservation Units, and uses the same procedures Protection (ICNIRP), and endorsed by the World applied to urban areas to conduct periodic monitoring Health Organization (WHO). in these antennas, ensuring its activities will not bring impacts to biodiversity. In order to minimize environmental risks, TIM is committed to monitor the operational aspects [G4-SO2, G4-EN12, G4-EN27] 12 Radiation emitted by radio waves used in mobile telephony. Do not pose risks to health, causing only increase of temperature or thermal effect. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 50 Stay connected! RBS also has advantages, such as reduced energy According to the World Health Organization consumption and a fixture structure that uses 99% less studies, there is insufficient evidence to show steel than the traditional base stations. that the use of mobile phones and emissions from antennas are harmful to health, as TIM installed the first biosite in Curitiba, the state long as limits and precautionary standards capital of Paraná, in June 2014, and more than 100 are observed. Other recent studies also have other sites throughout the country. The company shown that exposure to RF signal from RBS also plans to install 300 new biosites in the city of sites varies from 0.002% to 2% of the levels Rio de Janeiro until the 2016 Olympics. The fact that set out in international guidelines, depending this antenna is built as a lighting pole streamlines its on factors such as the proximity to the licensing process, for it is qualified as urban furniture antenna and the environment around you. when installed in public area. The next stage of the These levels are lower or comparable to the project will be the installation of biosites in private exposure to radio or TV transmitters. areas such as condominiums, shopping malls, parking lots, aimed at providing better customer experience with less visual pollution in the urban landscape. Optimizing Assets TIM made changes to its infrastructure management model to align it to the market trend and to its plan for greater cost efficiency. In 2015, the company sold 5.4 thousand towers, which corresponds to approximately 30% of the total. In relation to urban and environmental licensing procedures (when required by law), this responsibility will be undertaken by the tower owner. TIM will be responsible for licensing antennas and measuring electromagnetic and noise emissions, which in some cases are a prerequirement for obtaining such licenses. This monitoring is also conducted upon requests received through the communication channels (read more about these channels in Forms of engagement). With a cost of installation three times smaller than the towers, the biosite is a structure similar to a pole that mimics the antennas of the operator and may accommodate all telecommunications equipment (2G, 3G and 4G), as well as urban furniture, such as public lighting and security cameras. This unprecedented technology can significantly reduce the visual impact and help harmonize the urban infrastructure and the environment. From an environmental perspective, SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 51 Search for excellence Always searching for continuous improvement of its internal processes and services, TIM has expanded its Environmental Management System (EMS) and implemented the Safety & Occupational Health (SGSST) system in administrative offices and sites in the states of Bahia, Minas Gerais, Pará, Paraná, Pernambuco, Rio de Janeiro, Espírito Santo, Rio Grande do Sul, São Paulo and the Federal District. In addition, the company maintains important certifications, as shown in the following table: CERTIFICATION AREA CERTIFIED SCOPE National. ISO 9001:2008 Operational Units where the processes Quality Management Management of the TIM Celular Network are carried out: Minas Gerais, Rio Certification de Janeiro, São Paulo, Pará, Paraná, Acquisition: since 2000 Pernambuco and Brasília. ISO 9001:2008 National. Quality Management Management of the GSM pay-as-you-go Operational Units where the processes Certification and postpaid billing of TIM Celular are carried out: Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo Acquisition: since 2005 ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Certification Management and Operation of the Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo and Espírito Santo Acquisition: since 2010 TIM Celular Network Anatel SMP Method for collection, consolidation and Regulatory Certification reporting of quality indicators of the National Acquisition: since 2004 Personal Mobile Service SMP Anatel STFC Method for collection, consolidation and Regulatory certification reporting of quality indicators of the National Acquisition: from 2014 Switched Fixed Telephone Service – STFC Anatel SCM Method for collection, consolidation and Regulatory certification reporting of quality indicators of the National Acquisition: Sept. 2015 Multimedia Communication Service SCM SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 52 Energy Electric power is TIM’s primary input, crucial for the mentioned, is an innovative type of antenna operation of its Radio Base Stations (RBS). The company embedded in a lightning pole that consumes less seeks competitive advantage by investing in new power energy, among other benefits. The FreeCooling sources and increasing efficiency. At TIM, this matter Project consists of a ventilation system for equipment is managed by two areas, one responsible for the containers, where a cooler is installed in shelter-type administrative department and the other for the sites, sites (enclosures) in the South and Southeast regions whose main target is to reduce energy consumption to reduce the use of energy and refrigerant gases in without compromising the company’s growth. air conditioning equipment. With this initiative, TIM achieved savings of 1.12 GWh, corresponding to TIM achieved savings of 1,760 MWh, as a result of approximately 140 tCO2 e of emissions avoided. initiatives to drive energy efficiency, which were reinforced in 2015. One example is the RAN sharing Within the guidelines to drive energy efficiency, TIM agreement for the 4G network, which consists of is conducting the 2G network swap (exchange of sharing the RBS with other operators. In addition equipment) to continue offering the same performance, to reducing costs (that will be divided among the but with reduced electricity consumption. By the end of operators), sharing infrastructure has a positive 2015, the company managed to reduce consumption impact on the environment, as it eliminates the by 0.64 GWh, corresponding to approximately 80 tCO2 need to build new stations. The initiative won the e of emissions avoided. Global Mobile Awards (“Glomo”) in the category Best Mobile Technology Broadband for all: Outstanding Even with the 16% increase in energy consumption LTE contribution. TIM and OI were the first signatories caused by the business expansion, the company of the agreement, and will be joined by Vivo in 2016. met the target set to a maximum of 21%. Referring [G4-EN6] exclusively to the mobile network of TIM Celular, which accounts for 80% of the total energy consumed in the Considering that around 4,500 stations were company, the goal for 2016 is to limit the consumption shared between TIM and Oi at the end of 2015, in 22%, considering the implementation of measures there was an estimated electricity saving of around to optimize power consumption. 120,000 MWh, corresponding to cost savings of approximately R$ 68 million (Opex). This saving For 2016, TIM will invest in a new software for the also generates an environmental gain, given that telecommunication network that will optimize about 15,000 tCO2 e of atmospheric emissions were the system, by controlling equipment operation avoided due to this electricity saving. according to demand. During off-peak hours, when there is no need to keep all equipment connected, TIM believes that the initiative is paramount to the the program will make intelligent use of the development of telecommunications in the country. network, turning off idle devices. Such measure is The sharing of infrastructure promotes greater expected to bring excellent results. efficiency in the use of radiofrequency, reduces urban impacts as well as energy consumption. In The company maintained its commitment to addition, the joint construction increases the speed reducing energy consumption in the administrative of deployment of networks and generates savings offices, through employee awareness measures, of financial resources, which can be reverted to including internal newsletters. The company other projects – a proof that sharing also works in also followed-up its building maintenance the infrastructure sector. actions, such as reducing the hours of operation of air conditioners and lifts, replacing energyTIM maintained other two projects in operation: consuming appliances for others more efficient, the biosite and freecooling. The first, as already and intensifying maintenance routines. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 53 TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMED, DISCRIMINATED BY SOURCE [G4-EN3] ENERGY CONSUMPTION EN3 2014 2015 IN THE COMPANY Gasoline L 1,489,469 1,291,170 Ethanol L * 65,773 Diesel – Vehicles L 33,149 43,061 Diesel – Generators L 165,451 222,169 Electricity MWh 483,934 562,952 GJ Gasoline GJ 44,664 30,559 Diesel – Vehicles GJ 1,174 1,422 Diesel – Generators GJ 5,857 7,335 Biofuel GJ * 9,697 Electricity GJ 1,742,161 2,026,627 Total energy used (GJ) GJ 1,793,855 2,075,640 * In 2014, the consumption of biofuels was reported in conjunction with the consumption of fossil fuels. Solar Power Aware of the potential of Brazilian renewable energy sources, TIM set targets to install photovoltaic panels in 50 RBSs in 2016, in the Northeast and Southeast regions of the country. The company intends to invest and operate in the energy generation market, providing a sustainable model that will secure prices. In addition to these benefits, the panels will bring more stability to the network, compensating for potential power outages in the utility company. TIM will use the power generated by the solar panel during daytime, after which the power consumed will come from the utility. The battery already installed on the site will be available for power shortage incidents. If the energy generated by the photovoltaic plates is not completely consumed, TIM may release it to the public network and receive credits from the utility company, which can be deducted from the energy bill at another site in the same federative unit. Two years ago, TIM developed a pilot initiative in Duque de Caxias (RJ) with positive outcomes. Considering the relevance of energy resource management at TIM, the company recognizes there is room for improvement, but firmly believes to be in the right path. The investments and efficiency actions underway will leverage the company’s competitiveness, in addition to mitigating impacts on the environment. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 54 Water Even though TIM’s activities do not involve heavy use of water – the largest consumption takes place in its headquarters – the company developed several initiatives to reduce consumption of this dwindling resource. TIM’s efforts have produced results as the company managed to reduce water intake by 22%. The water consumed at TIM comes mainly from the urban supply networks, but the São Paulo office also consumes water from an artesian well. In view of the hydric collapse that struck the southeast region, mainly affecting the states of São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, the office courtyard stopped being washed. TIM continued implementing measures to reduce water consumption in 2015, such as inspections in bathrooms and pantries to detect leaks and the installation of tap timers and close coupled toilets. Another initiative developed in the office of Santo André (SP) captures rainwater from the roofs and rainwater galleries, and includes physical-chemical treatment of water for reuse in toilets, with a total storage capacity of 620 thousand liters of water. Since its implementation, in April 2015, TIM obtained savings of 4% in water consumption. In the unit located in the neighborhood of São Cristóvão, Rio de Janeiro, the company reused water from the airconditioning water (condensation) through a box with capacity to store 1000 liters, which can be also Stay connected! used for cleaning patios, irrigating gardens and for sanitary facilities. [G4-EN10] If only two people in each house in the metropolitan area of São Paulo reduced the Regarding effluents from the buildings, all the time spent with the shower open by five volume produced by the company goes to public minutes, the water saved in just twenty-seven sanitation grids, responsible for controlling the days could be supplied to a population of 2.9 effluent treatment process. It is worth noting million inhabitants for one entire month. that the company does not perform disposal with Fonte: Instituto Akatu (Akatu Institute) high environmental impact and that the effluents generated at TIM significantly affect no water body. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 55 TOTAL WATER CONSUMED, DISCRIMINATED BY SOURCE (m3) [G4-EN8] 2014 2015 Groundwater extraction (internal extraction) 22,475 27,108 Water supplied by the municipal grid or 228,725 167,855 other companies TOTAL 251,200 194,963 Percentage of the volume extracted compared to the +9% -22% previous Efficient use of natural resources TIM is permanently committed with the mitigation of for multi-functional devices that centralize all waste produced in its operations and with an efficient those tasks. TIM reduced paper consumption in the use of resources. Its Environmental Policy is guided billing area by 56% due to several initiatives, such by the continuous improvement and prevention as the incentives for online billing and summarized of pollution. TIM is constantly seeking to evolve its invoices for unlimited voice and data services. The process and activities, aiming not only at a proactive marketing department, however, increased its paper approach and greater efficiency, but also at the consumption by 68%, mainly due to production consequent reduction of impacts on the environment. of promotional materials for new plans. Likewise, the use of cardboard has increased 131% due to Thus, the company maintained the measures marketing actions implemented in 2015. adopted to reduce the internal consumption of paper and their respective costs, and replaced Since 2014, 100% of the paper for internal use is independent printers, scanners, fax e copy machines certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). TOTAL MATERIALS USED BY WEIGHT (kg) [G4-EN1] 2014 2015 Paper Billing 1,348,029 592,020 Paper Internal Use 43,907 37,579 Paper Marketing 1,114,592 1,877,527 Cardboard Packaging 77,112 178,425 TOTAL 2,583,640 2,685,551 SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 56 Waste management has become a major challenge Aligned with this guideline, TIM implemented selective for many societies. Population increase drives collection, and started collecting disused devices, increase in consumption, which generates more batteries and accessories through the initiative trash, causing several environmental impacts. TIM Programa Recarregue o Planeta (Recharge the Planet is committed to minimizing waste production and Program), which also encourages customers to place encouraging differentiated collection, recovery and disused mobile handsets, batteries, cables and other recycling initiatives. accessories into special bins and send them to proper disposal sites. TIM plans to intensify campaigns to raise awareness on this issue during 2016. Its Waste Management Program includes awareness campaigns across the company, as well as the selective collection of paper, cardboard, plastic, In 2015, 1.192 Kg of appliances and accessories aluminum and non-recyclable material (organic were recycled, representing an increase of 13 waste) in the administrative headquarters and percentage points compared to the previous year, industrial buildings. In 2015, 19% of waste generated but still below the target of 2 tons. For 2016, the in the offices were recycled. Aware of the importance target remains at 2 tons, and the company will of increasing this percentage, the company expects conduct collections both at TIM stores and at to reach 25% in 2016. The main waste generated the administrative headquarters, increasing the in its operations are end-of-life batteries from participation of visitors and employees. [G4-EN28] network equipment and lubricating oil, while in the administrative areas, organic waste represents the For the disposal of burned bulbs, TIM hired appropriate waste collection and disposal largest volume. companies. At the administrative headquarters, the organic waste is selected and made available A Solid Waste Policy was created in Brazil in 2010, for public collection carried out by municipal bodies providing for shared responsibility among several or suppliers authorized by the City Government. players in the production chain, like consumers, public The recyclable waste is sent to cooperatives or authorities, cooperatives, recyclers and industry. vendors that are qualified to provide this service. TOTAL WASTE GENERATED, BY TYPE, BY METHOD OF DISPOSAL, BY WEIGHT (t) [G4-EN23] 2014 2015 2014 2015 Generated Recycling Hazardous waste 11.43 223.88 Hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste 428.15 560.14 Administrative buildings 3.75 5.53 TOTAL 439.58 784.02 Network 5.09 202.95 Non-hazardous waste Offices Administrative buildings 157.77 93.55 Hazardous waste 3.75 5.53 Network 10.13 40.11 Non-hazardous waste 412.73 518.12 TOTAL 416.49 523.65 Sanitary landfill Non-hazardous waste Networks Administrative Buildings 254.97 424.58 Hazardous waste 7.68 218.35 Network 5.29 1.91 Non-hazardous waste 15.42 42.02 Others TOTAL 23.10 260.37 Hazardous waste 2.60 15.40 SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 57 The increase in the volume of hazardous waste sent for recycling corresponds mainly to network equipment batteries. The disposal of this material is periodic, as a minimum amount needs be accumulated to be collected by the supplier. In addition, a higher volume of this type of waste was disposed in the regional office in São Paulo due to replacement of low-autonomy batteries. In the case of the Northern regional office, the increase in the volume of hazardous waste disposed was caused by a preventive maintenance of generators, resulting in the disposal of lubricating oil and oil filter. Climate change As stated in the company’s Climate Change Management Policy, TIM recognizes its share of contribution to global impacts. Several stages of TIM’s activities – operation of equipment, transport of products and commuting – involve power and fuel consumption, which consequently result in direct or indirect Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. For TIM, this is a strategic issue for business longevity and value creation, while the implementation of mitigation and adaptation measures is vital for social welfare. It is worth noting that the discussions of sustainability topics are conducted by our Board of Directors, through the Control & Risk Committee, which among its tasks should supervise and follow up social responsibility issues pertaining to the company and subsidiaries. executive, administrative and security vehicle fleets, in addition to the fugitive emissions from As part of its commitment to society in addressing with air-conditioning and fire-fighting equipment. climate change, TIM conducts periodic mapping of the sources of emissions in its activities. The company The company also mapped the indirect emissions manages this issue through the Greenhouse Gas related to the purchase of electric power (scope (GHG) Inventory, prepared annually in accordance 2) used in its facilities and the following categories with the guidelines of the GHG Protocol (which sets under the scope 3: production of inputs purchased; the global standard for how to measure, manage, production of energy inputs (fuels); losses due to and report greenhouse gas emissions), and also refers transmission and distribution of electricity; transport to the guidelines and emission factors published by and distribution (upstream); waste disposal; business the International Panel for Climate Change (IPCC). trips (air companies and taxis); employee commuting The results of the emissions inventory are disclosed and transport and distribution (downstream). through a number of channels, including the CDP, Brazil’s Public Emissions Registry, and TIM’s website, The increase in TIM’s emissions under scope 1 was as well as in the Sustainability Report. due to the emissions related to the use of gaseous fire-fighting equipment with high global warming The sources of direct CHG emissions (Scope 1) potential. identified at TIM are power generators (diesel), [G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17] SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 58 SCOPE TYPE OF EMISSION 1) Consumption of fuel in own fleet. 2) Consumption of diesel oil to generate energy. Scope 1 (Direct emissions) 3) Fugitive emissions from gases used in refrigeration and fire-fighting equipment. Scope 2 (Indirect emissions associated Consumption of purchased energy. with energy generation) 1) Fuel consumed in: • employee air travel Scope 3 • employee commuting between work and home (other direct emissions) • third-party fleet and sales consultants’ vehicles • cargo transported by air 2) Waste management. EMISSIONS 2014 2015 Scope 1 2,195 tCO2e 10,152 tCO2e 483,934 MWh 562,952 MWh Scope 2 65,565 tCO2e 70,055 tCO2e EMISSIONS DISCRIMNATED BY SCOPE AND TYPE (tCO2e) 2014 2015 Scope 1 2,195 10,152 Own fleet 737 867 Generators 370 546 Fugitive emissions Coolants 1,088 1,512 Fugitive emissions Fire extinguishers 7,227 Scope 2 Electricity consumption1 65,565 70,055 Scope 1 and 2 67,760 80,207 Scope 3 39,606 42,266 Production of inputs purchased (Cat. 1) 2,972 Production and transportation of energy inputs (Cat. 3a) 3842 Loss from transmission and distribution (Cat. 3c) 14,7792 Air travel (Cat. 6) 5,080 4,178 Taxi trips (Cat. 6) 3152 Employee commuting (Commuting Cat. 7) 7,373 7,367 Third-party fleet Logistics (section Cat9)3 23,714 9,221 Third-party fleet Others (Cat. 4 + section Cat.9)4 1,613 1,044 Sales reps commuting (section Cat.9) 1,786 1,463 Waste management 40 8485 1 Emissions from electricity consumption remained in line with the 2014 emissions. The national grid emission factor supplied by the Ministry of Science and Technology, which takes into account the Brazilian energy matrix and its supply via the Sistema Interligado Nacional (SIN) experienced a slight drop of 8% (emission factors: 2014 – 0.1355 tCO2/MWh; 2015 – 0.1244 tCO2/MWh). During the same period, there was a 16% increase in the total consumption of electricity imported from the SIN. 2 New indirect emission sources calculated as an expansion in scope 3, aimed at improving carbon management. 3 The decrease in this source is due to the reduction in the transport of commercial products, both by road and by air. 4 E This line refers to emissions associated with outsourced transport of network equipment, selective collection and collection of equipment, batteries and accessories. A decrease in the transport of network equipment was observed between 2014 and 2015, reflecting the reduction in emissions related to this source. 5 The increase in emissions from waste management is justified by both an increased amount of waste produced, as well as the change in the methodology used to calculate these emissions. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 59 Although TIM is still not subject to any national, regional or industrial legislation on emissions, INITIATIVES TO REDUCE GHG EMISSIONS [G4-EN19] Climate change is considered strategic for its business longevity and value generation. TIM believes that, in the short-term, the voluntary measurement Efficient use of network of emissions will become a mandatory measure equipment through through national or state legislation. In this context, continuation and expansion companies that already have an emission inventory of the network sharing in place will gain competitive edge in the market. agreement (RAN Sharing) In addition to having quantified and published its GHG emissions annually since 2008, being part of the CDP database since 2007 and having participated in the Empresas pelo Clima platform since 2010, TIM wants to anticipate the challenges Project for reducing arising from this issue and the society’s increasing and containing energy demand for a more sustainable approach. Its consumption and target to reduce GHG emissions is indirectly compensating direct emissions (scope 1) connected with the energy target. In 2013, the company purchased carbon credits in the voluntary carbon market to compensate its direct emissions, and, in 2015 undertook a new purchase totaling 6,000 tCO2e of carbon credits to offset its direct emissions under scope 1. The REED+Jari Several energy efficiency Amapá (Reducing Emissions from Deforestation initiatives, such as freecooling and Forest Degradation) project is a partnership between Grupo Jari and Biofílica, and is located in Vale do Rio Jari, in the state of Amapá. The project generates carbon credit through the deforestation avoided, based on the standing forest economic development. Direct emissions in 2013 and 2014 Actions to encourage the were fully compensated. The remaining credits use of online bill (reducing from the REDD+Jari Amapá project (4,374 tCO2e) print and paper waste) have been used to compensate direct emissions from TIM’s own vehicle fleet, generators and fugitive emissions from refrigerant gas in 2015, which helped neutralize 29% of emissions under scope 1. TIM PDV Program (online recharge system for prepaid cards, without using the physical card) SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 60 Engagement actions AT TIM, suppliers and employees are encouraged to engage in climate change initiatives. The company holds internal workshops that are also attended by transport suppliers, with the aim to raise awareness of the issue and promote mapping and management of emissions. TIM also seeks to contribute to a more detailed and quantified reporting of indirect emissions, to reduce the carbon footprint related to supplier services and find innovative yet less polluting solutions. In addition, TIM participates in external forums and discussion groups to debate and propose good practices concerning the topic. For TIM, employee participation is critical to an efficient use of resources and management of emissions in the company. They are encouraged to develop innovative and quality services for increasingly demanding consumer market. In this customers, while reducing the impacts on the context, TIM has the advantage of offering more environment. efficient products and services, with reduced energy consumption or use of alternative energy sources. Risks and opportunities arising from climate change The company also considers that its telecommunication services may be used to reduce emissions resulting Opportunities from people commuting. In addition to being a base for optimization of production processes and logistic flows For the telecommunications sector, the opportunities in various sectors, they help customers reduce their arising from climate change are mainly related to emissions as well. the development of solutions to mitigate emissions from operators and their customers, and solutions Similarly, climate change influence the behavior of for better adaptation to severe climate change. One investors, who prioritize companies that are open example is the partnership agreements signed with about how they manage their emissions. In this sense, the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation in November 2015, TIM was confirmed for the eighth (MCTI) for the installation of rainfall data collection year in a row as part of the Corporate Sustainability platforms at Radio Base Stations (RBS) located near Index (ISE), and in January 2016, for the sixth year, was areas with a risk of natural disasters. selected to be part of the Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2), both portfolios of BM&FBovespa. Meanwhile, to prevent a scenario of scarcity in energy offering, caused by long periods without rain, TIM Additionally, the composition of ICO2 is based on the promotes initiatives aimed at reducing consumption efficiency of corporate GHG emissions, which means a of electricity in its services and installations. (More lower rate of emissions will represent higher liquidity, and information on Energy). therefore a higher value for negotiated securities. TIM has participated in CDP Investors since 2007 and responds The company believes that strategic carbon to the CDP Supply Chain questionnaire upon customer management combined with transparent practices request. With this, TIM also provides information that is an opportunity to attain more customers in an contributes to sustainable development of its value chain. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 61 Risks The National Policy on Climate Change (PNMC), compared to the previous year, due to droughts established through Law 12187 from December in the period. Any change in the rainfall extremes 2009, and regulated by Decree #7390, dated and long periods without rain can also end up December 9, 2010, confirms Brazil’s alignment compromising the water level at reservoirs and with international initiatives aimed at reducing the affecting the national energy offer. In this case, TIM impact of climate change. might be affected by energy rationing measures and oscillations in the average price of kWh due to the The 21th Climate Conference held in December 2015, effect of climate change. in Paris, gave rise to the Paris Agreement, a new global agreement proposed to limit the average temperature In addition, a higher frequency and strength of storms increase by 2°C (threshold beyond which climate could damage transmission towers, increasing change risks would become unacceptably high). This company expenses on the acquisition of new new agreement – currently under ratification and set to equipment and maintenance of existing equipment. be concluded on April 22, 2017 – has been approved by This could also lead to an increase in insurance costs 195 countries, including Brazil. To meet the final targets for goods susceptible to such events, and interruption set by said Agreement, countries undertake to achieve or loss of quality in the signal of mobile telephone their own goals, based on the so-called Nationally and other telecommunications services. Changes in Determined Contributions (NDC). The Brazilian NDC air humidity and salinity can decrease the use life of aims at the absolute reduction of 37% of emissions mobile devices. below the 2005 levels for the year 2025. In the event of increase in the average temperature, At the state level, there is a trend for even stronger electronic appliances whose performance is restrictions on emissions. In São Paulo and Rio de directly related to their temperature of operation Janeiro, the two states that are most relevant for could lead to higher consumption of electricity, for our business, specific legislation on climate change the purposes of cooling. issues are already in place for sectors with the biggest carbon footprint. TIM also believes that weather variations and the frequent occurrence of floods could also increase costs A major part of GHG emissions quantified in TIM’s due to absence and medical leaves for employees, as inventory is associated to energy consumption well as higher difficulty in transportation, which can (particularly by the network infrastructure). Therefore, affect the company’s performance. policies that apply to the energy sector tend to raise the operating costs of services, causing the energy price increase to be passed on to consumers, and influencing TIM’s operating costs. Similarly, rules that impact TIM’s suppliers, such as having emissions and carbon footprints regulated in the future, may result in increased cost for products and services The evaluation of opportunities and risks contracted by the company. This is particularly valid according to climate changes is performed on when considering suppliers of electronic equipment an annual basis (available on the CDP website). and infrastructure. The removal of subsidies incident on the price of fossil fuels and/or the imposition of A new risk study was started in 2015 to emission reduction targets in this sector can also complement the first held in 2013. In the new affect TIM adversely. one, the company chose the Southeast region as scope of work, for it is the geographic region where most of its assets are concentrated. Most of the domestic electricity supply comes from [G4-EC2] hydroelectric generation 65.2%, according to the Brazilian Energy Balance from 2015, base year 2014 (BEN, 2015). In 2014, the hydroelectric power generation was reduced by five percentage points SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 62 TRANSPARENCY Legal Compliance SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 63 LEGAL COMPLIANCE TIM has implemented tools for monitoring and If any legal non-compliance is identified, the following-up legal requirements. With regard to board is contacted to assess potential risks and the enforcement of environmental laws relating communicate the guidelines to be adopted. The to its Radio Base Stations (RBS), the company other areas involved in the issue are contacted counts with an interdisciplinary team within to help solve the problem and/or minimize the the Network area, backed by representatives of risks. The legal department receives orders for Legal, Institutional, Quality and Compliance. Its compliance or penalties arising from audits Environmental Management System includes a carried out by public agencies, in the event of nontool that tracks the issuance or amendment of compliance with any requirement, law or conduct. existing legislation, and forwards the matters to internal areas. To prevent new non-compliance events from occurring, TIM has a licensing committee composed Within public policies, TIM engages in discussions of various areas of the company, responsible for related to the telecommunications industry as a addressing environmental legislation matters member of working groups at SindiTelebrasil, where and evaluating compliance issues to mitigate laws are identified and assessed in conjunction and resolve any problems. In the other cases, the with the other operators. More information about area responsible for the breach of conduct or law TIM’s activities in public policies. is instructed and required to adjust the practice pursuant to the laws concerned. With respect to processes of a collective nature, our legal board constantly gives advice on the business At the end of 2015, there were 861 active model that is being created by other internal administrative proceedings relating to antenna areas of the company, with the aim of mitigating environmental licensing issues, involving possible impacts and non-compliance with legal regularization of structures and equipment (as requirements. shown in the following table). For non-compliance SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 64 with laws and regulations relating to the provision the interruption in one of them, but remained and use of products and services, TIM paid fines suspended in the following locations: Itiruço that amounted to a total of R$ 427,500.00. The (BA), Tabatinga (AM), Paraiba (MA), Paulo Ramos proceedings brought to court referred to non(MA) and Marajá da Sena (MA). In addition, TIM’s fulfillment of quality goals defined by Anatel for services were also suspended in Santo Antônio the provision of Personal Mobile Services (SMP) dos Lopes (MA), Governador Archer (MA), Aquiraz during 2009; specific shortcomings related to (CE) and municipalities of southwestern region the full compliance with Resolution no. 477/2007 of Bahia (Area Code 77), but the company was (inspection conducted in 2008) and an interruption able to resume commercialization in the last two in the provision of SMP occurred in the State of locations. TIM has adopted all applicable judicial Amazonas, in June 2011. measures to reverse the decisions and resume sales in those locations. TIM was prohibited from commercializing data and voice services during 2014, as a result of The company ensures transparent communication fluctuations in network quality in these areas. in cases of non-compliance by providing information In 2015, the company managed to reverse as required by the relevant regulatory agencies. [G4-PR9, G4-EN29] FINES AND NON-MONETARY SANCTIONS RELATED TO THE ENVIRONMENT [G4-EN29] 2014 2015 Number of fines 71 54 Total sum of fines (thousands of R$) 4,344.16 1 499.69 Total number of infraction notifications 154 89 Conduct adjustment agreements relating to environmental aspects (number of TACs) Total TACs initiated in the period 0 0 Total TACs in place 5 5 Total TACs ended in the period 0 0 Environmental-related lawsuits and proceedings (number of cases) Administrative proceedings (Active) 683 861 Administrative proceedings (Filed) 163 131 Lawsuits (Active) 37 41 Lawsuits (Filed) 1 5 1 In December 2014, the Altamira (PA) Municipal Environment Department issued a notification related to the alleged installation and operation of a radio base station in the municipality without an appropriate environmental license, with a fine of R$ 4 million TIM presented its defense in the administrative proceedings and paid a fine amounting to R$ 100,000.00 SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 65 Conduct Adjustment Agreement (TAC) A conduct adjustment agreement (TAC) is a Ipueiras (CE) – TAC between TIM Celular and legal instrument used by government bodies to the Public Prosecution Service related to the get companies to commit to modifying certain relocation and regularization of a RBS. TIM processes in line with legal requirements. In obligations: rectify ownership of the plot of December 2015, TIM had five TACs in place land on which the tower is located and move related to the following cases: the tower. TAC finalized, awaiting signature of prosecutor to conclude the case. Ananindeua (PA) – A TAC between TIM Celular and the city government giving the company Manaus (AM) – TAC between TIM Celular time to regularize the environmental licensing and the city government due to the irregular processes of all the unlicensed RBSs installed installation of RBSs in the municipality. There in the municipality and extinguishing unpaid was a reduction in the fines applied by the associated fines. Underway. municipality and TIM was obliged to license the radio base stations. Underway. Fortaleza (CE) – TAC between TIM Celular and the state environmental authority Semace for Boa Vista (RO) – TAC between TIM Celular the company to present all the documentation and the local government to regularize the concerning 135 proceedings underway for the urban licenses of all the RBSs installed in the radio base stations installed in the state of municipality, with a reduction in the penalties. Ceará. Underway. Underway. Anti-competitive practices TIM condemns any practices involving antiAll employees (regardless of position) are apprised competitive behavior, creation of monopoly or of anti-trust legislation through face-to-face any other conduct that can be characterized training courses, such as the Antitrust lecture, as trust. For this reason, the company takes which is held on an annual basis. Through the several measures to ensure compliance with Whistleblower channel, any person (employee the competition guidelines, as set out in its or not) can report breaches or suspicions of Free Market Defense Policy (available on TIM’s non-compliance with TIM’s Code of Ethics and intranet). TIM also complies with guidelines from Conduct, internal policies and laws. Learn more regulatory bodies aimed at securing a competitive in Ethics and transparency. market and respect for consumers. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 66 TIM’s contract management tool contains a other sources and materials. Its ads must questionnaire, which, according to the responses contain accurate information, expressed in sent to the area responsible for the document, clear and understandable language, to avoid engages the team responsible for the antitrust leading consumers to misinterpretations or false assessment, in order to verify whether that conclusions. partnership must be notified to the antitrust agency CADE. In 2015, five representations were made against the company, four of which were made by In relation to advertising, TIM recognizes the competitors and one by Conar. All were concluded. national advertising self-regulatory council In addition, a representation filed in 2014 had CONAR as a competent body to oversee ethics its final judgment in 2015. All were dismissed. in Brazilian advertising, and follows the country’s [G4-PR7] Advertising Self-Regulatory Code, as well as the Consumer Defense Code. Seventeen lawsuits related to anticompetitive practices had been filed against TIM by the To ensure compliance with these standards end of 2014; Three were concluded in 2015. No and regulations, all communications developed cases related to anti-competitive practices were by the Marketing and Advertising teams are brought in 2015. [G4-SO7] evaluated, and in case of potential risks, the advertising material shall be adapted according In the administrative sphere, overseen by the to the recommendations made. antitrust agency CADE (Conselho Administrativo de Defesa Econômica), no proceedings involving On of TIM’s best practices is to make its disclosures anticompetitive actions were brought against the available for assessment and assurance through company. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 67 INNOVATION AND AGILITY SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 68 One of the cornerstones of TIM’s new positioning, assessment of innovative technologies, products and innovation will remain a top priority for the company, services, attesting to their functional efficiency and whether addressing new plans, offers, partnerships performance requirements. The Innovation Lab plays or technologies. TIM operates in an ever-evolving a strategic role by collaborating with leading technology industry, and keeping up with this evolution requires suppliers and partners, sharing knowledge, promoting the development of new technologies and devices, innovation activities and establishing partnerships with as well as strategic guidelines and partnerships that universities and research institutes. will leverage new business models aligned with the company’s strategic plan. TIM’s budgetary plan for 2016-2018 provides for the investment of R$ 30 million in the area In 2016, its commitment was reinforced with the of innovation, including the construction of an creation of the Innovation & Business Development Innovation Center in the state of Rio de Janeiro. This department, which aims to ensure the construction site will offer support to engineers and researchers of an ecosystem of partners, including startups, and will operate as a space for innovation open to encouraging entrepreneurship and strengthening new opportunities, aiming to become a national the internal environment to foster new solutions reference for the telecommunications market in and new business models. Brazil. TIM intends to build the place in accordance with the LEED certification (U.S Green Building On the infrastructure side, the company developed the Council) and with other sustainable initiatives, such Innovation Lab – a development-oriented and multias water reuse, alternative energy sources and functional test environment – capable of ensuring the cooling solutions. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 69 Among the partnerships developed in area of The number of 4G sites more than doubled between innovation, the Company highlights: 2014 and 2015, totaling 7.7 thousand and covering 411 cities, and have made TIM the leader of this Huawei – a partnership developed through the technology in the country. The growth of the 3G Joint Innovation Lab agreement to promote a network was less significant, reaching 12.4 thousand strategic collaboration between TIM and Huawei, sites, an increase of 19% over the previous year. which are committed to develop opportunities aimed at improving quality of service and The mobile broadband project – focused on coverage density. This initiative supports the improving high-speed data transmission – reached study and validation of new technologies, 194 cities, an increase of 55% compared to the equipment and services, such as M2M/Internet of previous period. things, LTE-A, LLN / SDN, VIMS, vEPC, BB Cloud, Broadband RF, Cloud Computing, intelligent Investments in infrastructure enabled the fiber cities, among others. optic network to expand 70,000 km (long distance and metropolitan regions) by the end of 2015. Live TIM – the company’s broadband Internet service – ZTE – This partnership focuses on fixed wireless reached the milestone off 232 thousand customers, access technologies, such as GPON and GFAST an increase of 78% compared to 2014, occupying development services, in addition to exploring the 1st place in Netflix’s speed ranking. new possibilities for customization of these technologies for the Brazilian market. Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation (MCTI) – support for installation of the Rainfall Data Collection Platform (PCDs) in TIMs Radio Base Stations (RBS) for monitoring rainfall. The refarming of the 1800MHz band from 2G to 4G is bringing significant competitive advantages for the company: reduced costs to implement LTE, increase of the LTE coverage area and improved indoor coverage. In addition to coverage expansion, using the 1800 MHz band can increase the capacity in cities already covered by 4G at the 2.6GHz frequency, with low added cost. Since 70% of the current 4G terminal devices can already support both frequencies (1800MHz e 2600MHz), the 4G implementation in the 1800MHz band enables a high penetration of mobile devices, and better customer experience. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 70 Fiber Mobile 3G 4G * optic network broadband 2014 10.4k 3.7k 55,000 125 km cities 2015 12.4k 7.7k 70,000 194 km cities * Including Ran SHARING (OI and VIVO) sites Academic Working Capital Program Created by Instituto TIM (TIM Institute) with the aim to foster technological innovation, the Academic Working Capital Program provides support to college students who wish to design their business based on their final college projects in the end of their undergraduate studies. In 2015, 11 projects participated in the program and seven were selected finalists. The selected college students attended classroom workshops and received remote support from tutors on how to structure business models, prototyping and presentation. At the end of the program, the products were introduced to investors, entrepreneurs and experts in an Investment Trade Fair. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 71 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX CORE OPTION GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Description Page External assurance G4-1 Message from the CEO 6 ORGANIZACIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Organization name 5 G4-4 Main brands, products and/or services 5 G4-5 Location of organization headquarters 5 G4-6 Countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the 5 sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Type and legal nature of the property 5 G4-8 Covered markets 5 G4-9 Organization size 5 G4-10 Profile of collaborators 31 100% of collaborators at TIM are G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective covered by collective bargaining bargaining agreements agreements. G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain 46 G4-13 Significant changes regarding the organization’s size, There were no significant changes structure, ownership, or its supply chain during the reporting period. By participating in pertinent trade unions and other associations, and G4-14 Explanation of how the precautionary approach or interacting with society through principle is addressed by the organization public hearings, seminars and workshops. G4-15 Letters, principles and other initiatives 14 G4-16 Memberships of associations and organizations 14 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in consolidated financial statements 7 and entities not covered by this report G4-18 Process for defining report content 8 G4-19 List of all material aspects 8 G4-20 For each material aspect, aspect boundary within the 9 organization G4-21 For each material aspect, aspect boundary outside the 9 organization G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous reports 8 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in There were no significant changes the scope and aspect boundaries during the reporting period. SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 72 Description Page External assurance STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 48 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 48 with whom to engage G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 48 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 8 stakeholder engagement, by stakeholder group REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 7 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 7 G4-30 Reporting cycle 7 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its 7 contents G4-32 GRI ‘in accordance’ option chosen and GRI Content Index 7 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 7 assurance for the report GOVERNANCE G4-34 The organization’s governance structure 16 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and 11 to 13 norms of behavior SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Indicators and disclosures External Global Material aspects Page on management approach assurance Compact CATEGORY: ECONOMIC G4-DMA 23 to 25 / 61 to 62 G4-EC1 24 Economic performance 7 and 8 G4-EC2 62 G4-EC4 25 G4-DMA 41 Indirect economic impacts G4-EC7 41 G4-EC8 41 DMA 47 Procurement practices 1, 2 and 4 G4-EC9 47 CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUBCATEGORIES LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK G4-DMA 31 to 40 Employment G4-LA1 32 6 G4-LA3 36 6 SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 73 Indicators and disclosures External Global Material aspects Page on management approach assurance Compact G4-DMA 39 G4-LA5 40 1, 2 and 3 Health and occupational safety G4-LA6* 40 1 G4-LA7 40 1 G4-DMA 31 to 35 Training and education G4-LA9 33 6 G4-LA11 35 G4-DMA 36 to 39 Diversity and equal opportunities 1 and 3 G4-LA12 36 G4-DMA 31 to 36 Equal remuneration for women and men 1, 2 and 3 G4-LA13 33 G4-DMA 46 to 49 Supplier assessment for labor practices 3, 4, 5 and 6 G4-LA14 48 G4-DMA 39 Labor practices grievance mechanisms 3, 4, 5 and 6 G4-LA16 39 SUBCATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS G4-DMA 39 Non-discrimination 1, 2 and 3 G4-HR3 39 G4-DMA 46 to 48 Child labor 1, 2, 3 and 5 G4-HR5 48 G4-DMA 46 to 48 Forced or slave labor 1, 2, 3 and 4 G4-HR6 48 G4-DMA 46 to 48 1, 2, 3, 5 Supplier human rights assessment G4-HR10 48 and 6 G4-DMA 39 Human rights grievance mechanisms 1, 2 and 6 G4-HR12 39 SUBCATEGORY: SOCIETY G4-DMA 50 Local communities 1 and 2 G4-SO2 50 G4-DMA 19 to 20 Anti-corruption G4-SO4 20 10 G4-SO5 19 10 G4-DMA 21 Public policies 10 G4-SO6 21 G4-DMA 66 to 67 Anti-competitive behavior G4-SO7 67 G4-DMA 47 to 48 Supplier assessment for impacts on socitey 1, 2 and 3 G4-SO9 48 SUBCATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY G4-DMA 30 Product and service labeling G4-PR5 30 G4-DMA 66 to 67 Marketing communications G4-PR7 67 G4-DMA 30 Costumer data privacy G4-PR8 30 G4-DMA 64 to 66 Compliance G4-PR9 65 SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 74 Indicators and disclosures External Global Material aspects Page on management approach assurance Compact CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL G4-DMA 56 to 58 Materials 7 and 8 G4-EN1 56 G4-DMA 53 to 54 Energy G4-EN3 54 7 and 8 G4-EN6 53 7, 8 and 9 G4-DMA 55 to 56 Water G4-EN8 56 7, 8, and 9 G4-EN10 55 7, 8, and 9 G4-DMA 50 Biodiversity G4-EN12 50 7, 8 and 9 58 to 60 G4-DMA 8 58 G4-EN15 8 58 Emissions G4-EN16 8 58 G4-EN17 7, 8 and 9 60 G4-EN19* G4-DMA 57 Effluents and Waste 8 G4-EN23 57 G4-DMA 50 Products and services G4-EN27 50 7, 8 and 9 G4-EN28* 57 8 and 9 G4-DMA 64 to 66 Compliance 8 G4-EN29 65 *Partial indicator SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 75 LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT ISSUED BY INDEPENDENT AUDITORS To the Board of Directors, Shareholders and Stakeholders TIM Participações S.A. Rio de Janeiro RJ INTRODUCTION A limited assurance engagement conducted in accordance with NBC TO 3000 (ISAE 3000) We have been engaged by TIM Participações S.A. consists mainly of questions and interviews with (TIM or “Company”) to apply limited assurance the Management of TIM and other professionals procedures on the sustainability information of the Company involved in the preparation of discloses in the 2015 Sustainability Report of TIM the information disclosed in the Sustainability Participações S.A. and its subsidiaries TIM Celular Report 2015 and use of analytical procedures to S.A. and Intelig Telecomunicações Ltda., related to obtain evidence that enables us to reach a limited the year ended December 31st, 2015. assurance conclusion about the sustainability information taken as a whole. A limited assurance engagement also requires additional procedures RESPONSIBILITIES OF TIM’S when the independent auditor acknowledges issues which may lead them to believe that the information MANAGEMENT disclosed in the Sustainability Report 2015 taken as a whole could present material misstatement. The Management of TIM is responsible for adequately preparing and presenting the sustainability The selected procedures were based on our information in the Sustainability Report 2015 in understanding of the issues related to the accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative compilation, materiality and presentation of the (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI-G4), as information disclosed in the Sustainability Report well as the internal controls determined necessary 2015, on other engagement circumstances and to ensure this information is free from material also on our considerations regarding areas and misstatement, resulting from fraud or error. processes associated with material sustainability information disclosed where relevant misstatement INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ could exist. The procedures consisted of: RESPONSIBILITY (a) Engagement planning: considering the material aspects for TIM’s activities, the relevance Our responsibility is to express a conclusion about the of the information disclosed, the amount of information in the Sustainability Report 2015 based quantitative and qualitative information and on a limited assurance engagement conducted in the operational systems and internal controls accordance with Technical Communication (TC) that served as a basis for preparation of the 07/2012, which was prepared based on NBC TO 3000 information in the TIM’s Sustainability Report (Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits and 2015. This analysis defined the indicators to be Reviews), both issued by the Brazilian Federal Accounting checked in details: Council – CFC and equivalent to international standard ISAE 3000, issued by the International Federation of • Economic: EC1, EC7 Accountants and applicable to Non-Financial Historical Information. These standards require compliance with • Environmental EN3. EN12, EN15, EN16, EN27, ethical requirements, including independence ones, EN28, EN29 and the engagement is also conducted to provide • Labor Practices and Decent Work: G410, LA1, LA9 limited assurance that the information disclosed in the • Human Rights: HR5, HR6 TIM’s Sustainability Report 2015, taken as a whole, is • Society: SO4, SO5, SO7 free from material misstatement. • Product Responsibility: PR5, PR9 SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 76 (b) Understanding and analysis of disclosed information Nonfinancial data is subject to more inherent related to material aspects management; limitations than financial data, due to the nature and diversity of the methods used to (c) Analysis of preparation processes of the determine, calculate or estimate these data. Sustainability Report 2015 and its structure and Qualitative interpretation of the data’s materiality, content, based on the Principles do Defining Report relevance and accuracy are subject to individual Content and Quality of the Global Reporting Initiative assumptions and judgments. Additionally, we – GRI (GRI – G4); have not examined data related to prior periods, to evaluate the adequacy of policies, practices and (d) Evaluation of non financial indicators selected: sustainability performance, nor future projections. • Understanding of the calculation methodology and procedures for the compilation of indicators CONCLUSION through interviews with management responsible for data preparation; Based on the procedures carried out, described • Application of analytical procedures regarding earlier in this report, we have not identified any data and interviews for qualitative information relevant information that leads us to believe that and their correlation with indicators disclosed in the information in TIM’s Sustainability Report 2015 is the Sustainability Report 2015; not fairly stated in all material aspects in accordance • Analysis of evidence supporting the disclosed with the Global Reporting Initiative – GRI (GRI – G4), information; as well as its source records and files. • Visits to TIM’s operations and offices for application of these producers, and items (b) and (c); (e) Analysis of whether the performance indicators omission and justification are reasonable to be accepted associated to aspects and topics defined as material in the materiality analysis of the Company; (f) Comparison of financial indicators with the financial statements and/or accounting records. São Paulo, June 9th, 2016. We believe that the information, evidence and results we have obtained are sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion. KPMG Financial Risk & Acturial Services Ltda. SCOPE AND LIMITATIONS Ricardo Algis Zibas The procedures applied to a limited assurance Director engagement are substantially less extensive than those applied to a reasonable assurance engagement. KPMG Assessores Ltda. Therefore, we cannot provide reasonable assurance CRC 2SP034262/0-4 F-SP that we are aware of all the issues that would have been identified in a reasonable assurance engagement, we may have identified other issues and possible misstatements within the information Eduardo V. Cipullo presented in the Sustainability Report 2015. Accountant CRC 1SP135597/0-6 SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 77 EXPEDIENT TIM BRASIL Coordination TIM Participações S.A. – Regulatory, Institutional and Press Relations Management Corporate Social Responsibility Management Writing and Editorial Patricia Moreira Supervision S2PUBLICOM Translation and Adriana de Matteo Revision Layout and Graphic Daniel Branco Design Núbia Honorato Raphaelli Chapetta Felipe Uehara Ana Moraes Image Bank iStock Photo SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 78 w w w. t i m . c o m . b r SUMMARY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 79
