2014/2015 CSR REPORT THE SAGEMCOM €1.3 BILLION OF TURNOVER GROUP 30% OWNED BY EMPLOYEES Sagemcom is a French Group and European leader on the high added-value smart terminals market (set-top boxes, internet boxes, electricity meters, etc.), meeting the essential needs of the world that surrounds us. Group turnover totals €1.3 billion, the to its R&D operations, manned by more headcount of 4,200 employees works than 500 dedicated employees. The in more than 40 countries, with about Sagemcom group invested more than 30% of them working in France, and €75 million in R&D in 2014. the Group has been profitable since it was created. We operate on three major Sagemcom is also present in Tunisia, markets: Broadband, Smart Cities and where it operates a manufacturing site in the Internet of Things. Sagemcom Ben Arous (2,000 employees), dedicated designs, manufactures and ships more to the production of set-top boxes, than 22 million terminals worldwide internet boxes and smart meters, and a every year 250-strong R&D centre in Mégrine. SAGEMCOM DESIGNS, MANUFACTURES AND SHIPS MORE THAN The employees, more than 50% of whom Sagemcom pays close attention to the 22 MILLION TERMINALS WORLDWIDE EVERY YEAR are shareholders, hold a 30% stake in economic, societal and environmental the Group and the remaining 70% is issues related to its activities on a daily owned by Carlyle. The Group is headed basis, and has been implementing by a stable management team, whose concrete action plans in these areas for members have been present in the Group many years. Quality, ethics, safety and for more than 20 years and have been protection of the environment are at the 4,200 EMPLOYEES IN MORE THAN 40 COUNTRIES managing Sagemcom since it left the heart of our fundamental values. Safran group in 2008. Sagemcom’s head office is in RueilMalmaison, in the outskirts of Paris, and MORE THAN €75 MILLION INVESTED IN R&D is the Group’s nerve centre and home 2 3 OUR CORPORATE VALUES EFFICIENCY Sagemcom’s ambition is to remain a world leader in high addedvalue smart terminals by addressing dynamic markets: Broadband, Smart Cities and the Internet of Things. We achieve this by AGILITY remaining faithful to our brand image: to be the first to offer our customers personalised products featuring the latest technological breakthroughs. We protect our competitive edge by and subcontractors, employees, the calling on our know-how to respond unions, NGOs and charities. The Group is to the expectations and needs of engaged in permanent dialogue with all our customers, thanks to a common of these stakeholders, all along its value culture of innovation, technological chain. breakthroughs, high added value and time-to-market. DIALOGUE ALL ALONG CREATIVITY OUR VALUE CHAIN Sagemcom meets the demands of its markets by establishing permanent CLIENT dialogue with the stakeholders who form its ecosystem: customers, suppliers CENTRIC OUR VALUES “At the start of every project there is an idea. Ingenious, insightful, brilliant, but also sometimes offbeat, incongruous or bizarre. Next the idea is tested, enhanced, crafted, modified, formalized, translated into technical knowhow, distilled into the very essence of its existence: its manifestation in a product. At Sagemcom, it’s thanks to the creativity of our people that ideas are born. And it’s thanks to the agility and performance of our teams that these ideas become products, created for high performance and to anticipate what our clients need. TEAM POWER European leaders on the market for smart terminals with extra added value, Sagemcom’s people continue to reinvent themselves and to push back the limits of invention in order to discover, today, the ideas that will make the products of tomorrow. To accompany our customers toward the future. To make the finest innovations possible. To invent the connected home of tomorrow.” Sagemcom Ideas & More 5 SAGEMCOM’S limiting and controlling the impacts CERTIFICATIONS COMMITMENTS of our sites on the environment, by TO SUSTAINABLE preventing pollution and pursuing Sagemcom pursues an active DEVELOPMENT continuous improvement through an certification policy for all of its activities ISO 14001-certified environmental and sites. The Group has been awarded We aim to satisfy our customers by management policy, the following certifications: anticipating their needs and protecting designing and distributing their interests, while securing our products and services with a reduced • ISO 27 001, for our information competitive edge through accelerated environmental impact, through the security management system, obtained growth and profitability. universal adoption of ecodesign in June 2014 for R&D (TV set-top boxes We call on our management systems practices and the acquisition of and smart meters) and support services. over five aspects of continuous eco-labels, improvement: extending best environmental • ISO 9001, for the industrial processes practices to our suppliers. on our sites. R&D France was the first 1 The efficiency of our processes. entity to be certified in 1998. The ISO 9001 is our guide to: 4 Obeying ethical rules, guided by success of this initiative was then offering the very best of Sagemcom the United Nations’ Global Compact propagated to the other R&D sites to our customers, through innovative programme, in order to deploy our in Shenzhen (2008) and Mégrine products that produce growth and sustainable development initiative (2010), the manufacturing sites in profitability for all, both internally and with our partners. Ben Arous (2008) and the new site developing our capacity to adapt, in Dinan (2015), in a demonstration through an effective and customer5 Protecting the health and safety of the efficient workings of internal oriented organisation, of our employees through the OHSAS operations. guaranteeing business continuity. 18001 health and safety at work initiative, in order to guarantee the • ISO 14 001, for our R&D sites in 2 Protecting our information system, safety of our facilities and protect Rueil-Malmaison (France) and Mégrine in accordance with ISO 27001, by: the health of the men and women (Tunisia), and for 75% of our production supplying solutions to our customers who contribute to our activities. sites. that meet the very highest standards of security and protection of their Sagemcom signed up to the United • The Ben Arous site was also ISO investments, Nations Global Compact Initiative 50001-certified in October 2015 for protecting the information assets in January 2011, confirming its its particularly efficient management managed by Sagemcom, its personnel, commitment to ethical standards, of energy. its customers, its partners and suppliers the promotion of human rights and against all deliberate or accidental obeying the rules of the International • OHSAS 18 001, for obeying Health threats, from inside or outside the Labour Organisation, both in the Group and Safety rules. Group, and with its suppliers. applying criteria to the assessment 1998 2004 2008 2010 2014 2015 2016 and management of the risks inherent Sagemcom signed the Voluntary in our activities. Industry Agreement to improve the ISO 9001 Ben Arous/ Sagemcom R&D France Mégrine R&D New version energy consumption of Complex SetQuality Shenzhen R&D MEI 3 Management of environmental Top Boxes within the EU in 2011. aspects according to ISO 14001, by: ISO 14001 Entities in Ben Arous Mégrine R&D Sagemcom New version Sagemcom is taking part in Environment France MEI French experiments to display the environmental characteristics of OHSAS 18001 Sagemcom Ben Arous electronic products. Health and safety MEI SAGEMCOM REWARDED BY THE BETTER FUTURE Set-top box Ben Arous Sagemcom is assessed and identified ISO 27001 and Energy Sagemcom SUPPLIER FORUM (BFSF) by EcoVadis. R&D; Mégrine MEI currently being Information security certified R&D Sagemcom was one of the first companies to join the BFSF, set up by British Telecom to promote innovation in its worldwide supply chain. ISO 50001 Ben Arous Energy management ISO 17025 In 2013, Sagemcom won the BT GameBen Arous Calibration and test Changing Challenge for innovation and laboratories also received the Better Future Supplier Forum’s Silver Award. MID Ben Arous Legal metrology ATEX Manufacture of products used Ben Arous in explosive atmospheres 6 7 A RISK ASSESSMENT Environmental risks receive information in order to avoid letters of credit and bank guarantees, AND MANAGEMENT the risks related to cyber-security. confirmed by reputable banks, and SYSTEM Sagemcom is exposed to credit insurance guarantees. Customer environmental risks by its industrial Risks related to intellectual property and/or country risks that are not Managing risks and opportunities activities and the ecological footprint covered are regularly monitored by is an integral part of Sagemcom’s of its different sites. Preventive actions Sagemcom has an intellectual Administration and Finance. strategy. It enables us to anticipate are taken on the sites to minimise the property management system. A possible risks that could impact the occurrence of these risks: thermal department belonging to Legal is Health and working conditions risks Group’s results, strategy and image. views of electrical facilities (fire tasked with managing the risks related Sagemcom has drawn up its own risk prevention), limited stocks of raw to intellectual property. The Group Just like every other field of activity, management strategy that enables materials, multiple platforms or justalso pursues an active policy covering Sagemcom is exposed to the risk of Sagemcom has the Group to better anticipate and in-time processes. the management of and application accidents. Sagemcom implements manage the risks incurred by its for patents. In 2015, the Group filed processes to manage health and developed its own activities and international ambitions. Third parties (APAVE, CEP, applications for 53 patents. safety at work in order to optimally infrastructure maintenance) also prevent the risks to which the Group risk management The Group has drawn up its own conduct regular inspections. Industrial risks may be exposed. strategy risk map that concretely identifies, monitors and controls risks. The Finally, Sagemcom’s operational Sagemcom’s industrial sites are Sagemcom has set up an “Industrial associated crisis management sites meet the standards ISO 9001 established in accordance with its Protection and Health and Safety at tools enable the Group to react – Quality (global) and ISO 14001 growth strategy, while taking any Work” unit to address the risks related pragmatically in the event of a crisis. – Environment. possible risks of instability into to working conditions and to support consideration and including such every one of the Group’s activities The risks incurred by Sagemcom’s Risks related to products risks in a global industrial approach. in the implementation of preventive activities In 2014 and 2015, Sagemcom’s measures and the improvement of The Group continually takes productmain production site was the Ben working conditions. This unit also Right from the start, Sagemcom oriented preventive actions. The Arous factory, which benefits from a keeps an eye on the obligations has implemented a strategy review compliance certification processes business continuity plan. This plan applying to health and safety at work. process. This annual process is (CE, RoHS, REACH, etc.) include includes different scenarios, including continuous, and allows business systematic and periodic testing to the total/partial loss of the site, the Sagemcom has also launched a Health plans and maps of the potential risks make sure that no non-compliant shutdown of infrastructures, the and Safety at Work initiative, based The Group has affecting the Group’s commercial products reach the market. shutdown of the IT system, the failure on OHSAS 18001, on the Group’s activities to be drawn up. It is also an of the means of production, etc. manufacturing sites. drawn up its opportunity for the Group to structure Risks related to suppliers its strategy for new business and A crisis team has been formed and In addition to meeting these own risk map new market segments, as well as its Supplier-related risks are managed prepared for each scenario. This obligations, Sagemcom has also opted industrial strategy. As part of this by Group Purchasing. Measures are team documents and manages the to offer every employee coverage for that concretely process, regular meetings are held to applied to assess suppliers and to operational management conditions the reimbursement of medical costs, identifies risks. analyse risks as closely as possible to monitor all of these risks, whether (operations base, contacts, etc.), the so that they can remain in a good the reality of the Group’s activity. they are related to manufacturing, actions, the owners and deadlines to state of health, irrespective of their logistics, quality or the solvency of solve the crisis, and the possibility of geographical location. In addition to More than 100 employees attend suppliers. transferring production to industrial the initiatives and the training in our the strategy reviews to actively take partners if the site is completely lost. activities and the associated risks, part in the definition of the Group’s In addition to the preventive policy preventive actions are also regularly strategy. implemented before establishing Sagemcom has entered industrial taken every year. relations with a supplier, inspection, partnership agreements with various The risks to Sagemcom’s image monitoring and audit procedures have subcontractors that are in a position also be developed. to manufacture its components or The Group has written a “crisis certain products, in the event of a communications manual” that defines Risks related to information major problem. all the processes to be implemented technology and information security in the event of a crisis, and a step-byMonetary and financial risks step methodology, from the formation Sagemcom IT Departments (ITD) of the crisis team, to the end of the manages the risks related to A high proportion of the Sagemcom crisis. Risks to Sagemcom’s image information technology. The risks group’s sales are made on export are managed by Communications and are identified and action plans are markets. Consequently, the group is Marketing. developed to guarantee the continuity exposed to exchange rate risks. This of the Group’s activity under all risk is centralised and monitored by In 2015, a crisis simulation exercise circumstances. Group Administration and Finance. was organised to enable every member of the team to take the full In 2014 and 2015, part of Sagemcom’s The Sagemcom group covers most measure of their role and to apply industrial and R&D activities also of the risks of non-payment for its all the measures laid out in the crisis obtained ISO 27001 certification. All international business activities with communications manual. of the Group’s employees regularly two preferred types of coverage: 8 9 ETHICS Sagemcom’s purchasing policy obeys five fundamental principles that are shared by the Group’s suppliers and subcontractors: quality, price, deadlines, innovation and ethics. These fundamental principles AND ECONOMICS determine all the actions taken by Group Purchasing. POLICY 2015 PROMOTING THE INVENTORY AND TRAINING AND To Secure SAGEMCOM GROWTH ETHICAL BEHAVIOUR TRACEABILITY OF THE ASSESSMENT OF OUR • To continue to win new worldwide customers • To develop the product and service catalog • To consolidate supplier management • To amplify high added value innovation OF OUR SUPPLIERS CHEMICALS USED IN SUPPLIERS OUR COMPONENTS In 2006, Purchasing launched the All year round, “ethical” auditors CUSTOMER SATISFACTION • To improve the resolution of customer claims and Suppliers Ethics initiative, which is We have set up a very thorough take awareness-raising and training • To anticipate the needs and satisfy our the capitalization of the solutions customer expectations • To control the “Quick Feedback Loop with our applicable to all our suppliers and is chemicals management system in actions with our suppliers in order to • To respect delivery commitments customers and after sales service formally defined in an ethical charter, order to guarantee the compliance promote this approach. as part of a long-term drive for of our products with European progress. Directives, and in particular with FIEV and Quality audits, which include PRODUCT & SERVICE MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SECURITY the REACH directive (1907/2006) inspections of environment aspects, • To reinforce the project control by the product teams • To enhance the use of approval reviews • To deploy Security Certifications for our most sensitive products • To reduce the risks of compromised security data for our products Every new supplier must adopt this and the RoHS directive (2001/65/ health and safety, and ethics, are also • To increase the control of our ODM / EMS • To consolidate the multi-site industrial strategy • To reinforce the protection of our sensitive data approach. Before joining our supplier EU). Our action starts with a global conducted to detect any high-risk • To reinforce our patent portfolio portfolio, every new supplier must inventory of all the substances we suppliers. Since 2007, almost 800 sign Sagemcom’s ethical charter use in our manufacturing plants and Quality audits have been completed, HUMAN RESOURCES CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1,000 suppliers and complete a self-assessment in the components that we use. including 120 ethical audits. • To adapt teams competences to the current and future needs and professionalize the change management • To reduce the environmental impact of our products at each step of the life cycle questionnaire. The supplier is Sagemcom also conducts ethical • To boost staff involvement by developing and deploying recognition process using less polluting transport modes • To preserve our human capital by applying the OHSAS 18001 principles • To continue the deployment of our ethical rules approved, or an approval plan is A dedicated traceability system has and control audits to check that • To improve the integration process of new staff • To ensure the ethical follow-up and support beside our suppliers in a partnership approach deployed for the supplier, depending been introduced to determine the the rules it imposes in this field are €1 billion of on the score of the self-assessment content of SVHCs (Substances of complied with. These audits are made purchases each year questionnaire. Very High Concern) in our products. on the basis of a matrix defined by Sagemcom uses this tool to ask its Sagemcom using the various existing The Sagemcom Group’s ethical charter suppliers to provide information on international standards. have become a cornerstone of durable is based on the international labour the SVHC content of the materials relations with every one of them! conventions of the International they use. Since the list of SVHCs is Labour Organisation (ILO), the updated every six months by the AUDIT FOLLOW-UP AWARENESS-RAISING universal declaration of human rights ECHA (European Chemicals Agency), AND TRAINING IN and the UN convention on the rights our suppliers are questioned on Once the audit has been completed, ETHICS of the child. a regular basis. We ask them the auditors draw up a comprehensive the verification to send us complete physicalreport for the supplier. In the event of Our teams regularly organise training Suppliers must agree to accept audits chemical descriptions that contain non-compliance, Sagemcom demands sessions, in particular for our audit matrix scheduled by Sagemcom of the proper all the substances present in the a corrective action plan and proceeds employees in contact with the supply application of the ethical charter. components. This information is with the necessary follow-up audits. If chain (mainly Quality and Purchasing). defines 183 then compiled in a database. In this the supplier does not respond within These one-day sessions address way, we can know the status of each three months, a follow-up audit is the most frequently encountered checkpoints product. These research measures systematically conducted. If the problems, the execution of audits cover our entire supply chain, which corrective actions are deemed to be and points of vigilance for subjects is made up of hundreds of suppliers insufficient, another audit takes place. outside their usual scope of activity Almost 800 SAGEMCOM’S ETHICAL CHARTER IS BASED ON 11 KEY PRINCIPLES: and tens of thousands of components. If the instances of non-compliance (e.g., supplier visits). If necessary, the are prohibited (child labour, forced Ethics Committee is informed of any Quality audits have • The prohibition of child labour under the legal age in force in the country, In line with the EICC (Electronic labour or working conditions that situations deemed to be abnormal. unless authorised by the ILO. Industry Citizenship Coalition) and put the lives of employees in danger), 130 new recruits in these departments been conducted • The prohibition of all forms of compulsory or forced labour. the GeSI (Global e-Sustainability and no corrective actions are taken have been trained since 2006. • The elimination of all forms of labour that, by their nature or conditions, Initiative), Sagemcom seeks to immediately, Sagemcom puts an end since 2007, represent an immediate danger or could compromise health and safety. establish the traceability of four to all its business dealings with the • The promotion and respect of the protection of human rights recognised sensitive minerals, the “3TG”: tin, supplier. The supplier is then struck including 120 on an international scale. tungsten, tantalum and gold. We off and blacklisted by Sagemcom. • The refusal of any complicity in violations of human rights. demand that our suppliers complete Note: a guide to proper business ethical audits. the CFSI reporting template, which conduct, which will apply to all • Respect for the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. must be provided before the launch CLOSE-UP ON THE Group employees, is currently of the mass production of chipsets, SUPPLIERS’ DAYS under preparation • Elimination of all forms of employment or professional discrimination. tantalum capacitors, printed circuits, • The application of a precautionary approach to problems affecting the plastics and welds. In particular, this Once a year, Sagemcom invites all its environment. measure improves our knowledge suppliers to a presentation of the Group • Initiatives that promote increased responsibility with regard to the of the supply chain of every type of strategy, its results and its outlook, in environment. mineral. terms of business and technological • Favouring the development and spread of environmentally-friendly developments. These discussions offer technologies. In 2015, 300 suppliers were an opportunity for suppliers to become • Acting against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. questioned about more than 38,000 involved at the earliest possible stage By signing this charter, suppliers agree to promote and respect the above component references. More than and to be informed of the Group’s principles, and to incite their own subcontractors and suppliers to do likewise. 75% of the founders in the supply strategy. Every year, more than 700 chain have been identified for the people attend the Suppliers’ Days in various minerals. Rueil-Malmaison and Shenzen, which 13 CLOSE-UP ON: 32 RETRAINED EMPLOYEES SAGEMCOM MEI In 2014, Sagemcom won a contract to manufacture several million multi-energy smart meters for the French market: Gazpar for GrDF 24% OF PAYROLL INVESTED IN TRAINING and Linky for ErDF. IN 2015 These production volumes enabled phase of works took place in March the Group to make plans for the 2015. It included the fitting out of transformation of its manufacturing one of the two production buildings plant in Dinan, France. Sagemcom to manufacture the first meters in the has been present in Dinan since last quarter of 2015. 1971, and until last March it still occupied part of its long-standing The conversion project, which started site in the Quévert industrial park, in September 2014, enabled 32 where it produced consumables for employees to be retrained in 2014 fax machines and photo printers. As and will open the way for more than part of its conversion to multi-energy 80 new hires by 2018. smart meters, Sagemcom MEI needed a manufacturing site that meets its The conversion of the site has also new needs in terms of surface area, brought about changes demanding streams and security management. support measures for the employees, Sagemcom decided to move to a new who will have to adapt to their new industrial site in the neighbouring working environment. A major change Taden business park, just 1.3 km management plan was set up to help away from the former site. Previously the existing teams to successfully 4,858 HOURS OF TRAINING RELATED TO THE PROJECT dedicated to after-sales operations, adapt and, ultimately, to provide a the new site was not quite “readysolid basis to welcome and induct new to-use”, but had great potential to recruits. be rearranged and extended. Some work was necessary to adapt the site: An ergonomics engineer took part installing a dedicated high-voltage in the definition of the production transformer to meet our energy needs, processes and the design of the new buildings, fencing off the site, etc. workstations. In an effort to keep these skills within the company, Sagemcom An investment of €1.5 million and MEI’s employees followed training a total of more than 12 months of in the fundamentals of ergonomics work! Several phases of works will analysis. be necessary to complete the final site by April 2016. The current site OR 151 HOURS OF TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE ON AVERAGE measures 15,000 m2 and includes two production buildings, each measuring almost 2000 m2. The first 14 15 HEALTH, SAFETY AND The men and women who work at Sagemcom are essential factors of our success. It is essential to provide them with a working environment that protects their health, safety and well-being. This is critical to the development of our activities and of our employees, and, therefore, to WELL-BEING AT WORK our success. HEALTH AND of ISO 14001 for the environment, The frequency rate is dropping SAFETY: A PROCESS contributes to the overall improvement constantly, and is now below the average OF CONTINUOUS of the management of our activities. in France in this type of industry. The IMPROVEMENT The core of the system comprises risk seriousness rate is about seven times analysis (systematic identification of lower than the French average. The health and safety of our employees hazardous substances and preparations, is an absolute priority, and our actions assessment of machinery, etc.), the our actions go go far beyond the strict regulatory continuous updating and improvement ANTICIPATING BY requirements. of processes and constant compliance INVOLVING far beyond the checks. “THE RIGHT PEOPLE” strict regulatory The Group has set up an “Industrial Protection and Health & Safety at Every incident is investigated in depth in It seemed quite obvious that questions requirements Work” unit that is tasked with helping order to break the chain of causes at the of health and safety at work needed to the business lines to take preventive origin of the accident. be included in the development of the measures and steps to improve working new manufacturing processes at the conditions. This unit also keeps an eye At the end of 2015, our manufacturing earliest possible stage of the conversion on the obligations applying to health site in Dinan, which is currently being of the industrial site in Dinan. The new and safety at work. converted, obtained AFAQ AFNOR machines and tools were designed on certification, with specially close the basis of a risk analysis in order to attention being paid to the health and provide the safety measures necessary OHSAS 18001 safety aspects of the automation of the to prevent all types of accidents and to means of production. best protect our employees. Our goal is to reduce the number and the seriousness of accidents on our Our plant in Tunisia, which employs The movements and postures of sites exposed to risks every year, and about 2,600 people and produces every job were studied and the new to eventually reach zero accidents. We almost 10 million terminals per year, workstations developed with the achieve this by deploying the Health has been AFAQ AFNOR certified since support of an ergonomics engineer. and Safety at Work initiative, based 2008. on the OHSAS 18001 standard, in our At the same time, a working group of And in addition to the initiatives and manufacturing centres. directly affected employees was set up training dedicated to our activities and Average time THE PERFORMANCE OF to develop the models and prototypes, the risks they incur, preventive actions OHSAS 18001 aims to prevent the risks OUR COMMITMENTS which were then tested in real-life are regularly taken each year, such as to which people are exposed inside the situations, before their definitive the prevention of seasonal illnesses, savings per user of company and, along the same lines The 2015 indicators reveal a significant installation. national breast cancer screening plans drop in the number of accidents or the fight against certain pathologies the “bien-être à la requiring time off work, and a decrease In addition to achieving our primary or addictions (tobacco, etc.). in their seriousness. objective of preventing damage carte” concierge to health by accidents or illness (musculoskeletal disorders, etc.), this WELL-BEING AT WORK service in 2014: approach also enabled us to collect all IS AT THE HEART OF the necessary information directly from OUR CONCERNS 1h58 per month the people affected, in order to improve the general working conditions on a As technologies and the jobs they daily basis. impact continue to change rapidly, we are developing a policy to promote a Finally, after concentrating on the professional framework that encourages technical aspects and procedures, mobilisation and, consequently, our efforts are now focused on the improves the Group’s performance. behaviour of every single employee, and the adoption of the right gestures, day In 2009, all staff members working after day. in Greater Paris were relocated to the main site in Rueil-Malmaison, as part of a significant change at Sagemcom TAKING PREVENTION that attempted to strike a balance EVEN FURTHER between its employees’ private and working lives. Since time is a critical We go beyond our regulatory obligations and essential value, especially in view of by offering every employee, irrespective our employees’ responsibilities at home of their geographical location outside and at work, a number of solutions were France, coverage that reimburses their implemented: variable working hours, medical expenses, so that they and, shuttle services, concierge services, where appropriate, their family, can easier access to child care, co-funding remain in a good state of health. of home help vouchers, additional 18 19 leave, time savings accounts, child care time savings accounts, etc. the top priority. Six focus areas were defined that resulted in the deployment FROM CDO TO SAGEMCOM MEI. of specific measures. Their state of The effectiveness of these measures is verified on a regular basis in order progress and the assessment of their effects are submitted once a year to a THE TALE GOES ON! to find new paths of progress that dedicated joint commission and the will help to strike the right balance staff representative bodies. between employees’ well-being and the SUPPORTING THE CONVERSION OF THE DINAN MANUFACTURING SITE organisation of our activities. In 2014 75 managers and 2015, the concierge and home Further to the signing of a contract with two of its customers, the Sagemcom group confirmed the conversion help voucher schemes were improved At the end of the 2012-2015 of its Dinan site, where jobs were under threat, to integrate and finalise smart metering terminals. to provide our employees with better psychosocial risks plan: 90% followed a of Group and subsidiary ExCom In September 2014, a major project was organised to look into the implementation of a change management support in the management of their system adapted to the conversion project, including in particular: management everyday activities. members have been trained in • The aspects of health and safety at work in the design of the machines and the new the prevention of psychosocial workstations. course risks. • The adaptation of employees to their new working environment,and in particular to their new job. IN 2014 AND 2015, Regular meetings were held with staff representatives and employees to make sure that they were closely MORE THAN ONE HALF involved in the project. OF RMM’S EMPLOYEES As part of these measures, 75 managers USED THE CONCIERGE followed a management course In order for employees to adapt to their new jobs, the plan includes: SERVICE. based on the company’s values and • Professional training actions, mainly for operators, with a view to obtaining multidisciplinary modules covering the CPQM qualification certificate at the end of the training. The certifications took place Sagemcom has also drawn up a formal communications, management, the on the Linky project workstations in October/November 2015. action plan to prevent psychosocial social environment, psychosocial risks, • Training actions for the support functions in order to adapt skills to the risks. An initial quantitative and best practices and annual reviews. new activity. qualitative diagnosis by an external The goal is to provide the current teams with the best possible support in this conversion process and, consultant provided a basis for Eight projects were selected to deploy ultimately, to welcome and induct the new recruits in 2016 on a solid basis. The overall change management the development of the first plan specific change management support: system provides for: for the period between 2012 and merging of retail activities, deployment 2015, together with the Steering of an IT charter, replacement of the • the participation of 202 trainees, Committee that included members of time management software, conversion • a total of 6,359 hours of training, management, staff representatives and of the Dinan site, etc. or an investment of more than 30% of the site’s 2015 payroll. the occupational health authorities. Collective measures to avoid risks at the earliest possible stage were set as SIX FLAGSHIP ACTIONS VALUES COMMUNICATION THE CHALLENGE: Share a common identity. THE CHALLENGE: Promote the communication of information to ACTION: Identifying the Group’s values and culture is a fundamental employees. and unifying project that will be conducted on a participative basis. ACTION: Regular presentations (March-October) in the subsidiaries by the BU Directors, in addition to the President’s twice-yearly presentations (January-July). CHANGE MANAGEMENT THE CHALLENGE: Consider the human dimension in every project COLLABORATIVE MODE for change. THE CHALLENGE: Reinforce collaboration in project mode. ACTION: A Steering Committee will be set up for every major and ACTION: Involve the R&D teams in the preparation of calls for tendurable change in the company. The migration of Sagemcom’s der and the definition of schedules by organising project meetings office tools, managed by our own teams, is a perfect example. . before the projects are launched. PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOLLOW-UP THE CHALLENGE: To support employees in the construction of THE CHALLENGE: Include the action plan in a durable policy. their career path. ACTION: Together with the trade unions that sign the agreement on ACTION: Guarantee that every single performance review is held, the method, the implementation of the action plan will be followed and analyse the collected data on overall assessment, training up by a joint commission on an annual basis. and professional development. 20 21 IN 2014, 49 APPLICATIONS FOR PATENTS WERE MADE, 74 PROPOSALS IN 2015 CLOSE-UP ON: OUR R&D One of the biggest R&D centres in France is located at the very heart of our Group, in Rueil-Malmaison. Every day, more than 500 people research and develop the products that will become part of our everyday lives a few months later. 25 EXPERTS AN R&D CENTRE IN technical and strategic talents, defines RUEIL-MALMAISON, AND the company’s demands and motivates OFFSHORE CENTRES employees by offering visible and ALL OVER THE WORLD: recognised career prospects in expert assessment, along the same lines Three major functions are directly as in the managerial functions. The involved in the development of our expert’s role is to direct innovation, products: The “mechanical” function is to advise and approve, to build on tasked with the physical development knowledge, to transfer experience and of our products: the design, the position to represent the company on a national of the components, the integration of or international level. There are three the product’s operational imperatives levels of expertise (Expert / Senior (buttons, screen, thermal constraints, Expert / Expert Emeritus), each of which etc.) are just some of the tasks of this corresponds to a recognised status. The activity. The “electronic” function is in annual inventory has so far enabled the charge of the design of the electronic Sagemcom group to identify 25 Experts. circuit boards. Its tasks include the definition, the outline and the list of the components, the development INTELLECTUAL of the electronic circuits and the PROPERTY installation of the components on MANAGEMENT the boards. Finally, the “software” function designs and assembles Sagemcom has established an the software building blocks. These intellectual property management 53 PATENT REQUESTS, OR 18 building blocks bring our products to system. A department belonging to APPLICATIONS 25 FOREXPERTS EVERY 100 ENGINEERS. life, by fulfilling one or more functions R&T is tasked with managing the risks AN INCREASE OF 50% IN TWO YEARS that have to communicate with one related to intellectual property. The another (metering energy, distributing Group also pursues an active policy video streams, transmitting over a covering the management of and Wi-Fi connection, etc.). application for patents. In 2014, the Group filed applications for 49 patents, The R&D centre in Rueil-Malmaison and almost 55 in 2015. This amounts to works hand in hand with the offshore 18 applications per 100 engineers: a new R&D teams, located in Tunisia, where Group record! more than 300 developers work on the Group’s products, or in China. EXPERT CAREERS 600 DEVELOPERS AT RUEIL-MALMAISON, 500 An Experts unit was set up in our Group WORLDWIDE, OF WHICH 300 IN TUNISIA in 2011 in order to promote the career opportunities in R&D. The unit identifies 22 23 DIVERSITY AND With almost 4,000 employees in more than 40 countries, cultural diversity is an everyday reality at Sagemcom. We pursue a determined policy in the realms of diversity of gender, generation and origin, because encouraging diversity also encourages EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES equal opportunities. A SOCIAL POLICY BUILDING ON OUR ways, from one country and from one OPEN TO ALL CULTURAL DIVERSITY party to another. Therefore, we must MEN-WOMEN BREAKDOWN invest in the development of mutual ON 31/12/2015 WORLDWIDE: In the countries where we have a Sagemcom is an international understanding and enrichment strong presence, every three years we group that employs almost 4,000 between our employees. draw up a “social road map” that is people from very different cultural 39% 61% an inter-cultural closely correlated with our support for backgrounds. While everyone shares We provide support in the form of WOMEN MEN the Group’s projects and the strategy the common core of values that the special training that helps them to forum that of the business lines. The goal of this Group represents, building on our decipher and understand the ways creates durable road map is to define a structured cultural differences is essential to in which everyone behaves, so that and dynamic approach to our human our performance. We are convinced collaboration between the members operational resources policies, which aim to that an inter-cultural forum creates of multi-cultural teams can be exceed the local standards. durable operational synergies and optimised. In 2014 and 2015, 56 MEN-WOMEN BREAKDOWN synergies and complementarity. It is a source trainees followed this type of training. ON 31/12/2015 IN FRANCE: We pay very close attention to the of innovation and progress for complementarity remuneration of our employees. We individuals, teams and the Group. also place a strong emphasis on PROMOTING EVERY 21% 79% actions that mobilise our people. By But teams made up of different cultures ASPECT OF DIVERSITY WOMEN MEN way of example, in 2014, we offered are not automatically efficient, the possibility to benefit from the because their members do not always In addition to the local initiatives taken coverage of healthcare expenses to our have the same points of reference. in our centres abroad, Sagemcom permanent employees in Tunisia and The same attitude or behaviour can has decided to promote every aspect their families. be perceived and decoded in different of diversity by generating a global BREAKDOWN OF MALE-FEMALE MANAGERS impetus in France through the various IN THE GROUP EXCOM: agreements covering the period between 2012 and 2015. PORTRAIT OF A LADY: JOÊLLE BÉLARD One of the main challenges in the realm of diversity is professional 8% WOMEN 92% MEN equality between men and women. Our field of activity remains widely influenced by societal disparities, stereotypes and the choices made by female students. Less than 20% of BREAKDOWN OF MALE-FEMALE MANAGERS TELL IS ABOUT YOUR BACKGROUND. female students opt for the scientific IN THE FRANCE SUBSIDIARIES EXCOM: First of all, it’s hardly typical. I went from medicine to and technical subjects that meet finance. A graduate from the IAE Paris 1-Sorbonne, I also our needs. This fact influences the hold a Master’s in Finance. It was by pure chance that I structure of our personnel, which ended up in Treasury after noticing a posting… and it has remains predominantly masculine. 17% 83% WOMEN MEN become a vocation that I am trying to transmit as a teacher at the IAE Paris 1-Sorbonne! I belong to the first generation of Therefore, we are continuing our treasurers for whom the profession was generally assimilated action in this field through initiatives with a rather rigid accounting function. Over time and with to raise awareness amongst our the opening of the financial markets, the tools used by employees and in the academic world, Treasury have become considerably more sophisticated. I so that mindsets change across the BREAKDOWN OF MALE-FEMALE MANAGERS assisted with the professionalisation and extension of the CAN YOU DESCRIBE A TYPICAL DAY board. In 2014 and 2015, Sagemcom IN THE TUNISIA EXCOM (MFG & R&D): profession which has truly become a company management FOR US? employees, both male and female, and steering tool, which was a true appraisal mission. A typical day is different from the previous one and leaves us took part in campaigns in schools. wondering what tomorrow will bring. Unpredictable bursts Theatre shows were organised AT SAGEMCOM? of adrenaline figure prominently on the schedule. Daily work internally to address the issues of 11% 89% I’ve navigated within the same Group for several years. diversity – seniors, ethnicity, gender, WOMEN MEN often consists of maintaining Group liquidity, optimising Starting with the treasury, I’ve also worked in credit funds available, covering risks, and ensuring there is disability – in a practical and concrete management and financial engineering before finally coming adequate funding. manner. back to Treasury. “Once a Treasurer, always a Treasurer! ”. Since it is a function that encompasses so many fields and IS IT DIFFERENT BEING A WOMAN IN At the same time, management is is constantly evolving, there’s room to grow... and see new YOUR PROFESSION? acutely aware of the issues of diversity, BREAKDOWN OF MALE-FEMALE MANAGERS places! In fact, the profession mobilises varied skills such as Now that’s a deep subject! We’re similar and yet different. of the tools that can be used to manage IN THE CHINA EXCOM: cash management, financing, investments, trading, or even Everyone is special in their own way and, without wanting it, and of the best management project management, not to mention organisation, control to look through the lense of sexist stereotypes or prejudices, practices for mixed teams. and financial securities. It requires knowledge of specialised I prefer to think that, given identical skills, women display a techniques, putting strategies in place as well as lots of keener sense of organisation. With her added rigour, she also At Sagemcom, reconciling work and 57% 43% contacts. The only thing “routine” about it is staying on your WOMEN MEN brings her sensitivity, her humanism, and a bit of kindness to private life is important, which is why toes at all times! this, “Man’s World”! the question of striking this balance is 27 The new arrival in the team is disabled. He’s bound to slow us all down. always addressed in every employee’s Breakdown of experts by age Like any other company in the highannual review. technology sector, we are directly penalised by this situation, and, due With almost 25% of senior employees the insufficient number of qualified in France, Sagemcom has pursued candidates, we cannot reach the a policy to integrate and keep older targets we have set ourselves. Two hours later people in work for a long time. Nevertheless, the Group's disability unit implements an active policy to I’ve finished. Do you need some help? raise awareness and overcome any obstacles to the employment of workers IN 2012 AND 2013, with disabilities. We regularly take SAGEMCOM SIGNED part in dedicated recruitment forums TWO THREE-YEAR (Handi2day and the ADAPT forum) and our job offers are open to candidates AGREEMENTS: AT WORK, Age pyramid on 30/06/2015 with disabilities and are posted on ONLY SKILLS MATTER specialised sites. Unfortunately, our 1 an agreement to promote results in 2014 and 2015 fell well professional equality between short of our commitments. men and women. The gender parity targets include Awareness-raising campaigns are access to work, pay, career regularly launched to reach the widest SFR, Orange, Alcatel Lucent and development and support for audience possible. In addition to the Nokia. “Encouraging a good balance between work plays on diversity, which includes and private life. disability, a booklet describing all The 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 diversity the initiatives we have taken was intake mobilised 23 tutors at favours equal 2 an inter-generational distributed to employees, and table Sagemcom. They supported the young agreement in favour of the mats addressing the question of students following varied curricula. opportunities.” employment of young people disability were handed out in the 24 days were dedicated to specialist and senior employees. company canteen. workshops, simulations of interviews or project juries. Since both agreements The 2013-2014 We also analyse solutions to keep set targets, they require employees with disabilities in work and 2014-2015 monitoring and measurement on a case-by-case basis, so that indicators, or even corrective Integrating workers with disabilities they contribute fully to the global intake mobilised actions. and keeping them in work is another performance of the company. major issue. But our poor performance 23 tutors at compared with our ambitions Finally, we also pay very close Sagemcom Sagemcom provides its senior regarding the employment of workers attention to avoiding processes that employees with support throughout with disabilities reflects the shortage could result in illness or disability as their careers (more than 52% of the of qualified and professionally trained part of our safety policy. “senior” population followed training people with disabilities on a national in 2014) and has taken measures to scale. 80% of workers with disabilities We also support our employees in help them in the transition towards have not passed the baccalaureate, their everyday lives, whether they have retirement. If they want to, these compared with 56% in the population disabilities themselves, or have a child senior employees can work part time, as a whole. with disabilities: co-funding of home while paying the same contributions help vouchers, additional holiday into their pension fund, so that their entitlement to accomplish all the new situation does not affect their A PURCHASING formalities made necessary by their future projects. situation, etc. POLICY THAT TAKES ACCOUNT OF At the same time, our measures to identify talents and transfer skills and DISABILITY SAGEMCOM SUPPORTS know-how calls on our population of Purchasing naturally works PASSEPORT AVENIR “experts”, which in 2014 and 2015 alongside Human Resources included 24% of experts aged over 55 in the challenge to improve Founded in 2005, Passeport Avenir is and 20% of employees aged between the integration of employees an NGO that promotes the professional 50 and 54. with disabilities. In the field, integration of young people from Purchasing adds value by underprivileged backgrounds. It In 2014 and 2015, the integration dealing with organisations promotes employment abroad and of young employees was one of that employ workers with provides support to fund studies and our priority actions. Young recruits disabilities. professional integration. Sagemcom accounted for almost 35% of new has been one of the organisation’s hires in 2014, and 63% in 2015. main partners since 2010, alongside 29 CLOSE-UP ON: OUR SUPPLIERS' DAYS HUMAN ASSETS Global headcount: Young recruits in France: INTERNAL SEMI NARS / TEAM BUILDING 39% women / 69% men 35% of new hires R&D: Senior employees in France: 1,000 developers worldwide 25% of the headcount UNIFYING ACTIONS REGULARLY SHARING THE GROUP’S STRATEGY Every year, Sagemcom organises numerous events to raise the Group Sagemcom is actively engaged with employees’ awareness of essential its employees to enable them to better issues, such as diversity, disability or understand the Group’s strategy and solidarity. Unifying events are also its top priorities. Events are organised organised to illustrate one of the on a regular basis to enable the widest PLAYS: Group’s fundamental values: team audience to understand the major GENDER EQUALITY power! challenges facing the Group. Projection of the football World Cup EMPLOYEE SHAREHOLDERS The Solidarity Tie campaign The Group’s employees hold a significant share of the Group’s capital. Awareness-raising campaign in the At the time of the latest change of main company canteen shareholder in 2011, more than 50% of employees became shareholders in the The President’s twice-yearly presentation Group. They represent almost 30% of shareholders. Employee shareholding is a distinctive characteristic that Strategy review continues the tradition of the group from which Sagemcom originated. BARBECUE Presentations by the heads of departments or activities Purchasing Day In-house magazine with employee portraits Daily information on ComOn 30 31 SUPPORT FOR Supporting our employees in their own development boosts their motivation and improves their professional skills that drive the growth EMPLOYEES of our activities. DEVELOPING AND Sagemcom also considers training to be Finally, the Group’s employees hold a VALUING a strategic investment that is necessary significant share of the Group’s capital. to support its employees and to grow At the time of the latest change of main The individual development and progress its activities. Almost 3% of payroll is shareholder in 2011, more than 50% of review is one of the fundamental allocated to the training budget every employees became shareholders in the cornerstones of our human resources year, and in certain projects, like the Group. They represent almost 30% of policy. These interviews are held every conversion of the manufacturing centre shareholders. Employee shareholding is year and are optimised in every Group in Dinan, almost 30% of payroll was a distinctive characteristic that continues activity, irrespective of the country. In allocated to professional training, mainly the tradition of the group from which the 2014-2015 campaign, 94% of of operators with a view to obtaining the Sagemcom originated. employees in France were interviewed. CQPM qualification certification. SHARING AND EXCHANGING DISCUSS AND ASSESS AND MOBILISE PROGRESS ANALYSE DIAGNOSE > > > Recognise achievements Support employees so they Fundamental subjects, Understand, assess and results and mobilise succeed and contribute Throughout the year, Sagemcom away from the everyday imperatives and value skills and commitment around “SMARTER” objectives to the development of activities organises events or initiatives that bring our employees together, so that they can exchange and become more closely involved in the life of the Group. These reviews have four main objectives, We also value different curricula that do Sagemcom with the common goal of achieving not follow the more traditional paths of In 2014 and 2015, Sagemcom organised individual and collective progress. management and project management. and promoted numerous festive events, considers training In 2010, the Group set up the “Experts” from the barbecue party at RueilThe review must define concrete actions function in order to recognise expertise Malmaison, to Women’s Day in China or to be a necessary that will contribute to the employee’s and the acquisition by its employees of the broadcasting of the football matches development, to be taken and measured proven and specific skills in a particular during the World Cup in Brazil, as well strategic in the course of the year, in the form field. as actions for charity, such as “Solidarity investment of training, individual action plans or Tie”, which reflect our commitments and All these meetings are an opportunity professional evolution. The actions are our values. to share our vision of the future of our Sagemcom regularly monitored to make sure that ATTRACT AND RETAIN activities and our business with all our they are effective. Sagemcom also takes measures employees. organised We are working on increasing our capacity that facilitate the sharing and the In view of their importance, the to attract, develop and retain the best understanding of the Group’s activities Employee portraits are regularly published and promoted achievement of the targets regarding the skills required by our strategy. by all of its employees, in an effort to so that everyone can become better completion of these reviews by managers encourage every one of them to engage acquainted with the men and the women numerous events in with the employees in their teams In 2014 and 2015, our actions focused in the implementation of our strategy: who contribute to the development of our 2014 and 2015 directly determines a part of their variable on renewing our image as an employer annual reviews, kick-off meetings, activities. compensation. and improving the induction and support Techdays, meetings with members of of new arrivals through a clearly marked the ExCom, twice-yearly presentations out path based on the best practices of our activities, their results and their that exist in the Group’s departments main shortand long-term targets, etc. • Recognise technical experts (induction booklet, creation of a “Class of by offering them development 2014” that includes all the new hires of opportunities in fields other than the year, etc.). CLOSE-UP OF THE the traditional disciplines of GROUP’S EXPERTS management and project We build employee loyalty by proposing management, careers that are interesting and rewarding. • Promote the sharing and Many of the Group’s employees, at every transfer of knowledge. level, have changed jobs several times The expert’s role: and enjoyed a varied career path. All vacancies are open to internal candidates • To guide innovation and are published on our vacancies site, • To build on knowledge and which can be accessed by every employee. transfer experience In 2015, more than 40% of our vacancies • To advise and approve were filled in this way. • To represent the company The network of Experts holds regular The policy that we have been pursuing The creation of the Experts function meetings, has its own dedicated for several years has favoured the sense has helped to: Intranet site (document library, of belonging amongst Sagemcom’s • I dentify and develop the key forums, etc.) and, most importantly, employees. A fact that is demonstrated fields in line with the Group’s organises Techdays intended to share by the average length of service in the strategy their knowledge. Group: 17 years. 35 CONSUMPTION OF ELECTRICITY: REDUCTION OF 7% OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT BY CLOSE-UP ON: ECODESIGN 675 TONNES OF CO2eq SAVED IN 2015 From the extraction of the raw materials used to make them, to Extraction of raw their design and end of life, Sagemcom is committed to developing materials and energy products with a low environmental impact throughout their life cycle. Manufacturing To achieve this ambition, Sagemcom has working, it can be sent to a recycling opted for ecodesign in partnership with centre with a dismantling form that will its suppliers and customers. Sagemcom’s be used to disassemble it and retrieve Distribution residential gateways, set-top boxes and the reusable materials. Sagemcom smart meters are products that demand has further reduced the environmental faultless quality and low environmental impact of its end-of-life products by impact. The Group relies measuring setting up a worldwide network of tools, such as life cycle analysis (LCA). approved repair centres. This approach Use This decision-support tool measures the maximises the reuse of products, making ecological impact of a product through real environmental gains, because its entire life cycle, from the extraction of the impact of a refurbished product is raw materials, to its use by the consumer much lower than that of a new product. Sorting and end of life. Sagemcom also pays constant attention End of life to the quantity of its packaging materials. The first step of the ecodesign of a product consists of choosing the materials used So, as you can see, Sagemcom strives to Recycling, to make it. Sagemcom takes care to choose materials that are compatible in design products that remain ecological throughout their lifetime, from the dismantling the recycling phases. This is the reason substances and the components used why every plastic part is marked in order to make them, through the reduction of to facilitate quality recycling. their energy consumption to their endof-life recycling. Sagemcom also looks at alternatives to plastic before introducing them into the Eco-design is therefore a key subject, on composition of its products. Their content which numerous people at Sagemcom, in of recycled materials (post-consumption) addition to the quality teams, work every or bioplastics is measured, as well as day: R&D, Purchasing, Manufacturing, their capacity to reach the standard of the teams in charge of transport, quality expected of our products. packaging, and even customer service! 56% OF PRODUCTS SOLD ANALYSED BY EIME SOFTWARE Sagemcom acts as a responsible producer when it comes to the end of life of its products. As soon as a product stops 36 37 At Sagemcom, acting to protect the environment firstly means designing products and services that contribute to preserving the ENVIRONMENT planet’s ecological balance. But it also means limiting the impact of its activities on the local ecosystems by taking the environmental and economic situations of different markets into consideration. We have opted for ecodesign, in materials. It also enables us to decide partnership with our customers and on the communications mechanisms Sagemcom has signed the our suppliers. Our teams work on every between products and networks in Voluntary Industry Agreement to aspect of the equipment’s life cycle, advance, in order to anticipate cases improve the energy consumption from the choice of raw materials, where one of them would prevent the of Complex Set-Top Boxes within to the control of waste, energy other one from switching to standby the EU. The goal of this voluntary consumption during use and end-of-life mode. agreement is to contribute to management. Because innovation must the results of the European be a source of improvement, our teams The integration of functionality in 2015 energy efficiency action plan, constantly look for product functions resulted in a spectacular reduction in and more particularly to the that encourage eco-friendly behaviour the environmental impact of more than ecodesign directive (2009/125/ “We have opted and, to improve performance, they 155,000 tonnes of CO2eq for this product EU), by reducing the potential also propose automatic features. We reference alone. to integrate the environmental impact of complex have implemented an environmental set-top boxes (CSTB). The global management system on our sites that 56% of the products sold worldwide in environment in objective is to reduce the energy allows us to measure our footprint 2015 were analysed by Sagemcom using consumption of CSTBs, according our design and and to take corrective actions that cut EIME software. to jointly defined targets and our emissions and consumption. Our deadlines, in order to maximise development main operational sites have all been the environmental benefits. The ISO 14001-certified for more than 10 FACILITATING THE process.” signatories have committed years. RECYCLING OF OUR to marketing more than 90% PRODUCTS of compliant products each year. It also represents a global THE CHOICE OF A The first step affecting the recycling of commitment by the industry to GLOBAL APPROACH: our products is the choice of the materials reduce the impact of CSTBs. THE LIFE CYCLE used to build them. Combinations of The environmental performance different types of materials can impact Life cycle analysis, which Sagemcom of Sagemcom’s set-top boxes the capacity of the product to be recycled. adopted several years ago, takes all the (low consumption) has resulted Sagemcom takes care to choose materials environmental impacts of a product into in savings of more than 74,000 that are compatible in the recycling consideration, from the design phase tonnes of CO2eq. phases. By way of example, PC and ABS and throughout its lifespan. plastics are rarely combined, because OUR ECODESIGN 56% of the standby mode, smart standby mode, they cannot be recycled together. PROCESS products sold Reducing energy consumption is one etc.) and by working continually to raise of our top priorities. This objective is awareness amongst users. Our products are then assembled in a Ecodesign is a process in its achieved by meeting strict consumption way that facilitates their deconstruction own right that is described worldwide in 2015 criteria in the various operating modes, and the separation of the various in Sagemcom’s project were analysed by by constantly innovating (programmable LIFE CYCLE ANALYSIS components. management documents. Each phase of a project, from the kickSagemcom using To identify opportunities for The different materials, and the plastic off, to design, qualification and improvement, we analyse our legacy parts in particular, are marked to improve the market launch, is subject to EIME software. EXAMPLE OF THE OPTIMISATION OF THE USE OF A products from both a qualitative (means the quality and the efficiency of the a series of checks applying to the RESIDENTIAL GATEWAY: of assembly, etc.) and a quantitative recycling phase. The marking criteria ecodesign of the product. perspective, by modelling the product include the type of plastic (ABS, PC, PU, Located at the heart of lines with a simplified life cycle analysis etc.), the presence of flame retardants the home digital network, tool: EIME software, developed by (FR) and the nature of the retardant. residential gateways, or CODDE Bureau Veritas. These analyses internet boxes, are crammed guide our strategic development options with more and more in order to reduce energy consumption, functionality. Their main because it is the phase when the product environmental impact is is in use that has the greatest impact on due to the consumption of our products’ life cycles, no matter where energy. This is the reason they are used. why we worked on the usage phase, by installing automatic functions to reduce consumption and a dynamic This expert knowledge also enables us to standby mode, determined by the user’s behaviour. make preliminary life cycle analyses in The electronic components were also optimised to improve the overall efficiency an advanced operation, that is conducted of the products. Conventional gateways are connected to a fibre network by an during call for tender phases. The ONT (Optical Network Termination), which consumes almost as much as the goal is to estimate the environmental gateway itself. The ONT functionality has been integrated in the new platforms, impact of a product, in order to help our which means that the hardware can be shared and the user’s overall electricity customers to choose between several consumption can be reduced. Doing away with the ONT has reduced the carbon possible scenarios, particularly regarding impact by 42% (example based on a UK energy mix). the logistical phase and the choice of 41 Directive 2006/66/EC, which banned USING ALTERNATIVE the most polluting batteries (limits on OUR REPAIR lead, mercury and cadmium). NETWORK IS A MATERIALS GOLDMINE OF For us, using alternative Dismantling guides for easier recycling materials is a permanent On request, Sagemcom provides INFORMATION! source of progress. As well as recycling operators with dismantling Our repair network is a source characterising the environmental guides in a bid to encourage the recycling of precious information and impact of our materials, we of its old products. These guides contain feedback, from the delivery of also try to qualify alternative all the information required to optimally the product to the complete materials based on plastics with recycle and reuse the machines: management of its life cycle. thanks to its repair a high recycled content (post• a bill of materials (metals, plastics, An asset that is particularly consumption) and bioplastics. electronic circuit boards, etc.) appreciated by our R&D and and refurbishment These materials are assessed • the location of the components to Quality departments. Analysing Looking beyond its own sites, from the environmental and be separated (as per the WEEE directive) cases of NFF (No Fault Found) is Sagemcom also works with partners services, up to 85% technical perspectives, because • the dismantling steps who manufacture finished products all a good way to make our products of Sagemcom’s certain materials with a positive • the potential risks to recycling even more reliable and efficient, over the world. All these partners are ISO environmental effect may be operators (sharp metal edges, etc.) and easier to use. 14001 certified and are regularly audited products can be technically difficult to use or by third parties. insufficient in terms of quality. Repairs and refurbishment services: repaired and reused worldwide coverage to reduce our collaboration of environmental experts Transport environmental impact and in accordance with our continuous Transport is a major source of END-OF-LIFE The Sagemcom group has developed improvement processes. greenhouse gas emissions. And for MANAGEMENT OF OUR an approach to maximise the reuse of urgent deliveries, the transportation PRODUCTS its products. This approach makes real Electricity of our finished products by air weighs environmental gains, because the impact Electricity consumption of the sites is heavily in the carbon balance. While Sagemcom is committed to facilitating of a refurbished product is much lower measured monthly. The actions taken aircraft only represent about 12% of the recycling of all its products. The than that of a new product. in 2013 and 2014 have cut annual the tonne-kilometres transported, they European Directive 2002/96/EC, consumption by 998MWh (406.9 are responsible for 98% of the logistical known as the WEEE directive, applies If a problem cannot be solved by the tonnes of CO2eq) and have stabilised carbon footprint. We try to avoid these overall the 'polluter pays' principle to the staff in our call centres, the products consumption in 2014 and 2015. situations by improving our forecasting management of waste of electrical are repaired in our approved repair Between 2014 and 2015, our carbon processes and the corresponding consumption and and electronic equipment. Producers centres. These centres are equipped footprint was reduced by 7%: manufacturing schedules. are held responsible for the end of life with production lines for product • 2014: 7.42 g CO2eq / € for waste in 2015 of their products. Sagemcom is one refurbishments. The largest approved electricity consumption The actions we have taken (business of the founders of the Ecologic ecorepair centres can be compared with • 2015: 6.90 g CO2eq / € for travel, optimisation of meetings by dropped by 8,277 organisation, which is certified by the genuine production plants, because electricity consumption videoconference or Lync, optimisation of tonnes of CO2eq French State for the management of they have their own acceptance areas, component packaging, etc.) reduced the WEEE. (www.ecologic-france.com). production lines, quality control Water impact of transport by 6,353 tonnes of departments, goods out, purchasing, etc. Water consumption of the sites is CO2eq between 2014 and 2015. Packaging measured monthly. The actions taken in SAGEMCOM CUSTOMER In addition to meeting its obligations, 2013 and 2014 have optimised water SERVICE IN FIGURES: Sagemcom constantly strives to reduce REDUCING consumption: GLOBAL ASSESSMENT quantities of packaging. Individual CONSUMPTION AND • 2014: 0.96 g CO2eq / € for water • 49 approved repair centres packaging is optimised to reduce EMISSIONS ON OUR consumption All this data is collected and correlated worldwide transportation at equivalent quantities. SITES • 2015: 0.91 g CO2eq / € for water to calculate the Group’s environmental • 461,000 repairs made We also prefer packaging made of consumption impact. The chart below illustrates these per year recycled or PEFC cardboard, printed with Our site environmental management findings. Overall consumption and waste • 1,130 Sagemcom product vegetable-based inks. system Waste in 2015 dropped by 8,277 tonnes of references processed in Sagemcom established a policy to Waste is sorted into materials that are CO2eq (mainly due to electricity savings, the repair centres The replacement of our pallets with a obtain ISO 14001 certification for its compatible for recycling. Each site has relative to turnover), without taking • 500,000 calls taken on our lighter structure, guaranteeing the same main operational sites over 10 years its own targets, based on its activity. The the efforts to reduce the impact of our hotline performance during transportation, has ago. Therefore, in accordance with monitoring of the recycled quantities is products into account. • 27,000 pages on the support reduced the environmental impact of regulations, and especially those illustrated below. website (almost 3 million one pallet by more than 22 kg of CO2eq, applying to classified facilities, we strive pages visited) making global savings in 2015 of 675 to control environmental aspects, such Between 2013 and 2015, the production • 40,000 e-mails received and tonnes of CO2eq. as air, water and soil pollution, noise of global waste dropped by 20%. Specific processed levels, the production of waste and workshops have been set up for the Batteries the consumption of water and energy, transportation of components and the • 36,000 visits to the “get Batteries can represent a danger to the and to control the use of hazardous reduction of packaging waste in our satisfaction” forum, with environment when they are disposed substances. These measures are taken factories. Compared with 2013, more 22,000 tutorial videos viewed of, due to the hazardous substances on our sites under the supervision of the than 527 tonnes of waste were avoided and more than 7,000 online chats they contain. We abide by the European Directors of the Establishments, with the in 2015. 43 250, route de l’Empereur 92848 Rueil-Malmaison Cedex www.sagemcom.com All rights reserved. The information and specifications included are subject to change without prior notice. Sagemcom Broadband tries to ensure that all information in this document is correct, but does not accept liability for error or omission. Non contractual document. All trademarks are registered by their respective owners. Simplified joint stock company Capital 58.251.417,36 Euros 440 294 510 RCS Nanterre. 07/2016
