COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORTING PERIOD: December 2015 – December 2016 OUR COMMITMENT | CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. OUR COMMITMENT At BLOM BANK, we support and fully adhere to international standards of human rights throughout our operations and daily practices. In fact, embedded in one of our core values, and prescribed as one of our Employee Code of Conduct, is our commitment to protect and improve the well-being of our people by enforcing professional and businesslike behavior at all times and under all circumstances. OUR COMMITMENT | CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS CURRENT Ethical Work Environment BLOM BANK employees are expected to comply with the highest standards and STATUS OF policies of ethical behavior in terms of confidentiality, professionalism, transparency and integrity. In the event of a human rights violation, employees are encouraged to IMPLEMENTATION report their concerns internally and to an independent authority from their immediate supervisors in an anonymous manner through the “Hotline”, thus making of whistle blowing an ethical duty. Working Hours & Wages At BLOM BANK, we recognize that our employees are our most valuable assets and we are keen on investing in their comfort. To that effect, we introduced a new working schedule in some business units for a trial period, and if successful, this schedule will be implemented across the board. Supply Chain Management As service providers, our supply chain is usually less challenged with human rights issues. Nonetheless, we set the Bank’s standards for outsourced cleaning services in order to define the rights and obligations of the foreign domestic workers including detailed job descriptions, daily checklists and on-site supervisions. This includes their rights to have two breaks per day along with a special room for having their breakfast and lunch. Healthy & Safe Environment Our Bank’s workplace health and safety policies are now being well-implemented and controlled by an assigned Safety and Security Committee. The policies address first-aid trainings, emergency situation handlings as well as bullying and harassment controls. The policies have also been supplemented with a detailed procedures document, signs across all floors and explanatory safety posters in all departments in order to identify first aid facilities, names of the first aid officers and their corresponding emergency telephone numbers. Additionally, a first-aid room was built in the Headquarters to allow provision of basic first aid care and treatment. In parallel, BLOM BANK partnered with the Civil Defense and Red Cross to provide repeated fire drills and emergency trainings to two or three employees from each branch, department and division. GOALS In our previous COP, we set some objectives for human rights protection and still continuously strive to improve them when needed in order to ensure that our actions comply with the basic standards of human rights. GOAL COMMENT Assess the current implementation of human right practices across The above mentioned actions have been a result of carrying out the our premises assessment Devise mechanisms that will ensure respect for human rights We administered health and safety policies and assigned a Safety and Security Committee Goals for the future: Deliver additional first-aid and emergency training sessions in 2017 for a larger number of employees Improve the overall health and safety measures applied across the Bank periodically OUR COMMITMENT | CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Labour STANDARDS Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. OUR COMMITMENT BLOM BANK recognizes its human capital as the most valuable asset and the driving force behind its continued success. That is why we are committed to continuously secure an environment where all employees are given equal opportunities and treated with utmost respect in a culture that strives on fairness, ethics and transparency regardless of their position, sex, religion, ethnic background, age or disability. This is clearly addressed in both our Annual Report and Fraud Policy & Code of Conduct. OUR COMMITMENT | CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS CURRENT Recruitment & Selection Providing the Bank with the required human capital to meet its operational and STATUS OF strategic goals is a challenging task that we continuously strive to accomplish. In 2016, BLOM BANK Group recruited a total of 735 employees with a ratio of 60% IMPLEMENTATION males and 40% females. Progress on gender equality has also been observed with 50.5% of management positions for women. Furthermore, the Group continues to pride itself that 75% of its 5,106 employees have a university degree, with the average age of employee being 34.55. In terms of recruitment and selection, it is essential to state that child and forced and compulsory labor do not apply as all our employees work for us of their own volition and are of legal age. Career Development & Promotion BLOM BANK’s strategy of recruiting fresh graduates and promoting from within means that Career Development is one of the Bank’s key success factors. 967 employees were promoted internally during 2016. Training & Development Programs Training and development programs are essential to ensure the development of a competent workforce able to adapt to the evolving business environment. For that reason, a section dedicated to the individual’s personal development plan for the following year has been introduced to the Annual Performance Appraisal. As for actual training programs, almost 132,111 training hours were provided in 2016. BLOM BANK recognizes the importance of higher education, particularly in career development. In 2016 alone, 95 employee higher education tuitions were sponsored by the Bank to ensure they all get the opportunity to fully reach their aspirations. Similarly, the children of 43 employees were honored in recognition of their high academic achievements in the official Brevet and Baccalaureate exams. Internal Shared Network In order to foster an internal culture of transparency and improve the internal flow of communication across employees, a decision was taken to initiate an internal newsletter to keep them informed on all corporate updates in a timely manner. GOALS As expressed in our previous COP report, we aim to ensure that our hiring, advancement, compensation, training, development and other privileges of employment are handled according to set international labor standards through the following goals. GOAL COMMENT Administer a questionnaire across all employees to evaluate the The questionnaire has not been administered yet strength of the flow of internal communication Assess the results of the Salary Benchmark Survey conducted by the We have completed the Salary Benchmark with Hay Group Salary Association of Banks in Lebanon (ABL) Benchmark Survey to ensure that our employees are paid in accordance with the market In the upcoming years, we remain committed to continue our efforts and further live up to these labor standards. Goals for the Future: Administer a questionnaire in order to assess the strength of internal flow of communication and take the necessary measures to improve it when and if needed. OUR COMMITMENT | CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Environmental STANDARDS Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. OUR COMMITMENT Our commitment to environmental sustainability has led us to continuously seek opportunities and improve practices that help us promote a greener culture across our premises and communities at large. Ultimately, our main aim is to reduce the ecological impact of our operations through paper reduction, waste segregation, supply chain sustainability and lower energy consumption. OUR COMMITMENT | CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS CURRENT Paper Recycling & Reduction We are pleased to have achieved a zero net growth in paper consumption during STATUS OF 2016; an endeavor that could not have been possible without the firm dedication of our employees. Following our previous practices of decreasing the number of printers IMPLEMENTATION and setting double-sided printing as a default option, we encouraged departments and branches to adopt a smaller font size in all their communications as well as send their internal requests and correspondences by email thereby inviting them to print the necessary documents only. In parallel, we delivered 78,360 kilograms of paper to a leading national recycling factory in 2016 and allocated the proceeds to associations that support physically and mentally challenged children. Waste Recycling As part of our environmental awareness, we worked on setting the adequate framework to launch a new interactive waste segregation campaign for 2017. This campaign will be mainly launched in BLOM BANK Headquarters and aims at raising more awareness across all employees on the importance of waste segregation and its integration into our daily lifestyles and routines. The segregated waste will be delivered to Association l’Ecoute where the proceeds will be used to provide earpieces to the hearing impaired as well as medical instruments (such as wheelchairs) to the people the association takes care of. Sustainable Procurement Policy Our efforts extended to cover the scope of sustainable procurement where we continuously work to ensure that all the products we purchase and consume internally such as air fresheners, liquid soaps, paper rolls and more, contain ecologically safe ingredients. Furthermore, we adopted the use of recycled (with virgin raw material) biodegradable trash bags at the Headquarters and across all branches. Energy Consumption The Bank is still working towards the additional reduction of energy consumption with the introduction of new practices. For example, during periods of moderate temperature, the air conditioners at the Headquarters are turned off at 6:00 PM instead of 11:00 PM. Furthermore, we are currently conducting a study that aims at reducing the number of generators that are turned on during hours of power failure to a minimum, thus reducing fuel consumption and ultimately air pollution. GOALS Reflecting back on our progress over the past year, we recognize that we are committed more than ever to continue working to save our planet’s resources and make it a cleaner and greener place to live in today and for future generations. With this commitment, we evaluated our previous goals and set some new future goals to help us come closer to our aspirations. GOAL COMMENT Assess energy usage and efficiency in Bank Headquarters So far, we have not yet administered an assessment of the energy usage and efficiency of our Headquarters Establish a zero growth in paper consumption by 2016 We have achieved a zero net growth in paper consumption during 2016 Raise more awareness on recycling and waste segregation An internal interactive campaign is being developed for 2017 in order to raise awareness on recycling and waste segregation Establish a Sustainable Procurement Policy and develop a Supplier The Sustainable Procurement Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct Code of Conduct have been established Goals for the Future: Define, calculate and assess BLOM BANK’s carbon footprint, mainly in the Headquarters Reduce energy usage levels to a minimum Review all Bank forms and introduce new innovative means to further decrease paper consumption Educate and inspire employees to further conserve and preserve resources OUR COMMITMENT | CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. OUR COMMITMENT Our commitment to the highest ethical standards goes beyond the rules and the regulations set by official bodies and aims at promoting good corporate governance practices into the core of our daily operations, while working against any form of unprincipled behavior including corruption, extortion and bribery. OUR COMMITMENT | CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS CURRENT Fraud Policy & Code of Conduct Our Fraud Policy and Code of Conduct conveys the basic policies that every STATUS OF employee should adhere to and identifies the measures to be taken for any breach, such as immediate termination and prosecution, to the fullest extent of the law. IMPLEMENTATION The Fraud Policy and Code of Conduct is made readily available to all employees through the internal shared network and is also published on the website in order to ensure that all employees act professionally, ethically and with utmost integrity. A procedure for compliance with these standards has been drawn up by the Human Resources Division. This includes attending organized trainings and presentations on an annual basis to facilitate understanding and raise awareness on good corporate governance at least every two years. In 2016, all branch and assistant branch managers attended the Fraud Policy and Code of Conduct training session as well as the operational risk training to raise even more awareness on this topic. Reporting Noncompliant Behavior The Bank’s culture of honesty and integrity is fostered by a “zero tolerance” attitude towards fraudulent and unethical business dealings including any payments for illegal acts, indirect contributions, rebates and bribery. Employees therefore have the ethical duty to report their concerns internally and to an independent authority from their immediate supervisors in an anonymous manner through the “Hotline”. Failure to report incidents and misconducts can result in the loss of profits, promotions, bonuses and even their jobs. BLOM BANK established a committee made up of the Human Resources Division, Group Internal Audit Division and the Group Compliance Division to handle the “Hotline” reports and ensure they are operated by trained professionals in order to maintain the integrity and confidentiality that the “Hotline” promises to whistleblowers. Eleven cases were reported in 2016. GOALS In our previous COP, we defined goals that aim to continuously develop our corporate governance practices, uphold our culture of honesty and high integrity and further strengthen our governance structure. GOAL COMMENT Submit a report to the HR department with recorded data and The report will be submitted to the HR committee in January 2017 statistics of recurring violations and measures taken in order to lessen the risks and incidents Make available a “Complaint Log” on the internal shared network A “Complaint Log” has been circulated internally to all employees in order to widen incident reporting platforms for employees encouraging them to anonymously report any incident Reinforce the Bank’s “Tone at Top” culture by sending a periodic A newsletter is being sent twice per year to all employees to remind newsletter to all employees them of the importance of adhering to the Fraud Policy and Code of Conduct Evaluate the adequacy of existing policies and procedures along So far, we have not yet administered the survey for evaluating the with their application through a survey circulated once every two adequacy of existing policies and procedures years In the future, we remain committed to capitalize on our existing goals as well as reach the following future goals: Goals for the Future: Deliver an awareness presentation on Information Security to one supervisor from each branch and department during the first quarter of 2017 Administer a survey to evaluate the adequacy of existing policies and procedures as well as apply the necessary measures and controls to assess awareness and design improvements when needed blombank.com blombankLebanon
