1 CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY AND CSR CSR INITIATIVES ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY AND CSR ■ RENESAS ELECTRONICS GROUP CSR CHARTER ■ The Renesas Electronics Group believes the CSR we are called on to practice is to contribute to solving the problems that society is facing, like the environment, human rights, poverty, and support for industrializing nations. We do this by conducting business based on our Corporate The Renesas Electronics Group will contribute to the susPhilosophy. To that end, the Group undertakes business activities with a balance of environmental, social, and economic aspects. We maintain tainable advancement of society. As an enterprise, we will good relations and value dialogue with our various stakeholders (customers, suppliers, shareholders, and the local community), and we actively conduct business that helps build a better future for people take on social problems and contribute to the sustainable development of society. around the world by supplying superior semiconductor products powered with advanced technologies and by providing customer service that is honest and sincere. We pledge to conduct our business with integrity and in compliance with legal requirements. We will work with and for the benefit of ■ CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY ■ our stakeholders based on the following guiding principles: Harnessing our collective experCustomer focus tise in new technologies, Renesas CORPORATE We will quickly provide optimized, high-quality solutions in Electronics contributes to a world response to our customers’ needs to maximize customer satwhere people and the planet PHILOSOPHY isfaction and to earn our customers’ trust. prosper in harmony by realizing Sound business practices our vision and building our future. We will carry out fair, ethical and transparent business practices and convey these practices to all our stakeholders. In addition, we will maximize our corporate value through busiCORPORATE VISION ness practices that allow us to continue to grow. ■ CORPORATE VISION ■ Healthy work environment We will be first to respond to cusWe will respect the individual personalities of our employees. tomer needs worldwide with our We will promote a rewarding, safe, and flexible working envicreative power and technology CSR CHARTER ronment where each person is able to demonstrate his/her innovations to become a strong, best talents and capabilities. growing semiconductor manufacGlobal perspective turer and a trustworthy partner. As a member of the global community, we will respect the history, culture, customs and human rights of each country and region, and we will not practice or permit any forced or child CSR ACTIVITIES IN RESPONSE TO CHANGES IN SOCIETY AND THE NEEDS OF THE TIMES labor. In addition, we will promote activities that contribute to the betterment of the global society. Environmentally friendly CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS EMPLOYEES LOCAL COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT We pledge to develop, manufacture and sell semiconductor products that respect the environment, and we will strive to ● ‌Providing safe products ● Promoting CSR ● Respecting human rights ● Communicating with local ● Eco-Management Initiative minimize the environmental impact of our products throughand exacting service procurement communities ● Providing opportunities to ● Eco-Factories Initiative out the entire product life cycle. We will also participate in ● ‌Providing appropriate ● Promoting fair transactions develop and use talents ● Supporting the fostering of information and engaging a new generation ● Eco-Products Initiative activities intended to harmonize human pursuits and the In dialogue ● Building a safe workplace environment, promoting increased awareness of issues such environment ● Eco-Communication Initiative as climate change and biodiversity. 2 CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY AND CSR CSR INITIATIVES ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS WORKING WITH SUPPLIERS WORKING WITH EMPLOYEES WORKING WITH THE LOCAL COMMUNITY CSR INITIATIVES ❶ ▸ Stance of the Renesas Electronics Group One of the basic policies of Renesas Electronics Group is to increase customer satisfaction FOR OUR and earn customer trust by responding quickly to their needs and offering appropriate highgrade solutions. In line with this policy, all Renesas Electronics employees in each division and each office are implementing business activities with Company’s customers in mind. CUSTOMERS  EEKING CUSTOMER SATISFACTION S To help customers use the Group’s products safely, appropriately STRENGTHENING CUSTOMER SATISFACTION and effectively, we have established centers to provide technical THROUGH COMPANY-WIDE IMPROVEMENT AND COMMUNICATION support for users. These centers provide a variety of technical inforINITIATIVES Each year, the Group designates March 11 as Trust and Peace of mation on our products. Mind Day on which CS is surveyed, allowing us to regularly verify the Renesas Electronics Group believes that customer feedback is a level of our customers’ trust in ourselves and obtain information that valuable management resource for enhancing customer satisfaction Support/Design (Website) is used to further improve our products, services and business activ(CS). For a Group-wide initiative, we strive to make improvements https://www.renesas.com/en-hq/support/contact.html ities. We did a CS survey in March 2016 and received 277 responses so that this management resource can help increase CS. The results from 150 corporate customers in Japan and abroad. We have been are reported to upper management and disclosed throughout the sharing the results throughout the Group to improve CS. Group so that all employees have the same information. ■ ‌Customer Evaluation of Renesas Electronics ■ ‌CS Management Poor 1 3% Excellent Check 14% Perform CS Somewhat poor surveys 8% Identify issues 4 2 277 Do Act Everything starts with the responses Corporate voices of our customers Solve issues activities About average Good 3 38% 37% Plan Corporate image Products/services 3 CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY AND CSR CSR INITIATIVES ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS WORKING WITH SUPPLIERS WORKING WITH EMPLOYEES WORKING WITH THE LOCAL COMMUNITY FOR OUR CUSTOMERS PRODUCT QUALITY IMPROVEMENT S  TUDYING DEFECTIVE PRODUCTS AND The Renesas Electronics Group sets concrete quality objectives every fiscal year based on the Quality Policy top management has committed TAKING CORRECTIVE ACTION to. To achieve these objectives, we work for continuous improvement of overall quality in the development, design, manufacturing, and support If a shipped product is found to be defective, the quality assurance processes. Individual divisions and offices set prioritized semiannual projects for quality improvement, and they formulate and implement action department leads an effort to determine the cause and take corplans to accomplish these projects. Action plans go through an improvement cycle that checks their progress during each six-month period and rective measures. The quality assurance department tracks defects revises them. found by customers and uses measuring and analysis instruments of [ Quality Assurance Systems ] various types to analyze the product failure. Design, production, and The Renesas Electronics Group has quality assurance systems Group-wide, which we use from development and design to production and other concerned departments confer with each other and take the delivery. This way, we are able to provide high-quality, reliable products and services for greater CS. We supply products to many companies necessary corrective measures as based on study results, and those involved with automobile production. In view of this, we use manufacturing tools that conform to automobile sector standards. Through such results are reported to the customer. activities as these, we are continuing to improve the quality of our products and services so that we are always able to accommodate the specific requirements of our customers. Regarding quality management certifications, we have acquired ISO 9001 certification on a Group-wide basis. In ■ Defective Product Inquiry Flow the meantime, individual manufacturing sites and their support sites have acquired ISO/TS 16949 certification. ■ Quality Assurance System Measures check and follow-up Design Action Support Quality department Information flow ● Quality information Provided ● Usage guide offered ● Defective product analysis Answer Report Relevance ● Customer certification support ● Quality meeting Investigation Quality of cause Quality Sales Design/ Production Testing/ Customer assurance Recurrence assurance Development Customers department prevention Prototyping Process Inspection department department Defective Measures taken product Failure analysis Report (information) Enhanced Quality and Reliability Production department ● Failure analysis ● Reliability engineering ● Failure physics ● Data collection Measures check and follow-up Design Quality Control Production Quality Control Product Quality Control Report 4 CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY AND CSR CSR INITIATIVES ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS WORKING WITH SUPPLIERS WORKING WITH EMPLOYEES WORKING WITH THE LOCAL COMMUNITY CSR INITIATIVES ❷ ▸ Stance of the Renesas Electronics Group Renesas Electronics provides suppliers with equal opportunities for competition, while WORKING WITH engaging in fair, impartial and open business transactions. Our goal is to contribute to the development of a sustainable society by working with the cooperation of all our partners in the supply chain on collaborative initiatives to meet the various demands of society. SUPPLIERS CSR PROCUREMENT INITIATIVES CSR PROCUREMENT ACTIVITIES [ CSR Activities through Procurement ] [ Initiatives Against the Conflict Minerals Problem ] PROCUREMENT POLICIES The Renesas Electronics Group asks its business partners to actively In the Democratic Republic of the Congo and some of its neighwork together to drive CSR initiatives that uphold social responboring countries in Africa, some minerals are a revenue source for 1. Provision of opportunities for fair competition sibility with regard to environmental protection, fair business and armed groups and this may lead to violations of human rights and We provide information on procurement in an appropriate corporate ethics, quality and safety, information security, health and the generation of conflicts. The Renesas Electronics Group recogand timely manner in order to offer opportunities for fair safety, and human rights and labor. In order to facilitate a deeper nizes that this problem about conflict minerals is a very important competition to all domestic and overseas companies who understanding of our position on CSR and to promote activities concern, and we are working to eliminate conflict minerals from our express an interest in working with us. based on a shared perspective, we have created a CSR promotion supply chain. As regards our suppliers, we used an industry-wide 2. Fair evaluation and selection of suppliers handbook for the supply chain, which has been distributed to type of survey through which we asked our suppliers to identify We employ a comprehensive supplier evaluation and selecaround 1,000 of our business partners. the refineries and smelters they use. The results of this survey are tion process that considers: the reliability of the potential being disclosed to our customers as we strive to procure minerals supplier’s management; the prices, quality, delivery timeresponsibly through our supply chain. Promotion of CSR Procurement (Website) lines and advanced technical features of the products and https://www.renesas.com/en-hq/about/company/procurement/csr.html services to be procured; and the supplier’s CSR policies. 3. Development of mutual trust [ Promoting Green Procurement ] We value communication with our suppliers and always The Renesas Electronics Group is promoting green procurement. strive to form relationships of mutual trust that will grow Specifically, when procuring raw materials for use in its products, stronger in the years to come. the Company prioritizes eco-friendly products free of hazardous 4. Management and protection of information substances from suppliers who are proactively promoting enviWe recognize the value of the information that we obtain ronmental protection. These requirements have been codified as through our procurement transactions, and we manage it Green Procurement Guidelines and disclosed to all suppliers. We appropriately. seek the understanding and cooperation of our suppliers as regards regulatory compliance with the RoHS Directive and the like, and in investigating the materials contained in purchased products. We also practice green purchasing of goods such as office supplies and IT equipment. When we select such goods, we give preference to eco-friendly products based on the environmental burden data for each item. 5 CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY AND CSR CSR INITIATIVES ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS WORKING WITH SUPPLIERS WORKING WITH EMPLOYEES WORKING WITH THE LOCAL COMMUNITY WORKING WITH SUPPLIERS BCP INITIATIVES WITH SUPPLIERS Renesas Electronics requests that its suppliers immediately notify its emergency information center of any damage in the event of being affected by natural disasters or major accidents. The Company has a system in place to ensure that, in such an event, information from suppliers reaches all concerned Group employees, both in Japan and overseas, regardless of when the event occurs. Based on this system, the employees in question take appropriate measures in a swift and efficient manner in order to address our customers’ concerns. ■ BCP Measures When a Procurement Problem Occurs (Flow from Occurrence to Launch of BCP System) Disaster occurs at a supplier Production Division Sales Division Business Division Quality Assurance Division Provision of disaster risk information (Materials Division) Investigate the extent of impact of halting procurement on affected components Production Division ➀ Components inventory status (Materials Division) ➁ Summary of impact on production (Production Division) Judgement of degree of impact Impact on production No impact on (BCP system production announcement) Launch of BCP system Normal production system continues to operate 6 CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY AND CSR CSR INITIATIVES ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS WORKING WITH SUPPLIERS WORKING WITH EMPLOYEES WORKING WITH THE LOCAL COMMUNITY CSR INITIATIVES ❸ ▸ Stance of the Renesas Electronics Group Our Company aims to be a positive place for our employees to work. With proper commuWORKING WITH nication and mutual trust, we are building a workplace where each person can work to his or her full potential. In addition, the Renesas Electronics Group aims to ensure a stable supply of individuals to each post through 1) succession plans (plans for successive personnel to EMPLOYEES fill a post) and 2) a system for the cultivation of leaders (plans for the fostering of human resources). DEVELOPING HUMAN RESOURCES [ Fostering Human Resources Able to Flourish as Leaders on the available to those taking this step include e-learning courses in Global Stage ] which employees are able to freely select the topic in which they For the Renesas Electronics Group to achieve sustainable growth Human resources who act as leaders have a great influence on want to improve their skill from among some 100 courses, business and contribute to society in a global market, all of its employees organizations and affect the outcomes of those organizations. The skills courses that employees can sign up for, and specialized techmust grow and be active. Our human resource development syscontinuous fostering of these human resources is an important nological courses in each field. tem aims to realize the “required human resources.” This image initiative from the perspective of a company’s growth, sustainability, [ Building a Rotation System ] is our vision of the talents, skills and actions required so that our and stability. We allocate human resources by considering the career objectives employees can think and act for themselves and our personnel have In addition, we aim to ensure a stable supply of individuals to and abilities established during MBO discussions with subordinate the capacity to act and succeed on the world stage. The following each post through 1) succession plans (plans for successive personemployees, and make use of a rotation system in the context of graphic lays out the specific characteristics we are trying to develop. nel to fill a post) and 2) a system for the cultivation of leaders (plans career development. In addition, in order to increase the motivation for the fostering of human resources). of our employees and invigorate our organization, we make person■ Required Human Resources [ Creating an Environment to Invigorate Human Resource nel changes through open recruitment, and individuals are given Cultivation in the Workplace ] opportunities to independently build their own careers. Philosophy Because on-the-job training (OJT) is the foundation for cultivating [ Educating New Employees and Invigorating Young Workers ] human resources, the nurturing of subordinate staff members is an With the aim of nurturing new self-reliant work-ready employees evaluation metric within the system of management by objectives and encouraging younger employees to be more active, we have Vision and evaluation of behavior applied to those in managerial positions. implemented introductory training, plant tours, practical sales Linking this to evaluation contributes to further enhancements in the training and a personnel training system where younger employees Our People awareness of the need to nurture subordinates and to a reassertion teach our new employees one-to-one. New employees also have —Human resources that demonstrate their ability to take action on the global stage and win— of the importance of OJT and OJT methods, leading to more effecfirst-year review training and hold meetings at which they report on ●Rigorous problem-solver tive cultivation of subordinate employees. Training opportunities are the results of their training. In addition, we have laid the foundations ●Reliable team-player provided to those evaluating others to impart the knowledge and of preparing human resources that can play an active role in our ●Relentless challenger skills required to conduct fair and objective assessments. company by enabling them to understand the basic technology and [ Creating a System for Voluntary Learning by Employees ] acquire skills necessary to do their jobs, and by developing their Planning, decision-making and Strategic thinking In order to carry out voluntary learning by employees, we believe general business execution capabilities. problem-solving it is important that individuals be aware of the importance of their Ownership and initiative Global mindset Openness to change own growth, that they understand what they should learn, and that they put what they have learned into practice in the workplace. We Innovation Leadership and have prepared a wide variety of training courses. Specific options teamwork 7 CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY AND CSR CSR INITIATIVES ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS WORKING WITH SUPPLIERS WORKING WITH EMPLOYEES WORKING WITH THE LOCAL COMMUNITY WORKING WITH EMPLOYEES ■ Skill Development System RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS Both the Renesas Electronics Group CSR Charter and the Renesas Shared items Items by vocational ability Electronics Group Code of Conduct clearly state that the Renesas Electronics Group will respect human rights in hiring, human WG for resource development, employee treatment and all other aspects Personal development (Correspondence course)/Competence Training to cultivate Department head WG for WG for the enhancement of employment, while eliminating any discrimination based on race, MOT training class enhancement of enhancement of RRT training Evaluator of technological philosophy, belief, gender, age, social position, family origin, nationsales ability technical skills training capacity managerial staff ality, ethnicity, religion, or physical and mental disability, to ensure Assessment by rank that all of its employees are treated equally. Also, the charter and the Section head class Planning and Planning and Planning and code of conduct clearly prohibit sexual harassment, as well as forced In-house TOEIC test Various seminars promotion of promotion of promotion of labor and child labor. Since March 2008, we have also endorsed and Training for a various human various human various human new position participated in the United Nations Global Compact for business resource cultiresource cultiresource cultiTraining in Training to operations with a strong sense of ethics in accordance with intercourses/Improvement of various business skills/Language skills vation measures vation measures vation measures centering centering on centering on a national guidelines. As we promote global operations, we ensure Rank-and-file increase ability to on technical a variety of skill evaluation that all of our Group companies are familiar with these principles. In overseas duties employees lectures and training initiasystem and line with the principles, each Renesas Electronics Group company implement tasks skill evaluation, tives, aiming to a variety of must not only comply with relevant laws and regulations, but also aiming to enhance sales training initiastrengthen and marketing tives, aiming to implement educational and awareness-raising programs on human Report on training outcomes for second year technological ability enhance technirights and other related subjects. Priority training system/ competitiveness cal skills Specifically, we raise employee awareness of human rights New employees Introductory training during new-employee and position-specific training and e-training programs for all employees, as well as various events during Human Being implemented / scheduled for implementation Under consideration Not implemented in FY2016 Rights Week every year. We put up posters in places visible to employees and use our intranet to inform them about our in-house PROMOTING DIVERSITY IN HUMAN RESOURCES service for consulting on issues of sexual harassment, harassment of The Renesas Electronics Group is strengthening initiatives to promote diversity. At Renesas Electronics, we respect differences. We aim to subordinates by superiors, equal opportunity for men and women, actively use differences to respond effectively to the changing business environment and diversifying customer needs and thereby establish an and other issues. In these ways, we are endeavoring to facilitate conadvantage. sultation and enable appropriate responses to employee concerns. Specifically, we recruit people so that, regardless of nationality, gender or physical constitution, they can apply their individual abilities and contribute to society. In addition, the Group aims to create more employee-friendly, pleasant workplaces by placing particular focus on diversity. For example, we are promoting the hiring of more female employees and people with disabilities. 8 CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY AND CSR CSR INITIATIVES ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS WORKING WITH SUPPLIERS WORKING WITH EMPLOYEES WORKING WITH THE LOCAL COMMUNITY WORKING WITH EMPLOYEES WORK-LIFE BALANCE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY We are working on the development of various systems and environments designed to help each employee maximize their individual ability, [ Basic Policy ] while at the same time achieving a balance between their private life and fulfilling and rewarding work. In line with the basic policy, “Renesas Electronics shall protect the safety and We provide many support systems that help employees to balance work with family and childcare. Employees can use these systems at health of its employees and work to realize employee-friendly, safe workdifferent life stages, such as pregnancy, childbirth, childrearing, and nursing care. We also give employees the option of utilizing various forms of place environments,” the Company is implementing various measures. workstyle support according to their needs, including short leave, leave of absence, shorter working hours, and working at home. [ Group-Wide Initiatives ] [ Examples of the Main Measures Supporting Work-Life Balance ] The Renesas Electronics Group is promoting various activities aimed Flex-time system, discretionary working system, maternity leave, spouse paternity leave, childcare and nursing-care leave system, childcare and at ensuring disaster prevention, occupational health and safety. More nursing-care shorter working hours system, home-based working system for childcare and nursing care specifically, a Company-Wide Safety and Health Conference—consisting of occupational health and safety officers at individual business sites ■ System Usage Results (Fiscal 2016) and Group companies—has formulated the Renesas Electronics Group Disaster Prevention and Occupational Health and Safety Management Childcare shorter Nursing-care leave Nursing-care shorter Childcare leave system working hours system system working hours system Policy. Based on this policy, the occupational health and safety officers organize related activities. Meanwhile, the Company is promoting 27 persons 65 persons 0 persons 1 person the sharing of information related to occupational health and safety Breakdown of childcare leave-taking by gender within the Group. Such information is utilized to prevent disasters and Women: 100%; Men: 0% reinforce the Group’s occupational health and safety activities. [ Specific Activities ] ◇Occupational safety activities: Through risk assessment processes, Moreover, the Renesas Electronics Group has formulated an action plan based on Japan's Act of Promotion of Women’s Participation and disaster risks are identified and possible countermeasures are prepared. Advancement in the Workplace (known informally as the Female Employees’ Promotion Law), and we are engaged in implementing measures to These processes are helping us prevent disasters and accidents. For Group bring about the corporate success of women in the future. factories with production lines, occupation safety and health management systems have already been adopted and labor accident prevention activities are being conducted. We have designated March 11 of each year as Trust and Peace of Mind Day in the Group. We conduct disaster preparedness inspections on workplaces and employee homes, all on this one day. ◇Occupational health activities: Programs are being implemented by industrial physicians, public health nurses and occupational health and safety staff working together to follow up the results of medical examinations, offer counseling, provide meetings to discuss long-term overtime, offer education on mental health issues and implement measures to help stop or reduce smoking. These include “Promoting and Keeping a Healthy Body,” “Better Mental Health” and “Overwork Countermeasures.” 9 CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY AND CSR CSR INITIATIVES ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS WORKING WITH SUPPLIERS WORKING WITH EMPLOYEES WORKING WITH THE LOCAL COMMUNITY CSR INITIATIVES ❹ ▸ Stance of the Renesas Electronics Group The Renesas Electronics Group aims to help build a rich society on a global scale through WORKING WITH THE our business, and we have taken a variety of opportunities to implement social contribution activities. Thinking of ourselves as a member of society, we proactively engage in social contribution activities so that, as a corporate citizen, we can fulfill our responsibility to the LOCAL COMMUNITY community and society. SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION ACTIVITIES [ Detailed Activities ] [ Detailed Activities ] Activity in Japan Overseas Activities [ Financial Support for Social Contribution Activities during the Fiscal Year ] Electronics Workshops European MCU Car Rally Competition The Renesas Electronics Group has endorsed the objectives of the From 2013, Renesas Electronics has held yearly electronics workRenesas Electronics Europe Limited held the second European MCU 1% Club, established in November 1990 by KEIDANREN (the Japan shops during the spring and summer holidays that parents and Car Rally competition on February 25 at embedded world 2016 in Business Federation). Endorsing businesses voluntarily contribute at children can attend together. The workshops are aimed at building Nuremberg, Germany. Twenty-four teams from European universileast 1% of their recurring profits to social contribution activities. As familiarity with the Company’s semiconductor products. They are ties, comprising some 120 students, participated in the challenge by one of these businesses, we have been proactively pursuing social primarily targeted at children in the later years of elementary school, each racing a functioning model rally car they had built that included contribution activities in a number of fields. but a wide range of people of all ages are welcome. Participants sensors and a Renesas RX microcontroller (MCU). A team from from preschoolers up to the elderly have taken part. Bulgaria won the championship, followed by a team from Spain. [ Detailed Activities ] In 2016, 80 attendees enjoyed the workshops. During the spring Students love a chalActivity in Japan holiday, the participants made an “electronic organ” that could lenge—and the MCU play a variety of music by means of automated performance-control Car Rally competition will Wheelchairs Donated Using Money Raised from Collecting Aluminum Cans programming. Participants in the summer holiday workshop made help them develop their In August and September 2016, the Yonezawa Factory and the Micon Racers, racing cars that could run automatically by means of mechatronics knowledge Electronics Systems Department of Renesas Semiconductor Package robot-control programming. and programming skills & Test Solutions (RSPT) donated wheelchairs using money raised while working as a team. from collecting aluminum cans. As part of social contribution activity, It also gives Renesas every year the Yonezawa Factory and other sites collect discarded the opportunity to meet aluminum cans. Each 500 some of tomorrow’s top kilograms of aluminum engineering talent in can raise enough money Europe. to purchase one wheelchair, so we have been able to donate wheelchairs to local authorities and the like in the vicinity. In 2016, we donated a total of 25 wheelchairs. 10 CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY AND CSR CSR INITIATIVES ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENTAL ▸ Stance of the Renesas Electronics Group Businesses in recent years have begun to take environmental initiatives with a wide range of approaches. Aside from combating pollution, enterprises today are working to reduce MEASURES greenhouse gases, lower emissions, regulate chemical content in products, and more. The Renesas Electronics Group works to reduce environmental burdens as guided by the cooperative targets of industry groups. We develop and offer products that save energy and lower environmental burden by increasing environmental performance. The yearly policies and targets of such environmental activities are deliberated by the Environmental Promotion Meeting chaired by the board member in charge of environmental issues.  THREE ENVIRONMENTAL CORNERSTONES OF Eco-Factories Initiative ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY RENESAS ELECTRONICS Aimed at reducing the environmental impact of manufacturing We will contribute to the harmonization of society and Some of the key issues in our environmental measures are 1) legal sites through the reduction of greenhouse gases (GHG) and the the environment in the course of compliance, 2) reduction of environmental burden, 3) the developappropriate management of chemical substances in manufacturing our business activities. ment of eco-friendly products and 4) maintaining good relations processes with stakeholders. We are tackling these issues through environEco-Products Initiative mental management, in which all employees participate. Such Aimed at supplying eco-friendly semiconductors produced with management is based on a so-called Environmental Management environmental considerations in mind throughout their life cycles, ACTION GUIDELINES System built on the cornerstones of the Eco-Factories, Eco-Products including the control of chemical substances contained in products and Eco-Communication Initiatives. and the development of products with excellent energy-saving 1. We will incorporate environmental considerations into all performance stages of the product life cycle, including research & devel■ Three Environmental Cornerstones of Renesas Electronics opment, design, procurement, production, sales, logistics, For details of these activities, please refer to the following website. use and disposal. Environmental Promotion Meeting (Japanees language only) https://www.renesas.com/ja-jp/about/company/csr/ecoproduct.html 2. We will strive to prevent pollution as well as to minimize the (chaired by the board member in impact of our products on the environment. When environcharge of environmental issues) mental problems arise, we will take appropriate steps to Eco-Communication Initiative Eco-Management minimize the environmental impact and disclose accurate Aimed at strengthening employee awareness through environmental information. education and disseminating the Group’s environmental information 3. Our environmental management efforts will involve comEco-Factories Eco-Products Eco-Communication to society pliance with all environmental laws, regulations and agreeEnvironmental Eco-friendly Information load reduction product disclosure ments, and we will promote compliance activities. at manufacturing development and internal ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 4. We will disclose environmental information to stakeholders sites, others dissemination For details of the Group’s environmental activities, please refer to and encourage communication with society for the purpose the Environmental Report at the following URL. of promoting mutual understanding. 5. We will educate all employees in environmental conservahttps://www.renesas.com/en-hq/about/company/csr.html tion to create a company culture that promotes harmony between the environment and business activities. Environmental Management System 11 CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY AND CSR CSR INITIATIVES ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE ▸ Stance of the Renesas Electronics Group For Renesas Electronics, we define compliance as obeying the law and responding to what society requires of us. We believe that the practice of thorough compliance is critical to a company’s survival. To that end, we formulated the Renesas Electronics Group Code of Conduct as a common Group guideline for the practice of compliance. COMPLIANCE PROMOTION STRUCTURE General managers of Renesas Electronics divisions and offices Division and office heads and Group company presidents, and and presidents of domestic Group companies are responsible for the compliance promoters who assist them, lead activities that Renesas Electronics’ Internal Control Promotion Committee, chaired compliance in their respective organizations. They cooperate with promote compliance within their own organizations. by the CEO, deliberates and makes decisions on compliance matthose in charge of compliance in each field to decide on and impleters, and reports key issues to the Executive Committee and the ment the measures necessary to promote compliance. ■ Compliance Risks Board of Directors. The CEO Office oversees all matters relating to If a compliance violation does occur, the division, office or promoting compliance and designates a division or office responsiMajor Compliance Risks domestic Group company reports it promptly to the head of the ble for each compliance risk category. division or office in charge of compliance for the field in question Subcontract Law violations, and to the chief of the CEO Office. Fraudulent order/ camouflage contracting, ■ Compliance Promotion Structure fictitious revenue illegal importing, Internal Control Promotion Committee interest-conflicting transactions COMPLIANCE PROMOTION ACTIVITIES (chaired by the CEO) Computer viruses, The division or office in charge of compliance in each field monitors Illegal export illegal software copying, trends in the establishment or revision of laws, etc., that underlie unauthorized access compliance promotion. Then it raises awareness by preparing Infringement of other parties’ Deceptive advertising regulations and manuals, providing training and practicing commuintellectual property rights Division or office in charge of compliance nication, and performs monitoring. Antimonopoly Law violations The Management Planning Division conducts training and (cartels, etc.), transactions with antisocial forces, confidential/ Defective products, Support awareness-raising initiatives on all compliance matters. All Group personal information leaks, product data falsification employees, moreover, fill out a questionnaire to verify that cominsider trading, pliance has taken root. If necessary, the results are shared with the internal illegal activities Consult/Report Consult/Report divisions or offices in charge of compliance, which find this inforInappropriate relationships with mation useful when they revise the measures necessary to promote sales partners, Accounting fraud Divisions/Offices of Domestic Group illegal conduct against sales compliance. partners Renesas Electronics Companies Human rights abuses (sexual harassment, etc.), Environmental damage, conoccupational accidents, tamination involving specified corporate entertainment/ hazardous substances gift-giving scandals, illegal political donations 12 CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY AND CSR CSR INITIATIVES ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE OTHER [ Initiatives against Antisocial Forces ] [ Confidential Information Management/Personal Information In June 2007, the Japanese government announced guidelines for Protection ] [ Compliance Hotline ] enterprises to prevent damage by antisocial forces. This is part of The Renesas Electronics Group has formulated its Information Group executives and employees may encounter a situation in which a rapidly growing movement in recent years to eliminate antisoSecurity Policy, Privacy Policy and Basic Rules for Confidential they are not able to consult with or report to their supervisors or cial forces. In our Code of Conduct and Basic Rules for Rejecting Information Management. At Renesas Electronics divisions and divisions and offices responsible due to certain reasons and circumTransactions with Antisocial Forces, Renesas Electronics Group likeGroup companies in Japan, persons with ultimate responsibility are stances, even when they have identified compliance-related problems. wise prohibits employees from doing business with antisocial forces appointed, along with information management promoters. The To deal effectively with such situations, the Company has established and has set up a system to prevent such transactions. Specifically, latter head up our information management activities. Additionally, the Renesas Electronics Group Hotline (“Group Hotline”) as a whisthere is a self-verifying system at each workplace and affiliated our system allows personal information to be acquired through the tleblower’s contact for consultation by executives and employees of company that uses self-discipline to decide whether transactions Internet and handled only if consent is given in advance. This is one domestic Group companies and for reporting such problems. can go forward and works to prevent business with antisocial forces. of the ways in which we take great care to ensure that we stay in In addition, by employing a third party who serves as an external In addition, workplace managers and affiliated company presidents compliance with the laws of nations around the world. contact point, we have established a system under which the anoperform self-audits and check on the status of their businesses. nymity of the person reporting is protected at his or her request. Privacy Policy (Website) This external contact point can be accessed not only by the Group’s [ Security Export Control Initiatives ] https://www.renesas.com/en-hq/privacy.html executives, employees or temporary staff, but also by members of The Renesas Electronics Group’s products are used in industries the Group’s suppliers and authorized distributors. The Company’s around the world. To ensure that these products are not used to internal rules clearly prohibit the adverse treatment of those who disrupt international peace and security, the Group must manage consult with or report to the Group Hotline. The Company has our exports appropriately day to day. posted such rules on its websites both internal and external so that Naturally, the Group complies with laws and regulations regardpeople can use the Group Hotline without anxiety. The hotline was ing security export controls, and by setting out in a compliance used 12 times in fiscal 2015 for consultation or reporting. program the independent actions it should take from the perspec■ Renesas Electronics Group Hotline tive of risk management, it attains a level more stringent than that Report (non-anonymous only) required by statute. Moreover, we periodically audit all sites in Japan Renesas Electronics and overseas to ensure they are constantly maintaining appropriate Report control, and we provide systematic position-specific and job-specific Report Renesas Domestic Group (non-anonymous only) Electronics training to all employees. Companies Third-Party Group Hotline Furthermore, Renesas Electronics has obtained a Special General Report Consultation Bulk License from the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, and Window has been certified as an Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) Suppliers Receive Report non-anonymous exporter by Tokyo Customs of the Ministry of Finance of Japan. reports Report (To confirm The person who contacted the Distributors reporters’ consultation window can request that Report identity) the third party withhold his or her name. 13 CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY AND CSR CSR INITIATIVES ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISK ▸ Stance of the Renesas Electronics Group Renesas Electronics formulated the Renesas Electronics Group Risk and Crisis Management Basic Regulations, and is building a risk management system for the entire Renesas MANAGEMENT Electronics Group. SYSTEM OF RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT OUTSIDE JAPAN Renesas Electronics has formulated Basic Rules for Risk Management and, based on these rules, the Company has established a Group-wide risk To perform risk management outside Japan, we work with the head management structure. office division that supervises each overseas site, as well as the local Risks in overall corporate management are categorized according to the level of possible exposure and the degree of potential impact risk management office, to identify potential risks associated with on the Company. The Company designates a division or office responsible for each risk category. When a management crisis occurs, Renesas each risk event. Then, working with the local risk management office, Electronics sets up a risk-specific task force in line with planned countermeasures. These risk-specific task forces do their utmost to minimize the we draft countermeasures and write manuals. There are certain risk negative impacts of a management crisis. events that call for us as a Group to be especially vigilant and to share information, such as new strains of influenza and terrorism. We ■ Risk Management Structure are putting a system in place to notify Group employees, including When the Situation is Normal During Emergencies those overseas, with the information we collect on such events. And in case of damage from natural disasters or other events at or near Deliberation by division/ Plan Preventive Measures Countermeasures the Group, we have a system in place for all Renesas Electronics staff concerned with risk countermeasures to share information rapidly as we promote global risk management. Level 1 Exposed to risks Company-wide Emergency Risk Identification/ Office responsible for each risk category Assessment and Risk Mapping Company-wide countermeasures Monitoring by Division/Office Responsible Level 2 Definition of Division/ for Each Risk Category and Serious Management Crises Office Responsible for Promotion of Countermeasures by Each Risk Category Preventive/Minimization multiple divisions/offices Measures Definition of the Level of Level 3 Countermeasures Other Management Crises Countermeasures by division/ office responsible for each risk category Review of countermeasure implementation Not exposed to risks 14 CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY AND CSR CSR INITIATIVES ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT ESTABLISHING BCM ■ Flow of Recovery Activities Following an Earthquake As part of enhancing its risk management system, Renesas Electronics Organirecognizes business continuity management (BCM) as the primary Primary recovery period (Emergency recovery system) Secondary recovery period Immediately following an earthquake (Epicentral earthquake) (Full-fledged recovery system) zation Time means to prepare for disasters and manage risks. Together with our Group companies, we have worked proactively to establish and Support from Earthquake Response Supervision Headquarters strengthen our BCM in order to protect the safety of employees, to Support from associated companies (places of business) participating in support programs continue fulfilling our responsibility to supply products and services, Initial activities immediately following an earthquake and to safeguard our management resources. We performed a general examination of our BCM and made Disbanding of Earthquake Response Headquarters at related companies (places of business) Requests for support for full-fledged recovery Checking and reporting on status of implementation of emergency recovery measures Report concerning completion of recovery Securing of facility equipment Emergency responses at related companies (places of business) Establishment of Earthquake Response Headquarters ➀ Safety checks Requests for During working hours revisions based on the experience of the Great East Japan ➁ Guidance for temporary ➀ Relief and Earthquake, taking into account anticipated damage from an support evacuation rescue activities ➂ Securing of ➁ Care for injured Occurrence of an earthquake earthquake directly beneath the Tokyo metropolitan area or at Damaged place of business evacuation area ➂ Removal of Executive Rapid announcement bodies General Manager concerning the earthquake the Nankai Trough. Specific issues raised included strengthening Verification of status our existing safety measures and emergency response systems, as well as measures for damage mitigation, business continuity and General Report on damage caused at related companies (places of business) Affairs team by the earthquake quick recovery after a disaster. We also enhanced our measures for of recovery Launch of Earthquake Outside of working hours Can attend work Attend work Response Headquarters restoring operations in the event of a disaster (e.g., establishing recovery procedures and specifying who is in charge at these times), Human Collection of information Resources team on casualties and injuries putting in seismic reinforcement, establishing alternate production networks, and enhancing risk communication with customers. Original recovery activities Each division of Renesas Electronics concerned with these issues Standby at related companies Cannot attend work (places of business) is working out countermeasures and putting them into practice. In addition, matters of importance are brought up for discussion at management meetings and communicated to individual business Activities of workplace firefighting team (by workplace and floor) sites. In these ways, we are working to enhance the entire Group’s capacity for business continuity. 15 CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY AND CSR CSR INITIATIVES ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE O  UR BASIC APPROACH TO CORPORATE from the accounting auditors, the Internal Auditing Office in charge which is composed of the President & CEO, directors responsible of internal audits, and other relevant divisions using his knowledge for internal control, and the corporate officer responsible for adminGOVERNANCE and experience of the semiconductor business, and the Board of istrative divisions. The committee periodically holds meetings to Based on its Corporate Philosophy and Corporate Vision, Renesas Corporate Auditors, which includes highly independent outside supervise the PDCA cycle related to internal control matters of the Electronics aims to achieve sustainable growth and improved longcorporate auditors, objectively analyzes the information from many Renesas Group, and if a serious compliance violation does occur, to term corporate value while seeking to ensure its coexistence and different viewpoints. discuss and examine how it happened and how it can be prevented mutual prosperity together with all its stakeholders. In particular, in the future. [ Business Execution ] in its upcoming growth phase, the Company will provide excellent The Company uses the Corporate Officer System to clarify Renesas Electronics’ Board of Directors carefully examines the cansemiconductor products and optimal solutions through precise maraccountability for the execution of business operations and enable didates for election as directors who are submitted at shareholders’ keting and sales activities, while refining its cutting-edge advancedecisions about these operations to be reached quickly. A suitable meetings to ensure that all directors are well suited to executing ments in technology. In doing so, it aims to consolidate its position level of authority is delegated to each corporate officer in accorbusiness operations. The Board of directors take into consideration as a global semiconductor company. dance with the responsibilities assigned to each corporate officer by the backgrounds of candidates, and other applicable items, to reach To achieve this, the Company recognizes that it is important to the Board of Directors and the Company’s own fundamental rules of decisions about their suitability. build a corporate governance structure that enables decision-making decision-making and authorization procedure. The Board of Directors has five members including three outside that is transparent and fair as well as quick and resolute. The Company directors. It meets once each month in principle and at other times [ Corporate Auditors and the Board of Corporate Auditors ] will continue to enhance this structure mainly through dialogue and as needed. The directors reach decisions with speed and flexibility Corporate auditors are responsible for supervising the directors’ cooperation with our stakeholders, including shareholders, appropriabout important matters involving management and supervise performance of duties. The Board of Corporate Auditors comprises ate information disclosure, and by ensuring appropriate delegation the execution of business operations by directors. The outside four outside corporate auditors and holds regular meetings once of authority and highly effective oversight functions. directors have two primary functions. One is to supervise and check each month, in principle, and other meetings as required. At these the execution of business operations by directors to determine if meetings, the corporate auditors determine auditing policies and  VERVIEW OF THE CORPORATE O these directors are performing their duties properly. The other is other matters and receive reports from each corporate auditor GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE to use their knowledge, experience and insight to reflect external about the status of audits and other subjects. Three of the four outIn line with this basic approach to corporate governance, Renesas viewpoints in the decision-making process for management. side corporate auditors are either an attorney or a certified public Electronics is upgrading its management structure and implementAll proposals to be submitted for approval by the Board accountant, and three of the corporate auditors have extensive ing various measures. of Directors are, in principle, first submitted to the Executive knowledge concerning finance and accounting. The Company has adopted a Board of Corporate Auditors, Committee, which is composed of full-time directors and executive In accordance with auditing policies and other items established and has built a corporate governance structure with corporate vice presidents, for a preliminary deliberation. These deliberations by the Board of Corporate Auditors, each corporate auditor performs auditors that monitor the execution of directors’ duties. The fullprovide for more thorough discussions of the resolutions. In addithe following duties to supervise the performance of the directors: time corporate auditor effectively obtain high-quality information tion, the Company has the Internal Control Promotion Committee, attend meetings of the Board of Directors and other important 16 CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY AND CSR CSR INITIATIVES ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE meetings; interview corporate officers and employees about busi■ Corporate Governance Structure ness activities and receive business reports from directors, corporate officers and employees; examine documents approving decisions General Meeting of Shareholders and other important business documents; perform investigations to determine the status of business operations and finances (including Appoint/dismiss Appoint/dismiss Appoint/dismiss the compliance framework and internal controls system); and conReport duct investigations at subsidiaries. In addition, corporate auditors receive periodic reports from the Internal Audit Office, other related Board of Directors Audit Report Accounting Auditors 5 directors divisions and the accounting auditor for their audits. Corporate Board of Corporate Auditors (3 outside directors) Cooperate auditors also exchange information and collaborate in other ways 4 corporate auditors with these parties as required. (4 outside corporate auditors) Corporate Auditors Office Report [ Internal Audits ] Appoint/dismiss The Internal Audit Office is staffed by 10 employees and serves as Supervise Audit Cooperate Cooperate an autonomous third party for verifying and evaluating other parts of the management organization, including divisions responsible for business execution, corporate staff divisions, consolidated subsidAppoint/ Representative Directors iaries and other areas, in terms of compliance, risk management and dismiss Internal Control Promotion internal control. The Internal Audit Office also proposes concrete Instruct Report Committee measures for rectifying or improving any problems that arise. In Executive Committee addition, corporate auditors and the accounting auditor regularly (Deliberation on key issues, Internal Audit Office exchange information and collaborate. etc.) Audit [ Accounting Audit ] The Company has engaged Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC as its 13 Executive/Senior Vice Presidents (Including those concurrently serving as directors) Audit Audit accounting auditor. The two auditors who performed the accounting (Execution of business) Audit audit of the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, were Noriaki Kenmochi and Noriyasu Instruct Hanafuji, partners of Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC. The audit team Business Execution Divisions Corporate Staff Divisions, Group Companies, etc. included certified public accountants and junior accountants who had qualified as certified public accountants. (As of August 31, 2016) 17 CORPORATE PHILOSOPHY AND CSR CSR INITIATIVES ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  UTSIDE DIRECTORS AND OUTSIDE O Attendance at Board of Outside directors Reason for selection CORPORATE AUDITORS Directors meetings*2 The Company actively incorporates external perspectives in order Mr. Katsumata makes use of his abundant experience and deep insight developed to deal with management issues from a diverse range of viewpoints through wide-ranging involvement in the investment business at Innovation Network — Mikihide Katsumata* 1 by appointing outside directors and outside corporate auditors with Corporation of Japan and elsewhere to perform a monitoring function for the whole of (Appointed June 2016) the Company’s management. a broad array of experience and professional knowledge. Currently, three of the Company’s five directors and all four of its corporate Mr. Toyoda makes use of his abundant experience and deep insight developed through wide-ranging involvement in the investment business at Innovation Network Corporation 16 out of 16 auditors are from outside the Renesas Group. To upgrade its perforTetsuro Toyoda*1 of Japan and elsewhere to perform a monitoring function for the whole of the Company’s (100%) mance and corporate governance, the Company seeks individuals management. from the outside who can provide advice based on accurate and Mr. Iwasaki has experience in business operations having served as a director at a number objective viewpoints. This is why the Company has three indepen— Jiro Iwasaki*1 of companies over many years. He makes use of his abundant experience and deep (Appointed June 2016) dent outside directors and three independent outside corporate insight to perform a monitoring function for the whole of the Company’s management. auditors, which it has reported to the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Attendance at Attendance at Board of Outside corporate Board of Reason for selection Corporate auditors Directors Auditors meetings*2 meetings*2 Mr. Fukuda has served for four years as an outside corporate auditor at the Company and is familiar with our business operations. He also has accounting experience at NEC Kazuki Fukuda 16 out of 16 16 out of 16 Corporation, and has been involved in business operations as a corporate officer of an (Full-time) (100%) (100%) NEC subsidiary. He makes use of his abundant experience and deep insight to perform an auditing function for the whole of the Company’s management. Mr. Shimizu makes use of his specialized knowledge as a certified public accountant together with his abundant experience and deep insight developed over many years to 16 out of 16 15 out of 16 Yoshinobu Shimizu* 1 perform an auditing function for the whole of the Company’s management, mainly from (100%) (93%) the financial and accounting viewpoints. Mr. Yamazaki makes use of his specialized knowledge as an attorney together with his abundant experience and deep insight developed over many years to perform an 15 out of 16 14 out of 16 Kazuyoshi Yamazaki* 1 auditing function for the whole of the Company’s management, mainly from a legal (93%) (87%) viewpoint. Mr. Sekine makes use of his specialized knowledge as a certified public accountant 16 out of 16 16 out of 16 Takeshi Sekine*1 together with his deep insight to perform an auditing function for the whole of the (100%) (100%) Company’s management, mainly from the financial and accounting viewpoints. *1 Independent corporate officer *2 During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016
