CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 1 BRDR. MØLLER A/S EDWIN RAHRSVEJ 77 DK-8220 BRABRAND DENMARK (+45) 87 47 60 60 MAIL@BRDRMOLLER.DK WWW.BRDRMOLLER.DK BRDR. MØLLER A/S CSR BASIC-REPORT 2014 ”WHY SHOULD I CARE ABOUT POSTERITY? WHAT’S POSTERITY EVER DONE FOR ME?” GROUCHO MARX Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 2 W elcome to Brdr. Møller's Basic CSR Report 2014. Here you will find a description of how our company will approach the environmental, social and economic challenges in coming years – a statement that will form the basis for our efforts, as a part of the growth plan Brdr. Møller has put forward for the period 20152020. Our Basic CSR Report 2014 sets out the strategic objectives and strategies, we have outlined and the CSR reports for 2015-2020 will then continuously represent the company's actual CSR reporting. Relating sustainable development to Brdr. Møller we see a crucial and continuous process We are working with 3 main strategic objectives – of change, whose aim it is to achieve a steady reduction in the relative resource consumption Quality, Growth and CSR! We are known for and relative discharges to soil, water and air. At delivering solutions that meet our clients' the same time it is a mindset that implies that expectations, and we would like to continue that way we constantly consider the environment factor in the future – quality is a key area for us. At the same in our investment decisions and, at the same time we are a company that wants to develop in the time, take responsibility for environmental coming years, so growth will also be the key part of conditions that are beyond the company's this development. Through this growth we aim at normal business area, for example through strengthening our competitiveness; we will develop direct support to environmental projects of our company's potential, and hopefully ensure the various kinds. Of course, we cannot save the creation of more jobs. Quality and growth then are world , but we can at least – and hopefully important business issues for Brdr. Møller, like our CSR make it a better place to be for the people we work is. This CSR report focuses on the CSR part of are working with and the projects we do. our strategic work, and is thus the starting point for the various activities, we will put into action during 2015-2020. We are now at the beginning, and will A crucial factor for such a sustainable work hard to realize the objectives we have set up development process to succeed, is a close and towards year 2020. No company today can exist in an trustful cooperation between all the company's independent vacuum, without any thought of how our employees from each project member to each business affects its surroundings. To meet this member of the company's Board of Directors. challenge, you can do so by either following the flow But not just internally within the company, must and living up to the minimum requirements of the law, we work with these processes, also through our or you can meet the challenge head on and turn it into external partners, will we seek solutions that a proactive tool for business growth. Not because it is help to create a more sustainable development. statutory, not because it is economically It will unfold in cooperation with customers, advantageous, not because our image will be suppliers, public authorities, and others we improved – but because we want to do it. Because we come in contact with. We therefore see our believe in it. work with CSR as a process that involves all the company's stakeholders – from the largest to By stating that, we have also said that our CSR work the smallest. in coming years will be developed and implemented as a fundamental core value of Brdr. Møller's DNA. We We are right now standing in front of an have chosen this ambitious objective, because we exciting future and I wish you a pleasant want to let CSR, including sustainable development, experience reading our CSR Baseline Report. constitute a crucial business process within Brdr. Møller, in coming years. We do not see the Best regards environmental, social and economic element as opposites, but as elements that go hand-in-hand. In Niels Juul 1987 the so-called Brundtland report, defined what Managing Director, sustainable development is about: Brdr. Møller A/S Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 3 CONTENTS 4-17 18-35 36-41 42-69 BRDR. MØLLER EENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ISSUES E ECONOMIC ISSUES 1. About Brdr. Møller A/S 4. We Hold Ambitions 7. Whistleblower 14. Past Results 2. Our Stakeholders 5. Are Environmental Issues 8. The Local Area 15. Environmental Costs 3. Strategic Objectives That Serious? 9. Exposed Groups 16. Governance 6. The Environment & 10. Internally… Brdr. Møller Problems 11. Eksternally… Goals 2014 & Solutions 12. Society 13. Human Rights Appendices CSR Data, GRI etc. GRI & Global Compact Sources & Notes Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 4 ABOUT BRDR. MØLLER A/S… BRDR. MØLLER A/S IS A WELL CONSOLIDATED, CONSTRUCTION COMPANY BASED IN THE ÅRHUS AREA WITH STRONG COMPETENCIES WITHIN SOIL, PIPESYSTEMS, DISTRICT HEATING ETC. Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 5 We have also taken care of many other and smaller projects, such as purification of the lakes by Varna, 1. About Brdr. Møller A/S the construction of bike paths, soil-moving operations, etc., but regardless of whether our projects are large or small, it is still the same quality Brdr. Møller is a small/medium-sized construction requirements that apply, when faced with company located in the Aarhus area that has responsibility for undertaking a project. conducted business here for over 50 years. The company was started up by three brothers – Gert, Kurt and Jørn – in 1964, and we have since then One of the things that has not changed during been dealing in particular with land development, these 50 years, are the values upon which Brdr. sewer systems as well as district heating, drainage Møller, is founded. One of the company's and site preparation projects etc. In the past 50 founders Jørn Møller states that: years we have developed into a modern company that has taken advantage of a wide range of large It has been the hallmark of our company and small tasks, especially in the Eastern Jutland throughout the years that we've never been area from snow removal and salting to the afraid to try something new and employ the establishment of on-ramps to the Djursland latest technology. We were also among the first highway, from moving smaller quantities of soil to who used the laser. We are a modern company participating in establishing Gellerupparken in that has built on old values. Western Aarhus. We treat people properly. Both employees and From having had a single excavator in 1964 unto our customers. It is also for this reason that today where we employ a range of modern many employees have been with us for such a machinery, working with GPS and computer long time, and customers are returning to us controlled systems. Of course, a lot has happened with new projects. They trust us and know we during these past 50 years. Today, it is the family's are keeping our word so it is with pleasure and next generation, represented by Sanne Juul pride that I look back on those projects, we Jørgensen and Mads Juul Møller, who stands as have been involved in through time owners of the company, and which will lead the company into the new millennium. Our vision is Jørn Møller clear – Brdr. Møller will in the future be a regional construction company firmly rooted in sustainable operations. The same applies to our mission, The Organization where we will develop our company to become a player with core competencies in several areas, including targeted investments in the development Brdr. Møllers organization is a line-staff of environmental business areas. organization, where third-party mainor . subcontracting, is the quite dominant area within Large and small projects our line of work. We are working within the construction industry, where areas such as landdevelopment in connection with district heating, Over the years, Brdr. Møller has been involved in sewerage and building development are among the many different projects. One of the major projects main areas. was the drainage of a larger area of land in Skæring by Aarhus – a project that lasted for 3 years. Another significant project was the company's participation in the construction of the Circular Road in Aarhus where Brdr. Møller was the main contractor on part of this stretch. A large sewer project in Risskov, which runs from 20092015 is another of our major projects Brdr. Møller currently is involved with in a Partnering-project with AarhusWater. Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 6 In 2014 we employed an average of 45 people, of which 3 are women. The Construction industry is, as can be seen, quite predominantly maleoriented, often because a greater physical effort is required. At the same time working with heavy equipment such as tractors and excavators traditionally has been an area that has had more appeal to men than to women. This will of course also affect the culture within Brdr. Møller. We aim to get more women into the industry, but there are clearly still some historical, physical and cultural barriers that must be overcome, before we begin to see a more balanced representation of the sexes within this industry. The 3 women we have employed are, therefore, all employed within administrative functions. In general, the culture of Brdr. Møller is characterized by good communication, a willingness to help each other, and a strong support for the objectives that provides the stepping-stone for the company's future developments. The organizational structure is shown on the next page in a legal as well as in a commercial context. The current structure was formed in 2012, when Sanne Juul Jørgensen and Mads Juul Møller took over all shares of Brdr. Møller. Values Brdr. Møller A/S Some call it Codes of Conduct, others Ethical Guidelines – within Brdr. Møller we simply call the organization's core values for our Constitution. This Constitution contains the very basic values that must permeate all our relationships within the organization, as well as outside the organization. Brdr. Møller A/S Our Constitution Within Brdr. Møller, we have drawn up a Constitution, which contains the basic values, we want to be known for which are: Respect vis-a-vis the common and the different Transparency regarding all of the information we supply Accountability concerning our activities and the people we are working with Honesty in all contexts where we are working Sustainability as the basis for all our business operations Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 7 Through these values, on the one hand, we want Brdr. Møller A/S – Our Value Chain to signal what we stand for, on the other hand, to provide a platform for the way we are working Our activities are placed in various stages of the within our organization. It helps create clarity and conventional value chain which can be identified within serves as a guideline for us and our stakeholders. the construction industry. We carry out e.g. site Everyone in our organization has the opportunity development located in the front part of the value chain, to discuss all elements of our Constitution with the and at the same time, we carry out e.g. sewer Managing Director in order to clarify matters. In restoration projects, that must be considered as activities return, we expect these to be followed by all undertaken in the latter part of the value chain. employees within Brdr. Møller. Non-compliance with regard to our Constitution will initially result in Significant Impacts and Sustainability a warning, and in recurring cases it may form the basis for a case of dismissing people from our organization. We do not expect to be employing Brdr. Møller will, by its very nature, create environmental such drastic steps in the future on the contrary we impacts throughout the activities we conduct. It applies believe that the values that forms the DNA of our to our consumption of non-renewable resources, through company is shared by all who work here. our discharges to soil, water and air, through the use of noisy machinery, and generating waste materials etc. SAMA Holding Aps 100% Ownership (Sanne Juul Jørgensen & Mads Juul Møller) Board of Directors Rene Skau Bjørnsson, Sanne Juul Jørgensen, Mads Juul Møller, Jørn Møller Managing Director Niels Juul Administration Joan Jensen Cost calculation Ole Andersen CSR/Environment Sanne Juul Jørgensen Project Project Project Foreman Foreman Foreman Foreman Manager Manager Manager Jesper Søren Steen Erik Erik Møller Simon Søren Sonnenborg Jacobsen Nielsen Jensen Eriksen Hald Møller Brdr. Møller A/S – Legal & Enterprise Structure Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 8 It is equally clear that some of our stakeholders will experience problems due to our activities i.e. within the communities we work, vis-a-vis our employees and others. We are also aware that we, as a company, are part of a social context and have a responsibility in this respect. This applies first and foremost to our employees, but also to the local community, grassroots, suppliers etc. We accept this responsibility and would like to contribute through a variety of activities that are described in this report. Our priorities concerning these relationships is first and foremost to abide with laws and regulations, and then it will be up to a managerial assessment to determine which projects we undertake, based on where we can achieve the greatest overall benefits environmentally, socially and economically. We are ready to put our efforts into reducing such negative impacts during 2015-2020. With regard to longer-term risks and opportunities that will unfold over the coming years these are also addressed in the following sections. It is first and foremost up to the management to understand and exploit these trends and opportunities and such issues are currently being addressed at a more formal level. Other Brdr. Møller does not provide financial support for Danish political parties and has not been involved in matters relating to illegal marketing or failure to comply with obligations with regard to our sponsorships or similar. Likewise, we have not had serious cases of accidents concerning health and safety in 2014. In the winter of 2015, we have arranged a day for all the company's employees, where we will review all relevant facts about our new initiatives, including the process of forming strategies, our Whistleblower system, issues concerning human rights, corruption etc.. 2. Our Stakeholders We have chosen to establish a wide interface Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 9 regarding our selection of stakeholders. We fully recognize that many different people, organizations and groups have a legitimate interest in our company. We welcome this interest by involving a broad spectrum of stakeholders, which we perceive as ours . We have chosen our stakeholders based on criteria such as economic relationship, environmental impacts, employment etc. But we have gone one step further, since we also have identified the future generations as one of our legitimate stakeholders. This point of view represents the needs, wants and opportunities that we want our children and grandchildren to be able to benefit from. So our managerial focus must be a mix of short-term and longterm perspectives in order to honor such obligations. If, therefore, we want to alter our energy supply by using more renewable energy sources, our primary goal, in fact, is not to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere — the primary goal is, moreover, to leave a future for the next generations that makes them better off than we were. In this way, the reduction of greenhouse gases becomes not the ultimate objective, but rather the means to reach the main objective of leaving a more sustainable planet for our descendants! Our CSR activities make good sense in this regard. We are trying in different ways to engage our stakeholders e.g. through information sessions for employees, employees, the local area and other of our stakeholders, through financial support for different organizations, through a close dialogue and Partnering agreements with our customers and Partners, through the issuing of Newsletters, and the establishing of our new Web portal which provides information for our stakeholders, we do it through our Twitter and Facebook profiles where everyone has a chance to have their say, by participating in courses and conferences, where we meet with suppliers, etc. In short, we are interested in a dialogue with all those who have a legitimate interest in our company and the way we operate. There has not, as part of issuing this specific CSR Baseline report 2014, been conducted any specific stakeholder consultations, but we do have of course a desire to be part of a strong and constructive interaction with our stakeholders and to engage in discussions with Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 10 selected groups in the future. people within the workforce participating in various Brdr. Møller has not in 2014 – or at any other training programs at all times. time been involved in any kind of anticompetitive behavior. We believe that free competition, within the frameworks we operate, is good for business as well as for society. In autumn 2014 we issued a statement to our suppliers aiming to clarify how these tackle the environmental and social aspects associated with their activities. This declaration must be signed by our suppliers – new and old in order that we can continue to ensure the proper functioning of our future cooperation. Employees Our employees are primarily manual workers, Remuneration many of whom are unskilled. In addition, Brdr. Møller has established a profit sharing/bonus however, a number of our employees do have arrangement between the company and senior formal training within construction areas. Our executives, while our other employees are paid on a employees are competent and skilled for the fixed salary/rate. In the past we have, for these jobs they perform – a fact which Brdr. Møller employees as well, had a system of profit-sharing, has always tried to maintain, because we but at a point in time certain employees changed this prefer employees who take responsibility for in order to be remunerated with an increased hourly their own work situation. The employees of rate of pay rather than be remunerated with a profit Brdr. Møller are loyal to the company and share. So today it is only among the company's sickness absence is below industry average. All senior executives, this profit-sharing scheme exists. our employees have, of course, the right freely Such profit sharing amounts are calculated partly on to organize themselves and negotiate through the basis of turnover and partly on the basis of collective bargaining. We have consciously set accounting profit before tax. All staff members are out an ambitious training policy for all covered by this profit-sharing/bonus scheme. employees of Brdr. Møller, which will ensure that we achieve a high degree of quality within Average minimum wages was 118.35 DKK in 2014 the projects, we take on. This quality is within the industry, and wages paid by Brdr. Møller ensured through: was well above this amount. Information and Communication skilled and competent employees We are conducting information meetings with all our a high level of employee satisfaction employees, where we inform about upcoming retention of skilled employees projects, new initiatives, practical issues and anything else that might be of interest. These meetings are implemented as a two-way communiCourses cation, where everyone has an opportunity to be Brdr. Møller has in cooperation with the AOF heard. We regard it as important that we meet the and 3F partnered on teaching employees who relevant requests from our employees, whenever would like to have extended competences in practicable. The most common issues raised by Danish and mathematics. All employees who employees concerns wages and working conditions work within our company, participates of Brdr. Møller, but also expresses a desire to be part furthermore in the course: The Road as a of an exciting development of the company in Workplace . In addition, relevant employees coming years. In 2014 we have not received have also participated in a course on fuelcomplaints from any of our employees due to current saving handling of machinery, which ensures a working conditions. Generally we try to solve more environmentally friendly and economical conflicts in an amicable way. In addition, we send handling of our cars and machines. In addition, out weekly Newsletters to everyone in the company, we strive at having at least 10% of our young which tells about large and small in the past week. Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 11 The Social Aspect of our way to arrange us with our partners. We also give priority to the social aspect within Through a Partnering-Agreement we form a closer Brdr. Møller. Previously, all employees, has been tie with our customers than we otherwise do in a invited to La Santa Sport in Spain as a recognition conventional project, and we hereby reinforce of their efforts, and in 2014, we held the our cooperative efforts considerably. The projects company's 50th anniversary, with employees and we enter into are normally not screened vis-a-vis their spouses/boyfriends being invited. Before we human rights etc. We consider this as a given. go on summer vacation, we have a summer getWe meet our customers in connection with the together, where we enjoy ourselves with good food submission of tenders, through information and drinks, and similarly we also have a Christmas sessions, networking activities and the like, and party where we join together. We have, of course, we consider our customer relationships to be a also an Employees Association, which handles vitally important factor both in the past, but just various social aspects. In short, we care about as much in the future. It is through our customer each other's well-being at Brdr. Møller. relation-ships, we must build the future business and these relationships rest largely on the values Customers, partners ... which we believe to represent the core of Brdr. Møller; trust, confidentiality, reliability and quality in our task performance. We also believe strongly Our customers are, on the one hand, the that our customers appreciate the values we organizations which are contracting with us, where represent. Through the new initiatives that have we act as general contractor on a project and, on been launched in 2014 i.e. our work with the other hand, the companies we work with as implementing ISO 9001 certification (fully subcontractors (subcontracts). Our customers implemented in 2015), the introduction of formal comes primarily from the local area, and have objectives, goals and strategies in the area of included organizations such as the Danish Road quality, CSR, etc. it is our hope that our customers Directorate, the City of Aarhus, AarhusWater and will receive these initiatives in a positive manner. many other large and small companies over the Such activities are designed to strengthen our years. Partnering and partnering contracts is a part Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 12 competitive position. We also want to cooperate In 2014 they accounted for 1,78 mio. DKK of our with our customers to find solutions to ensure total procurement costs. All suppliers who have a sustainability, when we work on a project. share of 2% or more of our total procurement Sustainability may prove to give significant results costs – including new suppliers have been on the bottom line and help to achieve the social screened for influences on society and for their objectives, stated at the municipal, regional and environmental conditions in 2014, through their national level. We are ready to participate in such a signing of a Supplier's Declaration and the development. extradition of existing CSR/Environmental reports. This screening will be incorporated as part of our Suppliers normal future procedures for supplier selection, starting with 1. January 2015. We have not found or had reason to believe that some of our We have a total of about 100 suppliers, with whom suppliers have received bribes, or had any risks of we regularly do business companies like STARK having conducted work using child labor, carried A/S, Brdr. Dahl A/S as well as many others. In out acts that have had significant negative social connection with our CSR Baseline Report a letter or environmental impacts or not having complied has been mailed to our suppliers counting for more with human rights. than 2% of Brdr. Møllers procurement costs, in which we ask our suppliers to confirm compliance We have not evaluated our suppliers working with a number of matters relating to human rights, conditions in depth, including the right to freely the environment, corruption, etc. We do also have organize and bargain collectively, but it would be other types of suppliers like course providers, office contrary to fundamental Danish legislation and suppliers as well as companies who provide agreements, provided that such things should subcontracting work for us and suppliers of occur, and we regard it as wholly unlikely, that it equipment and machinery, etc. We work primarily should be the case. with local suppliers, in the Region of East Jutland. CUSTOMER CONFIDENTIALITY We have a very clear company policy with regard to confidential customer data – never to be disclosed to anyone other than the people in the company who needs this information. So far, Brdr. Møller has not implemented customer-surveys, but we are considering making such during 2015 in order to make sure that we are in line with our customers wishes and needs, Through the contracts entered, there will always be a commitment for us to remedy any deficiencies we are responsible for. We have not in 2014 or before had any complaints about breaches of our procedures regarding confidential or related customer data. Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 13 Management The management of Brdr. Møller consists of our Board of Directors, our Managing Director, our administrative staff managers and our foremen. Design and modification of the company's values, objectives and strategies is an area primarily handled by Managing Director Niels Juul, in close cooperation with the company's various management levels. Director Niels Juul is associated family wise with the company's owners as uncle to Sanne Juul Jørgensen and Mads Juul Møller. Roles as generator of ideas, forming vision and mission Future generations etc. is undertaken by Niels Juul through interaction with many other people within the organization, while roles as transformer and implementer of the There are not very many companies involving strategic elements into practical work mode are future generations, as part of their stakeholders, placed in the hands of the individual managers. but we felt it absolutely essential to include this Every employee can make suggestions for our particular group, because our CSR work actually management, during the information meetings, we is aimed at creating a more sustainable basis for host. The final decisions regarding our future value the future generations. When we say we see the base, objectives and strategies are taken by the company as a system, it means, inter alia, that Board on the basis of documents and information in designing our objectives, in organizing our supplied by Management. resource consumption, by our continued focus on improving environmental conditions, we see Niels Juuls approach to leadership is to be an economic gains for the company, but also a present , both in terms of recurrent visits to the sign of movement as part of a long chain that various construction sites, through direct puts us in a position to be able to deliver participation at fairs and exhibitions regarding new sustainable results for the benefit of our children machinery and products, through his participation in and grandchildren. So future generations are internal meeting activities, as well as the initiation therefore also important stakeholders when we of development activities, etc. make decisions at Brdr. Møller. This focus helps us strengthening our determination for reaching Management has been partially fixed in pay, but is short-term as well as long-term objectives. partly remunerated via a profit-sharing scheme. At Board level, there is a fixed remuneration without It is obviously impossible to carry out any kind of payment related to performance. The stakeholder consultations with the future performance-related component of the generations, but we can at least try to keep us remuneration is based on agreements between the up to date with the trends and tendencies, when Board and the individual senior managers. The we look around us and then assess the extent to management of Brdr. Møller is mainly recruited which these will also prevail in the long term and from the local area, which we here define as the thus – perhaps – form a megatrend and change municipality of Aarhus. the value basis of future generations. It is clear that the way we communicate today, has Management information is an important part of the changed drastically in recent years, and we have managerial system. Our aim is that management also embedded this trend in the form of, i.e. our constantly is updated on essential conditions and employee presentation on our website and the trends that may have an impact on the company’s establishment of our new digital platform. The operations. Such information appears by using future generations – and our future employees modern technology, through our participation in will ask for a completely different kind of Danish and foreign fairs and information sessions. communication than we have been accustomed We have also established a new digital platform to. We have begun to dig into the future within containing our new website, as well as our this area. Facebook and Twitter profiles. Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 14 The Local Community world, which is also shown by the Corruption Perceptions Index compiled each year (CPIThe local community we define as the neighbors Corruption Perception Index) where Denmark is and others, who are in the immediate vicinity of located at number 1 of 177 countries by 2014 with our headquarters at Edwin Rahrsvej 77 in a score of 92 out of 100 points. The conclusion also Aarhus, and the immediate environment in which covers our experience in interacting with the public we conduct our projects. Our headquarters is authorities. It is done professionally and smoothly! located in an industrial area, so a direct effect on The public has not been involved in stakeholder humans in residential areas is therefore very discussions. In principle, there will be a risk of limited. Thus we have not affected the local corruption, of course, when you are in contact with community (here residents of the area around public companies, since, after all, Brdr. Møller have Edwin Rahrsvej) concerning the projects, we working relationships with public companies. We assume, because these take place outside the strongly distance ourselves from any such immediate local area. The local area has not corruption or corruption-like methods for project been involved in our operational and procurement, etc. They are criminal, they are development activities. When we implement unethical, and they will be more expensive for projects in another area outside our local area, taxpayers. We have not used such methods, and we always try to inform in advance about the also do not intend in the future to do so. A things that we do, and which might affect the cooperation rests on trust and mutual respect – local area and its residents in the form of corruption encourages the opposite. potential problems i.e. noise and transport etc. either through direct written information to the Financial Institutions residents in the local area or through signage. Our banking relationships are formed by Danske Bank A/S and Saxo Bank A/S. With regard to the Owners guarantees we provide in connection with contract conclusion and the like, we use Tryg Guarantee A/S. The company's owners, of course, are a vital Competitors part of Brdr. Møllers identity. It is through our owners, Board of Directors and the Executive Management, we have created the formal basis We usually compete through open or closed tenders for the company's continued successful with our competitors about projects primarily in the development. Only through the owners' full range of 0.1 million. – 100 million DKK. The support for our CSR work is it possible to create competitors we have, is, among other VAM A/S, sustainable results in the future. This support is Danjord A/S and Per Aarsleff A/S. We welcome the fortunately present, and it must drive our future competition – it is simply a prerequisite for getting development, especially in the form of Sanne things done most efficiently and cheaply. We also Juul Jørgensen's role as the CSR/Environmental believe we have the preconditions to meet with our Manager of Brdr. Møller. competitors in the future marketplace through our commitment to Total Quality Management, growth The Public and CSR and, not least through our efficient staff. Grassroots We also see other bodies – authorities and other organizations as important players in relation to Brdr. Møller. There is thus an overlap, since a The grass roots, in relation to Brdr. Møller, is all the part of our turnover comes from contracts organizations we come into contact with, i.e. undertaken public organizations. Unlike many through our CSR work as The Church's Cross Army, other countries, we do not consider corruption Brabrand Athlectic Club, Danchurchaid, The and the like to be a real problem in cooperation Christmas Stamp Home. It is often among these with government agencies in Denmark. There that grass-roots groups that we see the first signs has been only very few, isolated cases of this of change that may affect the company's kind at all in Denmark. According to operations. It is often here, to a dialogue on the Transparency International Denmark Denmark is edge takes place, and it is many times within these actually one of the least corrupt countries in the groups, that a public opinion begins to form. Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 15 Therefore, we would also like to be close to the activities, ie. through advertising and through our grass roots — to participate in the dialogue, and financial support to the local sports club. Worldto organize ourselves after the trends that might Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), the United Nations manifest itself in the coming years. We also Global Compact, and others, as we collaborate with support the economic up on grass-roots or support. 3. Overall Objectives Total Quality Management (TQM) Growth and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) We recognize the need to work long-term and strategic, and have formulated a strategic timetable covering the period 2015-2020. For These three areas form our strategic “spot lights” for this period, we have drawn up a number of the company's development during 2015-2020. We overarching strategic objectives that we want to have not previously formalized our strategic work, pursue during this period. These overarching but although this has not been written down or strategic objectives are drawn up within the discussed in a wider forum, we have always known areas of: in which direction we should go. Now this strategic understanding gets a more formal appearance in the form of a description of our core values, our specific Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 16 strategic objectives and our efforts to introduce Certification According to ISO 9001 modern management standards such as ISO As to formal quality, we have chosen to implement a 14001 and OHSAS 18001. certified quality assurance system as a framework for our activities. We do this in the form of a We are of course well aware that it's going to certification according to ISO 9001, which becomes take time before values, standards, vision, etc. implemented in early 2015. This standard will is in place within the organization, but we think provide the framework for our quality work in the we have the future picture of Brdr. Møller drawn coming years. But like our environmental up, and we will work intensely and dedicated to management standard ISO 14001 and our achieve these strategic objectives. occupational health and safety standard OHSAS 18001 our quality system, cannot stand alone – we Total Quality Management (TQM) want to enhance and embed the value of performing quality work within all employees of Brdr. Møller. Through our certification according to ISO 9001 our Brdr. Møller has over time been known to customers now will have an official stamp on the deliver high-quality services, and we would like work we carry out as well. This is the way we have this to continue in the future as well. We also always worked, but we now have a certified system want to future-proof this effort, and are doing which can underpin our commitment to Total Quality so through a conscious work with Total Quality Management. Management which we define as: Brdr. Møller A/S Will Generate Growth a comprehensive effort to create continuous improvements within the For many years, Brdr. Møller has worked as a the organization's culture and processes, small/medium-sized construction company with our and externally in relation to the company's base in the Aarhus area. In the future we will make services and other interactions an effort to create a more visible growth. We believe with our stakeholders we have good potentials to grow from in order to realize this objective, and we also believe that our values and our goals for the future will make this Our high-quality work, in other words, takes as growth both desirable and possible. We consider, its point of departure the fact that we always however, basically, not growth to be an end in itself. can improve things. It also means that concepts Our growth, on the other hand, must be built on a such as Innovation and Lean Management are sustainable basis, where we constantly focuses on important parts of our quality perception. how both to ensure earnings but also to ensure that Innovation aims to provide improved and more our activities will be carried out in a responsible economically efficient processes within our manner. We therefore deliberately distinguish organization etc., and Lean Management has, in between quantitative growth and qualitative growth effect, the same goals. We have therefore where growth is defined as: chosen to work with a common term for all of these parts – Total Quality Management. At the same time, our high-quality work are targeting a positive development in the number of to create quality for our internal customers employees, turnover, customers and similar each of which is dependent on the previous link measures, but also as a growth on the in the value chain, as well as to our external part of the people we interact with – customers and other stakeholders, whose growth within our employees who participate in projects we would aim to perform in accordance courses and training sessions, growth in the with expectations – or above. TQM therefore pride associated with working for Brdr. Møller, includes a radically new way of working in the growth in the recognition we receive from our organization next to deadlines, tolerances, customers when we deliver a project according to calibration, material qualities, etc. In other expectations or above words, we aim for Total Quality in all activities we perform within and outside of the organization. We regard one complaint as one As can be seen the growth, we want to create in too many, regardless of its nature. coming years, are closely associated with both our CSR work and our work with TQM – things go handRespect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 17 in-hand. We are not going to achieve growth at Environment, social responsibility and economic any price, but rather through sustainable viability are therefore key areas of our work with development and a conscious commitment to implementing the CSR idea within Brdr. Møller. deliver total quality results. Through our growth strategy, we will focus on developing the Environmental and social responsibility has for long company's potential even more – through the been discussed – and in some cases also realized – establishment of a new information platform, in several companies, but we are of course also through education, through the use of modern aware that around the World we see countries where technology and through a conscious these conditions cannot be found in corporate commitment to quality. These factors will help strategy. We consider it as a definite advantage to to ensure that our growth objective will be be part of a society and a culture where these realized during the period 2015-2020. matters are taken seriously, and we also believe that we as a company have an obligation to work to Brdr. Møller A/S Involve Ourselves in achieve the social objectives that apply. We owe it to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) each other – and not least the future generations. Brdr. Møller has throughout the years been When we talk about environment, we also see us as known as a safe and good place to work – a part of a chain, and not as a free-floating element relationship we also would like to maintain in which are exempt of any responsibility! We assume the future. But we also recognize that modern responsibility. corporate responsibility today extends beyond ourselves as well. We must assume responsibility for our role in the system of which we are a part as well as the people and organizations we come into contact with. We are also aware that in order to be able to operate on a future market, and in order to meet the needs of future generations, it is essential that we work on a sustainable basis. This is why we in coming years have chosen to make our work with CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) into one of the cornerstones of our way of doing business. In this context, we will work on the basis of a precautionary principle, which dictates that we take the threat of potential negative environmental impacts seriously. If such significant potential risks might be present, we will do what we can to mitigate these or make the necessary project modifications. For purposes of clarification we define CSR as: a responsible behavior and conduct towards employees and other stakeholders in order to ensure that more sustainable environmental solutions are implemented, that social relationships are strengthened, and that we constantly are able to obtain economic results that will ensure the company's continued existence and development Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 18 ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES IT IS BRDR. MØLLER A/S GOAL TO BECOME THE MOST SUSTAINABLE COMPANY IN THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY BY 2020 Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 19 4. WE ARE AMBITIOUS We will simultaneously join UN’s Global Compact, as well as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which contains a number of requirements for our CSR We have huge ambitions with regard to reporting, which we believe, will mean that we will minimizing, and preventing environmental now have a much better basis for assessing the damage. The environment is an essential part quality of such reports. of our working conditions, a place we are living in and working in, and therefore it is not that All these activities have a common source in our peculiar that we, as a business company, desire to act on a sustainable basis in the markets would like to help create more sustainable where we operate. We consider it absolutely essential solutions, where environment and economy is that we, as a business company, are helping to lift the seen in context and not as separate entities. responsibility for the environmental problems we will experience in the future. Just as in business, we are faced with environmental opportunities that could help to We want to measure the achievement of our overall make a difference. We know that there will be goal, partly by measuring ourselves in relation to our areas where we can improve ourselves, and we competitors on selected targets, partly through are determined to bring about a more making sure that we by the year 2020 at the latest sustainable development of our company. has won the Corporate Social Responsibility Award, Within the construction industry, we have which is awarded by a Danish Association for best numerous environmental challenges, whether CSR reporting. this applies to the working environment, the use of non-renewable resources, emissions of greenhouse gases to the atmosphere and other, but we will work hard to reduce such negative environmental impacts as much as possible. Our ambitious goal is therefore that Brdr. Møller in year 2020 will be considered as the most sustainable Danish construction company. There are many challenges ahead for achieving this objective, but we think are ready to approach such challenges. ISO 14001 & OHSAS 18001 We have taken up the challenge, and we will work hard to achieve our objective, partly through the introduction of environmental standards such as ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 and, partly by implementing a wide range of other tools within the organization, and informing openly and honestly about our environmental matters. The latter will take the form of our annual CSR Reports, which tells about our actions, and the results we have achieved. It will also happen through the forming of an information platform on the Internet, where we would like to enter into dialogue with the stakeholders who care about environmental issues and sustainability. Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 20 YOU MUST PLANT A TREE You must plant a tree. You must make one deed, Who live, when you go to your knees, One thing that should last And be worthwhile and shelter. You must open yourself You must be one single step On an ongoing road You must be part of a lot, That stretches beyond. You need to bloom and expand. Your fruits must satiate, If so only the simplest creature. You have part in a future. For that you must plant a tree. Piet Hein Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 21 5. Are Environmental Problems However, such moves do not begin with joining Really That Serious? the agenda from a Worldwide environmental movement, support environmental policy But why this focus on sustainability and initiatives or participate in marches for the World’s environment at Brdr. Møller? There are two main protection – the work begins first and foremost reasons for this. Firstly, it is often good for with us. It is by our goals and our actions, we business to be at the forefront of environmental must be judged, and these two things cannot be issues, so we save money when funneling the delegated. In other words, we put action into environment into our decisions. The other main position . One of the ways to do this is by getting reason is that we take our responsibilities involved – and so we do at Brdr. Møller. seriously with regard to creating a more sustainable World. We view ourselves moreover as part of a chain, and we would like to help leaving an Earth for our children and grandchildren, that are a little bit better off than the one we ourselves inherited. We see, in other words, not just tomorrow's companies’ work in order to earn money, but also as a part of other important contexts. The environment has really been a key issue since the 1980s, where we stood on the brink of an environmental disaster that could have had serious consequences. In the 1980s we began to understand that nature is not just an inexhaustible source for covering an ever growing resource consumption, and that the environment is not just a place where you are free to throw your waste and other disposals. We began to think in terms of sustainability! And there were actually good reasons for that. Problems with an increasing consumption of nonrenewable materials, an increasing scarcity of resources, climate change and population growth have thus already told their clear and unambiguous language! The challenges, with a historical background in industrial development still ongoing today, means that we must work as problem solvers rather than problem creators. We've got a handle on many issues but we also recognize that there are still many unresolved environmental issues left. Brdr. Møller is prepared to be a part of helping to solve such problems in the future. Below we have sketched out three of the most important unsolved environmental issues – the increasing resource consumption, the increasing resource scarcity and the rising problems with climate change. This invites us to handle new challenges, which we are ready to help to solve. Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 22 Limits to Growth Over the last 200 years, we have spent far more resources than all the generations in the previous 499.800 years Man is at least 500,000 years old, but it is just In 1970, the so-called Club of Rome released a over the last 200 years, when industrialization in report which, through 10 scenarios, illuminated earnest won forward, that we have had to different consequences of continued industrial recognize that the generations within these 200 growth. The trends drawn up back then, more years have consumed far more of the planet's than 40 years ago, still seems to be true. We are resources than all the generations in the previous experiencing an ever-increasing population 499.800 year. With the increasing population growth, increased consumption of non-renewable growth it does not take any major skills to be resources and increasing pollution, please see the able to see that such a development cannot Exhibit below. [in] continue! The non-renewable resources will in the future It is also a necessity, when you look at the represent an increasing problem for our children population growth that will unfold towards year and grandchildren. They will be the ones who 2050. The growth rate has admittedly decreased, suffer the consequences of our decisions. but the total population on Earth continues to increase. In the year 2014, we were about 7 billion people on Earth. By a condition of low fertility we will be around 8 billion in 2050, and if we do experience a high degree of fertility in the future, forecasters say, that we will be 10.5 billion people on Earth in 2050. It provides us with some major challenges, when we talk about growth — economic as well as the increased demand for physical consumer goods. Within Brdr. Møller, we actually feel like a very small part in this big machinery, and the better we are able to improve our efficiency and recycle, the better we will be able to tackle the great challenges that await us in the future. And the future is actually waiting just around the corner. So we would like to grow as a company that is true, however, we want to achieve this growth in a sustainable manner without compromising the limits we have imposed on our own way of doing business. This way of doing business will be patterned around the need for sustainable operations and for all employees to work as a team to achieve our future objectives and goals. The following overview shows the scenarios, the Club of Rome set up in conjunction with the actual development. [ii] Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 23 Resource Scarcity In the course of the next 40 years, 14 of the 28 most common minerals such as lead, copper, zinc, silver, etc. will be used up ... If we look at the World's use of the 28 most the fact that the non-renewable resources become common minerals, 14 of these will be increasingly scarce in the future with price increases to exhausted within the next 40 years with the follow. By trying to convert as many non-renewable current consumption rates, — it applies to resources as possible to renewable resources, where minerals such as copper, zinc, lead, gold and feasible and economically justifiable, we will strengthen silver. It's going to happen in our children our future market position and – not least – realize our and grandchildren's lifetime! [iii] They will not objectives in the field of the environment. Our goal get the same opportunities, which we concerning the proportion of renewable resources in ourselves got! We would like to contribute to relation to non-renewable resources, however, is only stretch these resources as far as possible by one of the initiatives that we are considering. Another is reducing our consumption of non-renewable to measure the ecological footprint of Brdr. Møller. resources! We will in the years to come, make an effort to clarify how much we An ecological footprint is a measure of how much we actually consume of these non-renewable consume compared to the share we ought to consume. materials and, where possible, replace them It's been an internationally accepted measure of with renewable resources. Economically it whether or not, we are moving in a more sustainable makes sense, because we must reckon with direction. Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 24 There are several models for how we can quantify our ecological footprint, and we have decided that we beginning with our CSR Report for 2015 will run a CO2 balance which indicates how far we are from being CO2 neutral. A company like Brdr. Møller can never be completely CO2 neutral and we know this very well, but we can at least use such CO2 accounts to target our investments and prioritize in our day-to-day operations, so that we constantly seek to reduce our ecological footprint. As can be seen from the figure to the right, we consume more than we are allowed to in Denmark, if we were to move in a more sustainable direction. We see this statement as an input also for Brdr. Møller to be part of a process that aims to reduce ours and the Danish ecological footprint. Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 25 Climate-IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) Global emissions of greenhouse gases has grown to an unprecedented level in spite of an increased effort to reduce climate change [iv] The IPCC (International Panel on Climate environment, the best we can. We will, in other Change) has concluded that climate change is words, scan through all our activities for finding the now happening with a disturbing speed which sources that contribute to these climate change exceeds the worst assumptions, we have had so problems, and do what we can to reduce such far. Today, no one doubt that global climate impacts. change, to some extent, is man-made, and the crucial problem is: what do we do about it? We will do so based on the recommendations from WRI and WBCSD. Some of these gases – i.e. HCF, We know that the Earth's ozone layer has PCF and SF6 – are generally already prohibited in become thinner and therefore allows more Denmark, and it requires a special license to be radiation from space. We also know that the obtained provided that such gasses are to be used. [v] many tonnes of emitted gases – hydrocarbons, methane, HCFCS, etc. create the so-called greenhouse effect that occurs because these Climate Change and Goals for Renewable gases is like a film surrounding Earth, that do not Energy allow heat to be sent back into space but instead remain in the Earth's atmosphere – in other The construction industry is specifically words, a warming of the Earth is happening thus characterized by having multiple sets of creating a Greenhouse effect, which affects the environmental challenges. We work in an industry climate negatively, in the form of floods in some that requires the use of heavy machinery, we are places, more widespread droughts elsewhere, using substances and materials that contain soil erosion, violent stormy weather, etc. environmentally harmful substances, we carry out work that results in the formation of wastes of From the political establishment there has been different types, we are working in an environment made a major effort to tackle the problem, and it which may involve different risks for our employees, has, among other things spawned a quota and we consume scarce resources. trading system from the EU, where you can trade CO2 emission credits between companies. The In other words, we are faced with a number of effectiveness and efficiency of this system, environmental challenges for which we must create however, seems not to have been entirely an effective remedy in coming years towards our satisfactory, because there has been a greater 2020 goal. supply than demand for these quotas. The price for 1 tonne of CO2 was estimated to be traded We take the conclusions put forward by the IPCC, for € 30 per tonne – however, the real price has the Rome Club etc. seriously, and we would like to been down at € 4 per tonne. be part of the innovative companies that makes an effort to help reduce the effect of these problems. With Brdr. Møller, we would also like to Our work with CSR work is one such initiative. contribute to reduce future climate impacts, through reducing the number of substances and emissions of greenhouse gases alien to the Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 26 How Will We Seize The Challenges? operation towards 2050. On the other hand, there will be a degree of probability that the level of activity within the drainage area could rise, as a There are many methods, models and tools that result of the increased rainfall that is expected can be used to deal with the environmental towards 2050. The Danish Government's energy challenges we face. More specifically, we have and climate policy objectives, predict that Denmark chosen to build our CSR/Environmental in 2050 is 100% self-sufficient in renewable energy. Management System around the concept of During the period 2015-2050 it is predicted that sustainability. This concept implies that we are electricity and heating will be 100% based on working with 3 areas of CSR/Sustainability – the renewable energy (in 2035), while the use of coal environmental area, the social sphere and the and oil will be phased out by 2030. Contained in economic sphere and not least working with these 2050 goals are also targets for 2020 that relationships between the three areas. The predicts that renewable energy here will make up following Exhibit illustrates an overview of our 30% of energy consumption, wind power will make management model. This model was developed up 50% of electricity consumption, and that by the English company SustainAbility Ltd., and renewable energy will make up 10% of energy has gained a World-Wide recognition. This model consumption in the transport sector. These tells us that any decision taken by Brdr. Møller objectives will obviously lead to greater activity in will involve at minimum 3 key areas that need to the restructuring of the Danish energy supply, which be taken into account when such decisions are could also be playing a part when looking at Brdr. made – the economic, the social and the Møller' opportunities to work with projects during environmental dimension. It is precisely these 3 this transition phase. areas that the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) have built their CSR Reporting model upon. We will use this model to examine how we get the most value-for-money , when we work with sustainability. Where do we find the low hanging fruit , and where are we going to seriously work to make ends meet, when we talk about correlations between the economy and the environment? Climate Change And Targets For Renewable Energy Brdr. Møller is not directly affected by climate change today, but it is clear that our areas of activity i.e. district heating, building development and sewer sanitation, to a certain extent, will be affected by such changes. The UN climate scenarios predict that in the future Denmark will get a warmer and wetter weather with more extremes, where the main changes towards 2050 is expected to be as shown in the table below. [ii] It has not at present been possible to calculate the economic consequences of these changes, in addition to what is listed under the section on external costs (see page 45). The fewer frost days will mean that Brdr. Møller will experience fewer disruptions in the work in winter as a result of frost, while the increase in rainfall could have an impact on the excavations carried out in a negative way. We expect, however, not to any significant extent that climate change will have an impact on our Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 27 The United Nations Climate Climate change in Denmark up to 2050 according to the Change Scenario 2050 medium scenario, United Nations [iii] 1. More rain. We get more rain in Annual Mean Temperature + 1.2 ° C (± 0.2 ° c) winter and less in summer. In the summer we get both drought and Winter + 1.5 ° C (± 0.2 ° C) heavier downpours. Summer + 0.9 ° C (± 0.1 ° C) 2. Milder winters. Winters will be Annual Mean milder and wetter. This means that the +7% (± 3%) Precipitation plant growing season can be extended. Winter + 11% (± 3%) 3. Hotter summers. Summers will be warmer, and there may be more and Summer + 4% (± 4%) longer heatwaves. Sea 4. Higher water levels. A general rise in water levels is expected in the Mean Wind + 1% seas around Denmark. Sea + country 5. More wind. We can expect more severe storms. Mean Wind + 3% 6. Greater cloud cover. We will generally see a slightly increasing Change in extremes up to 2050, according to the United cloud cover (greatest in winter) Nations product scenario Frosts -24 days/nights Growth Season + 40 days/nights Heatwave + 1.3 days/nights Tropical Nights + 5 days/nights Number of days with more + 3 days/nights than 10 mm of precipitation 5-days rainfall + 6 mm Medium intensity, + 0.2 mm precipitation Powerful events, + 1 day/night precipitation Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 28 Managerial Model of Brdr. Møller A/S Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 29 Working Environment – What Is The therefore wish also to avoid that absence is Problem? increased. If one of our employees is sick, we try to do what we can to support him, whether we We work with large machines in environments, are talking about rehabilitation or medical visits which can sometimes involve risks for our etc. We work against negative bullying at work, employees, and others. We want to minimize and we don't want people to just accept things the these risks by ensuring that all operations are way they are. If there is a problem between carried out under maximum protection. In other individual employees we will do what we can to words, it should be safe to go to work! If working promote openness, for only through an open environment regulations are not respected by our dialogue, are we able move forward. We use employees, for any reason, it can cause Brdr. many means to ensure our physical working Møller to impose sanctions for such violations. It is environment – safety glasses, hearing protection, clearly inappropriate to be fined for such incidents safety roof supports, respirators, safety shoes, on the contrary, it is in everyone's interest that helmets, etc. but we also want to make sure that rules are complied with. these are not just being used willy-nilly – they must be used in any situation where there is a When we are dealing with the working requirement to do so! One accident is one too environment, it is of course not only the physical many! conditions we think of – also the psychological work environment is of very big importance. A bad An important part of this work is our Working work environment can thus often be spotted by Environment Committee. This Committee involves the number of sick days among our employees. workers, staff and management sitting in a We can fortunately say that the number of sick common forum dealing with all questions that days at Brdr. Møller is not significant, but of might arise regarding the mental and physical course we would like to see that the number of work environment. Such issues are discussed and sick days is reduced as much as possible – in action plans are adopted. Our employees order to ensure both the physical and the participate as members of this Committee. psychological work environment is in the top. Another important part will be our information Noise is another problem, to which we are about our health and safety costs. These costs exposed in connection with the work that we do. include the financial resources we spend on That is why it is also required that all employees working environment i.e. costs of safety products, wear hearing protection in such situations. Committee meetings, wages, environmental fines, consulting work and other costs that can be Working Environment – How Will We Solve related to our working environment. This cost Issues? aspect will be commented later on in the report. The first part of our solution was to implement the Health and Safety standard OHSAS 18001. By a certification in accordance with this standard, we have established a system ensuring where our work environment is going to unfold best possible. This certification, however, is not considered an end in itself. The aim is, on the contrary, that it should be our individual employees, who are the key people – employees, who take responsibility for themselves and for each other's well-being. Only in this way can we create a safe and secure working environment. Our work over the coming years, therefore, also begins with impacting attitudes of everyone within the company, to ensure that everyone understands the importance of our health and safety measures – and act Waste – What Is The Problem? accordingly. One of the consequences of a bad work environment is, of course, that our The largest part of the waste we generate employees' life and health can be put at risk – a risk we want to avoid. We Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 30 comes from soil, asphalt coatings and concrete dioxide), NOx (nitrogenoxide) and, not least, when we work with pipelines or cables in the particles that both contributes to air pollution as ground. Such asphaltand concrete materials well as the greenhouse problem. Usually such include a number of substances which may affect particles are divided into groups of coarseness, the environment in a negative way, requiring that fine and ultrafine particles, and unfortunately such waste is treated in accordance with the several hundred deaths is a result of this particle prescribed rules. Soils are classified according to pollution. Our employees are among the groups whether it is clean, slightly polluted or most vulnerable to this problem and we would like contaminated. Economically, there will be a big to do something about it. Our CO2 emissions also cost difference between the treatments of these contribute to pollution, since every liter diesel individual types of soil. In addition to this waste causes a leakage to the atmosphere of 2.63 kg we also have a smaller share of household waste CO2. This will also contribute to the so-called and waste paper from our headquarters at Edwin Greenhouse effect which affects the global Rahrsvej. This waste is handled by the climate. Alongside this usage we are also municipality's waste handling system. Such waste responsible for consumption of fuels when we is not sorted today. travel in private cars to and from work, as well as in connection with the transport operations carried out during working hours. We want to reduce this consumption of fuels as much as possible beginning with 2015. Fuel Consumption – How To Solve It? There are several ways to solve/minimize our fuel consumption for our machinery, for example through avoiding idle driving, application of various diesel types (i.e. bio-ethanol), or through the reduction of emissions through the use of particulate filters (i.e. SMF-CRT filters), but also through educating our employees in environmentally friendly machinery handling we Waste – How Will We Solve It? will be able to achieve improvements. The concrete waste produced will be driven to a handling plant, where it is crushed and then reused. This is a good and sustainable way to deal with the waste problem! We will strive to use as many of such recycled materials as possible within the projects we are working on. Soil is driven to special handling facilities for treatment if contaminated. We do not have any opportunities to affect the degree of pollution of the soil we are working with. In 2015 we will begin a source separation of our household waste and, through new procedures, we will try to minimize our paper consumption to an absolute minimum by letting most of our internal and external communications take place by electronic means. With regard to the reduction of fuel consumption when driving to/from work, we encourage our Fuel Consumption – What Is The employees to use carpooling, wherever possible. Problem? We will also explore ways to reduce idle runs during work. The use of diesel fuel for our machinery constitutes by far the most important part of our environmental challenges. We know that diesel In 2014, it is our goal to reduce fuel emits several substances into the consumption of diesel fuel by 2% as atmosphere, including CO2 (carbon dioxide), NOx compared to 2013 (nitrogen oxides), HC (hydrocarbon), CO (carbon Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 31 nerate com Energy Consumption – What Is The consumption through external courses and Problem? seminars. We use energy both in connection with the Water Consumption – What Is The construction work we are doing, and the energy Problem?? we consume in our office buildings and in our portable containers. Energy resources today comes Denmark is one of the few countries in the World from many different sources – coal powered that have good supplies of fresh water, both for plants, wind farms, biogas plants and imported industrial purposes, and for drinking water, while energy from foreign energy companies. Part of this the water supply in many other places in the energy is created through the use of nonWorld can be an extremely scarce resource – in renewable fuels such as coal, oil and gas, while Denmark we annually use 400 million m 3 water another part is derived from renewable resources from our ground-water resources, in addition to such as wind, biomass, solar and thermal sources. this we use a further 300 million m 3 in dry years The problems created through the burning of for irrigation, etc. In the period 2000-2010, the resources such as coal, oil and gas are discharges demand for tap water remained at a reasonably into the atmosphere helping to exacerbate the stable level. In 2011 businesses within the Aarhus greenhouse effect and, on the other hand consumed a total of 10.7 million m3, and assuming meaning, that fewer and fewer resources are left that this consumption pattern stays at a for our children and grandchildren. At the same reasonably constant level this amount will be time, we know that this energy consumption will increased to 14.8 m3 in 2050. It is assumed that grow significantly throughout the World in coming the development of water consumption according years. It requires us to find efficient solutions for to current trends, in 2050 will amount to 16.6 the future. million m3. We will therefore see an increase in water consumption in the future. [in] This can cause some problems. It takes many years to form groundwater, and if these water resources are over-exploited groundwater levels can fall, causing nickel can be released as a result. This nickel cannot be removed by the water-works, and can cause allergies for human beings. [ii] This one set of problems identified therefore is the increasing future drag on local water resources. The second problem related to water resources is the pollution of our water reservoirs. Water Consumption – How To Solve It? Brdr. Møller consumes part of these water Energy Consumption – How To Solve It? resources both at our sites and at our main office. In order to address these challenges, we will We consider it to be important to save these water increase the share of renewable energy in our resources as much as possible – especially since overall energy supply from non-renewable we will see an increased draw on such resources resources to renewable energy resources. in the coming years. With regard to water Concerning the energy consumption of our office consumption on our sites we will constantly buildings, we are planning on the one hand, the monitor this consumption and try to reduce it as use of solar energy in the form of setting up solar much as possible – also because it is a good idea panels; on the other hand, we will re-engineer our financially. With regard to our drinking water energy supply, so that we take on delivery of our consumption, we do not see it as our task to energy from wind farms. We will work with contribute to increase the major environmental behavioral changes as well, so that all appliances costs needed to carry tap water in bottles around which do not constitute a necessity, instead of the country. We have therefore banned bottled being on stand-by, now are turned off when not in water in our own head office water from faucets use. We will also provide our employees with the is a much cheaper and a much more necessary skills to mitigate excess energy environmentally friendly alternative. Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 32 Habitat Protection – How To Solve It? We try as far as possible to avoid affecting vulnerable habitat areas, when we make purification of ponds, lakes and streams. However, we have not yet worked in Natura 2000 areas where special rules must be observed. In Denmark the protection of rare and endangered animal and plants are exercised through the so-called yellow and red lists. If a species enters on the red list, it will be threatened by extinction or be rare, while a yellow listed species will include species that are in Problems In Water Supply decline. We try to get outside support in those The problems with regard to the Danish water cases where there may be risks involved for a supply is represented here, first and foremost, by given area, where biologists, ornithologists, etc. pollution/contamination of the water resources we comes and assess the area before any activity is have at our disposal, especially through undertaken. In 2014, we have not been involved agricultural and industrial application of substances in projects which have necessitated special alien to the environment, which penetrates down precautions concerning protection of habitats. through the soil layers, and thus could pose a threat, when such substances reach the Environmentally Hazardous Products – groundwater. This contamination occurs as a What Is The Problem? result of the agricultural use of pesticides, herbicides and insecticides, the industry's dumping Within Brdr. Møller, we work with many different of poisoned materials, from old dumps and tank products which, in different ways, may have installations and from private use of pesticides in adverse effects on the environment, if not treated gardens, on courtyards etc. It has meant that properly. The more products we are working with, many drinking water wells in Denmark have had to the greater the work of course to adhere to the close down due to contamination. Brdr. Møller specific rules that apply for handling these handles everyday substances alien to the products. Today we have about 135 different environment as well, which we will ensure do not products, which can be categorized within the come in contact with the ground and that storage category environmentally hazardous products , and disposal is done in a responsible way. We and we want to do something about it! have also established a goal for 2014 to reduce our use of such environmentally hazardous Environmentally Hazardous Products – How substances by 50%. To Solve The Problem? We would therefore like to limit the use of such Habitat Protection – What Is The environmentally hazardous products as much as Problem? possible, and have therefore formulated the following target for minimizing these: We often work in urban areas, which usually do not contain endangered animals, birds or plants. In connection with our site development activities In 2014, we will reduce the number we can, however, with rare intervals experience of environmentally hazardous certain problems with threatened habitats. products with 50% as compared to However, in 2014 we have not had such cases. 2013 The activities we undertake when cleaning up lakes, ponds and streams happens of course in places where there are stocks of fish, amphibians, Non-renewable Resources – What Is birds, and other beings that might be affected. We The Problem? are trying here to take account of these facts and have, for example previously established water In order to work on a sustainable basis, it is holes with the aim to support the biodiversity of an important that we know our consumption of area. renewable resources and non-renewable resources. We would like to make a change Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 33 so that we are moving away from consumption of requirements, etc. To get a handle on these data non-renewable resources, to a situation where we sets is one of the challenges we have set for are using more and more renewable resources. ourselves in the coming time. The problem is well known – we use too many resources that cannot be renewed in terms of We are already well underway to establish an what the planet can sustain. In other words, there effective management system to handle both the is an upper limit for this overuse! In the future we establishing of future objectives, goals and will see rising prices at the most critical of these strategies as well as a follow up on these non-renewable resources, and of course, there is a supported by an information system that allows us potential danger since these resources will possible to articulate these goals and provide data that be able to trigger conflicts internationally. We now shows us to what extent, we reach these goals. begin to work with the problem for gearing ourselves for the future. One of the forums, in addition to the Board of Directors and Management, is our Working Non-renewable Resources – How Will We Environment Committee, where representatives of Solve It? all the company's employees are participating. Age We will in the near future examine the areas and gender composition of the Working where a substitution of non-renewable resources Environment Committee moves in the interval could be economically and environmentally between x and y years and 1 woman is sensible. In other words, we will try to replace participating in the Committee's work, as shown these resources either through recycling or by the figure below. The members of the through replacement with renewable resources. Committee are elected democratically among the This replacement can for example happen via company's employees. resources that occur in larger quantities or – the best alternative through resources that are We would very much like to further diminish this renewable. This process does not happen in the quantity and, if possible, preferably completely short term, on the contrary, it is a problem, we will avoid the use of such environmentally hazardous have in mind for coming years. products. So in the future we will try to reduce this number even more. Environmental Management System – What Is The Problem? Discharges Into The Atmosphere – What Is The Problem? For he who does not know what Port he seeks, no wind is favorable . We also believe in this quote, We emit substances into the atmosphere, which when it comes to management systems or contribute to climate change, global warming and environmental issues. Without having a good data dilution of the ozone layer. But also particle basis, without having adequate analysis methods pollution is one of the major problems when and without having a framework that can serve as discharged into the atmosphere. It affects a planning and control tool in connection with our additional instances of deaths among the environmental activities, one cannot create the population and i.e. by denigration of facades, etc. results we want to achieve with our CSR activities. In other words, we cannot further a more According to climate scientists, it will require a sustainable development within the enterprise, reduction of CO2 emissions by 85% by the year without an appropriate management system. 2050 compared to the year 2000, if we shall limit warming to +2 degrees Celsius compared to a Environmental Management System – How pre-industrial level. [iii] This will require a huge Will We Solve It? effort from all sides in order to cope with such a In order to cope with the many challenges, we requirement. therefore need a management system that can cope with these. It is important here to be able to We would like to reduce our emissions as much as document the materials and resource consumption possible. The largest emissions originate from the flows, it is important to know where large volumes exhaust gases from our machines, which includes of waste are generated, and what they are a number of substances that will contribute to composed of, it is important to keep track of all climate change. employees living up to the safety and health Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 34 Emissions to The Atmosphere – How Will We You can choose if you want to report about the Solve It? so-called Scope 3 emissions, see the figure We will take initiatives to reduce these emissions to below. We have chosen to record our Scope 1 the atmosphere through the establishment of action and Scope 2 emissions within this framework. plans in the near future. In order to quantify our emissions of greenhouse gases, we have taken on K) Other the recommendations of the WRI (World Resource According to GRI's requirements Brdr. Møller Institute) and WBCSD (World Business Council for must also provide information about a number Sustainable Development) who has developed three of other matters in the field of the environment, Scopes that are listed in the following figure, WRI and of course we would like to do so. Brdr. demands that, as a minimum, emissions are Møller has not been sentenced to fines or had reported according to Scope 1 (emissions from other environment issues in 2014 and has not operations that are owned or controlled by Brdr. received any complaints about its environmental Møller) and Scope 2 (purchased electricity), while or working conditions. Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 35 Environmental Certification of Brdr. Møller A/S In order to get a good impetus for our work we have implemented the environmental management standard ISO 14001 in 2014 and also introduced the Occupational Health and Safety Standard OHSAS 18001. These two standards provide the overarching framework for the environmental activities, we put to work. This ISO 14001 applies to our primary work areas and will provide us with a good starting point for further environmental work to be conducted. With these ISO standards we commit ourselves to work for continuous improvement through relevant goals and targets for resource consumption and emissions. This means that we now have set numbers which we can use to prioritize and manage after. At the same time we are aware of the fact that ISO 14001 cannot stand alone. This system is a framework, where we fill in the contents. We want to do this through sustainable solutions, in so far as it is at all possible. We consider sustainability as the foundation stone, which will form the framework for our activities in this area in the coming years. It will require major efforts of our company, but we are ready to ensure that this objective will also be met in the future! Occupational Health And Safety Certification of Brdr. Møller A/S We are also certified in accordance with the Occupational Safety and Health Standard OHSAS 18001. This standard places emphasis on identifying the health and safety risks involved in our work processes, and paves the way for the establishment of targets for our occupational safety and health performance. Manual work can cause problems with the spine, arms and legs. These problems occur mainly as a result of manual labor and inclement weather. We are aware that such problems might occur, and if they occur, we make sure to help those affected, in the best possible way through physical therapy and possibly medical treatment. Through our certification according to OHSAS 18001, we are prepared to establish even more ambitious targets for our occupational health and safety efforts in the coming years. It is, in other words, our objective that in the future we must become a company that has a handle on its working environment-related conditions. It requires that we all stand together to achieve this goal. It is crucial that Brdr. Møller A/S is a safe place to work. Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 36 THE THREE SCOPES – WBCSD & WRI BRDR. MØLLER A/S – WORKING ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 37 SOCIAL ISSUES IN YEAR 2020 BRDR. MØLLER A/S IS TO BE RECOGNIZED AS A DRIVING FORCE FOR DEVELOPING SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY WITHIN THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 38 Brdr. Møller has for many years been known as a kind of recording in connection with our Whistle good and a safe workplace. We think it is an blower scheme, and it is exclusively management element in our DNA, that we want to cherish and who will be familiar with the issues raised, if a develop over the coming years. We would also case should arise. We actually think prevention is like to extend our societal commitment during better than cure , and the scheme must, 2015-2020! Today, we have many employees who therefore, also be viewed in this light! have been employed at Brdr. Møller for 5, 10, 20 The scheme's purpose is fundamentally not to or even more than 30 years, and we are of course hang someone out to dry , but to have a body pleased and proud of this fact. We see ourselves that can act, if serious breaches of Brdr. Møllers a company that wants to take part in promoting core values, etc. are found. We then have an social responsibility within the industry. unofficial opportunity to get something done about the problem! 7. Whistleblower system Management can then choose to take action to improve the situation through a conversation with the employee(s) in question. The contents of We also recognize that it would be sensible to those conversations remain a matter between the strengthen our internal efforts so that we all take management and the individual employee and no part in achieving our goals. That is why we will one else! We would not advance the perception of introduce a Whistleblower system from 2015 in such a system being a kind of informant order to strengthen corrective action, like many scheme, but is only meant to ensure that we are other Danish companies have done. Such a able to correct any serious relationships, which is system implies that all employees – anonymously so severe that they can pose a threat to our can approach management, if they find employees' life and health, or our company's vital conditions etc. are being dealt with contrary to interests. the objectives of Brdr. Møller. This Whistleblower activity, however, must not We hope and do not expect that the scheme only be seen as an activity aimed at ensuring that will be used substantially, but our employees rules are followed. We also see this system as a must know that if they observe serious conditions more informal body where all employees – under which may have a significant impact on our strict confidentiality – freely can discuss the ethical employees ' life and health or Brdr. Møller' vital and other issues that may be relevant to bring up interests, there is also an opportunity for with management. We therefore also consider our anonymously being able to do something about Whistleblower system more as a kind of advisory the problem! There will not be undertaken any system, than as a control tool. Whistleblower – Primary Purposes: 1. That some employees do not work against our efforts towards achieving an improved work environment/greater security 2. That the economic and other resources are not abused within the company 3. That society's laws and rules and Brdr. Møller' interests are not overridden 4. That a Manager do not abuse his/her authority Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 39 in focus in the years to come! More fundamental 8. The Social Element In The problems with regard to religion, crime, forced Local Community – Problems? marriages etc, we do not have, as mentioned before, any opportunities to involve us with In several areas of the Danish society today we directly. We hope indirectly we can help to solve are experiencing a pressure when it comes to some of these problems through the employment social conditions. Today we find a great lack of of some of the vulnerable groups of people in apprenticeships for young people – only 1 out of 6 society. young people actually achieves an apprenticeship in a concrete company. Unfortunately we have Social Problems In The Local Area – How not created the necessary integration of young Will We Help To Solve Them? people with an immigrant background into the With regard to the problems listed above we do Danish society. Crime and unemployment are not have an aim or even ability to involve us more simply too high for this group of Danes, while the actively. We can only through our example show level of education is far too low. that dialogue is the best resolution model for solving disputes, if one actually and honestly In Gellerupparken, which is a part of our local would like to make a difference. community, we see a so-called ghetto, consisting of people from 80 different countries, particularly 9. The Vulnerable Groups In from Lebanon, Iraq, Turkey and Somalia. Surely it Society And Among Us – What is becomes clear that such a collection of different Is The Problem? cultures, income levels, language skills, etc. can spur many of the problems identified in the area. There are many small entities in Denmark which is A ghetto in Denmark is defined as a place where under pressure in various fields, including the at least 3 of the following 5 criteria are met. In economic. There are also many places in our brackets are given the relevant figures for culture that find themselves put under pressure, Gellerupparken for 2011-12 [i] : where bullying, exclusion and violence do play a big part in social behavior. We distance ourselves 1. Non-Western origin (78.6 percent), from such exclusion methods, and believe that 2. Unemployment (51,1%). dialogue is the way forward for a better 3. Crimerate (4.57%) understanding and acceptance of the problems 4. Share of residents with only a basic education that occasionally can occur. We should have all (56.1% for the 30-56 years) and options in Denmark for creating a strong and 5. Income level (49.3% receive an average functioning network and an integral approach to regional income). problem solving. Where we will have the opportunity, we will also actively stimulate a We recognize, of course, that problems of this dialogue aimed at understanding and acceptance nature can occur in such ghetto-like surroundings, of vulnerable as well as other groups within society but we also believe that many immigrants has a lot of good and new elements to offer and inject into Danish culture. Although it is very difficult for a small local company to make such a difference, we can at least with the limited resources we have at our disposal promote ways to lower the unemployment rate, to increase the level of education and to see that income levels are increased within the local area. It will surely be a demanding task for us, but we will make an effort to create a momentum which means that we also learn to take care of people from non-Western countries, which today is outside the employee circle of Brdr. Møller. It is a problem we will have Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 40 New Multifunctional District However, there are also small points of relief. Aarhus City Council has adopted a new plan for Gellerupparken estimated at a cost of 1.3 billion kroner to transform Gellerupparken from a ghetto into a multifunctional town through modification of the physical environment and the opening up of the district towards the outside World. It can mean a new turning point for the entire Gellerup area. We welcome this plan and hope for a new momentum locally The Vulnerable Groups In Society – How established are not followed, not hesitate to intervene Will We Solve The Problem? and correct any breaching of conditions. We cannot We have more strings to play on when it justify even a single accident at work, due to rules not comes to our commitment to both society's being followed! That is why we have also taken the vulnerable groups. Internally we'd like to do initiative for creating our whistle blower scheme as what we can to promote the employment of outlined above. We have employees with different people with disabilities, promoting the use of disabilities employed by Brdr. Møller, and we are adult apprentices, to help young people trying to adapt the job and machinery after the special getting an internship and through up-grading needs that apply here, just as we also have taken in of our employees, provided that they may be adult apprentices, as part of the company's efforts in missing certain proficiencies in Danish, this area. We also believe we have an obligation to mathematics, or other. We can also support ensure that young people today get an opportunity to externally with financial aid and through further educate themselves, and therefore, we strive direct involvement. to have at least 10% of the young people of our workforce under training programs. In short; We are Some of these internal and external trying to take care of each other, so that we create measures within the social sphere focused the best possible framework for a meaningful work for upon by Brdr. Møller is outlined in the our employees in a culture that is borne out of a following. desire to help, where we are able to make a difference. 10. Internally We Take Care Of Each Other 11. Externally-We Support i.e. The Danish Hospital Clowns Within Brdr. Møller, we take care of each other, and the usual policy of “hiring and We are also trying to provide financial support to the firing” is not an element, we make use of. We great work being done by the Danish Hospital Clowns are trying to get things resolved without working around the country's hospitals. In a situation having to reduce the number of staff. Securing where children are affected by disease, it is important the employment of our employees is therefore to give them a much-needed encouragement and help also an area, to which we give a special to pave the way for making their situation just a little priority. We want to be known as a company bit more bearable – even in the difficult situation they that is able to offer our employees safe find themselves in. We would like to furnish our working conditions. We take this commitment support for this vital work. Hospital clowns visits on a very seriously, and will if the rules, we have regular basis the Danish hospital children’s wards and Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 41 create small clearances of partying for the We have reviewed the human rights declaration kids. Christmas stamp homes also participate requirements in relation to Brdr. Møllers overall in this work to support children affected by the activities and have not been able to ascertain any disease and at the same time working to violation of the provisions of this Declaration. prevent children’s diseases. It is also a work that we support through financial aid. We can We Are Among The Sponsors Of The WWF And internally support activities intending to Brabrand Athletic Club counter balance negative social interaction Brdr. Møller is also sponsors of the WWF (World Wide through a conscious effort to inform about Fund for Nature). WWF is one of the largest and most these conditions and to respond to them, if the respected environmental organizations in the World guidelines we have formulated are not today. Work to protect endangered species, protect respected. There have not been cases of sensitive habitats, create sustainable conditions, etc. discrimination, violation of human rights etc, in are important areas for WWF – and areas, we fully connection with the activities of Brdr. Møller support. Locally, we are also committed as sponsor for has been involved in or among our employees Brabrand Athletic Club. for the year 2014. 12. Society Brdr. Møller headquarters are located in an industrial area in Brabrand in the northern part of Aarhus. On the right side is an undeveloped plot of land and to the right side, we have our neighbors located far away from our headquarters. The activities we have on the square by the headquarters deals with, among other things, the storage of materials and equipment, repair and maintenance of machinery etc. There is no specific noise or other matters that will affect our neighbours. 13. Human Rights Brdr. Møller, fully support the 30 principles that form the basis of UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and we support the content of the European Convention on Human Rights as well. Within Brdr. Møller, we do not work with projects that take precedence over respect for human rights in relation to the UN Declaration on human rights or the European Convention on human rights and have not experienced or been involved in cases of anti-trust activities, anti-competitive or monopolistic behavior, and has not been sentenced to any fines of any kind for breaching rules of the Danish society, laws and regulations, nor have we received any complaints about antisocial activities. Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 42 Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 43 ECONOMIC ISSUES IN 2020 THE ECONOMIC RESULTS OF BRDR. MØLLER, AS MEASURED BY ITS RETURN ON INVESTESTMENT, IS TO BE AMONG THE TOP THREE, WITHIN THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 44 Brdr. Møller is today a well-consolidated company a historical results for the period 2009/2010 – fact that we also would like to persevere in the future. 2013/2014 has been satisfactory. In spite of In the coming year, we also want to achieve a the financial crisis that has prevailed since satisfactory economic result because we work 2008, we have managed to maintain a sustainable, because we provide quality, and because satisfactory financial basis for our future we actually care about anything other than the development. Please refer to table showing the financial results! It may sound like a contradiction, absolute numbers and the table below that but it is really not. We can only deliver good results shows the financial ratios for Brdr. Møller. due to our dedicated workforce. We can only deliver results if we behave as an environmentally Looking at the economic indicators they reveal responsible company. We can only deliver economic that Brdr. Møller has a positive financial solidity profits, if at the same time we recognize that we are and a reasonable level of profitability. Essential an integral part of a sustainable development that facts and figures for the period are presented in also implies that we take the environment and the the tables below. economy, into account in an integrated mode. So in addition to our ROI the environmental costs of Brdr. Møller are also seen as part of our management 14. Environmental Costs – basis. This applies to both the costs for environmental What Is The Problem? purposes that we spend internally in the company, but also the environmental costs arising due to our The environment costs. And not just the activities, but that others may have to pay for – the financial resources our company must be spend so-called external costs. We work with different in order to be at the forefront of improving our economic yardsticks as indicators of our economic environmental performance, but economic performance. The measure we use to determine the resources society is spending in order to degree of performance at company level is our return respond to the environmental challenge as well! on investment (ROI). We define return on investment We firstly look at the environmental costs we (ROI) as: use in our own business that consists of various environmentally induced additions to the cost prices we pay for our resources our Return On Investment (Roi) energy/electricity, water, batteries, waste = Result before interest and taxes * 100 water, packaging, NOx, CO2, etc. We pay Assets salaries and fees for fixed employees and consultants who work with the environment. We are holding meetings in the Committee on 14. Brdr. Møller A/S – Historical Environment and Security. We are Results implementing environmental courses for our employees. In short, we use a lot of resources that are derived from environmental conditions. It is important for us to be able to create economic Secondly cost of externalities that shows up in results, which enables us to promote the growth we i.e. the number of deaths due to air pollution, would like to see in the future. That enables us to reduction of biodiversity, soot on facades, etc. make the necessary investments and launch the caused by industrial emissions. Such costs have projects that will prepare us for future competition been a part of the European Union’s programs and enable us to work with CSR and sustainability as for quantifying what it costs, i.e. of sending one core business values. In short; satisfactory economic tonne of CO2 into the atmosphere. We have results creates the prerequisites for achieving the chosen to include this type of environmental objectives we have set out. Brdr. Møller' financial year costs as a part of the information management runs from 1. May – 30. April. As from 2015 our works with to strengthen environmental financial year will be changed so that it follows the priorities within Brdr. Møller. When we, for calendar year. The annual accounts of 2014 will then example would make an investment, we can, in only cover the period 1. May – 31. December 2014. principle, face a choice between two As from 2015, there will now be a temporal alternatives that for us are equally good, but correlation between economic performance and the where the cost to the wider community by one results obtained in the context of our CSR work. Our alternative might be twice as high or more. Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 45 To us the choice between one or the other alternative these costs are within Brdr. Møller. The second therefore would be insignificant, while it would have problem is that we are in fact today do not major negative economic consequences for the know what our activities costs society, when surrounding communities, if we chose the one – we emit substances, into the atmosphere when socially inferior alternative — rather than another. we work with our machinery and to calculate And why should we so choose the worse alternative? what the level consumes energy and electricity. But we need information that can show us something The EU investigated the area and one of the about such external environmental costs. conclusions here is that: [i] Externality costs arises due to the fact that the environmental costs of electricity production are huge in most EU countries and reflects the dominant share of fossil fuels in the energy mix. In 2005 the average externality costs of electricity production was between 1.8 – 5.9 Euro cents/kwh. Despite progress these externality costs are not sufficiently reflected in energy prices. Consumers, businesses and policy makers therefore do Environmental Costs – How Will We Solve It? not get the correct price signals to decide We find it appropriate to apply a detailed statement on the most effective use of our energy of our environmental costs as part of our toolbox resources. aiming to separate our environmental costs into the three before mentioned categories. We will therefore, in 2015, establish a system that gives us an overview We have divided our internal environmental of both the internal and the external environmental costs into two groups – a) working environment costs, which allows us to prioritize our activities and costs and b) internal environmental costs. The investments in a wider perspective. Therefore, we will first group includes the costs related to our also build a system that allows us to record, analyze work environment, while the Group of internal and make decisions, inter alia: on the basis of such environmental costs includes all other costs environmental costs. We will furthermore try to incurred as a result of efforts to create estimate our externalities as part of our solution. environmental improvements, pay environmental taxes etc. All of these costs are in principle represented by an invoice in our bookkeeping system. The impact on the environment we create in the surroundings is the second category we aim at recording. For such costs there is no invoice at hand but we know of course that such environmental costs exist – they are so-called “external costs”. The environment today is a megatrend, and the economic resource that is put into – and in the future will be used – is also in the mega size. If we do not know the size of these costs, we have no options for controlling them. The first problem then is that we first need to determine how large Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 46 ENVIRONMENTAL COST CONCEPTS OF BRDR. MØLLER A/S External Environmental Costs Internal Environmental Costs Outside Brdr. Møller A/S Outside Eksternaliserede omkostninger World World Working Environmental Costs External Environmental Costs BRDR. MØLLER A/S ECONOMIC DATA 2009/10 – 2013/14 2013/2014 2012/2013 2011/2012 2010/2011 2009/2010 Net Sales 83.591 68.649 67.887 59.354 59.847 Operating profit 1.940. 8.727 5.426 6.972 8.635 Profit after tax 1.087 5.141 2.641 3.870 4.918 Assets 48.506 49.313 44.983 43.772 53.888 Equity 22.498 26.410 24.070 24.829 34.519 Dividend 0 Economic results of Brdr. Møller a/s in the period 2009/2010 – 2013/2014 (financial highlights) 2013/2014 2012/2013 2011/2012 2010/2011 2009/2010 Return on Equity 5% 20% 11% 13% 14% Return On Investm. 4% 48% 37% 45% 51% Contribution margin 2% 13% 8% 12% 14% Asset turnover 1,72 1.46 1.53 1.22 1.09 Solidity 46% 54% 54% 57% 64% Financial ratios for Brdr. Møller A/S in the period 2009/2010 – 2013/2014 Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 47 Rene Skau Bjørnsson Master (cand. oecon.) has 16. Governance worked in the Danish parliament through 12 years and current work with people with disabilities is also seen as beneficially for the Boards work. The Board of Directors is the company's highest Director Niels Juul carries out management in authority, in terms of planning, management and connection with the company's operation and control of the Organization's strategic decisions stands as the initiator of a number of projects, relating to the economic, environmental and social including certification after OHSAS 18001 and ISO conditions. The tactical/operational part of this 14001. Niels Juul is responsible for the company's work is carried out by Brdr. Møllers Director in economic results on the basis of the overall collaboration with senior executives. Director Niels objectives, determined by the Board. He is also Juul has the economic responsibility for the responsible for all operational aspects of the company's operational results. This responsibility Organization. When Sanne Juul Jørgensen is is not delegated to the individual project incorporated into the job as CSR/Environmental managers and leaders in the organization. Manager, she will be responsible for establishing and carrying out all activities relating to The current Board is composed after one of environmental and social conditions. company's founders – Jørn Møller – in 2012 made a handover with his two children Sanne Juul In principle, all senior managers refers, which to Jørgensen and Mads Juul Møller. They joined the Niels Juul who in turn refers to the Board of current owners of Brdr. Møller as well. The last Directors. Niels Juul is uncle to Sanne Juul Member and Chairman of the Board René Skau Jørgensen and Mads Juul Møller, so there are Bjørnsson – is professionally recruited, and have some family ties within management. Niels Juul no other ties to the company than his role of has before his job as the company's Director, Chairman of the Board. Neither Rene Skau worked in various functions within the company Bjørnsson nor the other Board members hold through more than 25 years. other positions within the construction industry. Brdr. Møllers Board of Directors are therefore also The work on the projects Brdr. Møller carries out characterized by being owner-/family dominated is headed in the day-to-day operation of foremen without representation of the company's other and project managers, who are responsible for stakeholders. It is estimated, however, that this carrying out the tasks, outlined in the project way of doing things will have positive description, including environmental, safety and consequences for the effectiveness of i.e. Brdr. social conditions. These managers do not have a Møllers work with CSR. It can be viewed as a financial responsibility related to their job at the strength, that two of the Board members have moment. their fingers on the pulse on a daily basis, while at the same time have the possibility – informal to Brdr. Møller is giving high priority to have the be able to make quick decisions. It is of course necessary competencies in place and Sanne Juul clear that independence in principle is not present Jørgensen and Niels Juul has in fall 2014, begun a between the various levels of management, but mini-MBA training program to strengthen we see it more as a formal rather than a real managerial competencies. problem. There have not previously been any conflicts of interest. Sanne Juul Jørgensen and Mads Møller along with Rene Skau Bjørnsson, all have had three have had The Board holds meetings every quarter and ad a period of three years as members of the hoc meetings, in so far as there may be company's Board of Directors. The last Membercircumstances which the Board must decide on Jørn Møller – have, as former owner of the within a reasonably short period of time. The company, sat on the Board of Directors through a Board has a good knowledge of various social and number of years and know about any company's health policy issues, among others. Through historical development, the market and the Sanne Juul Jørgensen's previous work as a nurse conditions which must prevail in order to run a and her Master degree (cand. scient. san.) she successful small/medium-sized construction has been confronted with many social and health company. There is a relation between the related issues and the economically educated the company’s Board members and two senior Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 48 executives Sanne Juul Jørgensen, which carries Other the position as the company's CSR/Environmental The pension arrangements that exist within Brdr. Manager and Mads Juul Møller, working with Møller are all covered, and the company has not various projects in the organization. These two received direct support from public authorities, people are at the same time, as mentioned besides what follows from the Danish rules about before, daughter and son of Jørn Møller. repayment of miscellaneous expenditure items. Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 49 BRDR. MØLLER – OVERVIEW OF ECONOMIC DATA Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 50 Achievement of Goals 2014 diesel and products alien to the environment. We have used these 3 areas as a first step in order to test the processes, and have found good results. In 2014, we have, as the first initial step, Our concrete objectives are shown in the table worked to get serious environmental objectives below. established with a view to reducing the number of sick days and reduced our consumption of Goals Goal Description Met Goal 1 In 2014 we will reduce the number of sick days by 5% compared to 2013 Goal 2 In 2014 we will reduce our diesel consumption by 2% compared to 2013 Goal 3 In 2014, we need to reduce the number of products alien to the environment with 50% compared to 2013 Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 51 CSR – DATA, GRI ETC. THIS CSR BASIC—REPORT 2014 IS THE FOUNDATION FOR BRDR. MØLLERS WORK WITH CSR DURING 2015-2020, AND FOUNDED ON THE DEMANDS AS STIPULATED IN FN’S GLOBAL COMPACT & GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 52 About Our CSR Baseline Report 2014 We have tried, as well as possible, to follow these reporting criteria – also in this CSR Baseline Report 2014 and will let these criteria be This report is our first and initial work to the future criteria according to which we incorporate CSR within Brdr. Møller. The report structure our CSR Report's design and content. It has been drawn up in accordance with the must be emphasized, however, that this CSR reporting requirements and recommendations Baseline Report 2014, as mentioned earlier, is issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). the basis for our future work in fashioning Brdr. This organization has some of the world's most Møller's first CSR Report, which will be released stringent requirements for reporting of CSR and in 2016 and covers the calendar year 2015. In matches our own ambitions for an open and this CSR Baseline Report 2014 we do design the transparent dialogue with the outside World. Our foundations for this work by describing our value CSR baseline report 2014 is designed according basis, objectives, strategies and plans for to the most recent guidelines – the so-called GRI reporting as well as the work we will implement G4 model. in the Organization in the coming months and years. GRI has two ways to report – either through a core criteria approach or through a more As from 2015, we also change our fiscal year so comprehensive model, the so-called that this – like our CSR Report – covers the comprehensive criteria . We have chosen to calendar year. This enables a better and clearer report after the latter standard. In addition, we connection between our economic performance, have observed certain reporting standards in the and the results generated through our CSR area of handling GRI requirements: efforts. Reporting Standards 1.) Reporting content that includes: a) involvement of stakeholders b) reporting in a sustainability context c) materiality d) completeness and 2.) Quality of Reporting, which includes: a) balanced reporting b) comparability c) precision d) transmittal of real-time information e) clarity in reporting and f) reliability Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 53 Basic Data There are a number of basic data we use for our CSR Baseline Report 2014 which are measured via specific stats or voucher material as well as partly calculated numbers. In the following table have listed the basis for the calculations we have used in the context of our CSR Basic Report preparation. Some data are very precise, for example payments for consulting work via forwarded invoices, other data, however, is less precise, but still relevant. This applies for example for data in connection with the statement of externality costs. In 2014, we have worked to establish a more advanced basis for recording of our environmental data. It applies to both the physical data in the form of quantities, but also to our environmental costs and externality costs that has been the subject of analysis of how we will record these data in the future. In section 10. GRI Indicator Status we have partly indicated the topic included in the CSR Report ( Reported ), and partly whether this topic/requirement has been adequately addressed ( Met ). Certain conditions that are included in the official GRI's listing of indicators are not relevant because they are not present in the case of at Brdr. Møller A/S. Transport of dangerous goods in accordance with the Basel Convention is an example. We do not transport such goods in Brdr. Møller. Such conditions are indicated by a . Our emissions of greenhouse gases are calculated according to the guidelines, which are developed through the reports that are issued by the so-called Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG) from WRI/WBCSD. Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 54 Basic CSR Report's Cost Data Basis Area Cost type Calculation Basis Reference/comment Working Environment Accidents At Work Internal documents, None reviews Sickness Absence Absence Statistics Governmental definitions of Short-lived illness = < 2 period of absence weeks (short-/long term) Prolonged illness = > 2 weeks External environmental costs Environmental taxes Invoice data Invoices on polluting and lightly contaminated soil Costs to repository Invoice data, own Invoices calculations Energy Taxes Invoice data Invoices Packaging Charges Invoice data Invoices Consulting fees, etc. Invoice data Invoices Electricity The tax on electricity State-prescribed rates, constitutes a total whilst invoices the øre/kwh, while tax on electric heating constitutes 41,2 øre/kwh per 01.01.2014. Electricity to process use constitutes 0,4 øre/kwh Energy taxes (PSO PSO tariff for 3. quarter Energy networks which levy) 2014 amounted to 21,7 stands for the levying of the øre/kwh PSO shall determine this each quarter. The charge stated in electricity bills and the money needed to support the production of renewable energy, research, etc. Reimbursement of Documents from the None energy tax and CO2 Authorities tax Reimbursement of Documents from the None water contribution, Authorities etc. Environmental Courses Course cost + labour None costs in the form of number of training days multiplied by a average rate per day Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 55 Water Tax The rate is 5,46 kr/m3 in Governmental charges, 2014 invoices Contribution to the The rate is 0.67 kr/m3 in Governmental charges, protection of drinking 2014 invoices water Occupational Safety And Health Costs Costs for meetings of Costs for meetings in Payroll statistics, meeting the safety Committee our occupational safety agenda and Health Committee has been calculated as an average. hourly wages for those who are members of the Committee, multiplied by the number of hours the meetings have lasted and the number of meetings during the 2014 Health And Safety Course cost + labor Course enrollments, payroll Courses costs in the form of statistics number of training days multiplied by an average rate per day Sick Leave Days Number of sick leave Absence statistics, payroll days multiplied by an statistics. average rate of pay per Not all sick leave days due day to working environmental conditions, of course! External costs Costs regarding. Is determined on the xxx consumption of basis of the mean value electricity in the range of 1.8-5.9 Euro cents/kwh. These figures are from 2005 and forward with a discount rate of x% and use of EURO/USD price per 31.12.2014 Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 56 Costs of emissions of Has been calculated on The EU's ExternE project. CO2 and SO2 the basis of the sizes Internal statistics and other defined in the External material project from the European Union. These costs are then used with a discount rate of 5% and use of EURO/USD price per 31.12.2014. Our emissions of CO2 and NOx are measured via various statistics and other material Emissionsgreenhouse gases Emissions of CO2 and Calculated on the basis World Business Council for SO2 , etc. of GHG's Sustainable Development recommendations Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 57 Formal Information Area of responsibility Content Contact Brdr. Møller A/S Generally Director Niels Juul Sustainability reporting Brdr. Møller A/S's CSR Basic report 2014 From 2015 Sanne Juul Jørgensen will Director Niels Juul have responsibility for the design of Brdr. Møller A/S's CSR reporting Report Design & Preparation scandinavian Eco-management systems Director Lars Vedsø, sEs Frisholtvej 76 A, 8850 Bjerringbro Report Validation Brdr. Møller A/S has acquired the consulting firm sEs (scandinavian Ecomanagement systems) to take charge of the design and content of our first CSR Baseline Report 2014. This company has, of course, been paid for this work, but is not in any way otherwise associated with Brdr. Møller A/S. We sEs have discussed the contents and held Frisholtvej 76 A regular meetings, but otherwise sEs has 8850 Bjerrinbro had a free hand to develop our CSR Denmark Report. We have produced the desired data and made other information available, but have not in any way influenced neither the design nor the contents of this report. We have, in this way, a notion that our CSR Report's contents can be said to be both objectively designed and with some external validation associable with the Report's contents. Formal data Brdr. Møller A/S Edwin Rahrsvej 77, 8220 Århus V, Bookkeeper Joan Jensen Board Of Directors René Skau Bjørnsson, Sanne Juul Jørgensen, Mads Juul Møller, Jørn Møller with René Skau Bjørnsson elected Chairman of the Board. René Skau Bjørnsson is the Director of the Rene Skau Bjørnsson organization DUKH (The Independent Consultant Organization in the field of Disability) and economic, and otherwise, independent of the interests of Brdr. Møller A/S. Activities Our activities include, inter alia: soil, site preparation, drainage, district heating etc. Activities are implemented primarily locally in the Aarhus area and the work carried out does not include work outside Denmark's borders. Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 58 Organizational Matters The company's main office is located at Accountant Joan Jensen Edwin Rahrsvej 77 in Aarhus. The company employed in 2013/14 approx. 46 employees. Our organization works primarily in project-oriented auspices. (VAT NO. 28133111) Ownership Brdr. Møller A/S is legally organized as a Sanne Juul Jørgensen limited liability company in which Sanne Mads Juul Møller Juul Jørgensen and Mads Juul Møller in co-ownership owns 100% of the shares of the company. Technically this equity stake is placed in a holding company (SAMA Aps), which is owned by Sanne Juul Møller and Mads Juul Møller. Reporting Period 1 January – 31. december 2014 Reporting cycle Annually Included organizational units All organizational units within Brdr. Møller A/S Reporting Content Process for the preparation of the content of this CSR report, including the Aspects described, occurred over a multiple-month period during which the content is obtained through the use of internal source material, visits, interviews, etc. The emphasis has been on drawing up the content so that it follows the reporting criteria developed by the GRI (see above) Report Application Brdr. Møller A/S intends its CSR Reports to be used both as an internal management instrument, partly as a means of communication with the company's stakeholders. Previous CSR Reports Since this CSR Baseline Report 2014 is Brdr. Møller A/S's first, it does not, by its very nature, contain data and information from previous periods Management level regarding The Board of Brdr. Møller A/S with authentication overall responsibility for our CSR Rene Skau Bjørnsson reporting, including review and approval of each individual CSR report Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 59 Glossary Word/Concept Definition Occupational Safety And Health Costs The recorded costs arising as a result of activities directly or indirectly related to the company's activities in connection with the working environment Biodiversity The diversity of animal and plant species that occurs in a healthy ecosystem Sustainability Sustainable development is a development that meets current needs without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Greenhouse Gases Includes 6 GHG gases: carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxides (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (Hfc), perflourcarbons (PFC'ere) and sulphorhexaflorid (SF6) External environmental costs The recorded costs arising as a result of activities directly or indirectly related to the company's actions in relation to the physical environment Externality costs Costs that are not recorded in the company's bookkeeping system, but which occurs in the surrounding environment as a result of the company's activities. The Precautionary Principle Grounds for suspecting that a substance may have harmful impacts irrespective of the fact that such environmental impacts are not fully scientifically resolved GHG Green House Gas Protocol from WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gases Gases such as CO2 (carbon dioxide), CH4 (methane) and others that are harmful to the climate causing heat radiation to stay in the atmosphere Local Area In principle, our local area is defined as Aarhus municipality, but since we often carry out work elsewhere, the definition of a local area will depend on where the individual projects are carried out. In addition, we have also in a given context defined a local area as residents in the area surrounding our headquarters at Edwin Rahrsvej. The definition will be apparent from the context. Local suppliers Suppliers in Aarhus Municipality Environmental Costs The costs that will be borne by the company, on the one hand with environmental purposes in mind (health and safety costs and external environmental costs) and, on the other hand, costs caused in the outside world as a result of our activities (externality costs) OHSAS Occupational Health & Safety Advisory Services Partnering Partnering is a special kind of cooperation between partners of a project that specifies certain initial common basic areas of interest based on a trustful and open-minded cooperation PSO (fee) Public Service Obligation Stakeholder Individuals, groups or organizations – which are seen to have a legitimate interest in Brdr. Møller A/S' activities Value Chain Specifies the different steps in the chain of activities that leads from a raw material to sales/service of a finished product or service WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 60 The GRI Indicator Status GRI's indicators include the conditions described in our CSR Baseline Report 2014. They are comprehensive, and mean that all of the company's areas of activity will be illuminated. Since GRI's Indicators, however, have been prepared as a general model, we have found it necessary to include additional indicators that we believe are relevant to work within Brdr. Møller A/S. In the case of environmental costs, we have thus included our environmental costs. These specific indicators which are applicable for Brdr. Møller A/S, is in the list of indicators below marked with a BMI . It is the first time we are working with the GRI model but this has not meant that there have been significant limitations in the application of GRI's Indicators within our company (Aspects), neither the inventory of these. On the other hand, we have chosen not to include a number of Aspects, when it comes to companies outside Brdr. Møller A/S’s control. This has mainly been due to temporal and economic considerations. With regard to GRI's recommendations the Indicator G4 EN4 energy consumption outside the Organization recommended to proceed on the basis of Symbols used Symbols used Meaning Explanation Condtions met Indicates that adequate information about a topic has been given Conditions partially met Specifies that adequate information about a topic in part has been given Conditions not met Specifies that there is no adequate information given about a topic Not relevant Specifies that the field is not relevant/present concerning Brdr. Møller A/S's activities BMI Brdr. Møller A/S Indicator Specifies the indicators Brdr. Møller A/S uses in addition to the required indicators from the GRI Reported Conditions referred to in Specifies whether the relationship is mentioned in the report the report Met Conditions met Specifies whether the relationship is satisfied i.e. coated with numbers or a written statement Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 61 GRI Indicators and their status Headline GRI ID Contents Page Reported Met 1. Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Management's foreword 2 G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 7-15 2. Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of organization 55 G4-4 Primary services 55 G4-5 Location of headquarters 55 G4-6 Countries where the organization operates 55 G4-7 Ownership and legal structure 55 G4-8 Markets 5 G4-9 The Organization's scope 5,8 G4-10 Employees distribution by gender, etc. 5 G4-11 Collective bargaining 9 G4-12 The Organization's value chain 7 G4-13 Significant changes in 2014 compared to previous G4-14 Application of the precautionary principle 17 G4-15 Charters that the organization supports or joins 19 G4-16 The Organization's membership of other org. 6 3. Reporting Principles G4-17 Organizational units included 7 G4-18 Reporting – process and application 56 G4-19 Essential Aspects associated with reporting content 51-57 G4-20 Essential Aspects and limitations 51-57 G4-21 Essential Aspects – outside the organization G4-22 Changes compared to the previous reporting G4-23 Changes in relation to earlier reports (Aspects) 4. Engagement of Stakeholders G4-24 List of stakeholders 9 G4-25 The Basis for the selection/choice of stakeholders 8 G4-26 Way to engage/communicate with stakeholders 8-10 G4-27 Key areas and response in stakeholder dialogue 8-15 Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 62 Headline GRI ID Contents Page Reported Met 5. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting Period 55 G4-29 Most recent previous report G4-30 Reporting cycle 55 G4-31 Contact person in the organization 55 G4-32 Choice of core criteria / comprehensive criteria . 51 G4-33 External validation (verification) 55 6. Governance G4-34 Governance structure, committees, etc. 46-47 G4-35 Delegating responsibility – economic, env. and social 46-47 G4-36 Responsibilities – economy, environment, social 7 G4-37 Stakeholder consultations 8-9 G4-38 Composition – management and committees 29,46 G4-39 Management overlap – governance/functional 46 G4-40 Identification and selection of Committee members 29,46 G4-41 Avoidance of conflicts of interest 46 7. Roles – Values, Strategies and Goals G4-42 Roles in the design/change of values/strategy/goals 14-15 G4-43 Action undertaken to expand the information base 14-15 G4-44 Processes for performance measurement 8. Management and risk G4-45 Management's role in the identification of risks 14-15 G4-46 Management's role in the evaluation risks 14-15 G4-47 Evaluation interval regarding risks 14-15 9. Management and reporting of sustainability G4-48 Management level review and approval CSR 55 10. Management's role in assessing the results of CSR G4-49 Communication process and critical points G4-50 Nature of and number of critical points 11. The performance remuneration regarding financial management, etc. G4-51 Remuneration principles and performance related pay 15 G4-52 The process behind the payment setting 15 G4-53 Consultation of stakeholders remuneration 15 G4-54 Remuneration-ratios G4-55 Percent increase in payment size-ratios 12. Ethics and integrity G4-56 The Organization's values, principles and ethics 6-7 G4-57 Internal/external resources ethical conduct 6-7 G4-58 Internal/external mechanisms unethical behavior 6-7 13. Information about management's approach to essential aspects within the organization G4-DMA Management's approach – essential Aspects 15 Category: Economy 14. Aspect: Economic performance in the organization G4-EC1 Economic value generated and distributed 45,48 G4-EC2 Financial risks/opportunities climate change 25-26 G4-EC3 Coverage retirement plans 47 G4-EC4 Financial support received from the public 34 15. Aspect: Market presence G4-EC5 Minimum wage divided by gender in 10 G4-EC6 Management employed from local area (%) 15 16. Aspect: Indirect economic impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure etc. G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts and their extent 17. Aspect: Logistics/supply practice G4-EC9 Cost share of supplies from local suppliers 12 Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 63 Category: Environment Headline GRI ID Contents Page Reported Met 18. Aspect: Materials G4-Α1 Weight or volume of the materials used G4-EN2 Per cent share of recycled materials 19. Aspect: Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 30-31 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization G4-EN5 Energy Intensity G4-EN6 Reductions in energy consumption G4-An7 Reductions in energy requirements products/service 20. Aspect: Water G4-EN8 Water consumption by source 30 G4-EN9 Water resources affected by water consumption 30-31 G4-EN10 Percentage/total water percentage reused/recycled 21. Aspect: Biodiversity G4-EN11 Activities in, or near, protected areas 32 G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts 32 G4-EN13 Habitats we have protected or restored G4-EN14 Total number of red list species 22. Aspect: Emissions G4-EN15 Direct emissions of greenhouse gases 30 G4-EN16 Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases-energy G4-EN17 Other indirect emissions of greenhouse gases G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions – emission intensity G4-EN19 Reduction in emission of greenhouse gases G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting gases G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant emissions 31,34 23. Aspect: Effluents and waste G4-EN22 Total discharge of waste water 31-32 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 30 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 30,34 G4-EN25 Hazardous waste according to the Basel Convention G4-EN26 Water bodies identity, size, protection status etc. 24. Aspect: Products and services G4-EN27 Reduction of environmental impacts products/services G4-EN28 Packaging where packaging is collected – by category 25. Aspect: Compliance with rules, etc. (compliance) G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant environ. fines etc. 34 26. Aspect: Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts transport 30 27. Aspect: General G4-EN31 Total expenditure for environmental protection 43 BMI-1 Occupational Safety And Health Costs 44 BMI-2 Environmental costs – external environment 44 BMI-3 Externality costs in selected areas 44 28. Issue: Environmental assessment of suppliers G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers screened 9-10 G4-EN33 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain 23,40 29. Aspect: Environmental complaints procedures G4-EN34 Number of received complaints about env. impacts, 32 Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 64 Category: Social responsibility Headline GRI ID Contents Page Reported Met 30. Aspect: Employment G4-LA1 Total number of employees and new hires… 8,55 G4-LA2 Bonus schemes to permanent staff 10,15 G4-Ba3 Returning after finishing parental leave .. 31. Aspect: Employee/management relations G4-LA4 Minimum redundancy timeline 32. Aspect: Occupational health and safety conditions G4-LA5 % of the workforce represented in committees .. 26,35 G4-LA6 Types of personal injury, occupational diseases… 29 G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or risk for diseases… 29 G4-LA8 H&S areas covered by collective agreements 33. Aspect: Courses and training G4-LA9 Average number of training hours per year. per 10 G4-LA10 Training programs of skills and lifelong learning G4-LA11 Employees who undergo career development process 34. Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunities G4-LA12 Governance groups breakdown of employees 29,46 35. Aspect: Equal remuneration for men and women G4-LA13 Salaries of women in relation to men G4-LA14 Supplier assessment working conditions 9,10 G4-LA15 Actual/potential influences working conditions 9,10 36. Aspect: Complaints about working conditions G4-LA16 No. of received complaints working conditions, 10 Subcategory: Human Rights 37. Aspect: Investments G4-HR1 Investment agreements and human rights… G4-HR2 Teaching employees about human rights… 38. Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total no. of incidents regarding discrimination 10,39 39. Aspect: Right to organize and bargain collectively G4-HR4 Free organizing/bargaining breached… 10 40. Aspect: Child labor G4-HR5 Use of child labor a significant risk… 13 41. Aspect: Forced or required work G4-HR6 Projects/suppliers, with risk of forced work … 8,13 42. Aspect: Security practices G4-HR7 Security personnel taught in human rights 43. Aspect: Rights of indigenous peoples G4-HR8 Incidents violation of rights indigenous peoples 44. Aspect: Assessments G4-HR9 Business operations review of human rights 6,37,39 45. Aspect: Assessment of suppliers ' compliance with human rights G4HR10 New suppliers screening for human rights… 12 G4HR11 Negative effects human rights in supply chain 13 46. Aspect: Complaints about violation of human rights G4HR12 Complaints, regarding violation of human rights 40 Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 65 Sub Category: Society Headline GRI ID Contents Page Reported Met 47. Aspect: Community G4-SO1 Involvement of local community in operations 13 G4-SO2 Operations-negative impact on local community 13 48. Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Operation risk of corruption… G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption G4-SO5 Recorded cases of corruption 14 49. Aspect: Social policies G4-SO6 Contributions to political parties 8 50. Aspect: Anti-competitive behavior G4-SO7 Cases regarding anti-competitive behavior… 14 51. Aspect: Compliance (Compliance) G4-SO8 Fines etc. for non-compliance with laws 40 52. Aspect: Supplier assessment of impacts on society G4-SO9 New suppliers screened for impacts on society 12 G4SO10 Risks-supply chain regarding impacts on society 12-13 53. Aspect: Complaint procedures regarding. influences on the society G4SO11 Complaints received on influences on society 39 Sub-category: Product Liability 54. Aspect: Customer health and safety G4-PR1 Services, where health and safety is assessed G4-PR2 Violations of regulations health/safety services 55. Aspect: Labeling of products and services G4-PR3 Service information-service information/labeling G4-PR4 Non-compliance labeling of services 40 G4-PR5 Results of customer satisfaction surveys 12 56. Aspect: Marketing communications G4-PR6 Sale of prohibited or questionable products G4-PR7 Non-compliance marketing information 12 57. Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Complaints breach of customer confidentiality 12 58. Aspect: Compliance G4-PR9 Fines non-compliance with laws and reg. 33 Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 66 The GRI and Global CompactGRI Indicators UN Global Compact Principles Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines Human Rights EC5, LA4, LA6 – 9; LA13 – 14, HR1 – 9, SO5, PR1 – 2, PR8 Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 HR1 – 9, SO5 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor LA4 – 5, HR1 – 3, HR5, SO5 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 HR1 – 3, HR7, SO5 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 HR1 – 3, HR6, SO5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6 EC7, LA2, LA13 – 14, HR1 – 4, SO5 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment EC2, EN18, EN26, EN30, SO5 Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 EN1 – 30, SO5, PR3 – 4 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 EN2, EN 5 – 7, EN 10, EN 18, EN 26 – 27, Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of EN30, SO5 environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption SO2 – 6 Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 67 Sources (Important) Written Sources & Photos 1. G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Reporting Principles and Standard Disclosures. Global Reporting Initiative 2. G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Implementation Manual Global Reporting Initiative 3. Collaboration, innovation & transformation. Ideas and inspiration to accelerate sustainable growth – a value chain approach. World Business Council for Sustainable Development 4. Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. Supplement to the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard World Resources Institute & World Business Council for Sustainable Development 5. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol. A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. Revised Edition World Resources Institute & World Business Council for Sustainable Development 6. United Nations Global Compact. The Ten Principles United Nations 1999 Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 68 7. A need for water in Region Midtjylland, (Danish: Behov for vand i Region Midtjylland) by Aileen M, Irene Stefaniak and Anders Hedetoft, CRT, Brian Lyngby S, GEUS, Christen Duus Børgesen, Finn Plauborg and Inge Toft Kristensen, Department of Agroecology, University of Aarhus, u. å 8. Photos: Aarhusportalen, Brdr. Møller A/S, freedigitalphotos, Wikimedia (i.e. Harkolufs s. 12, Rasmus Laursen s. 15, Malene Thyssen s. 20, John Brooks s. 22, RhinoMind s. 24 & 27, Tom Page s. 66) & Lars Vedsø (Important) Internet Sources 1. Global Compact: https://www.unglobalcompact.org 2. Global Reporting Initiative: https://www.globalreporting.org 3. Wikimedia (billedmateriale): https://www.wikimedia.org/ 4. Club of Rome: http://www.clubofrome.net 5. International Panel on Climate Change: http://www.ipcc.ch (Important) Internal Sources 1. Financial Reports Brdr. Møller A/S 2. Magazine – 50 Years Jubilee Brdr. Møller A/S 3. Interviews and discussions with employees Brdr. Møller A/S Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability CSR Basic Report 2014, Brdr. Møller A/S Page 69 Notes [in] View http://www.eea.europa.eu/data-and-maps/indicators/en35-external-costs-of-electricity-production-1#toc-2 [ii] View http://www.klimatilpasning.dk/viden-om/klima/klimaaendringeridanmark.aspx [iii] See more at: http://www.klimatilpasning.dk/viden-om/klima/klimascenarier.aspx [in] http://skraeppebladet.dk/blad/2014-01/artikler/gellerup-og-toveshoj-er-stadig-en-ghetto/ [in] View a need for water in Region Midtjylland, by Aileen M, Irene Stefaniak and Anders Hedetoft, CRT, Brian Lyngby S, GEUS, Christen Duus Børgesen, Finn Plauborg and Inge Toft Kristensen, Department of Agroecology, University of Aarhus, u. å [ii] View http://www.dn.dk/Default.aspx?ID=39702 [iii] See The WRI, WBCSD, Green house Gas Protocol. Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, September 2011, p 3 [in] View possibly more about the Club of Rome at http://www.clubofrome.org/ [ii] Source: http://www.actuaries.org.uk/sites/all/files/Resource_IoA_Report%20Print%20copy.pdf [iii] http://www.ecoglobe.ch/sustain/e/trainer5.htm [iv] Source: IPCC PRESS RELEASE 13 April 2014. IPCC: Green house gas emissions accelerate despite reduction efforts [v] See here the Environment Ministry's Executive Order No. 552 of 2 July 2002 on regulation of certain industrial greenhouse gases (HFCs, PFCs and SF6) [in] View http://transparency.dk/?page_id=111 Respect Transparency Accountability Honesty Sustainability
