BIG ON COMMUNITY EASY ON ENVIRONMENT 2015 Social Responsibility Report TABLE OF CONTENTS Letter from the President 3 Company Profile 4 About this Report 5 Demographics 7 People Matter 9 Training 10 Community Involvement 11 Ethics and Supply Chain 12 Health & Safety 13 Environment 14 GRI Content Index 15 2 LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT This is our fourth year as a member of the United requiring our Associates and our agents, service providers Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and we are pleased and suppliers to abide by applicable laws and socially and to have increased our reporting indicators from 10 in environmentally conscious practices. These standards 2014 to 25 this year; including the 10 UNGC principles. have been committed to by Samtec and supported by We submit our Samtec Sustainability Report for 2015 our Associates. We expect our suppliers to meet these along with over 12,000 signatories from more than 170 standards as well with their own business activities and in countries in supporting the UNGC’s ten universally relation to their employees. accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Our We plan to continue our mission to do more for the greater report’s theme for the 2015 fiscal year is again, “Big on good of the world. Even as our business and the climate of Community, Easy on the Environment”, which reaffirms the electronics industry changes, we will stay committed to our continued focus on improving technology while our UNGC efforts. In 2014, we reported on 10 indicators. simultaneously improving the communities in which we This year, we are reporting on 25 indicators, almost tripling do business. We must develop products and people. It the amount of indicators previously reported on. is imperative that our own global workforce knows the implications of everything we do here, and our ability Thank you for your continued interest in our company and to leave the world a better place. our efforts to make our business socially and environmentally sustainable for years to come. Samtec is committed to conducting business across the globe by respecting local customs and practices while John Shine, President 3 SALES $625,000,000 COMPANY PROFILE HEADCOUNT 3,786 Headquartered in New Albany, Indiana, USA, Samtec is a global company with locations in 18 countries. Samtec is the service PRODUCTS leader in the electronic interconnect industry. Founded in 1976, 600+ SERIES we are a privately held, $625,000,000 global manufacturer of a Which results in 108+ trillion broad line of electronic interconnect solution blocks, including part number options Silicon-to-Silicon Interconnects (IC-to-Board, Optics High Speed Board-to-Board, High Speed Cables), and Core Board-to-Board connectors and cables (Flexible Stacking and Micro/Rugged). Samtec is “Sudden Service®” providing an unparalleled customer service experience. Our underlying philosophies that Our business model relies on providing a global, seamless we call DNA are Speed, Innovation, Flexibility and Win/Win. customer experience. We want to provide the “And”, not “Or”, Much more than just another connector company, Samtec puts in all facets of our business: people first with a commitment to exceptional service, quality products and web tools. • Service and Quality and Cost • Big and Small Customers In 2015, we further defined our differentiation in the • Silicon-to-Silicon Interconnects and Core Board-tointerconnect industry with the intergration of Service and Board Connectors Products underpinned by global infrastructure. • Mainstream Engineering and New Ventures • Hand-fill Manufacturing for Flexibility and Automation Sudden Service core service, technical support, web tools and for Speed system service • Synchronized for Sudden Service with Optimal Efficiency Global Infrastructure – sales, engineering, operations, quality and information technology Samtec is ISO/TS 16949, ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and ITAR registered with a 5-A1 Dun and Bradstreet rating, the highest Building on the positive momentum of our Signal Integrity “Siliconavailable for a corporation this size. We employ over 3,700 to-Silicon” products and services, we focused the past year on people at nine primary manufacturing locations: New Albany, our global Technology Centers: Advanced Interconnect Design, IN, Scottsburg, IN, Colorado Springs, CO, Wilsonville, OR, High Speed Cable Plant, Microelectronics/IC Packaging, Optical Costa Rica, Huizhou, China, Johor, Malaysia, Penang, Malaysia Group, Signal Integrity Group and Teraspeed® Consulting. We and Singapore with sales and support offices spread throughout are experiencing an ongoing tech surge and expanding our 18 countries. Global manufacturing and sales locations allow “Technology Centers” by increasing capabilities, resources and redundant customer service, manufacturing, component partners around the world. Individually, our Technology Centers sourcing, molding, stamping and assembly in both hemispheres. enable great capabilities, but collectively and collaboratively, This manufacturing location strategy optimizes cost and delivery. they create synergy. Integration leads to innovation, and this With our global presence and special working groups in optics, meshing of capabilities creates the power of “one Samtec”. packaging, cable design and signal integrity, we are never far from the most talented people in the electronics industry. 4 ABOUT THIS REPORT– SOCIAL This, our fourth annual Social Responsibility Report, covers activities Social: that have occurred since our last UNGC submission in December of Employment, Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices, Supplier Human 2014. Our reports are published on an annual basis. This 2015 Social Rights Assessment, Anti-Corruption and Corporate Local Impact and Responsibility Report has been prepared referencing the Global Involvement. Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines for reporting at the core level. The guidelines define specific reporting topics and a process This report has been prepared according to the principles for defining for determining the significant economic, environmental and social report quality with a focus on presenting material in a clear and accurate metrics on which an organization should report. The GRI G4 aspects relevant to the organization were prioritized by information gleaned manner that is conducive to regular annual comparisons. While the from customer audits and various surveys throughout the year. The final material aspects serve as the foundation for the information provided selections of material aspects for this report were then validated by a in this report, we also present specific examples to highlight the many cross-functional team including representatives from Communications, ways our facilities and people have demonstrated a commitment to Human Resources, Quality, Environmental Health and Safety and impact over the course of the past year. Learning and Development departments. Stable management We have recently updated our Quality, Environmental and Social • 90% of supervisors – greater than 5 years at Samtec policy to further complement our technology surge and company • 67% of managers – greater than 7 years at Samtec differentiation while still being a good, corporate citizen. The newly • 20% of managers – home grown from Samtec updated policy was emailed to all Associates worldwide and updated on our web site. Policy Cards were also given to each Associate as well to reinforce commitment to our policy. Career Path • 72% supervisors have been groomed and grown The following is a list of material aspects by category (as defined by from operators the GRI): • 64% of managers are degree funded by Samtec Note: Samtec complies with the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act and the UK Modern Slavery Act of 2015. The Policy and Disclaimers area on our website was recently updated with this information. 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT– ENVIRONMENT Environment: Energy, Water, Emissions, Waste & Recycling. Electricity reduction 2014 – 10,625 2015 – 8,938 Recycling 2014 – 153,079 2015 – 216,645 • Plastic, aluminum cans, paper, cardboard and polystyrene Domestic water reduction 2014 – 8.86% 2015 – 5.96% Samtec Costa Rica achieved the Bandera Azul Ecologica, or Blue Flag Ecological, award in 2015 for their volunteering efforts and involvement to protect Costa Rica’s diverse and fragile coastal ecosystem. They are naming each month based on a special environment day. In celebration of International Water Day on March 22, March was deemed the Water Month. In recognition of Global Earth Day, Associates in Costa Rica are referring to April as Earth Month. The data presented in this report has been generated by our internal management systems and have not been assured by an external agency. Please direct and comments or questions about this report to social.responsibility@samtec.com. 6 DEMOGRAPHICS – WORKFORCE TOTAL GLOBAL WORKFORCE 50.9% 49.1% 7 DEMOGRAPHICS – TURNOVER TOTAL GLOBAL TURNOVER 3.49% 0.84% TURNOVER BY REGION 4% 3.99% 3.40% 2.97% 3% 2.79% 2.62% 2% 1.47% 1.28% 1.00% 1% 0.44% 0% North America Central America Asia Direct Labor Indirect Labor Total 8 PEOPLE MATTER At Samtec, “Service” isn’t just for our customers. We seek to The Women’s Leadership Network at Samtec (WLNS) was service our global Associates in every capacity that we can created as a forum and platform for women at Samtec to share including career growth opportunities, on-the-job training, ideas on leadership and professional growth and encourage educational expenses and countless opportunities to improve networking with other women. Topics discussed this past year their physical and financial well-being. include Work Life Integration, Confidence, What Matters Most and Taking Risks. Providing this type of We like to provide healthy challenges to our Associates support helps us achieve a very high return to work rate after around the globe to become better people in all aspects of parental leave at all facilities with a 100% retention rate in their career. We encourage Associates to consider Global Samtec North America. Assignment for cross cultural integration. An Associate from Costa Rica recently moved with his family to take a position To encourage personal development, Samtec Huizhou has an in our Colorado Springs, Colorado facility, and one of our Associate Scholarship program and has made donations to Operations Managers from our corporate headquarters in the school building. Our Associates in Costa Rica can take New Albany, Indiana has moved with his family to Penang, advantage of our All Aboard educational program to complete Malaysia. We currently have several Associates from Asia and their studies as well. Malaysia training at corporate headquarters as well. By keeping an open and flat organizational structure, We have recently implemented Town Hall meetings to give Samtec sees an unmatched global sharing of ideas related Associates an opportunity to provide feedback and input in an to operations processes, work environment improvements, informal, but structured setting. Recently, the Communications associate recognition methods and global communication Department initiated a Communication Cascade Project tools. We treat each other like family as we know that by to interview and survey Associates on how they feel about helping each other, we help our company, our customers and communication at Samtec and give them another vehicle to the communities in which we live, play and operate. voice their opinions. 9 TRAINING Tuition Reimbursement To further encourage Samtec Associates to complete training outside of Samtec, we offer tuition reimbursement up to $5,600 per year. Computer Grants We also offer grants to Associates to assist them in purchasing a new home computer. In 2015, over $67,000 in grants were made to over 160 Associates. 10 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Around the Globe Samtec Malaysia Samtec supports global projects and initiatives that enable Samtec Malaysia donated to the Malaysian Red Crescent Society economic development and stimulate economic growth around for the victims of the nation-wide flood in Malaysia as well as the world like water purification systems in third world countries, donated to Pusat Rawatan Darussyifa Bertam, a non-profit alternative energy solutions, advanced agricultural technology, organization that provides free medical consultation and medicine low cost housing refurbishment, life skills development training, throughout Malaysia. support of entrepreneurial start-ups, and so much more. Samtec Singapore Samtec Costa Rica Samtec Singapore donated 550 face masks to aid the victims of As part of our unique culture of service and care, Samtec Costa the Nepal Earthquake. Rica’s Social Responsibility Committee (RSES) is committed to promoting education for Associates and encouraging Associates to Samtec New Albany be aware of the consequences of their actions in the environment Samtec encourages involvement at each of its locations around the and community. During 2015, Samtec Costa Rica supported social world and routinely hosts donation drives and invites non-profits welfare campaigns developed by the Costa Rica Government into our various facilities to encourage participation. Samtec and programs by Non-Profit Foundations such as the Foundation NA’s philanthropy-minded Social Solutions Association (SSA) for Palliative Care Unit (for children who have special needs and/ was recently incorporated. A board of directors was established, or are in a terminal phase of their illness). Our Associates have and procedures along with a tracking system were created. SSA raised funds during their Ocho Horas de Amore, or 8 Hours of produces several fundraisers throughout the year. The money Love, program to support the Children’s Party that we sponsor raised in these fundraisers help fund donations to various charities each year. Samtec CR plans to introduce a new project in 2016, and individuals in need at Samtec and within the communities that Comprehensive Wellness, and work with our Associates, their we live. families, and the immediate community in the hope to positively impact their life. Being a good corporate citizen of a community carries with it responsibility. Since the majority of Samtec Associates come Samtec Huizhou from surrounding towns and cities, Samtec plays a big impact. Associates in Huizhou China visited the elderly in local Nursing Throughout the year, Samtec strives to make our communities Homes and donated to the Boluo Shiwan Charity for Poverty better places to live, work, play and go to school by finding ways Relief. to lend a hand – both in time and money. 11 ETHICS & SUPPLY CHAIN Samtec is constantly evaluating factors such as location of operation, Samtec has a regular audit schedule of its Supplier base, which must types of products and services provided, child labor avoidance allow Samtec and its agents (including third parties) to engage in practices, working hour management, pay and compensation assessment activities to confirm compliance with these standards. We practices, as well as ethics management policies and engagement. reserve the right, when the standards are not met and/or corrected in We continue to expand awareness and understanding across all our a timely fashion, to cancel outstanding orders, suspend future orders global facilities as well as our supply chain. or terminate our relationship with the supplier, as circumstances demand. We currently have zero suppliers who are a significant risk Since Samtec’s culture reflects, for the most part, a “learning for incidents of child labor or are involved in human trafficking, and organization”, we have tried to remove many of the barriers of all of our suppliers have undergone human rights screening. organizational learning. We are in the process of updating our New Hire and on-going Training programs to better communicate our We train our Associates to use these standards in our own operations values to all Associates worldwide. Samtec Associates are also asked and in evaluating our suppliers. If Samtec determines through audits every year to review our Sexual Harassment, Workplace Violence, or otherwise that a Supplier is not meeting the requirements and C-TPAT, Diversity and Company Policy e-learning modules for yearly expectations set forth in our standards, Samtec will offer guidance compliance. Associates are also given the opportunity to choose with respect to matters requiring correction or that need improvement their own Samtec sponsored training courses during the year. We if the facts allow. have completely updated our Associate Handbook this past year and are in the process of making even more updates. Samtec will not tolerate Human Trafficking and/or Slavery crimes within Samtec or the suppliers with which we do business. We Because of the United Nations Global Compact and our desire to comply with the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act and the continually improve our accountability of our business practices, UK Modern Slavery Act of 2015. we review and update our policies as needed. Our Quality, Social and Environmental Policy was just updated. These objectives are to The use of harsh or inhumane treatment is not allowed at Samtec ensure a safe and secure environment for our customers, Associates or by our suppliers. The following acts/behaviors are not tolerated: and the community through an Environmental Management System coercion (mental or physical), sexual harassment, and other forms of (EMS) that is continually improving. harassment, including but not limited to verbal abuse, bullying, and threats or violence. We require yearly training for all Associates Our high standards extend beyond Samtec to include the suppliers worldwide in regards to this policy. we depend on and engage with every day. We rely on a global supply chain to support the manufacturing of our products in each of our Samtec is committed to providing a positive work environment for locations. We survey all our vendors yearly in regards to quality, all Associates and to being a preferred employer. We have a long environmental consciousness, and social responsibility. and rich history of treating our Associates with dignity and respect, providing competitive wages and benefits, having open and honest Samtec Associates comply with the limitations of the Foreign Corrupt communications and providing an open door policy that ensures Practices Act (FCPA) and similar laws of the countries where we all Associates can raise issues without fear and retaliation. In operate. We require Suppliers to provide information regarding their conformance with local law, the rights of association of Associates own suppliers and subcontractors to verify that the extended supply will not be abridged. chain related to Samtec products operates in a manner consistent with Samtec’s expected code of conduct and commitment to its Samtec has never been subjected to legal action and/or fined for environmental and social principles. grievances related to discrimination, human rights, environmental regulations, child labor, anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust or monopolistic practices. 12 HEALTH & SAFETY The safety of our Associates is a primary goal, and this is accomplished by providing a safe and secure working environment. Workplace safety rules created in accordance with applicable law are communicated to Associates to ensure their well-being. Samtec Associates are expected to perform their duties in a safe manner at all times and to advise a manager of an unsafe situation in the workplace. Samtec Huizhou currently has in place a H7N9 Contingency plan for the prevention of viral transmission of avian flu. Samtec Malaysia issues health advisories on an as needed basis when there is a high mosquito breakout that can lead to dengue fever. Both Samtec facilities in Malaysia hold blood drives bi-annually. More than 300 packets were collected from both locations in total. Samtec New Albany sponsors blood drives with the Red Cross every 3 months. Samtec New Albany First Responders volunteer their time to attend an eight week course consisting of 6-7 hours each Saturday. At the end of the course, all Associates have to pass Listed below is Samtec’s Global Health and Safety statistics. the State’s written test and a hands-on skills proficiency test to be certified EMRs. Samtec North America’s injury rate is 1.07 compared to the industry average of 2.2. Samtec North America’s Days Away/ Restricted (DART) ratio was 0.143 in 2015. 20 16 15 15 15 10 7 5.12 5 2 0 0 0 0 0 1.07 0 Recordable Injuries Days Away/Restricted Cases First Aid Injury Rate Asia Central America North America 13 ENVIRONMENT Samtec continually strives to reduce our environmental impact by integrating environmentally-conscious practices into our product design and manufacturing processes as well as the actions of our Associates. Samtec Corporate headquarters in New Albany, Indiana is currently going through a significant remodel. To help with energy conservation, nearly every light fixture in the total 328,000 square feet space will be replaced with low-energy, ultra-bright LED lighting. The new lighting system alone is expected to result in over 30% savings in lighting energy use annually. More natural light is also being introduced throughout the building with additional windows and skylights. In Huizhou China, we provide free bus shuttle services for all Associates to decrease daily traffic and the smog and omissions associated with it. We have also implemented solar water heaters in two of our dorms as well. Single Stream Recycling (lbs.) 2014 2015 Samtec Costa Rica is very involved in the preservation of their Office Paper 125,841 93,913 surroundings. Our Associates have helped plant trees as a part of reforestation and have participated in the Matapalo Beach Cardboard 200,742 246,621 Investigation programs to protect and conserve marine turtles Miscellaneous Plastic 7,690 18,126 including patrolling beaches at night and collecting turtle eggs and moving their nests to safer places. Associates at Samtec Costa Polystyrene 24,322 17,033 Rica recently achieved the Blue Flag “Bandera Azul” award for their effort and volunteer work in the pursuit of conservation and Plastic Bottle & Aluminum Cans 34,545 35,206 development, protection of natural resources, and the search for better sanitary conditions and the improvement of public health of the people of Costa Rica. Water at Samtec New Albany is recycled at 350,000 gallons per month, and we discharge approximately 1,250,000 gallons per Our Environmental Management System (EMS) is an important month at our New Albany Waste Water Treatment Facility. We aspect of manufacturing at Samtec — from the selection of the are proud to report that we have had zero significant volume materials in our products, to the efficient use of natural resources spills. In 2015, Samtec New Albany disposed of 338,276 pounds and the careful control of facility wastes. of landfill trash and 179,566 pounds of hazardous waste at EPA licensed disposal and recycling facilities. Samtec recognizes the situation that is occurring in various places globally, including the Democratic Republic of Congo, Samtec has not received any fines and/or non-monetary sanctions and does not allow the sourcing of any of the following materials for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. that contain 3TG minerals (Tantalum (derived from ColumbiteTantalite), Tungsten (derived from Wolframite), Tin (derived from Cassiterite), and Gold) and/or finished materials originating, sourced, and/or smelted from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. Conflict Resources shall not be used within our products or supply chain. 10 14 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4.1 Indicator Description Page Number Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement 3 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 4 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 4 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 4 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates 4 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 4 2.7 Markets served by the organization 4 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 4 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period * 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ** Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting Period 4 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 4 3.3 Reporting cycle 4 3.4 Contact point for questions 4 3.5 Process for defining report content 4 3.6 Boundary of the report none 3.7 Any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report none 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, none outsourced operations and other entities 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information none provided in earlier reports, and the reason for such re-statement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods none * Signficant changes during the reporting period Samtec is currently undergoing remodeling of corporate headquarters in New Albany, Indiana. In 2015, Samtec also remodeled facilities in California, Colorado and Penang, Malaysia as well as built a new manufacturing facility in Scottsburg, Indiana. **Awards Received in the reporting period First Time awarded Fasted Growing Indian Company Excellence award – presented by the International Achievers Conference summit Fortune.com’s Best Places to Work in Manufacturing and Products ranked #13 in the US Bishop and Associates Customer Survey of the Electronic Connector Industry Award 1st for the 15th time in the US and for the 9th time in Europe Supplier Excellence Award – Schweitzer Engineering Labs Blue Flag “Bandera Azul” – rewards effort and volunteer work in pursuit of conservation and development and the improvement of public health of the people of Costa Rica 15 SPECIFIC GLOBAL REPORTING DISCLOSURES United Nations Global Compact Principles/Description Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 16 SPECIFIC GLOBAL REPORTING DISCLOSURES Specific Global Reporting Disclosures G4.1 Indicator/Description Page Number Economic Indicator G4-EC9 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation 12 G4-EC6 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from local community at locations of significant operations 6 Environmental G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 5 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quantity 14 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 14 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 14 G4-EN27 Initiative to mitigate environment impacts of products and services and extent of impact mitigation 14 G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations 14 Human Rights G4-HR10 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening and actions taken 12 G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations including the percentage of employees trained 10 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 12 G4-HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor 12 G4-HR12 Number of grievances related to human fights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 12 Labor Practices G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender 7 G4-LA1 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender 8 G4-LA6 Rates of injury, occupation diseases, lost days and absenteeism and number of work related fatalities by region and by gender 13 G4-LA7 Education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce member, their families or community members regarding serious diseases 9 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and employee category 6 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age, minority group and other indicators of diversity 7 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 9 Product Responsibility G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements 4 Society G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs 11 G4-SO4 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 12 G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes 6 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations 12,14 17 www.samtec.com 1-800-SAMTEC-9 or 812-944-6733 12
