ING Group Communication on Progress 2016 CEO statement It is our role as a financial institution to support and promote economic, social and environmental progress, leading to a better quality of life for people in society while generating adequate returns for shareholders. We work on this every day together with our employees, customers and partners. Together, we have the scale, ability and drive to make a difference. ING became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact in 2006, and I am pleased to reaffirm ING Group’s support of the Global Compact's 10 principles governing the private sector's responsibilities in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment & Anti-Corruption. There are many serious challenges that we as global citizens face. From the dangers of climate change to equal opportunities and human rights. We understand the responsibility that the private sector has to drive positive and sustainable change, and therefore remain fully committed to the Global Compact. Ralph Hamers Chief Executive Officer ING Group UN Global Compact ING Commitment Link/Location The ING Values are based on the commitment to respect human rights and care for the environment, avoiding or managing impact. Human rights are an integral part of ING’s ESR Framework and apply to all economic sectors that we conduct business with. In addition, within our sphere of http://www.ing.com/ING-ininfluence and wherever Society/Sustainability/Humanpermitted by law, we will Rights.htm support the aims of the UDHR, Principle 1 International Labour http://www.ing.com/AboutBusiness should support and Organization (ILO) Core us/Compliance/ING-Valuesrespect the protection of Conventions and of the UN 1.htm internationally proclaimed Global Compact. human rights ING Annual Report 2015, Report At ING, we will uphold the of the Executive board (p.45) Children’s Rights and Business and Risk and Capital Principles in our activities. We Management – Environment ask our suppliers to agree to and Social Risk Management (p. comply with the UNGC 52-54) principles that promote human rights, fair labour practices, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. ING is a member of the Thun Group of Banks, dedicated to investigating how the United Nations guidelines on business and human rights can be applied. Human rights are an integral http://www.ing.com/ING-inpart of ING’s ESR Framework Society/Sustainability/Humanand apply to all economic Rights.htm sectors that we conduct business with. ING’s Human http://www.ing.com/ING-inRights Statement for Society/Sustainability/INGsPrinciple 2 employees with reference SustainabilityBusiness should ensure that made to the ILO Core Direction/Sustainablethey are not complicit in Conventions. Transitions.htm human rights abuses We ask our suppliers to agree to ING Annual Report 2015, Report comply with the UNGC of the Executive board (p.29, principles that promote human 45) and Risk and Capital rights, fair labour practices, Management – Environment environmental protection, and and Social Risk Management (p. anti-corruption. 52-54) ING is a member of the Thun Group of Banks, dedicated to investigating how the United Nations guidelines on business and human rights can be applied. Where countries have weaker labour laws we abide by our own human rights policy, developed in accordance with the International Labour Organization convention, to protect working conditions. We uphold freedom of http://www.ing.com/ING-inPrinciple 3/ILO Conventions 87 association for all our Society/Sustainability/Humanand 98 employees and recognise the Rights.htm Business should uphold the right to collective bargaining as freedom of association and the laid down by International ING Annual Report 2015, Report effective recognition of the right Labour Organisation convention of the Executive board (p.45) to collective bargaining Nos. 87 and 98. Through the ING Human Rights Statement we express our commitment to support Principle 4/ILO Conventions 29 international labour rights http://www.ing.com/ING-inand 105 standards for our employees. Society/Sustainability/HumanBusiness should support the Rights.htm elimination of all forms of ING upholds the elimination of forced and compulsory labour all forms of forced labour and compulsory labour. At ING, we will uphold the Children’s Rights and Business Principle 5/ILO Conventions Principles in our activities. 138 and 182 http://www.ing.com/ING-inBusiness should support the ING does not tolerate any form Society/Sustainability/Humaneffective abolition of child of exploitative child labour, as Rights.htm labour defined in the International Labour Organization Convention 182, Article 3 (Worst Forms of Child Labour). http://www.ing.com/AboutING upholds the elimination of us/Compliance/ING-Valuesdiscrimination in respect to 1.htm employment and occupation. http://www.ing.com/ING-inWe believe the composition of Society/Sustainability/Humanour workforce should reflect Rights.htm Principle 6/ILO Conventions that of society, therefore we 100 and 111 strive to hire a workforce as http://www.ing.com/AboutBusiness should support the diverse as the communities in us/Diversity-and-Inclusion.htm elimination of discrimination in which we operate. We respect of employment and encourage all forms of diversity, ING Annual Report 2015, Report occupation not just because it is the right of the Executive board (p.22, thing to do, but because it is 45) from different backgrounds and diversity of talents and believes that new ideas spring forth. ING’s ESR Framework aims to mitigate environmental and social risk of our business activities. ING applies the http://www.ing.com/ING-inEquator Principles to Project Society/Sustainability/INGsFinance. SustainabilityPrinciple 7 Direction/SustainableThe ING Procurement Code of Business should support a Transitions.htm Conduct includes precautionary approach to environmental criteria. environmental challenges ING Annual Report 2015, Report of the Executive board (p.3, 20, ING’s environmental 33, 39) management programme aims to limit the environmental impact of our own operations. ING’s Environmental Approach ING’s Environmental Approach outlines how we manage our http://www.ing.com/ING-inPrinciple 8 direct and indirect Society/Sustainability/INGsBusiness should undertake environmental impacts, as well Sustainabilityinitiatives to promote greater as how we mitigate risks and Direction/Sustainableenvironmental responsibility create and seize opportunities. Transitions.htm ING’s ESR Framework aims to ING Annual Report 2015, mitigate environmental and Report of the Executive board social risk of its business (p.3, 20, 33, 39) activities. ING applies the Non-Financial Appendix (p.422) Equator Principles to its Project Finance activities. The ING Procurement Code of Conduct includes environmental issues, this to ensure environmental sustainability. ING’s Economics Bureau researches and publishes reports on environmental issues. At ING we understand that our activities impact the environment we operate in http://www.ing.com/ING-inboth directly, through the Society/Sustainability/Ouroperations of our buildings, IT Stance/Energy.htm systems and business travel, but also indirectly, through our http://www.ing.com/ING-infinancing portfolio and our Society/Sustainability/INGsthrough our procurement Sustainabilitysupply chains. Direction/SustainableWe are committed to reducing Transitions.htm our own environmental Principle 9 ING Annual Report 2015, footprint and working closely Business should encourage the Report of the Executive board (p together with both customers development and diffusion of 3, 20, 33, 39) and Non-Financial and suppliers to adapt and take environmentally friendly Appendix (p.422) advantage of opportunities technologies within the low-carbon economy of the future. We are proactively identifying opportunities to finance sustainable projects and companies that are environmental outperformers compared to peers in their sector. The value of sustainable transitions financed rose to 23.8 billion in 2015. Our business centers around http://www.ing.com/AboutPrinciple 10 people and trust. Only by acting us/Compliance/ZeroBusinesses should work against with professionalism and Tolerance-Briberycorruption in all its forms, integrity can we maintain our including extortion and bribery Statement.htm stakeholders’ confidence and preserve our company’s reputation. The ING Values play http://www.ing.com/Aboutus/ING-Values-1.htm an important role in this respect. ING has zero tolerance towards bribery and corruption and has clear policies on this. ING implements a Corporate Policy on Financial Economic Crime (FEC).
