Scope & Boundaries We have sought to apply the guidance of GRI G4 for the boundary settings, focusing on performance data and reporting on aspects which are most significant, as reflected in our No Deforestation, No Peat and No Exploitation Policy. We will report at policy-level on our policies with regards to crude palm oil (CPO) suppliers and fresh fruit bunches (FFB) suppliers. Whilst we now have better insights into the performance of our key suppliers, we have not included these in our metrics, as such information is subject to confidentiality agreements, and we believe that performance metrics should be disclosed by these companies themselves. Performance metrics are focused on Wilmar’s palm oil operations globally in our upstream business. We are primarily focusing on the performance of our own plantations in Indonesia and Malaysia as these are the most scrutinised among our activities and the key concern of our stakeholders. However, we have also included metrics for our African operations where these are considered material. About This Design Detailed Specific Issue Performance Policy Raised By Data On Material Commitments Wilmar International Limited recognises the importance Stakeholders Aspects of transparency and accountability in the supply chain Plantations in order to achieve our end-goal of a deforestationand Mills in and exploitation-free palm oil industry. Indonesia, Yes Yes Yes Malaysia and Being able to trace supply flows back to palm Africa oil mills and over time to plantations is therefore a means towards that end, including knowing FFB Suppliers No Yes Yes supplier’s locations and practices on the ground. CPO Suppliers No Yes Yes Wilmar went through a process of data collection of information of crude palm oil mills to our Downstream No No Yes refineries, and fresh fruit bunch (FFB) suppliers to Operations our own mills. While obtaining GPS coordinates and/or maps of each FFB supplier is an objective, The performance data disclosed does not cover: Wilmar’s priority is to engage with mill owners who • Operations in which Wilmar has less than 51% ownership or those that the can reach their own FFB suppliers to ensure the Group does not exercise significant influence or operating control; process of transformation can spread across the • The Group’s other upstream and downstream activities outside of oil palm entire supply shed. plantations and mills (in particular suppliers and refineries), including Indonesia and Malaysia; The design for this report drew inspiration from • The Group’s unplanted areas within the plantations for environmental figures, the mapping process, using topographic lines and including those in Indonesia and Malaysia, except for conservation areas and GPS markers as a thematic device to enhance visual fire incidences. treatment. The tagline “Focused on Driving Value” reinforces Wilmar’s ongoing commitment to uphold our “No Deforestation, No Peat and No Exploitation” policy; the GPS markers are used to indicate key Reporting Period points of interest and change that Wilmar supports. This report covers performance data for the calendar years 2014-2015 as Together, these elements present a cohesive theme well as 5-year historical figures, where available. Due to the fast-moving that underpins Wilmar’s aspiration to make a positive nature of the issues described, we have also included some information impact, not just across its business operations, but on activities planned for 2014-15. We believe that this is critical to meeting also driving transformation across the industry. stakeholder expectations. Contents Wilmar Wilmar International International Limited Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 1 Contents 3 Chairman and CEO’S Statement 22 Our Approach to Sustainability 56 No Exploitation of People and Local Communities 5 56 Sustainability 23 Rights of Workers Report Review Management 60 and Governance Communities and Structure Indigenous People 24 61 7 Sustainability Smallholders and Certification Targets and Outgrowers Achievements Supply Chain and Traceability 26 31 63 Supplier 10 Engagement and Base Data Compliance 37 About Wilmar Engaging Global Stakeholders 71 40 GRI Index Global Business Overview 11 Protecting Our 13 Environment 77 Vertically Integrated Business Model Financial 15 About This Report 40 Highlights No Deforestation Corporate 17 45 79 Governance Fighting The Haze 17 Ethics and and Preventing Fires EY Assurance 47 Anti-Corruption Mitigating Climate Statement Change 50 18 No New Planting 82 On Peat 51 Palm Oil Operations Safeguarding Glossary Water Quality Integrated Pest Management 53 Plantations and Mills 18 Refineries 20 Contents Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2014/15 2 Adopt Landscape Approach Focused on Driving Change Empower Smallholders Pursue Sustainability Certification Chairman and CEO’S Statement Wilmar Wilmar International International Limited Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 3 Chairman and CEO’S Statement Welcome to our fourth Sustainability we are close to it. By end of 2015 we assistance to improve practices and Report, which outlines our efforts and have verified the location of over 95% yields, creating an enabling environment initiatives following the launch of our No of the 840 direct mills supplying our through improved access to markets Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitation operational facilities in Malaysia and and financing, and by working with (NDPE) policy in December of 2013. Indonesia, and the percentage of total governments to strengthen land tenure volumes traded that is considered rights. Our work with smallholders Since the launch of the policy, we have traceable hovers at around 95%. achieved a key milestone in June successfully built stronger relationships 2016. With support from Wilmar with our business partners and To support our vision to transform the and financial assistance from the stakeholders around the world through palm oil supply chain, we continue Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil our policy consultation, socialisation to be an active participant of multiand implementation process, and stakeholder platforms to raise awareness I believe we can be proud of our of the importance of sustainability achievements so far. in the agribusiness industry, and are Kuok Khoon Hong spearheading numerous collaborative We have made great efforts to be efforts to achieve better socio-economic open, inclusive and transparent about and environmental outcomes in the our implementation progress and landscapes where we operate. setbacks. In January 2015, we launched our sustainability dashboard, which There are still many challenges ahead. set new standards for transparency Smallholders are an integral part of the and accountability in the agribusiness palm oil industry, and they account for industry. We also published our full list approximately 40% of the world’s palm of crude palm oil (CPO) mill sources oil production. We have made significant on our dashboard, and have been headway in working with our plasma conscientious in monitoring our supply smallholders and we are committed chain and addressing grievances raised to empowering independent small by our stakeholders. growers to improve their livelihoods and to ensure that they share in the Due to the realities of commodity benefits of oil palm development. We transport and trading, achieving 100% continue to develop projects to support traceability has not been possible; but smallholders, including technical Chairman and CEO’S Statement Wilmar Wilmar International International Limited Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 4 (RSPO) Smallholder Support Fund, a global supply chains, such as sugar and group of more than 2,700 independent soy. We will begin exploring ways to smallholders covering 5,500 hectares tailor our NDPE policy to commodities in South Sumatra, Indonesia, received beyond palm oil over the next two the RSPO certification. This makes it the years, in consultation with our partners single largest independent smallholder and stakeholders in the industry and group in the world ever to be certified. civil society. Wilmar’s NDPE policy has catalysed I would like to round off by extending the transformation of the palm oil my great appreciation for the strong industry, with almost all our industry support which we have received from our peers having announced similar employees, partners and stakeholders sustainability policies over the last throughout our policy implementation couple of years. However, while major process. Sustainability is a continuous palm oil players have led the push journey and we can only meet our towards higher sustainability standards, aspirations through collective effort, many domestic Asian businesses are a sense of shared responsibility, and far behind and there continues to be high-level support and leadership from a market for unsustainable palm oil. industry, civil society and government. More needs to be done, perhaps by Together, I am confident that we will be NGOs or investors, to encourage these able to demonstrate that socially and small and mid-tier companies to adopt environmentally sustainable plantation NDPE sustainability commitments. capacity can be expanded to meet rising agricultural demands, while National and provincial governments reducing pressure on natural forests have a critical role to play in supporting and enhancing rural livelihoods. the implementation of companies’ sustainability commitments and ensuring Kuok Khoon Hong, that positive environmental and social Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, outcomes can be obtained effectively Wilmar International Limited and legally. It is encouraging that several state governments, starting with Sabah (Malaysia), Central Kalimantan (Indonesia) and South Sumatra (Indonesia), have adopted jurisdiction-wide commitments to sustainability, which paves the way for sustainable practices to become the industry norm. We want to support these developments and are therefore particularly pleased to play a role in the Sabah Jurisdictional Approach steering committee to help the Sabah government achieve its vision of 100% RSPO-certified sustainable palm oil production in Sabah by 2025. While we have taken these large steps to ensure that our policy aspirations become a reality for all of our palm oil activities, we have also made a broader commitment to the highest sustainability standards across the major agricultural commodities in our Report Review by Neil Judd Wilmar Wilmar International International Limited Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 5 Report Review by Proforest Wilmar continue to deserve great credit in a number of areas, including: such as training sessions for managers, for their sustainability leadership in the (1) at least 95% traceability to mill for but also acknowledges that Wilmar will palm oil sector. This 2015 Sustainability Wilmar’s refineries in Malaysia and Indonesia; now be reviewing their performance Report summarises many of the strengths (2) good progress with RSPO certification in this area and taking further actions. that Wilmar have demonstrated since the achievements across the company’s mills, Labour related indicators are currently launch of their No Deforestation, No Peat, plantations and plasma smallholders, absent from Wilmar’s long-term goals No Exploitation (NDPE) policy in 2013, through to planned completion of and measurable targets, and there is a and itself is a reflection of the company’s certification assessments for its mills and need for a more systematic approach on-going commitment to transparency. their supply base; to monitoring and enforcing labourFollowing the launch of Wilmar’s policy, (3) thorough implementation and related commitments. many palm oil processing/trading and transparency of the grievance procedure, consumer goods companies followed covering Wilmar’s whole supply base; and Wilmar’s materiality matrix does not Wilmar’s lead with comparable policy (4) progress across a range of more make a distinction between Wilmar’s own commitments, and since then the focus specific indicators and projects, including operations, and those of their third-party of stakeholder attention has shifted to, detailed reporting on net greenhouse gas supply base; the 2015 Sustainability firstly, achieving high levels of traceability (GHG) emissions, robust engagement with Report focuses overwhelmingly on the to originating palm oil mills, and more suppliers to combat deforestation in the former, and there is less comparable recently to the challenge of delivering and Leuser Ecosystem in Sumatra, and various detail in relation to supplier mills. It is demonstrating robust implementation initiatives to address and prevent fires. of policies. There is now a fairly urgent need to develop some clarity on the Each of these is a highly valuable contribution practicalities of policy implementation, to wider sustainability efforts. Neil Judd to enable palm oil companies to be measured against credible indicators of Wilmar’s materiality matrix, used to due diligence and responsible sourcing evaluate the relative level of importance in their supply chains. The New York of the most substantive sustainability Declaration on Forests, endorsed by issues to both external stakeholders Wilmar, provides the broader context and to the company itself, has been for this, and includes a goal to eliminate updated, and continues to provide deforestation from the production of a sensible basis for the scope of the agricultural commodities, including sustainability issues included in the palm oil, by 2020. This perspective report. One of the updated issues is the provides the framework for my review. increased recognition of the importance of preventing the exploitation of workers, The 2015 Sustainability Report covers given the high levels of labour risk in the a range of issues where Wilmar have palm oil sector. In fact, workers’ rights continued to demonstrate significant and conditions were already correctly leadership and commitment to best given a high profile in Wilmar’s NDPE practice. In particular, the reported policy. The report summarises actions that progress deserves to be highlighted Wilmar have already taken in this area, Report Review by Neil Judd Wilmar Wilmar International International Limited Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 6 reported that Wilmar have completed Given the acknowledged sector field assessments on 47 supplier mills transformation objective, Wilmar’s from a total of approximately 1,000 task now is to convert the scale and suppliers, on the basis of an analysis complexity of the challenge represented of risk levels, which is a commendable by their third-party suppliers into a set achievement in terms of the level of of practical and feasible measures that resource and commitment that has can be implemented and reported on. undoubtedly been necessary to make Wilmar is extremely well placed to this happen. It should be noted that this once again play a leadership role in effort to date places Wilmar well ahead catalysing this innovation and action of their industry peers in this regard. across the wider sector. However, the scale of the challenge relating to third-party mills (in terms of the potential relative sustainability impacts), as well as the achievements to date concerning supplier engagement About Neil Judd and verification assessments, has Co-founder and director, Proforest insufficient profile within the report. It Neil Judd is a co-founder and director should also be noted that the challenge of Proforest, a unique, non-profit group of applying policy commitments to the that supports organisations to implement supply base of independent small growers their responsible production and sourcing deserves more attention – there is an commitments. Proforest has more than acknowledgement of the scale of the 16 years of experience of working with issue, and mechanisms to demonstrate a wide range of forest and agricultural progress in this regard will need to commodities, including pulp and paper, receive increasing attention over the timber, palm oil, soy, sugar, rubber, beef coming years. and cotton. Although there is little detail in the report Neil has extensive experience of delivering on the wider supplier engagement process practical solutions to sustainability and its impacts, including the challenge requirements and has over 25 years’ of driving performance improvements experience of working with environmental by supplier mills, the report does include certification and the responsible some valuable analysis in relation to the management of natural resources. Neil findings of a series of assessments on specialises in responsible sourcing, supplier mills to one specific Malaysian in leading Proforest’s development refinery, which highlights the relative and delivery of responsible sourcing importance of working conditions as strategy and implementation to a range a key focus for action. of corporate clients. His experience also includes managing the largest global External stakeholders are increasingly forest certification programme and playing demanding performance indicators and a leading role in the development of a strategy through to 2020 for delivery sustainable palm oil certification. of policy commitments; Wilmar’s report correctly identifies their various Spheres Proforest has been working with Wilmar of Influence in its supply base, recognising since 2006 in various ways to support that their level of control and influence the implementation of the company’s is lower with third-party suppliers – and sustainability programmes within its clearly Wilmar’s interventions must reflect palm oil operations. this in terms of feasibility. In Wilmar’s case, it is clear that the third-party mill supply base is critical to implementing their policy commitments over time. Target and Achievements Wilmar Wilmar International International Limited Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 7 Targets and Achievements What we achieved as at end 2015 1 st in the industry to launch to publish to disclose to launch a sustainability supplying crude palm traceability to mills a grievance dashboard oil (CPO) mills online procedure Certification Achieved Over 80% of planted area Completed field assessments Completed 95% traceability certified to the standards on 47 mills and a engagement to mills in Malaysia and of the Roundtable on representation of their supply with about 200 Indonesia Sustainable Palm Oil base comprising third-party international and local (RSPO). supplier and own operations. Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) Target and Achievements Wilmar Wilmar International International Limited Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 8 Our Ambition 1 2 3 No new development prior No new development prior RSPO certification for all to the completion of a High to the completion on a High mills, plantations and Carbon Stock (HCS) forest Conservation Value (HCV) plasma1 smallholders assessment area assessment 4 5 6 All existing plantations to have been HCV-assessed No new development No use of Paraquat in our with HCV management and on peat supply chain monitoring plan 7 8 9 No expansion without the Reducing accidents and All suppliers found to be in Free, Prior and Informed achieving zero fatalities in our breach of our zero-burning Consent of Communities operations policy will be terminated Our Targets Note to targets: In our Sustainability Description Timeline Report 2013 we adopted a set of targets to achieve the objectives of To complete construction of 15 methane capture facilities at CPO mills 2017 our NDPE policies. However, as many were aspirational and difficult to measure, we have now revised these To assess annually at least 32 mills2 and their supply base Ongoing into shortand medium-term goals and measurable targets. To complete sustainability certification audits for 10 stand2017 alone mills3 in Indonesia The substance of the targets to achieve our NDPE aspiration remains intact; we are working on a long-term strategy and To conduct training for 1,000 supplier participants in Indonesia 2018 targets in 2016 towards that end. and Malaysia 1 A programme initiated by the Indonesian government to encourage the development of smallholders’ plantations with the assistance and cooperation of plantation companies (the nucleus) which assist and support the surrounding community plantations (the plasma). 2 The number of mills selected is based on the ISEAL’S recommended sampling regimen for group certification, which is √y, where y is the total number of entities involved. For Wilmar, we have adopted 1,000 as the total number of mills in our supply base. 3 Independent mills as defined under the scope of the Indonesian Sustainable Palm Oil (ISPO) standards requirements. Refinery Focused on Sustainable Growth Plantation Mill About Wilmar Wilmar Wilmar International International Limited Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 10 About Wilmar Founded in 1991, Wilmar International Limited (Wilmar or the Group) is headquartered in Singapore and is one of the largest listed companies by market capitalisation on the Singapore Stock Exchange. Our main business activities are agriculture and food processing, including oil palm cultivation, oilseed crushing, edible oils refining, sugar milling and refining, manufacturing of consumer goods, specialty fats, oleochemicals, biodiesel and fertilisers, and flour and rice milling. We have an integrated agribusiness model that encompasses the entire value chain of the agricultural commodity business, from cultivation, processing, merchandising, to the manufacturing of a wide range of branded agricultural products. We operate in more than 50 countries and employ around 92,000 people. In 2015, the Group’s revenue was USD 38.78 billion, with USD 1.06 billion in net profits. Revenue and net profits fell below 2014 levels (USD 43.08 billion and USD 1.16 billion respectively), due to macro headwinds including a prolonged decline in commodity prices and financial market turmoil in 2015. Global Business Overview Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 11 Global Business Overview Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 12 About Wilmar India #1 Player in China Global Business • Leading branded consumer pack oils • Largest edible oils refiner and specialty producer, oilseed crusher and edible fats and oleochemicals manufacturer oils refiner • Leading oilseed crusher, producer Overview of branded consumer pack oils, rice and flour • One of the largest flour and rice millers Russia Ukraine Turkey Germany Netherlands Belgium Italy USA France Spain Japan Morocco Mexico Myanmar Ghana Thailand Vietnam Djibouti Philippines Malaysia Ivory Coast Ethiopia Singapore Kenya Uganda New Zealand Brazil Nigeria Tanzania Sri Lanka Wilmar is the global leader in processing and merchandising Zambia Bangladesh of palm and lauric oils, as well Zimbabwe Mauritius as production of oleochemicals, Mozambique specialty fats, palm biodiesel and consumer pack oils. South Africa Over 500 manufacturing plants in 17 countries* Extensive distribution network Africa Indonesia & Malaysia Australia covering China, India, Indonesia and some 50 other countries • Leading supplier of edible oils • One of the largest oil palm plantation • Largest raw sugar producer and refiner • Operates oil palm plantations, refineries owners and the largest palm oil • Leading consumer brands in sugar Multinational workforce of about and produces consumer pack oils, refiner, palm kernel and copra crusher, and sweetener market 92,000 staff soaps and detergents specialty fats, oleochemicals and • Top 10 global raw sugar producers • Third largest sugar producer in Africa biodiesel manufacturer * Subsidiaries only, not including • Largest producer of branded consumer associates pack oils in Indonesia Vertically Integrated Business Model Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 13 Vertically Integrated Business Model Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 14 About Wilmar Vertically Integrated Business Model At the core of Wilmar’s strategy is a resilient business model encompassing the entire value chain of the agricultural commodity business, from processing, to branding, merchandising and distribution. Through scale, integration and the logistical advantages of its business model, Wilmar is able to extract margins at every step of the value chain, thereby reaping operational synergies and cost efficiencies. Tropical Oils Oilseeds and Grains Sugar Others Origination Milling, Fertiliser Merchandising, Plantation Manufacturing and Manufacturing Consumer Products Shipping Refining & One of the largest listed Merchandising Leading soybean crusher World’s largest producer palm plantation companies Largest global processor and in China and one of the of consumer pack edible Consumer Products in the world merchandiser of palm and lauric largest flour mills globally oils with leading positions Largest raw sugar producer and oils with distribution network in many Asian and African refiner in Australia and leading Processing in more than 50 countries countries sugar refiner in Indonesia Leading consumer pack sugar Bulk Consumer Almost 100% of output is manufacturer in Australia and Edible Oils Pack Edible Oil supplied to Manufacturing Almost 100% of edible oil is New Zealand and Merchandising supplied to Consumer Products Raw & Oilseeds RefinedSugar Meal Specialty Rice & Fats Flour Strong Volumes and Profitability Across All Segments (FY2015) Biodiesel Oleochemicals FFB: 4.5 m MT Volume: 23.5 m MT Volume: 23.6 m MT Volume: 5.1 m MT Volume: 13.1 m MT Revenue: US$2.25 b Revenue: US$56.5 m Revenue: US$15.55 b Revenue: US$11.54 b Revenue: US$6.16 b Revenue: US$4.40 b Results: US$545.6 m Results: US$689.8 m Results: US$83.3 m Results: US$17.4 m Merchandising & Distribution Customers Financial Highlights Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 13 15 About Wilmar Financial Highlights Revenues USD millions 50,000 47,500 45,463 44,710 45,000 44,085 43,085 42,500 40,000 38,777 37,500 35,000 32,500 30,000 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Net Profits USD millions 2,000 1,750 1,601 1,500 1,319 1,255 1,250 1,156 1,056 1,000 750 500 250 0 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Financial Highlights Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 14 16 Revenues by Region USD millions 2015 19,371 7,661 4,488 2,485 2,024 1,411 1,338 50% 20% 12% 6% 5% 4% 3% People’s Southeast Others Europe Africa Australia/ India Republic of Asia New Zealand China Employees by Country/Region 2015 48,305 22,539 12,131 6,354 4,492 51% 24% 13% 7% 5% Indonesia People’s Malaysia Others (including Africa Republic of the European Union China and United States of America) Corporate Governance / Ethics and Anti-Corruption Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 15 17 About Wilmar Corporate Governance Wilmar Annual Report 2015 Our Board of Directors is the highest who is the Chairman and Chief Executive governing body of Wilmar and is Officer (CEO). A Lead Independent responsible for the strategic direction Director, Mr Yeo Teng Yang, has of the Group. The Board is made up been appointed to ensure adequate of Directors with a wide range of accountability and transparency in the skills and qualifications in areas such decision-making process. The Board as accounting, finance and business is supported by a management team management, as well as specific that is responsible for the execution of experience in relevant industries. the Group’s strategy and operations. Sustainability is incorporated into the The Board has 11 members, comprising Group’s risk management structure three Executive Directors and eight through the Board’s Risk Management Non-Executive Directors, of whom four Committee which reviews sustainability are considered independent. Nine are news and issues development quarterly. Singaporeans, one is Malaysian and one is American. For more details on our corporate governance structure and processes, The Board is led by Mr Kuok Khoon Hong, please refer to our Annual Report 2015. Ethics and Anti-Corruption We have in place a Code of Conduct Our Whistleblowing Policy and grievance that prohibits the giving and receiving procedure (see page 34-35) sets out of any type of bribe. These include guarantees for confidentiality and gifts, entertainment or other benefits freedom from reprisals. It also identifies that may affect our employees’ ability a number of contact points for reporting to carry out their duties legally and/ fraud, corruption and non-compliance or in line with company interests. Any with legal requirements and company benefits or gifts must be declared to a policies. We have not received any reporting superior. The Code of Conduct reports of unethical conduct or corrupt is codified in our employee handbook. practices during the reporting period. Palm Oil Operations Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 16 18 Palm Oil Operations Plantations and Mills We are one of the world’s largest oil Uganda totalling approximately 46,000 palm plantation companies, operating a ha, and manage another 148,000 ha total planted area of 240,956 hectares under smallholder and outgrower (ha) as of 31 December 2015. Around schemes. We operate a total of 46 mills, 69% of our total planted area is in including nine which are independent Indonesia, 24% in East Malaysia and mills which buy Fresh Fruit Bunches 7% in Africa. We also manage 31,428 (FFBs) exclusively from third-party ha under smallholder schemes in suppliers. Of these 46 mills, 26 are Indonesia and Africa. Through joint currently certified to the standards of ventures and associates, we also have the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm shareholdings in West Africa and Oil (RSPO). Total Planted Area 300,000 247,081 255,648 241,081 238,287 240,956 250,000 200,000 150,000 100,000 38,021 41,407 41,307 31,666 31,428 50,000 0,000 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Total planted area (oil palm, rubber and sugar-cane) Plasma schemes4 Note: Reduction of plasma hectarage due to divestment of PT Citra Riau Sarana in 2014. 4 A programme initiated by the Indonesian government to encourage the development of smallholders’ plantations with the assistance and cooperation of plantation companies (the nucleus) which assist and support the surrounding community plantations (the plasma). Plantations and Mills Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 17 19 Group Yield and Extraction Rate 30 25.4 25.2 25.1 25.3 25.4 25 20.6 21.4 19.8 18.9 20 18.8 15 10 5 0 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Yield (FFB/ha) Extraction rate (MT of CPO and PK/MT of FFB) Yields for 2012-2013 were low primarily due to adverse weather effects in both Indonesia and Malaysia but have reverted to normal conditions in 2014-2015. Geographical location of our upstream operations (plantations and mills) in Indonesia and Malaysia Sandakan Sabah Kota Bharu Kota Kinabalu Bandar Aceh George Town Peninsular Kunak Medan Malaysia Bintulu Rantauprapat Dumai Sarawak Sumatra Pasir Gudang Pekanbaru Rengat Pontianak Samarinda Padang Jambi Kendawangan Lubuklinggau Palembang Kumai Bengkulu Indonesia Java Malaysia Tanjungkarang Telukbetung Oil Palm Plantation Jakarta Merak Palm Oil Mill Bandung Gresik Refineries Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 18 20 Geographical location of our upstream operations (plantations and mills) in Africa Ghana Africa Nigeria Oil Palm Plantation Palm Oil Mill Palm Oil Operations Refineries Wilmar is the world’s largest processor As at 31 December 2015, the Group has plants located in the following countries: and merchandiser of palm and lauric oils, palm kernel and copra which Refinery Oleochemicals Specialty Fats Biodiesel are manufactured into specialty fats, Subsidiaries oleochemicals and biodiesel. The crude Indonesia 25 4 4 9 palm and lauric oils are sourced from our Malaysia 14 1 1 2 own plantations, smallholder schemes China 49 10 6 and third-party suppliers. Vietnam 2 2 Europe 4 3 1 1 Africa 2 1 Others 4 1 Total no. of plants 100 18 16 12 Total capacity (million MT p.a) 29 2 2 3 Associates India 26 1 5 China 10 2 3 Russia 4 1 Ukraine 2 1 Malaysia 3 Africa 10 3 Bangladesh 2 Total no. of plants 57 3 13 Total capacity (million MT p.a) 9 <1 1 Note: Refinery capacity includes palm oil and soft oils A map of all Wilmar operations is available at http://www.wilmar-international.com/sustainability/supply-chain-map/ Focused on Strategic Sustainability Approach Strenghten Engagement and Partnership Pursue Sustainability Certification Ensure Supplier Compliance Our Approach to Sustainability Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 20 22 Our Approach to Sustainability Our 2013 No Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitation (NDPE) policy has formed the basis of our approach to ensuring a sustainable business. Over the past two years, the policy has given us direction and a clear goal as we work to eradicate deforestation, peat development and exploitation in our own operations and in our supply chain. Our NDPE policy was always ambitious and aspirational and will continue to be so in the next phase of its implementation. It is important to recognise that sustainability is a shared responsibility. The drivers of deforestation are complex global forces that are beyond the power of any one industry or company to tackle alone. Collective endeavour by businesses, governments, communities and civil society is required to effect real and lasting change on the ground. A clear means of measuring and tracking progress on these commitments – both Wilmar’s and those of the industry as a whole – must also be defined to assess whether the ambitious vision of our NDPE policy is being met. “Wilmar’s 2013 NDPE policy was a landmark for sustainable palm oil, and has clearly created a ripple effect throughout the industry. Although Wilmar alone cannot address the global issues around deforestation and exploitation of communities, they deserve credit for the way in which crown suppliers in their supply chain are now implementing their own NDPE policies, whilst numerous others have committed to adherence of Wilmar’s purchasing policy. We applaud the robust socialisation process with both civil society and supply chain actors, which took place around the policy and grievance procedure. In the next phase of implementation, we would like to see a stronger emphasis on measurable recording of forests and peat spared from conversion for oil palm, GHG emissions and labour standards where we have found it difficult to assess Wilmar’s success in reaching their objectives.” Eric Wakker and Jan Joost Kessler Sustainability Management and Governance Structure Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 21 23 Our Approach to Sustainability Sustainability Management and Governance Structure The Sustainability Council leads the Wilmar’s Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) regarding suppliers based in Indonesia, continued development and execution is responsible for overall strategy and policy Malaysia, Africa and Latin America. of our NDPE policy. The Council is development. The Group Sustainability chaired by Wilmar’s Chairman and CEO, General Manager is responsible for the To support policy implementation, we also thereby providing a strategic mandate implementation of these policies in our have a Technical Advisory Group, operations from Wilmar’s highest management. own operations, as well as ensuring thirdteams working on site and at regional The Sustainability Council delegates party supplier compliance. An additional levels, and a communications team. These the implementation of its sustainability compliance team operates in Malaysia teams provide input to the Joint Steering strategies (including the NDPE policy, and Indonesia to check compliance with Committee, which comprises Wilmar, TFT, United Nations Global Compact principles, Wilmar’s policy. Since 2013, we have also and NGO representatives. The Committee certifications, stakeholder engagement, been working closely with The Forest Trust handles major strategic issues related to corporate governance and reporting) to the (TFT), an organisation that specialises in the execution of policies. It also evaluates Sustainability Department. This department making supply chains more sustainable by our progress against policy targets. A is made up of over 50 employees globally offering social and environmental expertise suspension committee has been appointed and combines a wide range of relevant to companies. TFT also provides external to consider the exclusion of suppliers who local and technical expertise. assurance on compliance and offers advice fail to comply with Wilmar’s policy. Sustainability Governance Structure CEO Chief Executive Officer Top Level Oversight COO Chief Operating Officer CSO Chief Sustainability Officer Chairman & CEO, COO GM General Manager NGO Non Governmental Organisation Suspension Committee Joint Steering Committee (JSC) Chairman & CEO, COO, CSO, Wilmar, The Forest Trust (TFT) Sustainability GM, • Resolve policy/implementation major issues Procurement Head Indonesia, • Evaluate progress with Policy commitments Procurement Head Malaysia • Deal with major issues unresolved from • Assess potential suspensions Communications and Operations groups Technical Advisory Group Operations Team Communications Team NGOs, Wilmar, TFT • Check on activities, prioritisation, efficiency • Input/advice on current • Provide advice on specific • Working through technical issues that need communications issues tricky issues where team closure and can be dealt with at this level • Emerging requires broader perspective • Feed updates to JSC any issue that cannot communications issues be resolved • Crisis communications • Receive inputs and queries from the JSC issues • Seek input from the ‘Technical Advisory Group’ Sustainability Certification Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 22 24 Our Approach to Sustainability Sustainability Certification Third-party verification of our sustainability performance is critical for our credibility and ability to reassure stakeholders that we deliver on our commitments. RSPO annual production capacity of certified fully RSPO-certified since 2008. Our sustainable palm oil and certified palm operations in Ghana were certified in We have been an active member of kernels to around 830,000 metric tonnes 2014; we will set a timebound plan for the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm (MT) and 175,000 MT respectively. the certification audit of our operations Oil (RSPO) since 2005, and remain in Nigeria when the construction of involved in a wide range of RSPO We have committed to completing the mill is completed. taskforces and working groups. We certification audits against the RSPO are Chair of the RSPO Smallholder Principles & Criteria (P&C) at all our Most of our operations in Indonesia Support Fund Panel Co-Chairs of the plantations and mills, excluding the have now achieved RSPO certification. RSPO Smallholder Working Group, the nine independent mills without their However, due to delays in the issuance Biodiversity and High Conservation own plantations by end 2016, in line of legal permits (Hak Guna Usaha – Value (BHCV) Working Group and the with the RSPO membership rules for Right to Cultivate Permit) by the local FFB Legality & Traceability Task Force, certification. Once our mills and their government, we will be reviewing as well as members of the Emissions supply bases are fully certified, our our timebound plan for six facilities Reduction Working Group and the Trade goal is to produce upwards of one in 2016. This situation is a common and Traceability Standing Committee. million metric tonnes (MT) of certified issue facing companies operating in sustainable palm oil (CSPO) annually. Indonesia, as a result of a multi-layered As of end 2015, 26 of our mills and approval process that differs from more than 80% of our planted area All of our Malaysian upstream operations region to region. are RSPO-certified. This boosts our (mills and plantations) have been Timebound Plan – Outstanding Mills Company Name Target Date West Kalimantan PT Bumi Pratama Khatulistiwa West Kalimantan PT Agro Nusa Investama (Landak) West Kalimantan PT Agro Palindo Sakti 2 2016 Sumatra PT Musi Banyuasin Indah Sumatra PT Sinarsiak Dianpermai Sumatra PT Agrindo Indah Persada 2 Nigeria Ibad Palm Oil Mill Upon completion of mill construction RSPO timebound plan will undergo review in 2016, in view of the delay of relevant legal permits as explained above. Sustainability Certification Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 23 25 Unplanted areas are being developed palm kernels were sourced from our according to the RSPO New Planting smallholders as of end 2015. We are Procedures (NPP) and will therefore on track to complete smallholder undergo the Free, Prior and Informed certification by 2018 in Indonesia, a Consent (FPIC) process and High year ahead of our original plans. Co n s e r v at i o n Va l u e ( H C V ) a rea a s s e s s m e n t s . To meet out NDPE For more information about our work policy commitment, we are also with smallholders, see page 61-62. undertaking High Carbon Stock (HCS) assessments based on the HCS Our downstream operations (refineries) Approach methodology. are preparing their facilities and management systems to ensure that It is critical that smallholders are certified palm oil can be traced back included in our certification efforts, to their respective mills or plantations, and we have committed to helping depending on the supply chain system all our associated smallholders in of choice (mass balance or segregation). Indonesia and Africa become certified Many of our refineries in Indonesia, to RSPO standards by 2019. We are Malaysia, Europe, China and India are making progress on this front and have already able to trace physical certified completed certification for plasma palm oil through the RSPO segregated smallholders and outgrowers at three and Mass Balance supply chain models, of our mills in Indonesia. As a result, and as of end 2015, 30 of our sites have more than 11,800 MT of certified been certified under the RSPO Supply palm oil and 2,800 MT of certified Chain Certification System. ISPO ISCC In 2011, the Government of Indonesia The International Sustainability & Carbon introduced the Indonesia Palm Oil Certification (ISCC) is an international Certification (ISPO) as a mandatory certification system covering all kinds of requirement for all companies and bio-based feedstocks and renewables smallholders operating in Indonesia. to cater to various markets such as the This regulatory requirement mandates bio-energy, food, feed, and chemicals all our plantations and mills to undergo sectors. It incorporates sustainability ISPO certification before seeking RSPO criteria such as reduction of greenhouse certification or re-certification. This is in gas emissions, sustainable use of land, line with Principle 2 of the RSPO standard, protection of natural biospheres and which requires members to comply social sustainability. with applicable laws and regulations in countries where they operate. Wilmar started pursuing ISCC in 2011. As of end 2015, we have 31 As of end 2015, five mills and their sites – including mills, refineries and supply bases have been certified to the biodiesel plants – certified against the ISPO standards. Wilmar is also pursuing ISCC standards. Certification of further ISPO certification for independent sites will be determined based on mills in Indonesia (those without their commercial considerations. own plantations), where we link the certification with those of independent Achieving ISCC certification means we smallholders cooperatives. are able to deliver products that comply with the strict sustainability criteria set down by the European Union’s Renewable Energy Directive (RED). Supply Chain and Traceability Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 24 26 Our Approach to Sustainability Supply Chain and Traceability We began to map our supply chain in mid-2013, prior to the implementation Defining and Calculating of our NDPE policy to pilot development of the KnownSources platform with Traceability: Wilmar’s Approach Unilever. As an extension of this exercise, one of our biggest focus areas over the For a mill to be considered traceable, Wilmar requires the following information: past two years has been to develop processes to trace our supplies first back to mill level, and eventually to plantations, where possible. We have found these efforts to be invaluable as we now have the information to evaluate our suppliers’ performance 1 2 3 against our policy, and to engage with Parent Mill Address our supply base to achieve improvements Company Name where needed. Name 4 5 Longitude and Volumes Latitude Co-ordinates Where any part of this information is incomplete, volumes from that particular supplier will be treated as “untraceable”. “Untraceable” does not mean that we do not know who we procure from but that it does not fully meet the above criteria. The traceability performance of our refineries is calculated in percentages of the total volume received by the refinery. Refineries can receive supplies from individual mills, refinery transfers, traders, or bulking terminals. Tracking traceability through a volumetric approach means that we can more accurately track the physical flows of our oil, and supports a traceable physical supply chain. While we strive to increase traceability from one period to the next, it should be noted that the traceability values may also decrease. Such trends occur predominantly because supplies available from different sources may vary from one period to another. Supply Chain and Traceability Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 27 Supply Chain and Traceability Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 28 Overview of Wilmar’s Supply Chain Fresh Fruit Bunch (FFB) Crude Palm Oil & Palm Kernel (CPO/PK) Crude/Refined Palm & Lauric Products Plantation and Mill Operation Refinery Operation Traded Parcels Wilmar Own/ Third Party Plantations Smallholders Wilmar Own Bulking Trading Office Wilmar (Singapore) Smallgrowers Mills Terminal Intermediate Origin Buyer Supplier Origin FFB Collection Centres Refineries Indonesia/Malaysia Third Party Plantations Third Party Smallholders Refineries/ Third Party Bulking Traders Smallgrowers Mills Terminal FFB Collection Centres Wilmar Own/ Wilmar Own Traded Destination Third Party Plantations Mills Parcels Wilmar Bulking Destination (Rest of The World) Terminal Processing Plant Third Party Trading Office Mills (Singapore) Supply Chain and Traceability Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 29 Progress on Traceability to Mill Over the past two years, we have focused in other palm oil producing countries, our attention on traceability to mill, especially in Latin America and Africa because the mill is a good indicator of that contribute to the throughput of our the approximate location of its Fresh destination operations. Fruit Bunches (FFB) suppliers. Our next challenge is to improve We have achieved over 95% traceability traceability in other areas of the supply to mills for all our refineries in Indonesia chain. This is an issue because our and Malaysia. Furthermore, we have refineries’ supply network is not limited made great headway in identifying the to direct purchases of CPO and/or origins of palm and lauric products in all palm kernels from mills. Refineries may of the other markets in which we operate. also procure bulk and redistributed oil from third-party refiners or traders. In January 2015, we published the list of Where these types of purchase are known CPO mill sources that supply our made, the CPO mill origin may not refineries. By mid-2015, we had identified be available. However, we continue all the direct mills supplying each of our to explore innovative ways to engage operational facilities in Indonesia and suppliers, including the provision of Malaysia. In addition we have identified geographically specific advice and supplies from approximately 100 mills feedback, to achieve our goal. 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Indonesia Malaysia India, China China Europe Ghana, Vietnam Ukraine United Bangladesh Speciality Oleochemicals Nigeria, States of and Sri Lanka Fats South Africa America and Ivory 2014 2015 Coast Supply Chain and Traceability Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 30 Traceability to Plantations The definition of traceable to plantation, or fresh fruit bunch (FFB) traceability, is the Estates Smallgrowers Smallholders Dealers subject of considerable debate. Wilmar Parent company name Y has primarily focused its attention on traceability to mill, because the mill is a Estate/grower/dealer name Y Y Y Y good indicator of the approximate location of its suppliers, and having this knowledge GPS Y Y Y will enable a meaningful analysis of likely Planted area Y Y Y social and environmental impacts. Number of growers Y Y Y Wilmar’s current approach on traceability to plantations requires considerable details Certification status Y about growers (see table on the right). % (volume) from this source Y Y Y Y If any information is missing, the source is considered ‘not traceable’. This may result in a more conservative outcome to help our third-party suppliers to do FFB sourcing of our own mills in phases, compared to traceability definitions likewise. We do not aggregate traceability a process that began with the release of based on less rigid data requirements. statistics, but will continue to publish the our Malaysian maps5. We consider each source individually and hence report the actual percentage of traceable FFB. This means that most mills in Wilmar’s supply chain are 0% traceable, except for those owned by Wilmar and some RSPO-certified mills. We have prepared maps of all our own mills, showing all estate boundaries and the location of each smallholder and dealer, and are pursuing options An Illustration of a Mill’s FFB Sourcing Statistics in Sabah 2015 50% 19% 16% 11% 2% 2% Own Estate Dealers Smallholders 3rd Party Estate Smallgrowers Associate Estate The above FFB sourcing statistics illustrates a complicated process that requires Our priority is to engage with mill owners a mill’s FFB traceability summary which significant details of tens of thousands of who can reach their own FFB suppliers can be found on Wilmar’s sustainability individual growers and smallholders. For to ensure the process of transformation dashboard.6 this reason, while we would like to identify can begin across the entire supply shed. GPS coordinates and/or maps of each FFB As such, we expect this work to extend Securing traceability to plantations is supplier, it is not our immediate priority. for a longer period. 5 http://www.wilmar-international.com/sustainability/progress/traceability/traceability-back-to-plantation/ 6 http://www.wilmar-international.com/sustainability/wp-content/themes/wilmar/sustainability/assets/FFB%20Sourcing_Rekahalus%20Sdn%20Bhd.pdf Supplier Engagement and Compliance Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 31 Our Approach to Sustainability Supplier Engagement and Compliance The major aspiration of our NDPE policy was to transform the palm oil industry, and while we are among the major players in the industry, we cannot achieve this ambitious goal alone. Our approach has therefore evolved to reflect our levels of influence, starting with our own operations and plasma smallholders, through direct supplier assessments and the supply shed, and evolving to broad partnerships to achieve transformation at landscape level. Sphere of Influence and Transformation Initiatives Jurisdictional/Landscape Approach Aggregator Refinery Transformation* Supplier Assessments NDPE Policy and RSPO Certification compliance for Wilmar’s own estates, mills and plasma smallholders * See page 32 for details Supplier ContentsEngagement and Compliance Wilmar Wilmar International Limited International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 29 32 Lim Sian Choo “Wilmar’s policy has certainly changed our mindset. It was clear and good to use as a model, and Wilmar kept socialisation with suppliers simple but effective. However, we would value more ongoing interaction so we get feedback on our performance on a regular basis. We would also like to hear more from Wilmar on their challenges in implementing the policy so we can share learnings on what has worked and what hasn’t.” Lim Sian Choo Group Head of Corporate Secretarial Services and CSR Supplier engagement Our ART plan aims to achieve progress that is shared with all Wilmar suppliers on the following fronts: in that particular supplier landscape. While many palm oil companies have Known as the ‘Overarching Report’, committed to various sustainability • Legal compliance this document is an output of the ART certification standards, we recognise • Protection of high conservation value areas process and is designed to provide a the palm oil industry still has room for • Environmental impact management collaborative framework of solutions improvement. Over the past two years • No exploitation of labour and local and shared best practices for mills and we have focused significant effort to help communities growers within a region. Monitoring is our suppliers improve their practices • Creation of shared values required to ensure progress is made on towards sustainable development. • Traceability these recommendations, and this will be One of our main activities has been to an ongoing process. hold engagement sessions to ensure By the end of 2015, field assessments that all suppliers recognise our key had been carried out at 47 mills and a As of end 2015, Wilmar has completed policy requirements, and to provide representation of their supply base in the ART process for Sandakan in Sabah, geographically-specific advice and Indonesia, Malaysia, Latin America and Malaysia. Many of our 2015 projects and feedback where needed. Ghana. This represents about 145% of collaborations were focused in Sabah, the recommended ISEAL sample size as suppliers in the region have already We followed up by working out the for 1,000 mills that we procure from indicated a strong interest in developing traceability levels across various countries globally. Assessment of suppliers, as solutions together with Wilmar. We have in which we operate and conducting determined using this recommended also started a similar initiative in Indonesia, assesment to both manage risk and sample size formula, is an ongoing and over the next years, we are planning to support our suppliers in implementing process which we will continue annually. expand the programme to Latin America. the requirements of the policy. Mills were selected for assessment In 2016, Wilmar will begin a series of ART – a landscape approach using the Mill Prioritisation Process training for all oil palm producers in to ensuring policy compliance (MPP), developed together with TFT specific regions on topics relevant to as part of the Aggregator Refinery sustainability and the NDPE policy. This With a supplier base of over 1,000 Transformation (ART) plan (see page is envisaged to increase the capacity of operators, Wilmar needs a collective and 33). The process combines spatial and the industry and enable sustainability regional approach to address supplier non-spatial information relating to adoption in the industry. compliance. Implementing the NDPE environmental and social components policy among growers, millers and to identify potential risks within a 50 km The full series of ART Overarching refineries across different countries and radius. The MPP identifies all mills that Reports can be downloaded here. continents requires an ambitious but supply a specific Wilmar refinery and practical strategy. In order to achieve these locations are overlaid on a map meaningful transformation on the ground, showing national parks, forested areas, our implementation has focused on peatland and biodiversity hotspots. Wilmar’s refineries as a point of influence upon their supply base of mill suppliers The results of the mill assessments, which and the associated FFB suppliers. Key we conduct based on a sample size in to this strategy has been a landscape a specific region in the MPP phase, are approach known as the ART plan. consolidated and summarised in a report Supplier Engagement and Compliance Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 33 Overview of Aggregator Refinery Transformation Approach Traceability Mill Prioritisation High Level Engagement Mill Mapping Desktop Based Field Visits to assess Assessments against Wilmar’s sourcing policy An overarching report summarising all findings from the field assessments produced. Issues common to that particular locality would be identified, and recommendations on improvement provided. Knowledge is shared with ALL Ongoing Broad suppliers from that region. Monitoring Engagement/ Transformation at Landscape Level Landscape and In addition, since 2014 Wilmar has we have committed to supporting the jurisdictional approaches been working with TFT, civil society governments in setting up the regulatory organisations and like-minded industry and policy frameworks. Wilmar currently The factors driving deforestation are peers to combat deforestation in the sits on the Steering Committee of the dynamic, interlinked, and need to be Leuser Ecosystem, a rich and valuable Sabah Jurisdictional Approach. addressed holistically. To achieve genuine tropical rainforest in Sumatra, Indonesia. change in the entire industry, we are More details on page 42. supporting landscape approaches aimed at transforming land-use change at a Another emergent model for tackling macro level. The landscape approach environmental challenges in multiple has emerged as a potential model for land-use scenarios is the jurisdictional doing so. It entails viewing land use types approach. In this model, a government (farming, housing, etc.) not in isolation, will build a specific regulatory framework, but as integrated in a wider landscape as well as key stakeholder partnerships, in which multiple objectives – including to address deforestation or other agricultural production, provision of sustainability issue in a specific region. ecosystem services, and protection of biodiversity and local livelihood – can Since the launch of Wilmar’s NDPE policy, be simultaneously achieved. several jurisdictional approaches for sustainable oil palm production have The Landscape Approach forms the been launched. In 2015, the respective basis of Wilmar’s NDPE policy. We governments announced jurisdictional are also pursuing activities based approach processes for palm oil on the Landscape Approach in Riau, certification in Central Kalimantan, Indonesia with a focus on smallholders, Indonesia and Sabah, Malaysia. These are in collaboration with the ISPO and United regions where Wilmar has a significant Nations Development Programme. presence in oil palm production, and Supplier Engagement and Compliance Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 34 Grievance procedure Nature of Grievance# In 2015, we established a grievance procedure as part of our NDPE policy. This provides stakeholders with an avenue to report suspected sustainability-related breaches and concerns pertaining to our internal operations and suppliers. The procedure has been critical to the oversight of compliance with our NDPE 14 policy, both internally and throughout our supply chain. A panel of civil society organisations was invited to review and provide feedback to the preliminary draft of the procedure prior to its finalisation. 2 After launching the grievance procedure, we reached out to over 150 NGOs through a series of structured workshops and numerous face-to-face meetings in Indonesia, Malaysia, Europe and other parts of the world to socialise and collect feedback on the initiative. 2 We publish the grievance cases on our website, allowing stakeholders to monitor grievance handling, progress and outcomes. In addition, we separately list cases relating to Wilmar’s operations and suppliers that are currently handled through the 1 RSPO Complaints System on the same platform http://www.wilmar-international. com/sustainability/grievance-procedure/. Wilmar was the first organisation in the palm oil industry to implement a grievance 1 procedure. Increasingly an industry norm, several major peers have now adopted similar grievance mechanisms to address complaints and supply chain issues. Deforestation We have registered and investigated 20# grievance cases since the procedure was Social Conflict launched, and have learned much during its first year of operation. In pursuit of Human Rights Violation continuous improvement, we will undertake the first review of the procedure in Deforestation & Social Conflict 2016, and will again invite civil society organisations to be part of the review process. Deforestation, Social Conflict & Human Rights Violation To ensure that instances of non-compliances are also proactively monitored, we have enlisted the support of an international NGO to identify issues that could Grievances relating to HCS, HCV, peatland and burning issues are classified as Deforestation; be linked to our suppliers at a plantation, mill or group level. This is a proactive labour issues as Human Rights violations and land surveillance strategy to manage risks, ensure compliance and eventually achieve disputes with local communities as social conflicts. transformation within the larger palm oil industry. More than 40 groups of palm oil mills and plantation companies were on our monitoring list in 2015. Glenn Hurowitz “Wilmar deserves credit for responding quickly to most of these grievances. They have worked hard to improve supplier performance, and have been willing to cut off rogue companies when engagement just isn’t working. But there are still too many breaches, showing the need for more education or more rigorous sanction.” Glenn Hurowitz Senior Fellow, Centre for International Policy # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on these figures. Supplier Engagement and Compliance Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 35 Supplier Engagement and Compliance Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 36 Grievance Process Flow Develop an approach Implement and for handling the Identification of Prepare action plan monitor the action Initial Engagement specific grievance. If Potential Grievance to resolve grievance plan until the required, commence grievance is resolved Field Verification Potential grievance reported The Grievance Unit engages with the grievance raiser. If Grievance Raiser* to Wilmar or published in a field verification is necessary, and when relevant and Communicate outcomes to (NGO, Media, etc.) the Media appropriate, the grievance raiser will be invited to participate external stakeholders Confirm the issue is a Record in the Grievance Prepare Grievance Memo, Grievance Unit grievance using the simple List & engage with agree to an approach for (Wilmar) Decision Tree relevant parties handling the grievance Implement action plan and monitor in consultation with external parties until the Prepare Action Plan grievance is resolved Grievance Committee Field No to resolve grievance (Wilmar & TFT) Verification? and communicate with relevant parties Target of Grievance Yes (Wilmar Unit or Discuss grievance and obtain Third-party Supplier) further information Verification Team Commence (Wimar, TFT, optional field verification Prepare Verification Report third party) * The Grievance Raiser may nominate a third-party to act on their behalf. Contents Global Stakeholders Engaging Wilmar Wilmar International Limited International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 33 37 Our Approach to Sustainability Engaging Global Stakeholders Civil society and In support of its partners’ commitments non-governmental to reduce deforestation in tropical organisations (NGOs) forest countries, TFA 2020 continues to grow its partner membership and We are in ongoing dialogue with relevant bring on board key actors committed international NGOs – either through to tackling deforestation. Since June our involvement in multi-stakeholder 2015, the TFA Secretariat has been initiatives or ad hoc discussions. In the hosted at the World Economic Forum past two years we have hosted several offices in Geneva, with financial support formal stakeholder dialogue sessions, from the governments of Norway and including in Indonesia, Malaysia, Europe the United Kingdom. and Australia. This has provided us with a platform to engage more directly with this network, and has given stakeholders the ability to engage directly with Wilmar to seek solutions for sustainability challenges, including The Indonesian Palm Oil Pledge breaches of our NDPE Policy. We have also approached NGOs, including the At the 2014 United Nations Climate Summit, Wilmar was an initial Global Environment Centre (GEC) signatory to the Indonesia Palm Oil Pledge (IPOP) alongside leading and Sabah Environmental Protection industry peers. Facilitated by the Indonesian Chamber of Commerce Association (SEPA), to help us evaluate (KADIN), the goal of the initiative was to work towards “sustainable and suggest improvements for our mill palm oil that is deforestation free, respects human and community prioritisation process. rights and delivers shareholder value through collaborative multistakeholder efforts”. There were three main work-streams – farmers’ The Tropical Forest empowerment, tenurial reform, and stakeholder engagement – Alliance 2020 prioritising the provinces of Riau and Aceh in Sumatra, and Central Kalimantan in Borneo. Wilmar signed up as a partner to the Tropical Forest Alliance 2020 (TFA) in In the last two years, the Government of Indonesia has announced 2015, and is a member of its steering a number of progressive policies, including a moratorium on committee. This initiative was founded peat development, the formation of the Peat Restoration Agency in 2012 at Rio+20 after the Consumer (BRG), and a moratorium on palm oil licenses for expansion. As a Goods Forum (CGF) committed to zero consequence, the signatories have agreed that IPOP has fulfilled net deforestation by 2020 for palm oil, its purpose to help accelerate and promote this transformation soy, beef, and paper and pulp supply toward sustainability and therefore its presence can be dissolved. chains. The CGF partnered with the US The signatories will continue to act on their respective sustainability government to create the public-private commitments independently. alliance with the mission of mobilising all actors to collaborate in reducing commodity-driven tropical deforestation. Contents Global Stakeholders Engaging Wilmar Wilmar International Limited International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 34 38 Transparency and of our supply chain. The dashboard also accountability offers a list of our suppliers and regular updates on our traceability commitments Enhancing our transparency and accountability and policy implementation. is a core ambition in our policy and stakeholder engagements. Since 2009, We are pleased to see that our efforts have we have published a biennial sustainability been recognised. In 2014, the CDP Global report, annual communications of Forest Report highlighted Wilmar as the “most progress through the RSPO, as well as improved company” and US-based NGO ad hoc responses, briefs and policy Forest Heroes categorised our company announcements through our website as a ‘Green Tiger’7 – one that is “working and annual reports. aggressively to protect forests and reduce their overall environmental footprint.” In 2014, we enhanced our transparency by launching a quarterly progress The investor-led Forest500 initiative also report and an online dashboard where recognised Wilmar as best in class, with stakeholders can access a detailed map top marks for reporting and transparency. “ABN AMRO considers the agri-commodities sector as “high-risk” due to its associated environmental and social risks. To manage those risks, it is important that companies apply a solid sustainability policy. ABN AMRO engages with its clients to discuss sustainability issues: with Wilmar, our engagement has led to a constructive dialogue. We are of the opinion that Wilmar has taken important steps in improving its performance and transparency: Wilmar introduced its ‘No Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitation Policy’ in 2013 and publishes progress reports on a regular basis. ABN AMRO also sees room for further improvement especially in the implementation of Wilmar’s sustainability policies regarding fire prevention (as a member or the Fire-Free Alliance) and the screening of the company’s supply chain.” 7 http://www.forestheroes.org/greentigers/wilmar/ Contents Wilmar Wilmar International International Limited Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 35 Conserve Wildlife Focused on Protecting the Environment Safeguard Water Quality Maintain Biodiversity Contents our Environment Protecting Wilmar Wilmar International Limited International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 36 40 Protecting Our Environment No Deforestation and Conservation The mission of the NDPE policy is to bring about sectoral transformation to halt deforestation in the agricultural supply chain. A critical part of our work has therefore been to engage stakeholders with whom we have direct commercial relationships, but also to play a lead role in testing and exploring new concepts. Through these actions, we seek to ensure that new approaches being developed in partnership with governments and civil society are robust and practical, and do not result in the marginalisation or exclusion of communities, smallholders and local players. Defining forests and RSPO HCV Approved Registry, our HCV represented on the group’s Executive protecting it from assessments were undertaken by assessors Committee, as well as in various HCSA SG deforestation registered on this list. In January 2015, the working groups and task forces. HCV Resource Network (HCV RN) launched The NDPE policy uses the HCV and HCS the HCV Assessor Licensing Scheme (HCV In parallel, the Sustainable Palm Oil tools as means to define and identify forest ALS), which combines a stringent quality Manifesto, a group consisting of major areas that require protection. As of 2015, control and peer reviews of all HCV reports. palm oil growers undertook to develop an Wilmar has set aside to about 30,000 ha All our assessments are now undertaken alternative approach, which was supported as conservation area. This is equivalent to by licensed HCV ALS operators. Areas by leading scientists, and which focused on 12% of our total planted area in Indonesia, identified as HCV within our plantations addressing socio-economic concerns related Malaysia and Africa. are delineated and a management plan to forest-set-asides, and on determining is developed to ensure that the area is a carbon neutral approach towards HCV is an established concept that is appropriately managed and protected. development. Wilmar is also supporting already incorporated into RSPO’s Principles this initiative and is currently involved in a & Criteria. HCV areas are defined as having HCS is a relatively new concept that convergence process to ensure that both biological, ecological, social or cultural emerged in 2012. It identifies different methodologies are able to work together values of critical importance. The principle forest structures and density and functions towards a single way forward. behind this concept is to identify and as a tool for planning developments or conserve these values before any land planting within a landscape. In August In 2015, a number of our team members clearing or development can take place. 2014, a broad group of stakeholders participated in training courses organised established the HCS Approach Steering by the HCSA SG to ensure that we were We have used independent third-party Group (HCSA SG) to strengthen and evolve able to implement the HCSA Toolkit experts to identify HCV areas in our the methodology, as well as to provide a prior to any new developments. We also plantations since joining the RSPO in 2005. governance body for its use. Wilmar was undertook our first HCS assessment in From 2010, when RSPO introduced the one of the initial members and is now Nigeria in 2015. No Contents Deforestation and Conservation Wilmar Wilmar International Limited International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 37 41 Conservation Area by Region (Hectares)8 15,087# 6,083# 3,043# 2,033# 1,658# 1,635 83 Central Sabah Sumatra West Sarawak Nigeria Ghana Kalimantan Kalimantan Use of Spatial Monitoring and Reporting Tool (SMART) for continued monitoring of HCV areas At around 15,000 ha # , the Central Kalimantan Project (CKP) has the largest HCV area among our plantations. To make the patrolling and monitoring of this expanse more effective, we implemented the Spatial Monitoring and Reporting Tool (SMART), jointly developed in 2013 by the Zoological Society of London (ZSL) with CITES-MIKE, the Frankfurt Zoological Society, the North Carolina Zoo, the Wildlife Conservation Society and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). One year on, Wilmar and ZSL conducted an evaluation of the SMART implementation in CKP and some modifications were identified that might help to optimise the tool for use in a production landscape. SMART continues to provide a platform for HCV teams to report their monitoring data spatially and to identify trends in wildlife populations and threats in HCV areas. # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this figure. 8 Hectarage reflects best estimate based on our knowledge and our data collection at the time of reporting. No Contents Deforestation and Conservation Wilmar Wilmar International Limited International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 38 42 Engagement on the Leuser Ecosystem Since 2014, we have engaged extensively with international and local NGOs that are working to preserve the extraordinary biodiversity and wildlife of the Leuser ecosystem in Northern Sumatra, Indonesia. The area is home to many rare species, including tigers, elephants, orangutans and rhinos, and has been declared to be of national importance by the Government of Indonesia. While the majority of the area is protected as designated forest land, approximately 13% has been released for non-forest use. It is estimated that at least 31 plantation companies operate in the area, including 24 local companies and seven national groups. In addition, there is significant smallholder activity in the area.9 Through direct complaints raised by NGOs Rainforest Action Network and Greenomics, as well as through the media, we were made aware that some of our CPO suppliers may be linked to deforestation in the Leuser National Park and wider ecosystem, and thereby in breach of our NDPE policy. Wilmar takes such allegations very seriously, and we have responded with immediate action in collaboration with TFT. We have engaged with all 52 suppliers who operate mills within a 50 km radius of the Leuser Ecosystem and have reiterated the no deforestation commitments in our policy. The risk these suppliers run if they illegally source CPO from protected areas has also been restated. We have suspended one supplier in this region due to continual non-compliance. In September 2015, Wilmar hosted a stakeholder meeting to better understand the concerns of local NGOs, community representatives and other stakeholders. About 50 NGOs attended, including representatives from local organisations working on conservation efforts in the Leuser Gunung National Park and the Leuser ecosystem. Furthermore, we also collaborated with other palm oil companies to coordinate a joint course of action. Wilmar is committed to finding a solution to the continued degradation of the Leuser Ecosystem, and appreciate our ongoing dialogue with stakeholders who assist us by identifying risk areas and highlighting concerns about specific suppliers. We believe that adopting a holistic landscape approach to tackling deforestation and supporting sustainable development in the Leuser Ecosystem is the best way forward. We will continue to collaborate with TFT and other like-minded stakeholders, including palm oil companies that procure from the region, to work towards this goal. More information can be found here. 9 Statistics provided by The Forest Trust. Contents No Deforestation and Conservation Wilmar Wilmar International Limited International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 39 43 Wildlife conservation Our operations and those of our suppliers in Southeast Asia are based in close proximity to areas with unique biodiversity and wildlife species. Over the past two years we have increased our focus on partnerships with local and international NGOs, as well as government agencies, research institutions and universities, to safeguard endangered species and ensure that wildlife is not threatened by oil palm development. The Palm Oil and NGO programme had been in place for over Red List of species. Threats to siamang (PONGO) Alliance five years, an external evaluation was survival include habitat destruction, In May 2015, Wilmar and the Orangutan agreed between the partners to review the poaching and the illegal pet trade. Land Trust organised a conservation achievements of the programme against summit and taskforce. This resulted its initial objectives. This was conducted In partnership with the Kalaweit Foundation, in the formation of the Palm Oil and by three leading conservation experts. a local NGO, Wilmar’s HCV areas have NGO Alliance (PONGO Alliance), which been used as habitats for rescued aims to create a landscape in which The evaluation showed that the project siamangs to be reintroduced to the orangutans, humans and oil palm has successfully increased community wild. In March 2015, three pairs of cultivation can thrive alongside. The awareness and understanding on the siamangs were released into the HCV Alliance was established to support the importance of orangutans and conservation. area in Wilmar’s plantation in Sumatra. palm oil industry in managing orangutan At the same time, it highlighted a need This was the culmination of eight years populations within its plantations, as for greater coordination between all of effort by the Kalaweit Foundation in it recognises that orangutans can cothe partners to enable the programme its mission to save gibbons and their exist in a mixed landscape of oil palm to resolve outstanding issues with local habitats. All three of the initial pairs have plantations and forests. PONGO is communities in the area. The evaluation since been succeeded due to injuries a collaborative platform comprising concluded that the HCV in PT MSM has the or disappearance. the following partners: the Orangutan potential to contribute significantly to the Information Centre (OIC), Wilmar conservation of the orangutan population Currently the new pairs of siamangs International, Borneo Futures, Sime Darby in the Central Kalimantan area due to it are being monitored closely to ensure Plantations, Fauna & Flora International being still connected to the larger forest that they are integrated and adapted (FFI), Borneo Rhino Alliance (BORA), landscape beyond its borders. to their new home. We hope that the United Plantations Bhd., International successful reintroduction of this species Animal Rescue (IAR), Sumatran Orangutan will demonstrate that our HCV areas Society (SOS), Kinabatangan Orangutan can function as viable habitats that may Conservation Programme (HUTAN), contribute to the conservation of rare, PT Austindo Nusantara Jaya Agri and threatened and endangered species. Copenhagen Zoo. More information can be found here. Protecting orangutan habitats in Central Kalimantan Orangutans are the flagship species most often associated with palm oil development, and we want to make sure that we contribute proactively to the continued protection of these endangered great apes. Since 2011, we have collaborated with the provincial government of Central Kalimantan and the Borneo Orangutan Survival Foundation (BOSF) to safeguard approximately 3,989 ha of HCV area and its orangutan population in one of our estates, PT Mentaya Sawit Mas (MSM). This collaboration was further extended in 2013 and in 2015. Siamang reintroduction in Sumatra In 2015, the project partners completed The siamang is a black furred gibbon a community participatory mapping native to Southeast Asia. It is categorised exercise for five of the villages adjacent as endangered under the International to Wilmar’s PT MSM operation. As the Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) No Contents Deforestation and Conservation Wilmar Wilmar International Limited International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 40 44 Honorary Wildlife Rangers in Sarawak the distribution and population trend In March 2015, 40 Wilmar managers, staff of primates – particularly the proboscis and community representatives were monkey and silver-leaf monkey – along appointed Honorary Wildlife Rangers the riparian area as part of a long-term by Datuk Amar Hj. Awang Tengah bin monitoring programme. Ali Hasan, Sarawak’s Second Minister of Resource Planning and Environment, In 2014, the MoU was extended to cover the Minister of Industrial Development a 110 ha site along the Sapapayau River and the Minister of Public Utilities. The in Wilmar’s Sapi plantations in the Sapiappointments were provided under the Telupid region of Sabah. Around 6,000 1998 Wildlife Protection Ordinance and tree seedlings had been planted at this are the first to be presented to an oil second site by the end of 2015. The goal palm plantation company in Sarawak in for 2016 is to plant 10,000 trees. support of the State’s rare, threatened and endangered species. Research and collaborations with academic institutions More information can be found here. Wilmar currently has partnerships with Andalas University in Sumatra, the South Riparian management project in East Asia Rainforest Research Partnership collaboration with the Sabah Forestry (SEARRP) in Sabah and Universiti Malaysia Department Sarawak (UNIMAS) in Sarawak to conduct The Sabahmas–Segama Riparian Project research in our HCV areas. was initiated through a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between The purpose of the research is to provide Wilmar and the Sabah Forestry Department data on the biodiversity levels and the in 2009. Established for a period of five impacts to biodiversity of our HCV areas. years, the project’s initial objective was Some of the data and analysis have to rehabilitate the 47 km riparian reserve been published online, especially the stretching alongside the Segama River research conducted by SEARRP (see and enrich it as wildlife habitat. By the end SEARRP’s website for more details). of 2013, around 45,200 trees had been planted and the riparian buffer zone was The information and analysis will provide extended to 50 meters in some areas. the necessary monitoring and data for the planning and management of our The Segama riverbank is also home to the HCV in the future. highly endangered proboscis monkey. In 2014, Wilmar engaged Hutan, a local More information on our collaboration NGO, to train an on-site team to record with SEARRP can be found here. Honorary Wildlife Rangers from our Sarawak plantations. Contentsthe Haze and Preventing Fires Fighting Wilmar Wilmar International Limited International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 41 45 Protecting Our Environment Fighting the Haze and Preventing Fires In 2014 and 2015, South East Asia experienced some of the worst incidences of haze caused by the widespread forest fires in Indonesia, which were exacerbated by the El Niño weather phenomenon. We have had a strict No Burn policy, and have employed only mechanical methods in land development for more than a decade. We also have a fire-alert system in place, daily fire reporting back to the corporate headquarters and an extensive and fully equipped fire-fighting team. Beyond our own plantations, our suppliers have been notified that any deliberate breach of our No Burn policy will result in immediate termination of business relations. Despite these efforts, fires impacted a number of our Indonesian estates and we lost approximately 1,520 planted ha as well as over 2,030 unplanted ha over the last two years10. Most fires within our concessions originate from small patches of land that are controlled by local communities who continue to use slash-and-burn farming methods. Fires may also originate outside our concessions and then spread to our land. In either case, firefighting efforts are quickly mobilised and detailed documentation is made of the fire, including location and size, possible cause, duration and action taken by management. This information is submitted to the police as evidence. Hectares Burnt in Fires10 3,000 2,500 2,034 2,000 1,520 1,500 1,000 597 500 355 146 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Unplanted 182 319 114 675 1,358 Planted 173 278 32 845 676 10 Hectarage reflects best estimate based on our knowledge and data collection at the time of reporting. Contentsthe Haze and Preventing Fires Fighting Wilmar Wilmar International Limited International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 42 46 Annual Fires Recorded in Wilmar’s Concessions11 500 414 400 353 300 200 103 114 100 46 0 2011 2012 2013 2014# 2015# Sumatra 6 21 5 26 82 West 4 8 8 82 9 Kalimantan Central 93 85 33 245 323 Kalimantan Determining causes and solutions Fires and haze have a great commercial impact. They also carry a tremendous human and social cost for communities throughout the Southeast Asia region. At Wilmar, we want to be part of a long-term solution, developed in partnership with governments, companies and communities. At the end of 2015, our partner TFT undertook a detailed investigation of three sites that we had identified as high risk based on climatic conditions, land type and proximity to our suppliers. The study aimed to highlight gaps in our fire prevention and response systems and indicate ways to strengthen them. The findings showed that while our suppression efforts were fair-to-good, there was room for improvement in prevention. The investigation also determined that most fires in the area were illegal and the result of community land clearing, and that Wilmar was not culpable in causing the fires. These findings indicate that there is cause to question the veracity of allegations made by Friends of the Earth in a report issued in December 2015 which claimed that Wilmar was involved in open burning. Fire Free Villages enhance fire monitoring, detection and On 4 December 2015, we invited the suppression. The FFVP, previously trialled by Strategic Fire Management team of the The latest initiative we are part of has a major pulp and paper company in Riau, is pulp and paper company that pioneered gathered leading forestry and agriculture a community-focused and incentive-based the FFVP concept, to conduct a one-day companies, NGOs and other partners initiative that seeks to educate and empower workshop for our plantation operations to establish the Fire-Free Alliance (FFA). villagers against the use of fire for agricultural managers in Jakarta. More than 30 Wilmar Established in March 2016, the FFA is purposes. The programme in Riau has been managers attended the session to learn a voluntary, multi-stakeholder platform a great success, achieving a 90% decline in from their experience and discuss how that works to find a solution to land and fire incidences among participating villages, the FFVP concept may be adapted for the forest fires in Indonesia. Members of the in what is considered to be Indonesia’s worst palm oil industry. Alliance commit to implementing the Fire El Niño episode since 2014. Free Village Programme (FFVP) in their Wilmar has committed to pilot this initiative operations, collaborating and sharing In fact, Wilmar was involved in the FFVP in three estates in Central Kalimantan and knowledge and information, and also to programme prior to even joining the FFA. South Sumatra respectively. # The number of fires in 2014 and 2015, as reported in Wilmar’s Annual Report 2015, has been restated following EY’s limited assurance procedure on these figures. 11 The restated number of fires is higher than previously reported in the annual report for both years. However, the restated hectares burnt in fires is lower than previously reported. Mitigating Contents Climate Change Wilmar Wilmar International Limited International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 43 47 Protecting Our Environment Mitigating Climate Change One of the top priorities in our NDPE policy is a commitment to doing our part in combatting climate change. While this has to be a joint effort between all economic sectors, governments and consumers globally, we want to ensure that we take on our share of the responsibility. Creating a baseline As a company with a large global footprint, our biggest challenge has been to create a baseline and map our emissions. While we did some initial mapping work in 2009, and trialled the RSPO PalmGHG (V1) calculator in 2013, the ongoing changes and uncertainties of this latter methodology have made it challenging to use it as a consistent monitoring tool. As a result we have yet to complete a full carbon footprint. Nevertheless, we have used the latest version (PalmGHG 2.1.1) to calculate emissions for 2014 and 2015 from our RSPO-certified mills to enable stakeholders to benchmark our footprint against peers. Our carbon footprint recorded emissions from land use developed on shrub and grasslands change. At 28.8%# of gross emissions, that have low carbon sequestration, Using the PalmGHG V2.1.1 it is clear that peat oxidation is also a significant resulting in a net carbon reduction the biggest contributor to emissions source, particularly in Sumatra and when planting with oil palm. across all sites is historical land use in West Kalimantan. Around 57% # change, which constitutes 42.5% # of these field emissions are from Methane from palm oil mill effluent of gross emissions. The PalmGHG outgrowers. Our Central Kalimantan (POME) is also a significant emissions methodology takes into account clearing operations have significantly lower source at all sites, with average going back 25 years, so even older emissions from land use change, emissions of approximately 22,000 # plantations will still have significant as a large proportion of them were MT CO 2e emitted per mill. Emission Sources 2015#/12 RSPO Certified Mills 2015 (Malaysia and Indonesia) 42.5% 28.8% 16.0% 6.5% 3.9% 1.8% 0.5% Land Peat Methane from N 20 Fertiliser Field Fuel Use Mill Fuel Use Conversion Oxidation POME # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on these figures. 12 These emissions do not include outgrower field emissions. Contents Climate Change Mitigating Wilmar Wilmar International Limited International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 44 48 Emission Sources and Sinks (MT CO2e)#/13 RSPO Certified Mills 2015 (25) 4,000,000 3,412,351 3,000,000 2,000,000 1,478,029 1,002,722 1,000,000 556,585 224,442 -1,602,795 137,170 61,127 16,902 -186,261 0 -1,000,000 -2,000,000 Net Land Crop Fertiliser N20 Field Fuel Peat Methane Mill Fuel Mill Credit Emissions Conversion Sequestration Use Oxidation from POME Use Net Emissions by Region (MT CO2e)# RSPO Certified Mills Only 3,000,000 Outgrower field emissions 2,500,000 2,324,592 Own and group field emissions 2,000,000 Mill emissions 1,500,000 1,000,000 500,000 300,976 388,164 312,379 86,240 0 -500,000 Sabah Sarawak Sumatra Central Kalimantan West Kalimantan (6 mills) (2 mills) (8 mills) (8 mills) (1 mill) It is notable that Sumatra has negative mill emissions. This is because palm kernel shell is being sold externally for power generation and some excess electricity is being exported to external housing. Both activities are applicable for mill credits. By region, Sumatra is by far the highest contributor to our carbon footprint, primarily due to the extensive presence of peat in the area and the high proportion of external fruit bought from suppliers with operations on peat. Field Emissions by Source# Carbon Intensity# MT CO2e/MT CPO 57% 41% 2% Region PalmGHG RSPO 2015 Sabah 0.87 Sarawak 0.78 Malaysia 0.85 Sumatra 5.52 1,723,783 1,229,850 70,846 Central Kalimantan 0.86 West Kalimantan 10.41 Indonesia 3.36 Outgrower Own Crop Group Wilmar overall 2.52 # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on these figures. 13 Only ‘Net Emissions’ include outgrower field emissions. Contents Climate Change Mitigating Wilmar Wilmar International Limited International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 45 49 Mitigation strategies are able to reduce POME emissions by Climate Change, Supply Chain and Forest up to 90%, meaning that each mill may Programmes). With the support of 827 Our most significant impacts are fixed reduce its emissions by almost 20,000 institutional investors managing USD 100 as they relate to previous land-use. We MT CO2e on average annually. This will trillion in assets in 2015, CDP encourages are seeking to avoid further emissions eliminate almost 450,000 MT of CO2e corporations and cities to measure and through our no deforestation and no from the atmosphere – roughly 13% of disclose their carbon emissions information, planting on peat policies. our total net emissions within three years. thereby providing opportunities for better management of environmental risk. However, we are rapidly progressing with Carbon Disclosure Project our commitment to reduce emissions from The report, which is publicly available, POME. By end of 2015, eight mills have We participate in the annual Carbon outlines Wilmar’s carbon footprint in had methane capture facilities installed, Disclosure Project (CDP) and for our 2016 accordance with the GHG Protocol. It and we expect to have completed a further report we will be reporting on all our palm also provides details on our assessment 15 facilities by 2017, covering close to half oil operations in Indonesia and Malaysia of business risks from climate change. of our mills. Methane capture installations for the 2014-2015 period (including 2015 GHG Protocol Emissions 2,500,000 2,078,708 2,000,000 1,500,000 1,427,263 997,987 1,000,000 718,118 500,000 371,577 0 Malaysia Indonesia Plantations Mills Refineries & Others Emissions by country Emissions by business activity / division Scope 114 (tCO2e) 547,487 1,780,838 358,609 1,416,502 553,215 Scope 215 (tCO2e) 170,631 297,870 12,968 10,761 444,772 GHG Reduction 4,000,000 3,049,958 3,000,000 2,796,826 2,000,000 1,000,000 0 2014 2015 Scope 114 (tCO2e) 2,580,772 2,328,325 Scope 215 (tCO2e) 469,186 468,501 Compared to 2014, we were able to achieve a 9% decrease in emissions, primarily in Scope 1 emissions. 14 All direct GHG emissions. 15 Indirect GHG emissions for consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam. No Contents New Planting on Peat Wilmar Wilmar International Limited International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 50 46 Protecting Our Environment No New Planting on Peat Over the past decade it has become increasingly clear that in addition to being a relatively inferior soil type for tree crops, agricultural development on peat can also have enormous negative impacts on the environment, climate change and human welfare. Clearing peat requires the draining of natural water content. This process emits large volumes of CO2, which is naturally contained and sequestered in the soil. The draining process may also have impacts on ecosystems that rely on peat’s unique soil properties to thrive, and thereby cause hydrological imbalances that can lead to flooding and drought. Over the past few years, dry peat soils have exacerbated the recurring and increasingly catastrophic fires in Sumatra and Kalimantan. They have also made it more difficult to pinpoint the origin of fires and control their spread. As is now widely known, these forest fires not only bring disastrous consequences for local wildlife and biodiversity, they also create air pollution that impacts the human population throughout the region. In 2012, Wilmar was among the first companies in the palm oil sector to ban new plantings on peat, regardless of depth. Our 2013 NDPE policy expanded this commitment to cover all of our suppliers to ensure that we do not indirectly contribute to peat expansion. Around 8% of our planted area is currently on peat, with the vast majority in our older estates in Sumatra. In these areas we apply best management practices such as maintaining appropriate water tables and other practices recommended by technical experts and working groups in the RSPO. We are also sharing best practices with third-party suppliers to ensure that they have access to the latest knowledge and insights. As crops planted on peat meet the end of their current rotation, we will explore options for the long-term restoration of peatland and peat forest. Notwithstanding our 2012 no peat development policy, the figures reported relating to our peat planted area increased from 2013 to 2015 because the classification of soil types in the planted areas, particularly in Sumatra, was still in process. As the areas on peat were progressively identified, the peat planted area totals were updated accordingly. The reduction of peat-conserved areas, especially in West Kalimantan, corresponds with the reduction in total area managed. Several estates that were previously operating with a Location Permit (Izin Lokasi) had their area reduced when it was converted to Cadastral boundaries prior to application for the Land Cultivation Right Permit (Hak Guna Usaha – HGU). Safeguarding Water Quality Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 47 51 Conserved Peat (Hectares)16 2,500 2013 2,167 2,031# 2,000 2014 1,500 2015 1,000 549 500 330 238 47 46# 105 106# 0 Central Kalimantan West Kalimantan Sumatra Planted Peat (Hectares)16 12,000 11,207 11,371 # 2013 10,500 2014 9,000 7,607 2015 7,417 7,607 # 7,500 6,000 4,500 3,023 3,000 2,426 2,303 2,303# 1,500 43 43 43# 84 84 84# 0 Sabah Sarawak Central Kalimantan West Kalimantan Sumatra Note: No peat areas have been developed in Ghana or Nigeria. Protecting Our Environment Safeguarding Water Quality We monitor our impact on local waterways to ensure that we do not affect the availability or quality of water for communities and ecosystems in the areas where we operate. Water usage for nursery irrigation and household use, but at relatively low levels. In the Our primary water use occurs in our mills. mill, we typically use around 1.5 m3 Water is drawn from local waterways of water per tonne processed, which and wells to process FFB. In addition we believe to be in line with normal to mill water, we also draw some water industry levels. # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this figure. 16 Hectarage reflects best estimate based on our knowledge and data collection at the time of reporting. Safeguarding Water Quality Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 48 52 Water Usage Per Tonne of FFB Milled 2.5 2 1.5 1 0.5 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Sabah Nigeria Central Kalimantan Sarawak West Kalimantan Sumatra Ghana Water quality Water used in our mills is disposed either into local waterways or used as fertiliser in the field. Biological Oxygen Demand River Discharge 300.00 250.00 200.00 150.00 100.00 50.00 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Sabah West Kalimantan West Kalimantan Sumatra Note: Central Kalimantan and Ghana do not release effluents into waterways, but use them instead for field application. No effluents are released in Nigeria as construction of the effluent plant is still in progress. In the interim, effluents are held in ponds and undergo natural digestion. Integrated Pest Management Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 49 53 Protecting Our Environment Integrated Pest Management We seek to minimise our pesticide use through an integrated pest management system. We apply a combination of natural and mechanical pest reduction strategies such as the introduction of natural predators, and seek to minimise pesticide usage through precision application. Our R&D laboratory in Indonesia has also identified beneficial microbes that are being used to develop environmentally friendly approaches to controlling or preventing oil palm diseases. These can reduce the reliance on synthetic fertilisers and improve plant growth. Sprayers are required to undergo extensive and ongoing training in the handling of chemicals. They are required to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) including protective eyewear, facial masks, gloves and boots. PPE must be worn whenever workers carry out their duties. Showering is compulsory after each shift. Workers are subject to regular check-ups to detect any presence of residual chemicals. All chemicals are stored in locked facilities to which only authorised personnel have access. Containers used for storing chemicals are collected, stored and disposed of according to legal requirements for hazardous waste. Chemicals policy Herbicides currently used To minimise the potential hazards of in Wilmar’s plantations pesticides on workers, communities and ecosystems, we monitor toxicity Glyphosate (isopropylamine and restrict the use of a number of isopropylammonium) chemicals of concern. Pesticides Metsulfuron-methyl In 2008, we were among the first largethat are categorised as World Health scale palm oil producers to begin Organization Class 1A or 1B listed Triclopyr butotyl (triclopyr butoxy phasing out paraquat in response to b y t h e S t o c k h o l m o r Ro tt e rd a m ethyl ester) stakeholder concerns over the safety Conventions are not used, except in Glufosinate ammonium and potential abuse of this widely specific urgent situations. used herbicide. 2,4-D-(dimethylamine We monitor all pesticide usage, but dimethylammonium) We completed this process in 2011. focus on tracking the use of herbicides Fluroxypyr-meptyl As part of the NDPE Policy, we require as these are applied as part of good our suppliers to do the same by the Sodium chlorate agricultural practice. Fungicide, end of 2015. While only a number rodenticides and insecticides are used Clethodim of our suppliers have made this only to contain outbreaks and attacks, Indaziflam commitment, we understand that most and year-on-year comparisons would have projects underway to identify Diuron not be meaningful. practical alternatives. Integrated Pest Management Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 50 54 Toxicity Units Per Hectare by Region 900 750 600 450 300 150 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Sumatra 275 258 219 231 257 Central 411 367 318 337 328 Kalimantan West 398 327 296 416 464 Kalimantan Sabah 330 452 508 801 737 Sarawak 542 471 694 718 534 The use of herbicides is largely determined by planting cycle as new plantings and young palms require greater amounts of herbicide. Herbicide usage is also determined by local climatic conditions, such as heavy rainfall, as well as agricultural and soil conditions and pest profiles. Tracking toxicity enables us to more accurately assess our performance against peers over time, as well as ensure that changes to the type or volume of pesticides used does not adversely affect our environmental footprint. Although only a few plantation companies disclose toxicity levels – making comparison difficult – we believe that our current range of 200-800 toxicity units per hectare is largely in line with best practice. Contents Wilmar Wilmar International International Limited Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 51 Build Infrastructure Focused on Respecting Human Rights Provide Education Foster Relationship No Exploitation of People and Local Communities Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 52 56 No Exploitation of People and Local Communities Rights of Workers Our NDPE policy conveys our strong commitment to protect the rights of workers and uphold the principles enshrined in the International Labour Organisation (ILO) core labour standards covering pay, working hours, non-discrimination and child and bonded labour. Rights of Workers Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 53 57 In 2015, a number of cases concerning problematic working conditions in the industry and among some of our peers were raised. Although we believe our working conditions to be both safe and fair, we have taken note of the increased focus in this area. Plan is underway to review our labour practices in Indonesia in 2016 which we will benchmark against relevant international and local labour standards and guidelines to identify areas for improvement. To better understand the labour issues in our industry, we are currently developing a programme in collaboration with a widely respected labour organisation. This programme aims to identify and prevent exploitative practices and highlight areas needing improvement. The programme will initially focus on benchmarking Wilmar’s own operations in Indonesia and Malaysia with peers in the palm industry, and will then be expanded to include third-party suppliers. Forced and bonded labour Understanding Labour Rights and Issues this, our workers receive a range of benefits, held in Sabah on September 2014. More including housing, utilities and schooling. In accordance with the RSPO and our information on this training session can NDPE Policy, we do not accept any forced, be found here. We maintain transparent and reliable trafficked or bonded labour, either in our records of working hours and wages for own operations or in our supply chain#. Freedom of association and all workers and ensure confidentiality in Should we encounter instances of such collective bargaining all of their dealings. practices, we will undertake remedial actions to ensure that victims are referred We support the rights of employees to form We ensure that permission has been to existing services for support and and join trade unions of their choice, and given and documented before disclosing, assistance#. In the oil palm sector, the to bargain collectively#. Where the right displaying, submitting or seeking most prominent risk of force or coercion to freedom of association and collective confidential or personal information occurs during the recruitment of workers bargaining are restricted under law, parallel or data obtained in connection with through employment agencies. This is means of independent and free association recruitment or employment. particularly the case for foreign workers. and bargaining are made available for all such personnel#. We understand that some We ensure that workers are given the In Malaysia and Indonesia, we recruit all of civil society groups have raised concerns details of their working conditions in our workers for our upstream operations around the independence of unions. writing, including but not limited to the (i.e. plantations and mills) directly and do nature of the work to be undertaken, pay not pay fees to recruitment agencies#. In Child labour rates and arrangements, working hours, countries like Ghana and Nigeria where we vacation and other leave, and all other do, we do not accept the argument that We uphold a ban on child labour and do benefits of employment. This information is jobseekers should be required to lodge not employ anyone under the age of 18. provided in a language that is understood monetary deposits or other collaterals as As part of our NDPE policy we will seek by the employee. a condition of employment. Fees or costs to identify risks to children in our supply must not be charged to jobseekers and chain and take appropriate measures to workers for the services directly related address any risks. We provide a range to their recruitment, in either a temporary of services such as kindergartens and or permanent job placement, including schools in our plantations to ensure that when they use the services of private all of our workers’ children have access to employment agency. We also seek to education, regardless of their legal status. ensure that employees are never subject Refer to page 60 for further information to the unlawful withholding of wages, on our programme for workers’ children. identification cards, passports or other travel documents, or other personal It is not uncommon for children to work belongings without their consent#. on family farms in smallholder operations. This is allowed within the RSPO standards We periodically conduct training as long as the welfare and schooling of programmes on Wilmar’s NDPE policy children are not compromised. commitments and implementation for our field managers. These programmes cover Fair and transparent workers’ rights, human trafficking and forced labour, and are often conducted All workers are paid at least the legal in a workshop format, such as the one on minimum wage or higher. In addition to # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this statement. Rights of Workers Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 54 58 Employees by contract type 2015 18,000 15,917 13,699 16,000 14,000 12,000 10,000 8,500 6,602 6,208 6,000 4,000 2,945 2,085 2,000 577 0 Sabah Sarawak Central West Sumatra Ghana Nigeria Kalimantan Kalimantan Permanent 6,208 2,945 14,566 3,571 10,260 566 1,361 Temporary 0 0 1,351 3,031 3,439 11 724 Wilmar’s lowest monthly wage National minimum wage (Excl. piece-rate) Indonesia (Rupiah) 1,575,000 1,575,000 Malaysia (MYR) 800 800 Nigeria (Naira) 23,000 18,000 Ghana (Cedi) 17.13 14.28 Supplier Compliance of a total of 165 mills. The process Malaysia has been identified as one clearly identified human rights as one of the higher risk regions for human of the biggest concerns and was the rights issues relating to labour in the key issue requiring remedial action, as palm oil industry. We started the MPP illustrated in the assessment findings and ART plan in Sabah and Peninsular of the supply shed of our refinery in Malaysia, and had assessed 16 out Peninsular Malaysia see graph below. Overall findings requiring ‘Action Items’ at the mills and supply bases acrosss four clusters of criteria under Pasir Gudang hub 40 35 Mills 29 30 30 Estates 20 Smallholders/ 13 Small Growers 11 10 8 6 1 1 1 2 1 0 Legal Compliance Protection of Key Environment Impacts Respect of Human Rights Conservation Value Areas Management Rights of Workers Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 55 59 Assessment findings and their corresponding recommendations have been shared directly with the suppliers in question, and progress on their corrective actions will be followedup. These findings have also been consolidated and summarised into a wider generalised “Overarching Report” which will be distributed to all suppliers from the relevant regions and have been socialised through supplier workshops. We have started working with a small number of FFB suppliers linked to our Ribubonus Mill to develop a joint plan to address the issue of education access for children of foreign workers. We have also shared samples of contracts and conditions, as well as Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) that Wilmar uses to help our suppliers implement better work documentation and procedures for their workers. These initiatives will be extended in 2016. To access all ART Overarching Reports, please visit here. Occupational Health & Safety We maintain our focus on safety and are following through with our efforts to strengthen our safety culture. We have started looking at setting key indicators that tie employees’ remuneration to their health and safety performance. Fatalities by Country 10 8 8 6 4 4 2 2 2 1 0 2011 2012 2013 2014# 2015# Indonesia 2 5 0 1 3 Malaysia 0 3 1 1 1 Our aim is to avoid all incidents that put our employees at risk and to achieve zero fatalities. However, we still have some way to go. We recorded four workplace deaths in 2015 and two in 2014 in our palm Reviewing accident reporting standards oil operations. Every fatality is followed by a thorough review of the cause and We monitor accidents at site-level and seek to continually minimise lost time actions are undertaken to eliminate the incidents. In 2016, in the course of compiling this report, we discovered factors involved. The deaths in 2014–15 that methodologies for collating incidents differed across our sites, with were caused by equipment malfunction, some sites using national or regional thresholds for reporting, while some non-compliance with safety procedures, used international Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) electric shock and traffic accidents. standards. Due to these inconsistencies, we have decided to exclude lost time incident rates in this report and seek to reinforce a more consistent All reviews have been reinforced with reporting standard set out at group level for our 2016 Sustainability Report. continued efforts in the training and retraining of protective equipment use in order to minimise risks. # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on these figures. Communities and Indigenous People Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 56 60 No Exploitation of People and Local Communities Communities and Indigenous People We strive to live harmoniously with local communities and indigenous peoples with guidance from community and NGO partners, particularly with regard to land Ongoing Social Issue on the RSPO rights through the Free, Prior Informed Complaints Panel Consent (FPIC) approach. We operate in the agriculture sector in countries where, historically, indigenous and customary In October 2014, a complaint was filed with the RSPO concerning our rights have been weakly enforced. As a subsidiary PT Permata Hijau Pasaman 1 (PT PHP 1) in which the local result it has been a steep learning curve communities sought clarity on the extend of PT PHP 1’s estate area. to develop a robust process to address historical conflicts and prevent future issues. Following the complaint, the RSPO Complaints Panel carried out an investigation that included meetings between RSPO, the communities, Community development the Regional Land office and Wilmar. Many of our operations are located in remote parts of developing countries, and often Wilmar has been and remains cooperative in RSPO’s investigation close to local communities. Our business process. The investigation timeline is tracked on the RSPO website and activities therefore have a direct impact on can be viewed at http://www.rspo.org/members/complaints/statusthe livelihoods and quality of living of our of-complaints/view/76. In March 2015, the RSPO Complaints Panel employees and our neighbours. issued a preliminary decision stating that Wilmar was in compliance with RSPO principles, and had acted in accordance with the law. Our approach is to ensure that we bring meaningful and lasting benefits to We are making progress in resolving the complaint; both parties communities, and build open, honest have now agreed on an independent assessor to conduct ground and mutually beneficial relationships that verification. promote harmony with them. Wilmar’s position on the case of PT PHP can be found here. We seek to address local needs and encourage community self-reliance, particularly through our provision of and support for education, healthcare The collaboration offers basic education Indonesian, our educational syllabus and infrastructure. to more than 1,000 children of migrant is based on the Malaysian curriculum workers in our operations in Malaysian that also integrates Indonesia-centric Education Borneo, ensuring that all children of subjects. This aims to ease their children’s our workers have access to primary transition to Malaysian society. Apart One of our most successful community schooling. These are children of migrant from providing them with free education, projects has been our work with the workers who are typically excluded from we also subsidise uniforms, books and Humana Child Aid Society of Sabah mainstream education in Malaysia due food every year. (Humana), also known as Borneo Child to their legal status. The remoteness of Aid Society. Humana is an independent, the plantation regions also limits their In other countries, Wilmar also builds and non-profit organisation dedicated to access to schools. refurbishes schools, awards scholarships providing basic education to children and provides education materials and on the island of Borneo. Although the majority of workers are honoraria to teachers. Smallholders and Outgrowers Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 57 61 Infrastructure Modern infrastructure plays an important role in economic growth and poverty alleviation, particularly in developing countries. Private infrastructural support can play a pivotal role in these economies, especially where operations extend into remote areas in which vulnerable communities may lack access to governmental support. We finance and provide such services to improve rural communities’ access to services and markets, as well as to create employment. Our initiatives include the construction, maintenance and renovation of Healthcare Initially set up to serve our employees, roads, bridges, places of worship, community medical services are now open to our facilities such as community halls and sports We build on-site clinics and sponsor mobile rural neighbours who in the past lacked facilities as well as the provision of clean clinics to provide healthcare services to regular access to basic healthcare and water supply units for villagers. local communities in remote locations. immunisation programmes. No Exploitation of People and Local Communities Smallholders and Outgrowers Smallholders have a critical role in helping us achieve our business and sustainability goals. We therefore seek to promote an inclusive model that integrates these players into the global sustainable supply chain. Wilmar is continuously working with its smallholder suppliers to identify ways of improving their agricultural practices towards global sustainability standards and higher production yields. In Indonesia, we have a total planted area of about 31,400 ha under governmentoriginated plasma schemes as at end of 2015. We support these smallholders in initial financing for development and land preparation, as well as through the provision of planting materials such as seedlings, fertilisers and pest control. We also invest significantly to provide technical assistance, especially on good agricultural practices. When the small crops reach maturity (which takes about three to four years), or when the plasma co-operatives are well established, the small plantation plots are handed over to smallholder co-operatives for self-management. While their oil palms are maturing, we employ many of these farmers and provide them with training in essential agronomic skills so they are equipped to manage their own plots. We have made good progress on achieving certification for plasma schemes in Indonesia. Smallholders and Outgrowers Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 58 62 Type of Planted Already Audited but Timeline for Plantation Name Location Smallholder Area (ha) Certified not certified certification PT Permata Anak Negeri West Sumatra Outgrower 1,320 Pasaman Pt Kencana Sawit Indonesia West Sumatra Plasma 650 PT KAMU West Sumatra Outgrower 1,800 PT Tania Selatan (SP1, SP2, South Sumatra Plasma 2,774 * SP3, SP4)* PT Mustika Sembuluh Central Kalimantan Plasma 186 PT AMP Plantation West Sumatra Plasma 611 PT Gersindo Minang West Sumatra Plasma 1,306 2017 Plantations PT Permata Hujau Pasaman West Sumatra Plasma 354 2017 PT Musi Banyuasin Indah South Sumatra Plasma 1,492 2018 *During surveillance in 2015 for Tania Selatan, plasma certification for SP1, SP2, SP3 and SP4 (total 2,774 ha) was withdrawn because these cooperatives have paid up their loans and become independent. They have joined three other cooperatives to form a group under the name of Sapta Tunggul Mandiri (STM). STM has been audited and is expected to be awarded the RSPO certification in June 2016. Independent smallholders are selfthat are RSPO-certified. The smallholder The programme includes two types of financed, managed and equipped, and group made up of about 2,700 individual incentives – monetary and technical. are not bound to any one mill. Wilmar is farmer members, Sapta Tunggal Mandiri, In the first, the smallholder receives a not in a position to impose certification is expected to receive their RSPO direct premium for FFB sales to Wilmar requirements on them. However, we certification covering approximately mills and an additional premium of any recognise that independent smallholders 5,500 ha in 2016. RSPO-certified CPO volumes purchased account for a significant proportion of the by the next tier buyer. The premiums total smallholder oil palm production in In Malaysia, we are working with Wild help to encourage smallholders’ interest Indonesia and Malaysia, and we are working Asia, a Malaysian social enterprise, to in sustainability efforts and increase the through various projects and initiatives help independent smallholder suppliers physical flow of RSPO-certified FFB to to be more inclusive of independent in Sabah attain RSPO certification. CPO. The second incentive is the provision smallholders in our supply chain. of agronomic advice and extension As of 31 December 2015, there are 201 services to committed smallholders We are working directly with independent RSPO-certified smallholder suppliers in to raise productivity. Both incentives smallholders in Indonesia and helping the Wild Asia Group Certification Scheme create a ‘reward loop’ for smallholders them to achieve RSPO group certification (WAGS). These represent around 1,230 to continue with sustainable practices. in Sumatra. These initiatives enable these ha of planted area and supply around smallholders to forge a more permanent 3,000 MT of CPO and 675 MT of palm Further to these, Wilmar has also relationship with our mills. kernels annually. set up a fertiliser scheme which is available only for members of the Particularly in South Sumatra, we are At the end of 2015, we expanded the WAGS programme. This scheme helps working on using RSPO certification as project in collaboration with L’Oreal to these smallholders obtain fertilisers leverage for enabling smallholder financing include other downstream buyers to at wholesale prices, with application for replanting, as sustainable certification strengthen the demand for certified advice and continued monitoring by means independent smallholders are FFB from smallholders. The project aims Wilmar. This scheme is offered as one less risky, and more likely to be able to to reach 500 smallholders and assist of a series of incentives for smallholder have long-term relationship with mills them in achieving certification by 2020. farms in the certification programme. Base Data Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 59 63 Base Data Financial Highlights Income Statement US$ Millions FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 Revenue 38,777 43,085 44,085 45,463 44,710 Profit Before Tax 1,429 1,538 1,775 1,655 2,079 Net Profit 1,056 1,156 1,319 1,255 1,601 Balance Sheet US$ Millions FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 Total Assets 37,939 43,558 46,632 41,920 39,640 Total Liabilities 21,860 27,147 30,745 26,725 25,391 Shareholders’ funds 15,127 15,495 15,005 14,346 13,370 Segmental Sales Volume Breakdown MT Millions FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 Palm and Laurics Manufacturing and Merchandising 23.5 24.6 24.5 23.1 20.3 Oilseeds and Manufacturing 23.6 19.8 20.6 19.6 19.9 Grains Consumer Products 5.1 5.3 5.4 4.6 4.4 Milling 3.4 3.1 3.1 2.8 2.7 Sugar Merchandising, Refining and Consumer Products 9.8 6.6 5.7 3.7 2.5 Base Data Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 60 64 Segmental Profit Before Tax Breakdown US$ Million FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 Tropical Oils 545.6 969.2 1,125.4 1,182.0 1,320.0 Oilseeds and Grains 689.8 348.5 451.1 171.3 508.2 Sugar 83.3 134.4 126.6 99.8 141.3 Others 17.4 20.0 -21.3 110.3 41.6 Geographical Revenue Breakdown US$ Millions FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 Southeast Asia 7,661 10,024 9,645 11,842 10,176 People’s Republic of China 19,370 19,622 22,000 21,222 21,658 India 1,338 1,463 1,245 1,752 1,389 Europe 2,485 3,390 3,479 3,599 3,514 Australia/ New Zealand 1,411 1,724 1,800 1,789 2,007 Africa 2,024 2,036 1,503 1,519 Others 4,488 4,826 4,413 3,741 5,965 Base Data Production FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 FFB Production (MT) 4,481,022 4,323,960 4,040,785 4,210,490 4,072,961 FFB yield 21.4 20.6 18.8 18.9 19.8 CPO (MT) 1,995,800 1,909,355 1,848,148 1,909,330 1,778,882 PK (MT) 472,968 437,776 423,481 449,984 413,554 CPO Extraction Rate (%) 20.5 20.6 20.4 20.4 20.6 PK Extraction Rate (%) 4.9 4.7 4.7 4.8 4.8 Base Data Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 65 Base Data Performance Indicators HCV area excluding riparian zones (hectares) Hectares FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 Sabah 5,003 # 5,003 # 5,003 5,816 5,816 Sarawak 1,284# 1,284 # 1,284 1,579 1,579 Central Kalimantan 13,630# 13,641 # 13,641 13,259 13,049 West Kalimantan 1,811# 1,946 # 2,067 17,573 17,431 Sumatra 2,040# 2,245 # 3,325 4,910 3,084 Ghana 7 7 Nigeria 1,376 Total 25,151 24,126 25,860 43,137 40,959 Riparian zones (hectares) Hectares FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 Sabah 1,080 # 1,080 # 1,080 948 948 Sarawak 374# 374 # 374 374 374 Central Kalimantan 1,457# 1,457 # 1,457 1,455 1,270 West Kalimantan 222# 222 # 648 1,537 1,507 Sumatra 1,003# 1,107 # 1,306 2,202 2,098 Ghana 76 50 Nigeria 234 Total 4,446 4,290 4,865 6,516 6,197 HCS area Hectares FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 Nigeria 25 # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this figure. Base Data Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 66 Fire incidence Year Item Central Kalimantan West Kalimantan Sumatra 2011 Planted Hectares Burnt 98 7.38 67.5 Unplanted Hectares Burnt 182 0 0 Total Number of Fires 93 4 6 2012 Planted Hectares Burnt 97.42 112.52 67.69 Unplanted Hectares Burnt 318.9 0 0 Total Number of Fires 85 8 21 2013 Planted Hectares Burnt 15 7.09 9.25 Unplanted Hectares Burnt 113.87 0.4 0 Total Number of Fires 33 8 5 2014 Planted Hectares Burnt 448.1 711.93 115.18 Unplanted Hectares Burnt 386.74 0 2.1 Total Number of Fires 245 # 82 # 26 # 2015 Planted Hectares Burnt 504.30 9.11 428.3 Unplanted Hectares Burnt 1028.4 2 205.1 Total Number of Fires 323 # 9# 82 # BOD levels by region and discharge destination (mg/l) FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 BOD Level River Discharge Sabah 32.10 25.00 23.80 21.00 28.80 Sarawak 15.60 13.00 13.50 16.00 17.40 West Kalimantan 83.00 74.00 63.00 282.00 114.39 Sumatra 78.91 57.00 84.40 82.00 81.71 BOD Level Land Application Central Kalimantan 362.55 448.00 636.00 1178.00 1864.04 West Kalimantan 169.00 241.00 236.00 301.00 Sumatra 928.13 898.00 768.00 835.00 836.17 Ghana 77.08 93.00 # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this figure. Base Data Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 67 Water usage FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 Water Use (M3) Per Tonne of FFB (Mills) Sabah 1.68 1.59 1.59 1.46 1.59 Sarawak 1.55 1.13 0.98 1.40 1.23 Central Kalimantan 1.61 1.13 1.68 1.35 1.10 West Kalimantan 1.49 1.50 1.66 1.58 0.86 Sumatra 1.40 1.74 1.47 1.37 1.42 Ghana 1.63 1.52 Nigeria 1.00 0.97 Fertiliser usage FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 Fertiliser Usage Immature (Tonnes/Hectare) Sabah 0.69 0.78 0.75 1.34 Sarawak 0.72 0.83 0.55 0.87 Central Kalimantan 0.21 0.27 0.63 1.11 West Kalimantan 0.57 0.42 0.16 0.25 Sumatra 0.36 0.27 0.11 0.08 Fertiliser Usage Mature (Tonnes/Hectare) Sabah 1.01 0.97 1.04 1.16 Sarawak 0.91 0.95 1.00 0.95 Central Kalimantan 0.50 0.56 1.11 1.13 West Kalimantan 0.96 0.91 0.9 0.9 Sumatra 0.51 0.54 0.23 0.25 Nigeria 0.7 Herbicide usage FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 Herbicide Usage Immature (Litres/Hectare) Sabah 6.00 8.73 7.86 5.84 2.85 4.29 4.49 Sarawak 5.55 5.92 7.35 7.56 1.24 1.02 8.56 Base Data Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 68 Central Kalimantan 0.97 0.88 3.37 4.45 4.77 4.59 3.37 West Kalimantan 2.34 1.27 3.41 1.40 2.89 2.32 1.77 Sumatra 2.86 2.94 0.32 0.26 0.44 0.54 8.8 Nigeria 2.06 0.86 Herbicide Usage Mature (Litres/Hectare) Sabah 4.30 3.91 3.77 4.01 3.08 4.08 4.34 Sarawak 3.62 4.13 5.31 3.56 4.16 4.67 2.8 Central Kalimantan 1.14 0.79 2.95 2.59 4.91 4.39 2.72 West Kalimantan 0.84 1.03 2.76 0.80 3.65 1.49 1.19 Sumatra 2.06 2.07 0.71 0.41 0.41 0.34 7.39 Nigeria 0.67 Plantation and mills worker statistics 2015 2014 Sabah Permanent 6,208 6,077 Temporary 0 0 Hired Through Third Parties (Agents etc) 0 0 Male 4,053 4,010 Female 2,155 2,067 Sarawak Permanent 2,945 3,120 Temporary 0 0 Hired Through Third Parties (Agents etc) 0 0 Male 1,808 1,937 Female 1,137 1,183 Central Kalimantan Permanent 14,566 13,394 Temporary 1,351 2,435 Male 11,233 10,567 Female 4,694 5,262 West Kalimantan Permanent 3,571 3,359 Temporary 3,031 3,617 Male 4,974 4,114 Female 1,628 1,436 Base Data Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 69 Sumatra Permanent 10,260 10,140 Temporary 3,439 4,048 Male 9,928 10,224 Female 3,771 3,964 Ghana Permanent 566 574 Temporary 11 11 Hired Through Third Parties (Agency etc) 798 534 Male 605 347 Female 193 187 Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreement 494 507 Nigeria Permanent 1,361 1,461 Temporary 724 684 Hired Through Third Parties (Agency etc) 500 450 Male 898 941 Female 463 475 Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreement 1,163 1,214 NB: Employee data is collected based on availability from each site. For some sites, age-based data, union participation, third-party recruitment and employee turnover was incomplete and has been omitted. We will seek to collate data for all sites in our 2016 Sustainability Report. Fatalities FY2015 FY2014 FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 Fatalities Plantations Sabah 1# 1# 0 1 0 Sarawak 0# 0# 1 0 0 Central Kalimantan 1# 1# 0 0 0 West Kalimantan 0# 0# 0 0 0 Sumatra 0# 0# 0 1 0 Ghana 0 0 Nigeria 0 Fatalities Mills Sabah 0# 0# 0 1 0 Sarawak 0# 0# 0 1 0 Central Kalimantan 0# 0# 0 3 0 West Kalimantan 0# 0# 0 0 0 # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this figure. Base Data Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 70 Sumatra 2# 0# 0 1 2 Ghana 0 0 Nigeria 0 0 Local employment 2015 2014 Malaysia Malaysian 2,537 2,534 Indonesian 7,406 7,463 Others 1 1 Indonesia Indonesian 36,664 37,418 Others 27 23 Ghana Ghanaian 564 572 Others 2 2 Nigeria Nigerian 1,192 1,168 Others 0 0 # EY has performed limited assurance procedures on this figure. Global Reporting Initiative Index Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 71 Global Reporting Initiative Index General Standard Disclosures General Standard Disclosures Page or reason for omission Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker G4-1 Chairman welcome 3 of the organisation Organisational Profile G4-3 Name of the organisation About Wilmar 10 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services About Wilmar 11-14 G4-5 Headquarters location About Wilmar 10 About Wilmar 11-12 G4-6 Countries of operation Palm Oil Operations 18-20 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form About Wilmar 10 G4-8 Markets served About Wilmar 11-14 About Wilmar 16 G4-9 Scale of the organisation Palm Oil Operations 18-20 About Wilmar 16 G4-10 Organisation’s workforce Rights of Workers 58 Base Data 68-70 Total employees covered by collective No Exploitation of People and Local G4-11 bargaining agreements Communities 56-62 Palm Oil Operations 18-20 G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain Supply Chain and Traceability 20-30 Significant changes during the reporting period No major changes in the reporting G4-13 regarding the organisation’s size, structure, period ownership, or its supply chain Explanation of whether and how the precautionary G4-14 Our Approach to Sustainability 20-38 approach or principle is addressed by the organisation Global Reporting Initiative Index Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 72 Palm Oil Operations 18-20 Externally developed economic, environmental Our Approach to Sustainability 20-38 G4-15 and social charters, principles, or other initiatives Protecting Our Environment 40-54 Carbon Disclosure Project 49 Memberships of associations (such as industry Sustainability Certification 24-25 G4-16 associations) and national or international Engaging Global Stakeholders 37-38 advocacy organisations Protecting Our Environment 40-54 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Entities included in the organisation’s consolidated Scope and Boundaries (Inside Front Cover) G4-17 financial statements or equivalent documents About This Report 79-80 Process for defining the report content and the G4-18 About This Report 79-80 Aspect Boundaries Material Aspects identified in the process for G4-19 About This Report 79-80 defining report content G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organisation Scope and Boundaries (Inside Front Cover) G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organisation Scope and Boundaries (Inside Front Cover) Restatements of information provided in No major restatements except G4-22 previous reports where noted Significant changes from previous reporting G4-23 No major changes periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement Sustainability Management and Governance Structure 23 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Supplier Engagement and G4-24 organisation Compliance 31-36 Engaging Global Stakeholders 37-38 Engagement on Leuser Ecosystem 42 Supply Chain and Traceability 26-30 Basis for identification and selection of Supplier Engagement and G4-25 stakeholders with whom to engage Compliance 31-36 Engaging Global Stakeholders 37-38 Supply chain and traceability 26-30 Approach to stakeholder engagement, Supplier Engagement and G4-26 including frequency of engagement by type Compliance 31-36 and by stakeholder group Engaging Global Stakeholders 37-38 Supply Chain and Traceability 26-30 Supplier Engagement and Key topics and concerns that have been raised Compliance 31-36 through stakeholder engagement, and how the G4-27 Protecting Our Environment 40-54 organisation has responded to those key topics Fighting the Haze and Preventing and concerns, including through its reporting Fires 45-46 Smallholders and Outgrowers 61-62 Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period Scope and Boundaries (Inside Front Cover) Global Reporting Initiative Index Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 73 Last Report Covered Calendar Years G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2012 2013 G4-30 Reporting cycle Biennially G4-31 Contact point sharon.chong@wilmar.com.sg G4-32 GRI Content Index GRI Index 71 G4-33 External assurance EY Assurance Statement 79 Governance Corporate Governance 17 G4-34 Organisation’s governance structure Sustainability Management and Governance Structure 23 Ethics and Integrity Organisation’s values, principles, standards Ethics and Anti-corruption 17 G4-56 and norms of behaviour Our Approach to Sustainability 22-38 Specific Standard Disclosures Material DMA and Page Aspects Indicators Category: Economics Our Approach to Sustainability 22-38 Supply Chain and Traceability 26-30 G4-DMA Name of the organisation Supplier Engagement and Compliance 22-23 Economic About Wilmar 7-16 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed performance Base Data 63 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Market G4-EC5 compared to local minimum wage at significant Rights of Workers 56-58 Presence locations of operation Indirect Development and impact of infrastructure Communities and Indigenous Economic G4-EC7 investments and services supported People 60-61 Impacts Significant indirect economic impacts, G4-EC8 Smallholders and Outgrowers 61-62 including the extent of impacts Category: Environmental Our Approach to Sustainability 22-38 Supply Chain and Traceability 26-30 Supplier Engagement and G4-DMA Environment Compliance 31-36 Protecting Our Environment 40-54 Fighting the Haze and Preventing Fires 45-46 Global Reporting Initiative Index Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 74 About Wilmar 7-16 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Palm Oil Operations 18 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Safeguarding Water Quality 51-52 Water sources significantly affected by G4-EN9 Safeguarding Water Quality 51-52 withdrawal of water Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, Engaging Global Stakeholders 37-38 G4-EN11 or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of Protecting Our Environment 40-54 high biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in Engaging Global Stakeholders 37-38 G4-EN12 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity Protecting Our Environment 40-54 value outside protected areas Engaging Global Stakeholders 37-38 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Protecting Our Environment 40-54 Total number of iucn red list species and national conservation list species with habitats Refer to Sustainability Report for G4-EN14 in areas affected by operations, by level of 2011 page 46 extinction risk Fighting the Haze and Preventing Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Fires 45-46 Emissions G4-EN15 (Scope 1) Mitigating Climate Change 47-49 No New Planting on Peat 50-51 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Mitigating Climate Change 47-49 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Mitigating Climate Change 47-49 Effluents Total water discharge by quality and G4-EN22 Safeguarding Water Quality 51-52 and Waste destination Sustainability Management and Supplier Governance Structure 23 Percentage of new suppliers that were Environmental G4-EN32 Sustainability Certification 24-25 screened using environmental criteria Assessment Supplier Engagement and Compliance 31-36 Sustainability Certification 24-25 Protecting Our Environment 40-54 Significant actual and potential negative Fighting the Haze and Preventing G4-EN33 environmental impacts in the supply chain Fires 45-46 and actions taken No Exploitation of People and Local Communities 56-62 Smallholders and Outgrowers 61-62 Number of grievances about environmental Grievance Procedure 34-36 G4-EN34 impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through Engagement on Leuser Ecosystem 42 formal grievance mechanisms Global Reporting Initiative Index Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 75 Category: Social Labour practices and decent work Our Approach to Sustainability 22-38 Supply Chain and Traceability 26-30 Supplier Engagement and Compliance 31-36 G4-DMA No Exploitation of People and Local Communities 56-62 Communities and Indigenous People 60-62 Smallholders and Outgrowers 61-62 Occupational Total number of work-related fatalities, by Health and G4-LA6 Occupational Health & Safety 59 region and by gender Safety Composition of governance bodies and Diversity breakdown of employees per employee category Rights of Workers 56-59 and Equal G4-LA12 according to gender, age group, minority group Base Data 68-69 Opportunity membership, and other indicators of diversity Supplier Sustainability Certification 24-25 Assessment Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Supply Chain and Traceability 26-30 G4-LA14 for Labour using labour practices criteria Supplier Engagement and Practices Compliance 31-36 Sustainability Management and Governance Structure 23 Significant actual and potential negative Sustainability Certification 24-25 G4-LA15 impacts for labour practices in the supply Supply Chain and Traceability 26-30 chain and actions taken Supplier Engagement and Compliance 31-36 Labour Number of grievances about labour practices Practices G4-LA16 filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Grievance Procedure 34-36 Grievance grievance mechanisms Mechanisms Human Rights NonTotal number of incidents of discrimination and G4-HR3 Rights of Workers 56-59 discrimination corrective actions taken Freedom of Operations and suppliers identified in which Association the right to exercise freedom of association No Exploitation of People and Local and G4-HR4 and collective bargaining may be violated or at Communities 56-62 Collective significant risk, and measures taken to support Bargaining these rights Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and No Exploitation of People and Local Child labour G4-HR5 measures taken to contribute to the effective Communities 56-62 abolition of child labour Operations and suppliers identified as having Forced or significant risk for incidents of forced or No Exploitation of People and Local compulsory G4-HR6 compulsory labour, and measures to contribute Communities 56-62 labour to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour Global Reporting Initiative Index Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 76 Indigenous Total number of incidents of violations involving Communities and Indigenous G4-HR8 rights rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken people 60-62 Supplier Supplier Engagement and human Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Compliance 31-36 G4-HR10 rights using human rights criteria Rights of Workers 56-59 assessment Supplier Compliance 58 Human Number of grievances about human rights Grievance Procedure 34-36 rights G4-HR12 impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through Outstanding Social Issue on RSPO grievance formal grievance mechanisms Complaints Panel 60 mechanisms Society Percentage of operations with implemented local Local Communities and Indigenous G4-SO1 community engagement, impact assessments, communities People 60-62 and development programs Operations with significant actual and potential Communities and Indigenous G4-SO2 negative impacts on local communities People 60-62 Supplier Number of grievances about impacts on society assessment G4-SO11 filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Grievance Procedure 34-36 for impacts grievance mechanisms on society About This Report Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 77 About This Report Process For Determining Report Content Since our latest report which was published in 2014, we have retained our focus on the key aspects covered in our NDPE policy. Through our in-depth engagement with key stakeholders pertaining to the palm oil and agricultural sector, we believe this reflects the general landscape. While demands for sustainability performance are increasing, the focus is on ensuring robust implementation of no deforestation commitments, rather than the emergence of new focus areas. We have therefore chosen to retain our focus and seek to strengthen accountability in this report. Identification and prioritisation we believe that the issues and concerns identified in our 2013 materiality matrix We recapped the major topics discussed still represents the most critical aspects in various forums and engagements as for our business. There have been no well as reviewed all email correspondence major new themes or initiatives emerging, with stakeholders. We have also conducted but rather we have seen a deepening of interviews with stakeholders from the guidelines and methodologies to tackle finance sector, the NGO/technical support these aspects. Our 2015 materiality matrix sector, as well as from our suppliers. has therefore only been updated to reflect three issues that have received greater In addition, we reviewed the aspects attention than was previously the case covered by other palm-related initiatives (marked in green): smallholders, haze such as the HCS Approach Steering Group, and labour. We also observe that in one the Fair and Free Labour Principles for Palm area, we are receiving less stakeholder Oil Production and the ZSL Sustainable concerns: we are handling less complaints Palm Oil Transparency Initiative (SPOTT). pertaining to land/community conflicts than previously and that existing conflicts Based on these latest developments, are all in progress towards a resolution. About This Report Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 78 Smallholder Inclusiveness Fire and Haze Carbon Footprint Deforestation/high carbon stock Labour Conditions FPIC processes Importance to Wilmar’s external stakeholders Resolution Traceability to FFB of existing Traceability of CPO Pesticides and community NDPE policy compliance chemical usage conflicts Peat development Wildlife Conservation Corporate governance Water Impacts Community Investment Health and Safety Bribery and corruption Sustainability Certification Philantrophy Capacity Building Importance to Wilmar’s business Validation and review As sustainability reporting is an ongoing process, we chose to disclose and to We validate our material aspects and discuss some of the most pertinent balance in reporting through three main material issues for Wilmar and its processes: through the reporting process stakeholders within the boundaries we continuously monitor stakeholder of the report. Due to the inherent concerns to ensure that these are covered limitations of the internal control by the report; through advice from our structure, it is possible that errors report consultant, Helikonia, based on or irregularities in the information their in-depth knowledge of the palm oil presented in this report may occur industry and stakeholders; and through and not be detected. We endeavour reviews and commentary from Neil Judd, to increase our efforts on the reporting the co-founder of ProForest, which is a process and present information in leading technical support organisation as complete and accurate manner in the sustainable palm oil space. as possible. Assurance For this report, we have decided to perform review on a limited scope of We have engaged EY to perform assurance information disclosed in the Sustainability work on selected information disclosed in Report. Our aim is to extend the scope the report. The assurance provided by EY of the assurance work and opinion is for Wilmar’s internal improvement review along the next Sustainability Reports. and not intended for any interpretation Please refer to the section “EY Assurance by any third-party. Statement” for details. EY Assurance Statement Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 79 EY Assurance Statement Independent Limited Assurance Statement to the Management of Wilmar International Limited (‘Wilmar’) We have performed limited assurance procedures in relation to Wilmar’s Sustainability Report 2015 (‘the Report’) as detailed in the ‘Subject Matter’ below. The Management’s • Any work in respect of sustainability in accordance with the ISAE 3000 1 responsibility information published elsewhere on Assurance Engagement Other Than Wilmar’s annual report, company Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Wilmar’s Sustainability Report 2015 has been website, sustainability dashboard, Information. We have also considered prepared by the Management of Wilmar, policy progress updates and other the Global Reporting Initiative G4 (‘GRI which is responsible for the collection publications, G4’) reporting guidelines in conducting and presentation of the information it • Sustainability information prior to our limited assurance procedures. contains and for maintaining adequate 01 January 2014 and subsequent records and internal controls that are to 31 December 2015, and A limited assurance engagement designed to support the sustainability • Management’s forward looking consists of making enquiries and reporting process. For the purpose of statements such as targets, plans applying analytical and other limited the Sustainability Report 2015, there and intentions. assurance procedures. Our procedures are no legally prescribed requirements were designed to provide a limited relating to the preparation, publication Our multi-disciplinary team has the required level of assurance and as such do not and verification of sustainability reports. competencies and experience to conduct this provide all the evidence that would assurance engagement. Our professionals be required to provide a reasonable The auditor’s have experience in both assurance skills and level of assurance. responsibility in the applicable subject matter including environmental, social and financial aspects. The procedures performed depend on Our responsibility in performing our limited the assurance practitioner’s judgement assurance activities is to the Management Reporting criteria including the risk of material misstatement of Wilmar only and in accordance with of the specific activity data, whether due the terms of reference agreed with As a basis for the assurance engagement, to fraud or error. While we considered the them. We do not accept or assume any we have used the criterion of accuracy in effectiveness of Management’s internal responsibility for any other purpose or the sustainability reporting guidelines of controls when determining the nature to any other person or organisation. Any the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G4). and extent of our procedures, our review reliance any such third party may place We consider this reporting criterion to was not designed to provide assurance on the Report is entirely at their own risk. be relevant and appropriate. on internal controls. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient Our review was limited to the information Assurance standard used and appropriate to provide a basis for on the select indicators set out within and level of assurance our conclusion. the Report from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2015 and our responsibility Our limited assurance engagement does not include: has been planned and performed 1 International Federation of the Accountants’ International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE3000). EY Assurance Statement Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 80 Scope of work We have been engaged by the Management of Wilmar to perform limited assurance on the Subject Matter below. Subject Matter The Subject Matter for our limited assurance engagement covers the following: No. Category Subject Matter Environment EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected 1 GRI-G4 Aspect: Biodiversity areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Environment 2 EN15 Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (Scope 1) GRI-G4 Aspect: Emissions Social (Labour Practices and LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Decent Work) and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region 3 GRI-G4 Aspect: Occupational and by gender. Health and Safety • Number of fatalities Social (Human Rights) HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise 4 GRI-G4 Aspect: Freedom of freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at Association and Collective Bargaining significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Social (Human Rights) HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for 5 GRI-G4 Aspect: Forced or incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the compulsory labor elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Social (Society) SO11 – Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, 6 GRI-G4 Aspect: Grievance addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. mechanisms for impacts on society Peat area in Wilmar’s concessions NonGRI 7 • Peat Area Planted (HA) Peat area • Peat Area Conserved (HA) NonGRI Fires Recorded 8 Fires • Number of fires A hash symbol (#) in the Report denotes statements and claims on which we have performed limited assurance procedures. The above Subject Matter covers Wilmar’s palm oil plantations and mills in Indonesia and Malaysia only. What we did to form our conclusions The procedures performed aim to verify the plausibility of information. We designed our procedures in order to state whether anything has come to our attention to suggest that the Subject Matter detailed above has not been reported in accordance with the reporting criterion cited earlier. In order to form our conclusions we undertook the steps below: 1. Inquiries with Wilmar’s Sustainability team to: a. Understand principal business operations, b. Appreciate key sustainability issues and developments, c. Map out information flow for sustainability reporting and the relevant controls, d. Identify data providers with their responsibilities, and e. Recognise the likelihood of fraud on the sustainability information. 2. Undertake multiple visits to: a. Wilmar’s headquarters in Singapore and Jakarta, and b. Wilmar’s select plantations and mills in Central Kalimantan. EY Assurance Statement Wilmar International Limited Sustainability Report 2015 81 3. Interviews with employees and Management (e.g. Sustainability team, Grievance Unit, Environment Health & Safety (EHS) team, Geographical Information Systems (GIS) team, High Conservation Value (HCV) team, Environmental Management Unit (EMU)/agronomy team, Human Resources, estate managers, project executives) to understand key sustainability issues related to the select indicators, collection processes and accuracy of reporting 4. Conduct process walk-through of systems and processes for data aggregation and reporting, with relevant personnel to understand the quality of checks and control mechanisms, assessing and testing the controls in relation to the concerned subject matters 5. Obtain documentation through sampling methods to verify assumptions, estimations and computations made by Management in relation to the concerned subject matters 6. Obtain and rely on credible external consultant reports for work related to HCV and peat. 7. Conduct general media research (including reports from reputable NGOs) on the concerned subject matters 8. Checking that data and statements had been correctly transcribed from corporate systems and / or supporting evidence, in relation to concerned subject matters Our independence Other Matter EY has provided independent assurance The Subject Matter for the years ended services in relation to Wilmar’s Sustainability 31 December 2010 and 2011, and for Report 2015. the years ended 2012 and 2013, were audited by another auditor who expressed In conducting our assurance engagement we an unmodified opinion on those Subject have met the independence requirements Matter, on 11 September 2012 and 26 of the Institute of Singapore Chartered August 2014 respectively. Accountants and Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for Public Accountants and The Subject Matter for the year ended Accounting Entities. Our EY independence 31 December 2009 was not audited and policies prohibit any financial interests in our opinion does not relate to the Subject our clients that would or might be seen Matter for that year. to impair independence. Each year, partners and staff are required to confirm their compliance with the firm’s policies. Observations and areas for improvement Ernst & Young LLP Our observations and areas for improvement Signed for Ernst &Young LLP by will be raised in an internal report to K Sadashiv Wilmar’s Management. These observations Managing Director, do not affect our conclusions on the Climate Change and Sustainability Services Report set out below. Singapore, 31 August 2016 Conclusion Based on the procedures performed and evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Subject Matter was not presented fairly, and calculated in all material respects in accordance with the criterion detailed above. Glossary Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 78 82 Glossary Biodiversity The diversity (number and variety of species) of plant and animal life within a region. Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) The amount of oxygen used when organic matter undergoes decomposition by micro-organisms. Testing for BOD is done to assess the amount of organic matter in water. CO2 Equivalents Carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2eq) provide a universal standard of measurement against which the impacts of releasing (or avoiding the release of) different greenhouse gases can be evaluated. Effluents Water discharged from one source into a separate body of water, such as mill process water. Extraction rate The amount of oil extracted from oil palm fruit at a mill. Crude palm oil (CPO) is extracted from the flesh; palm kernel oil (PKO) from the nut. Fresh fruit bunch (FFB) Bunch harvested from the oil palm tree. The weight of the fruit bunch ranges between 10 kg to 40 kg depends on the size and age. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) A multi-stakeholder standard for sustainability reporting, providing guidance on determining report content and indicators. GreenPalm A book-and-claim supply chain system commonly known as GreenPalm after the name of the company managing the system for the RSPO. It is a certificate trading system separate from the physical trade in palm oil. The palm oil buyer purchases palm oil from an established supplier, along with a certificate for each tonne of palm oil being used. A payment from each certificate goes directly to the producer of RSPO certified palm oil. High Conservation Values The concept of High Conservation Value Forests (HCVF) was first developed by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) in 1999 as their ninth principle. The FSC defined HCVF as forests of outstanding and critical importance due to their environmental, socio-economic and cultural biodiversity and landscape value. High carbon stock approach The HCS Approach is a methodology to avoid deforestation in land development, initially developed in a partnership between Greenpeace, TFT and Golden Agri-Resources. The approach stratifies the vegetation on an area of land into different classes using analyses of satellite images and field plot measurements. Each vegetation class is validated through calibrating it with carbon stock estimates in the above-ground tree biomass. International Labour Organization (ILO) Is a tripartite world body representative of labour, management and government, and is an agency of the United Nations. It disseminates labour information and sets minimum international labour standards called “conventions”, offered to member nations for adoption. Glossary Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 79 83 Independent Director According to the Listing Manual of SGX, an independent director is one who has no relationship with the company, its related corporations (i.e. a corporation that is the company’s holding company, subsidiary or fellow subsidiary), its 10% shareholders or its officers that could interfere, or be reasonably perceived to interfere, with the exercise of the director’s independent business judgement with a view to the best interests of the company. Integrated Pest Management (IPM) IPM is the careful consideration of all available pest control techniques and subsequent integration of appropriate measures that discourage the development of pest populations and keep pesticides and other interventions to levels that are economically justified and reduce or minimise risks to human health and the environment. IPM emphasises the growth of a healthy crop with the least possible disruption to agro-ecosystems and encourages natural pest control mechanisms. IUCN Red List Based in Switzerland, the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (also known as The World Conservation Union) is an organisation involved in the preservation of natural resources. IUCN publishes the Red Data Book, which lists the endangered species of every nation. Mass Balance The Mass Balance system allows for mixing of RSPO certified and noncertified palm oil at any stage in the supply chain provided that overall company quantities are controlled. The mass balance model is constructed in such a way that volumes of RSPO certified product shipped will never exceed volumes received by the end-user Non-executive director A board director who does not currently hold other employment with the company. Unlike an independent director, a non-executive can have significant financial interests or close personal ties to the company. Non-governmental organisation (NGO) Is used in this report to refer to grassroots and campaigning organisations focused on environmental or social issues. Palm oil mill effluent (POME) By-product of processed fresh fruit bunch (FFB). Peat Peat is an accumulation of partially decayed vegetation matter. Peat forms in wetlands or peat lands, variously called bogs, moors, muskegs, pocosins, mires, and peat swamp forests. Plasma schemes A programme initiated by the Indonesian government to encourage the development of smallholders’ plantations with the assistance and cooperation of plantation companies (the nucleus) which assist and support the surrounding community plantations (the plasma). Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) A multi-stakeholder organisation based in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The organisation has developed a certification scheme for sustainable palm oil. Scope 1 All direct GHG emissions. Scope 2 Indirect GHG emissions for consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam. Segregation The Segregation supply chain model assures that RSPO-certified palm oil and its derivatives delivered to the end-user come only from RSPO certified sources. It permits the mixing of RSPO-certified palm oil from a variety of sources. Stakeholders Any group or individual who are affected by or can affect a company’s operations. Sustainability A term expressing a long-term balance between social, economic and environmental objectives. Often linked to sustainable development, which is defined as “development that meets the need of current generations without compromising the needs of future generations”. Contact Wilmar Wilmar Limited International International Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2015 2014/15 80 84 Contact We welcome suggestions on improvements to ensure that we remain cognisant, responsive and inclusive. If you have any comments or questions on the contents of this report or on our sustainability performance, please contact us: By email: sharon.chong@wilmar.com.sg / csr@wilmar.com.sg By post: Wilmar International Limited 56 Neil Road, Singapore 088830 Design by Metafusion Compiled and edited by Helikonia WILMAR INTERNATIONAL LIMITED Co. Reg. No. 199904785Z 56 Neil Road Singapore 088830 t. (65) 6216 0244 www.wilmar-international.com
