UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT ON COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR BIDCO AFRICA LIMITED STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT OF THE UNITED NATION GLOBAL COMPACT Bidco Africa Limited continues to be a strong supporter of the United Nations Global Compact principles of upholding high standards of Human Rights, Labour Rights, Environmental practices and Anti-corruption. Our daily operations, principles and policies are strongly aligned to all the ten principles of the UNGC. Through this report, we are able to transparently communicate with all our stakeholders on various levels of engagement with them which reaffirms our commitment to the Global Compact Network COP policy. Sincerely Yours, Dr. Vimal Shah CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 1 Name: Bidco Africa Limited Sector: Manufacturing Number of employees: 1698 UN Global Compact Signatory since: October, 2009 Contact Person: Dipak Shah Address: P.O Box 239 Thika, Kenya. Email: dipak.shah@bidcoafrica.com Phone: 067-282-1000 Brief description of BIDCO’s nature business Bidco Africa Limited is East Africa’s leading manufacturer of Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) and marketer of edible oils and fats, margarine, hygiene and personal care products and animal feeds. Founded 31 years ago, Bidco is a home-grown company and has, over the years, become home to most of Kenya’s loved brands that aim to spread the goodness of mother-nature. With our high quality products, Bidco aims to grab, grow and sustain the number 1 market share in the African markets by the year 2030. This is to be achieved through our ethical and sustainable growth. We are an agri-business enterprise that believes in inclusive growth while maintaining our soilto-pan philosophy. We are also extremely customer centric organization and will continue to consistently strive to offer our consumers the best value in the market. Putting our customers first has been met by Bidco’s investment in constant innovation of its products to best meet the customers’ needs. Scope of this COP All the activities, initiatives and measures put in place to ensure full compliance and implementation of the UNGC principles in the last one year are discussed in this report. In the different areas of the principles, Bidco’s management also have mechanisms of measurement of the results against the set goals in line with UNGC’s Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption policies. Human Rights UN Global Compact Principles covered: Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally Proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 2 Current Commitment. Bidco Africa aims to enhance Happy Healthy Living across all its stakeholders in their engagement. All the staff are assured of a safe working environment free of any harm and working conditions that champion a healthy lifestyle. This, we do, in affirmation of our support of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We document, effectively implement and maintain an Occupational Health and Safety Management System that meets the requirements of all applicable legislation. A brief description of our processes, policies or systems 1. We identify, effectively control and strive to eliminate situations likely to cause injuries to persons or be hazardous and cause damage to assets.  This is done through frequent checks and maintenance of the machines, offices and the factory areas to evade any causes of accidents. 2. Bidco records all accidents and/or near misses and investigates these to determine if preventive action is required to prevent further accidents.  There are clear and operational procedures that are followed and maintained in cases of accidents. The same is communicated to the BOD and both corrective and preventive measures put in place. 3. We regularly measure our performance and review this policy periodically in order to continually improve our Occupational Health and Safety Management System ensuring that it remains relevant and appropriate to our organization.  Progress and any developments on changes to the policy are maintained and filed in either soft or hard copies and kept accessible for any reference on the same. 4. We encourage the full participation of our employees and other stakeholders in matters concerning Occupational Health and Safety.  To this effect, there are negotiations and collections of suggestions that are collected during meetings held from time to time. 5. We communicate our Occupational Health and Safety policy to all our stakeholders.  All the relevant information is communicated by ways of newsletter, intranet, Management Review process, staff and employee meetings, bulletin boards, email and verbally. 3 Activities implemented in the last year ● All our employees are at free will to engage in self-building social activities that the company activities takes part in. These include community outreach programs, wellness activities and Social Responsibility Investments. Some of these engagements include International Yoga Day, Church visits, and First Lady’s Half Marathon and Pedal Kart competitions. 2nd International Yoga day at the University of Nairobi grounds, sponsored by United Nations and Bidco Africa limited. 4 Bidco Africa staff participating in the Employees wellness health week. Bidco Africa Chairman presents a cheque to Kenya’s first lady in support of her Beyond Zero campaign to improve maternal and child health. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  The productivity and output per employee has since improved thanks to the boosted morale of the employees.  Our stakeholders, including employees, industry bodies and government authorities have demonstrated satisfaction in the OHS policy and its implementation.  Since we communicate our Occupational Health and Safety Policy, we have registered less cases of accidents and occupational hazards since preventive measures have been put in place. 5 Human Rights Future Activities planned for next year ● Implementation, communication and full adoption of the company’s code of ethics. Labour Rights UN Global Compact Principles covered: Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of forced and compulsory Labour Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child Labour Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of Employment and occupation Current At Bidco Africa, everyone stands an equal chance of getting employed to the company. All current staff and job applicants have equal opportunities provided by the company. The policy ensures that no applicant shall be discriminated on the grounds of their race, gender, colour, religion, belief, marital status, nationality or ethnic origin. Bidco Africa remunerates employees fairly and pays above the minimum gazette wage. Our employees are free to join the union(s) of their choice. Bidco entered into a successful collective bargaining agreement with the unionized employees which has been implemented and ongoing. A brief description of our Processes, Policies or Systems ● The Company does not treat an employee or job applicant less favorably for any reason relating to their disability. ● Bidco does not utilize or promote forced or child Labour of any kind. The company adheres strictly to country laws governing Labour standards. Employees should all be Over 18years. ● Bidco aims to attract and retain skilled employees and enhance the life/work balance Of each individual. The group offers its staff a range of benefits including a pension Scheme, health insurance as well as maternity and paternity leave amongst others. ● Employees are frequently offered personal development and training programs designed 6 to enhance their skills. ● Bidco regards direct or in direct discrimination, victimization and harassment. All Breaches of this principle are regarded as a serious disciplinary matter and are subject To Company’s Disciplinary procedure. ● We ensure that people living with HIV or AIDS are given the same rights, benefits and Opportunities as people living with other life – threatening conditions. We have thus put In place a HIV/AID Policy to ensure it is clear and observed. ● Bidco cares for the employees’ nutrition and healthy eating habits, and thus we have an in-house Cafeteria which provides free food to all employees. Labour Rights Future Activities planned for next year  Bidco plans to add more employees into its workforce with a projected significant expansion in its business operations.  The company plans to put into full implementation more employee wellness weeks that take them through health checks and financial guidance.  Bidco plans a full impactful incorporation of a working and operational industrial training calendar. Environment UN Global Compact Principles covered: Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental Challenges Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Responsibilities Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Friendly technologies Environment Current Commitment Bidco Africa understands that its activities occasionally affect the environment and the communities in which we operate. It is, therefore, the company’s responsibility to manage these impacts and control them to the bear minimal possible. 7 A brief description of our Processes, Policies or Systems  We are totally dedicated to preventing pollution in order to assure protection of human health and the environment and are committed to achieve its continual improvement through the effective operation of the environmental management system.  Whereas there are compliance and regulatory laws, we have our own set standards that we abide by in cases where the existing are inadequate.  We run an effluent treatment plant to treat our waste to ensure that we release clean water back to municipal sewer. In so doing, we minimize our resource consumption and improve our environmental performance.  Our policies are constantly reviewed to ensure that the activities, products and services are appropriate to nature and have no adverse impacts on human health and the environment.  Our environmental policy is communicated to all the stakeholders promptly and made available at all stages and levels of our engagement. Environment –Future Activities planned for next year We plan to participate in more tree planting activities in an effort to help conserve the environment. Energy  Bidco activities are all centered on ensuring Energy efficiency in realizing responsible consumption with minimal or no wastage.  Our daily energy use and consumption is recorded and monitored which helps enhance efficiency.  We have invested in energy efficient machinery and equipment such as the LED bulbs that save on efficiency and cost of power.  Bidco runs a Co-generation plant that uses bio-waste to generate its own power. This helps in conserving the environment and reducing the wastes.  The company has established a sound Energy Management System leading to a proactive environmental preservation and the highest degree of efficient utilization of energy.  We also train our staff to ensure competence in energy efficiency and conservation on a day-to-day operational basis.  Bidco also complies with the Energy Act 2006, the Energy (Energy Management) Regulations 2012 and other statutory requirements governing energy efficiency. Accordingly, we have an energy policy statement that is communicated to all our stakeholders such as the employees, government regulatory bodies, energy suppliers through platforms such as the website, notice boards, working areas and in reports on energy. 8  We are totally dedicated to minimize energy consumption through continual improvement in energy conservation through effective energy management systems practiced at every level and the involvement of every employee/member of the Bidco Family, without exception.  We shall benchmark our performance continuously against the best in the world, review energy targets periodically in order to improve our energy performance and eliminate wastage.  We shall monitor, record and evaluate the consumption of energy and enhance efficiency through re-designing and implementation of energy efficient programs.  We shall regularly conduct internal and external energy audits to identify areas of improvement as also to ensure total compliance with our energy policy.  We shall review our energy policy whenever the need arises due to technological advances or policy changes to ensure that our activities and processes conform to best practices.  We shall communicate our Energy Policy to employees and all our stakeholders. Activities implemented in the last year  Improved conservation and practices that earned us awards in the Energy Management’s Fuel Savings and Electricity savings awards, large consumers’ category. Bidco staff receiving energy management awards at a past event organized by the Kenya Association of Manufacturers. 9 Activities planned for next year To continue with its plans on effective energy use and environmental conservation, Bidco plans to go big on solar power use by installing 3920 solar panels on its rooftops. Anti-corruption UN Global Compact principles covered; Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Current Commitment  We remain committed to implementing the10th principle of anti‐corruption and ensuring its total elimination in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. A brief description of our Processes or Systems  We have clearly demarcated governance structures that all employees are aware of and that have the full backing of the management.  We have guidelines and policies on anti-corruption. Corruption remains an offence in Bidco and the offence is punishable by termination and prosecution.  We also have a policy in place to curb any conflict of interest and to ensure that all tenders are analyzed and opened before a panel to ensure transparency and accountability. Activities implemented in the last year Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  All employees are ever sensitized on the need to adopt practices that are free or corruption in line with the code of ethics adopted by the company.  The company has put in place systems that ensure transparency so that any possible conflict of interest is eliminated.  Employees being employed are vetted and an assurance that they have a clean track record is done.  Bidco has invested in technology that lays down proper accountability chains and systems that can be easily tracked down to the finer detail.  The company has brought on board skilled manpower to its internal audit department that is able to do proper checks and balances on all activities. 10 Anti-corruption Future Activities planned for next year  Bidco plans to make public its code of ethics which, together with education and awareness, will enhance transparency among all staff hence averting any possible cases of corruption.  More external audits planned in the next year will ensure that the systems rightly put in place are adhered to fully.  A proper remuneration plan is in place and will provide employees with the necessary and sufficient resources to match their needs. This way, there will be elimination of conflict of interests in the company’s operations. How do we intend to make this COP available to our stakeholders? This Communication on Progress will be published internally on our intranet as well as on the Company website. Furthermore, excerpts of it will be shared with the relevant and necessary for the sake of implementation of a number of policies mentioned. Donations and awards Bidco supports the community in various activities among them are:  An Education Trust Fund from which it gives scholarships to bright but needy students in High schools, colleges and universities nationwide.  We are a champion of entrepreneurship with programs that empower the youth and the entire community with ideas and concepts that can give them platforms of income generation.  Every month, the company delivers donations to several children homes, institutions and homes that house the aged with products for their day-to-day use.  The company supports education and programs that support the same through participation in construction of structures such as libraries, classrooms, kitchens and latrines.  We believe in being a socially responsible corporate and have such investments that touch directly to the members of the community.  Bidco does big on sharing information on its digital platforms and through this, recently won the best manufacturing company on Social Media award. 11 Children at some of the homes that Bidco supports with its products every month. Bidco staff handing over a computer and a printer to support a children’s home with their new project. 12 Best advertising campaign in the Asian Weekly. Best Social Media use in the Manufacturing Category. 13
