Adpack Limited Communication on Progress (COP) From: October 2015 to: October 2016 Statement of continued support by the Managing Director (MD) 10th September 2016 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Adpack Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Append Signature Saheel Shah Company name: Adpack Limited Sector: Manufacturing Number of employees: 150 UN Global Compact signatory since: Contact person: George Njoroge Address: P. O. Box 57020 00200 Email: admin@adpacklimited.com Phone: +254733487090 Brief description of nature of business Adpack Limited is a privately owned worldclass manufacturing company located in Athi River town, just outside Nairobi, Kenya. Our commitment to meeting your unique packaging needs, at very competitive prices, is adhered to every step of the way; from the strategic location of our manufacturing facility, the sourcing of the highest quality raw materials to the use of the latest German technology and processes for the production of cement bags and the adherence to the highest quality standards in the world. Adpack Limited is fully geared to support all packaging needs. Products a) We manufacture all types and colours of laminated, unlaminated, printed and unprinted woven sacks in various sizes e.g. 5kg, 10Kg, 25Kg, 50Kg, 90Kg etc. We also manufacture an extensive range of cement bags. b) We also sell full length of fabrics for wrapping, covering or general use. c) Our total capacity is 5000 metric tonnes per annum. Adpack Limited has several key advantages: 1. Best in class GERMAN machinery – quality is of the highest standard. 2. Focused and highest quality production a) We consistently manufacture high quality products for several industries. b) We are KEBS certified c) We adhere to global quality control and testing standards set by Deutsches Institut fur Normung (German Institute for Standardization) which is strict and highest in the world. d) We use high quality raw materials which are globally sourced from the world’s leading producers. e) We test and control for quality at every manufacturing process stage of Production, we also package to delivery and use both automated and manual inline quality verification systems at all levels of the production to ensure that only right products are delivered. 3. In depth knowledge of polymers. a) Adpack’s core team has an in-depth knowledge of polymer chemistry with extensive training from several internally recognized centers of polymer expertise such including eh Polymer Training & Innovation Centre in the UK. VISION AND MISSION STATEMENT Adpack Ltd vision is to be the number one East African woven polypropylene packaging products supplier. Adpack Ltd.’s mission is to relentlessly pursue excellence in packing production through investments in people and technology. Scope of this COP Human Rights Principle Respect to Human rights is key and essential for an organization due to its rewards that highly contribute to sustainability and growth of business. In view of this, Adpack Limited highly regards dignity and equality to everyone hence freeing them from discrimination of gender, race, religious, culture or ethnic background. Adpack Limited also provides an easy environment for all to participate in matters affecting them and by doing this, we are given an opportunity to appreciate and understand diverse individual needs hence contributing to the Global compact. Adpack Limited helps define to its employees what violation of human rights is and also safeguards the implementation of respect to Human Rights so as to ensure dignity and equality is upheld. ADPACK EMPLOYMENT POLICIES ENT POLICIES EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY Adpack Limited provides equal employment opportunities to all employees and applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, genetic information, marital status, amnesty or status. We comply with applicable state and local laws governing nondiscrimination in employment in every location in which the company has facilities. This includes the employment of persons with disability as enshrined in the Disability act 2003. This policy applies to all terms and conditions of employment, including hiring, placement, promotion, termination, layoff, and recall, leaves of absence, compensation and training. We are committed to a work environment in which all individuals are treated with respect and dignity. Each individual has the right to work in a professional atmosphere that promotes equal employment opportunities and prohibits unlawful discriminatory practices, including harassment. Therefore, Adpack Limited expects that all relationships among persons in the office will be business-like and free of bias, prejudice and harassment. EMPLOYEE BACKGROUND CHECK Prior to making an offer of employment, Adpack Ltd may conduct a job-related background check. A comprehensive background check may consist of prior employment verification, professional reference checks, education confirmation, and credit check. CRIMINAL RECORDS When appropriate, a criminal record check is performed to protect Adpack Ltd.’s interest and that of its employees and clients. Also all upon entry of a new employee, Certificate of good conduct is provided. ANNIVERSARY DATE The first day an employee reports to work is his or her official anniversary date. This anniversary date is used to compute the following benefits:  Vacation/Leave days  Other benefits as appropriate to employee’s designation PERSONNEL RECORDS AND ADMINISTRATION The task of handling personnel records and related administration functions at Adpack Ltd has been assigned to the Human Resources Department. Personnel files will be kept confidential at all times and include some or all of the following documents:  National ID  Passport and Work permit  Personal records and employment related medical records  Other information as necessary CHANGE OF PERSONAL DATA Any change in an employee’s name, address, telephone number, marital status, dependents, or insurance beneficiaries, or a change in the number of tax withholding exemptions, needs to be reported in writing without delay to the Human Resources Department. SAFETY The health and safety of employees is a paramount. Adpack Ltd makes every effort to comply with all workplace safety requirements and by doing this we strive to ensure that we offer our members of staff a healthy conducive environment. We also provide the required safety attires and sensitize our employees to observe Occupational Health & safety and adhere to safety rules, exercising caution and common sense in all work activities. BUILDING SECURITY Each and every employee must follow the building security rules and regulations. Employees are not allowed on Adpack Ltd property after hours or outside of shift hours without prior authorization from their supervisor. PERSONAL PROPERTY Adpack Ltd assumes no risk for any loss or damage to personal property and recommends that all employees have personal insurance policies covering the loss of personal property left at Adpack Ltd premises HEALTH-RELATED ISSUES Employees who become aware of any health-related issue should notify their supervisor of health status as soon as possible. For improving the health and welfare of all employees, Adpack is in the process of putting up a staff meals canteen with hygiene and all the utilities in place. EMPLOYEE REQUIRING MEDICAL ATTENTION Adpack has in place a team of well-trained first aiders who will attend to any injury and refer the employee the appointed medical facility. Employees should report all workrelated injuries and accidents immediately to their supervisors. VISITORS IN THE WORKPLACE We have put in place a notice for all our visitors to take note and care as they enter the factory area. However, for safety, insurance, and other business considerations, only authorized visitors are allowed in the workplace. When making arrangements for visitors, employees should request that visitors enter through the main reception area and sign in and sign out at the front desk. WEATHER-RELATED AND EMERGENCY-RELATED CLOSINGS At times, emergencies such as severe weather or power failures can disrupt company operations. In such instances, Executive Staff will decide on the closure and Human Resources will provide the official notification to the employees. Implementation Below are measures taken by Adpack limited to ensure implementation of Respect of Human Rights. 1. Have an Internal policy that is committed to meet the responsibility to respect human rights. 2. Identified Human rights risks along with policies and actions for mitigating them. 3. Developed Human Related checklists periodically to ensure respect to Human Rights is upheld. 4. Create an awareness of what constitutes violation of Human Rights. 5. Create a complaint/grievance mechanism whereby management takes every complaint seriously by acting promptly to find out or resolve a matter. 6. Ensure internal policies and procedures in place are in line with human rights principles. 7. Ensure transparent investigations are done on all allegations and rightful procedures are followed. 8. Have in place a Structural Leadership and also assign them the responsibility for Human Rights.  Human rights indicators as a tool Indicators within this scheme look at how complaints of human rights violations are handled and whether policies for human rights promotion exist. Statistics and other information indicating the prevalence of human rights violations are added to the analysis.  Data collection; This is done through our suggestion box Relevant and reliable data is a pre-condition to using human rights indicators as an assessment tool for our swift action as a company. Measurement of outcomes All of Adpack departments have ‘stretch targets’ which are aspirational targets for certain KPIs. The performance of all departments is monitored continually and reported monthly to management. These KPIs are used to assess current performance, make comparisons with previous performance and to help managers respond when targets are not being met. For instance, following up investigations and explanations as to why the staff training targets or hygiene targets are not met. Labor Principles Adpack upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to representation and collective bargaining. The company upholds the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. We also uphold the effective abolition of child labor and elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ADPACK POLICY ON CHILD WORKERS According to International Labor Organization (ILO), Child Labor threatens children’s growth, physically, mentally and emotional wellbeing hence undermining a child’s right to childhood. It also prevents children from enjoying the right to education and attain their dreams. Adpack recognizes the above and takes an effective role in eliminating child labor by actively conducting age related checks so as to ensure that we do not employ any person deemed by local or international laws, conventions or regulations to be a child in any capacity in any industrial operation under its control. FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Adpack Limited has a Hiring Policy in place and follows the procedures of hiring keenly to ensure that employees are employed at their own will hence our employment is freely chosen and free from threats. Also all payments due to the employees are effected rightfully and in time. Our employees have the right to collective bargaining. DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT Adpack Limited encourages reporting of all perceived incidents of discrimination or harassment. It is our policy to promptly and thoroughly investigate such reports. We prohibit retaliation against any individual who reports discrimination or harassment or who participates in an investigation of such reports. Implementation The concrete actions taken by Adpack to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations are:  We do not bond our employees  We ensure that our employees ‘salaries and wages are market competitive and better than the Government minimum standards. Our salaries are also freely negotiated by employees and employer  Our constant use of the suggestion box, grievance mechanisms taken to avoid and take care of any violation.  We raise awareness by training our employees on labour laws and rights by holding regular Union meetings with the government stakeholders.  Adpack has ensured that health and safety of all employees is ensured by placing health policies and warning signs inside and outside the company premises that helps the employees by reminding them on hazards to avoid, what to do in case of fire and general instructions in case of an accident.  We allocate responsibilities to our employees for the allocation of responsibilities for the protection of labour rights within our organization.  Adpack has put in place a health and safety committee manned by the employees and management to look at every aspect for health policies and any other improvement inside the company premises Environmental Principles Adpack as a company supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges by undertaking greater initiatives i.e. tree planting, environmental maintenance like recycling to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals 1. Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). 2. Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Examples: • Assessment of the environmental footprint and impact of your company • Written company policy on environmental issues, including prevention and management of environmental risks • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the environmental principles • Describe specific goals in the area of the environment for the upcoming year Implementation Adpack takes concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents by carrying out environmental exercises. Examples  Awareness raising or training of employees on environmental protection.  Initiatives and programs to reduce waste materials (e.g. recycling) and consumption of resources (Energy, water, electricity, paper, packaging, etc.)  Activities aimed at improving the energy efficiency of products, services and processes.  Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies  Raise awareness among suppliers by asking for the environmental footprint of products or services.  Environmental management system to identify, monitor and control the company’s environmental performance.  Allocation of responsibilities for environmental protection within our company. Measurement of outcomes Adpack monitors and evaluates environmental performance through:  Reviewing the company's environmental goals  Analyzing its environmental impacts and legal requirements  Setting environmental objectives and targets to reduce environmental impacts and comply with legal requirements.  Establishing programs to meet these objectives and targets.  Monitoring and measuring progress in achieving the objectives  Ensuring employees' environmental awareness and competence.  Reviewing progress of the Environmental Management System and making improvements  Adhering to the requirements as laid down in NEMA (National environmental management assessment) Anti‐Corruption Principles Adpack works against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ADPACK ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY The Company’s reputation for lawful and ethical business relations is important and we require all employees and other business associates, whether employed directly or indirectly (including customers, suppliers, agents, distributors, and others working for or on behalf of the Company), to act professionally and with integrity. To this end, we have come up with programs to sensitize all Adpack employees and associate on the vice of corruption The prevention, detection and reporting of bribery and other forms of corruption are the responsibility of all employees across the Company; each employee is required to avoid any activity that might constitute, lead to, or suggest, bribery and/or corruption activities. Bribery is an offence within the majority of countries around the world and penalties can be severe. Corrupt acts, wherever in the world they are committed (including those committed by business partners such as agents, distributors or joint venture partners) are taken very seriously within Adpack Limited. It is recognized that market practices vary from country to country and that it is not always easy to decide what is acceptable from an anti-bribery perspective. The company’s antibribery policy is not designed to prohibit the acceptance or offer of reasonable and customary gifts and hospitality. However, employees and business associates should bear in mind that transparency is fundamental to maintaining the zero tolerance position of the Company with respect to bribes and other improper payments. The key consideration to remember is that no inducements should be accepted or offered if the intention is to influence the recipient in order to gain or retain a business advantage. Any employee who is aware of possible bribery and corruption activities should feel comfortable in disclosing such details and further information about the disclosure process can be found within the Company’s whistleblowing policy. A commitment has been made within the company to ensure that employees who do come forward with such information are protected to the fullest extent possible. Assessment, Policy and Goals 1. Description of the relevance of anti‐corruption for the company (i.e. anti‐corruption risk‐ assessment). 2. Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti‐corruption. Examples • Assessment of risk of corruption and bribery in the company’s industry and country (ies) of operation • Written company policy of zero‐tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion • Reference to (or statement of support for) the UN Convention against Corruption and other international instruments • Protocol to guide staff in situations where they are confronted with extortion or bribery • Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the anti‐corruption principles • Specific goals in the area of anti‐corruption for the upcoming year Implementation Adpack concrete actions to implement anti‐corruption policies, reduce anti‐corruption risks and respond to incidents. Examples • Our suggestion box, grievance mechanisms. • Awareness raising and training of employees about company's policies regarding anti‐ corruption and extortion (e.g. mailings, internet, internal communication, etc.) • Allocation of responsibilities for anti‐corruption within the company • Participation in industry initiative or other collective action on anti‐corruption. Measurement of outcomes. Adpack ensures zero tolerance when it comes to corruption within the company. Steep measures are ensured to curb any act of corruption i.e. job dismissal and reporting to the relevant authority about any corruption incident. This is actioned after thorough investigations have been carried out by both internal and external authorities to ensure consistency and transparency. Adpack carries out internal audits to ensure consistency with anti‐corruption commitment, including periodic review by senior management. How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? Our COP is freely available to all stakeholders via our HR department. Any stakeholder may contact the company through our official channels and request a copy of our COP. Donations, awards Adpack Limited continues to support and donate to the needy in society through various channels e.g. Christmas tree fund, Children homes etc. Adpack has been recently awarded by the National Council for Persons With Disabilities, for being in the forefront for employing persons with disabilities on equal salaries in the fulfilment of section 7 (1) ( C ) of the act NO 14 of 2003.
