Period covered by the Communication on Progress (COP) From: 13/6-2016 To: 13/6-2017 Statement of continued support by the chief executive 13/6-2016 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Sociability reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Elizabeth Boye Managing partner Description of actions Sociability have consulted, engaged and participated in various projects in Africa, Asia and South America with a clear aim to benefit society and protect people. The ten principles of the Global Compact are core values of Sociability. Sociability have a zero-tolerance policy for corruption and violation of human rights, and works intensively in order to fight corruption by making sure that extortion and bribery are not a part of the business activities we engage in. Sociability actively engages in projects that wish to address the challenges that the Bottom of the Pyramid (BoP) faces. Sociability believes that, among others, child labor can be abolished if the Labour principles are applied to the BoP. The environment principles are at the core of Sociability, since Sociability is an international CSR consultancy. Sociability are currently working for zero-waste circles in the coconut sector in Africa. Moreover, Sociability collaborates with local officials in Ghana in order to address the problems of convergence between the collectors of shea nuts in North Ghana. Measurement of outcomes Sociability conducted an executive training programme in strategic CSR in Nairobi in October 2015. This programme showed the business case of CSR, and various CEOs, managers and executives gained comprehensive insight and overview of strategic CSR. The feedback from the participants allow us to regard this programme as a success, and the participants have most likely already applied their new knowledge to meet the ten principles of the Global Compact. What is next? Sociability is working on a training programme for the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). The programme will be held in the fall 2016, and it will be relevant for officials, managers etc. Sociability believes that it is important to show how to apply the SDG’s in the business case, and provide the participants with tools that enables them to make a difference with reference to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption.
