5/24/2016 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact United Nations Global Compact Alcoa is a values­based company, and we uphold the highest standards of respect for the protection of human rights for all stakeholders. We are a participant in the United Nations Global Compact. The compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti­ corruption. Statement of Support Alcoa is fully committed to the United Nations Global Compact. Integrity and respect for people are core Values for Alcoa, and we believe that financial success, social responsibility, and protection of the environment are totally aligned and absolutely essential for long­term sustainability. The Alcoa Code of Conduct outlines our commitment to be open, honest, and trustworthy in all of our dealings with all stakeholders. Our policies and procedures, which apply to Alcoa­ controlled operations globally, specifically incorporate our commitment to human rights, freedom of association, and excellence in environment, health, and safety. In addition, our policies clearly communicate that we will not tolerate forced, compulsory, or child labor; discrimination of any kind; or any forms of corruption and bribery in our global operations. Klaus Kleinfeld Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2015 Communication on Progress The following overview of our 2015 progress against the 10 principles is supplemented by references to information contained on our external website, www.alcoa.com and 2015 Sustainability Report. Principles 2015 Progress References Human Rights 1. Businesses should support Alcoa’s Human Rights Policy is Vision & Values and respect the protection of available in more than 20 go internationally proclaimed languages on our corporate human rights. intranet and internet sites. We Human Rights Policy respect all internationally go proclaimed human rights standards in our operations throughout the world. Treating each person with dignity and respect is one of our core Values. We value diversity and inclusion in all of our operations. We continued implementing a third­party supplier due­ diligence program with our http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 1/8 5/24/2016 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact supplier base. This program includes specific survey questions related to child and slave labor and human trafficking. The Alcoa Code of Conduct, which is available in 19 languages, provides clear and easy­to­navigate information and guidance on ethics, compliance, and human rights. We have a robust and mature Integrity Line Integrity Line available 24 go hours a day, seven days a week in multiple languages for employees and external stakeholders to report alleged violations of laws and our policies on a confidential basis. A portion (10%) of our Inclusion Section in Alcoa’s variable compensation for 2015 Sustainability Report managers and executives was go based on progress in achieving diversity and inclusion objectives in each of our businesses and in every region throughout the world. 2. Businesses should make We seek to understand fully all Human Rights Policy sure that they are not aspects of how business is go complicit in human rights conducted where we have our abuses. operations throughout the world. Our standard is to contractually require our contractors and suppliers to adhere to the same internationally proclaimed human rights protections and guarantees to which we hold ourselves. We continued implementing a Supply Chain Section in third­party supplier due­ Alcoa’s 2015 Sustainability diligence program with our Report supplier base. This program go includes specific survey questions related to child and slave labor and human trafficking. Our Global Supplier Sustainability Program assesses the performance of key suppliers against varied criteria that include human rights components. http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 2/8 5/24/2016 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact Our locations continued using Stakeholder Engagement the Alcoa Community Section in Alcoa’s 2015 Framework, which requires Sustainability Report each of our locations to go engage with key stakeholders in and around our facilities. Human rights is a critical component of the framework. Labor 3. Businesses should uphold Alcoa fully supports an Human Rights Policy the freedom of association employee’s right to choose go and the effective recognition whether or not to join a union. of the right to collective bargaining. We worked cooperatively and Labor Relations Section of in good faith with many labor Alcoa’s 2015 Sustainability unions that represent groups Report of our employees in various go facilities throughout the world. 4. Businesses should uphold We forbid the use of any Human Rights Policy the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor go forced and compulsory labor. within our own operations and the operations of our suppliers and contractors. We have policies and procedures in place to ensure that our recruitment practices are fully consistent with our human rights requirements in this regard. We continued implementing a Supply Chain Section in third­party supplier due­ Alcoa’s 2015 Sustainability diligence program with our Report supplier base. This program go includes specific survey questions related to child and slave labor and human trafficking. Our Global Supplier Sustainability Program assesses the performance of key suppliers against varied criteria that include labor practices and human rights. 5. Businesses should uphold We forbid the use of any child Human Rights Policy the effective abolition of child labor within our own go labor. operations and the operations of our suppliers and contractors. We have policies and procedures in place to ensure that our recruitment practices are fully consistent with our human rights requirements in this regard. We continued implementing a Supply Chain Section in http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 3/8 5/24/2016 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact third­party supplier due­ Alcoa’s 2015 Sustainability diligence program with our Report supplier base. This program go includes specific survey questions related to child and slave labor and human trafficking. Our Global Supplier Sustainability Program assesses the performance of key suppliers against varied criteria that include labor practices and human rights. 6. Businesses should uphold Our recruitment processes and Human Rights Policy the elimination of practices ensure the protection go discrimination in respect of and respect for all people and employment and occupation. that no individual is Equal Employment Opportunity discriminated against on the Statement basis of race, color, religion, go national origin, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, veteran status, genetic information, sex, or age (within statutory limits). Our company Values include Vision & Values “respect”—we treat all people go with dignity and provide a diverse, inclusive work environment. A portion (10%) of variable Inclusion Section in Alcoa’s compensation for managers 2015 Sustainability Report and executives was based on go progress in achieving diversity and inclusion objectives in each of our businesses and in every region throughout the world. We met our 2015 goal to have women hold 22.3% of our global executive positions (achieved 22.8%). We received top ranking in the Awards Human Rights Campaign go Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index for the seventh consecutive year. Environment 7. Businesses should support Alcoa supports the a precautionary approach to precautionary approach to environmental challenges. environmental challenges. We have aggressive 2020 and Strategic Sustainability http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 4/8 5/24/2016 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact 2030 goals to drive our Targets Section in Alcoa’s environmental performance 2015 Sustainability Report against a 2005 baseline. go We achieved a 31.3% Climate Protection Section in reduction in carbon dioxide Alcoa’s 2015 Sustainability intensity (carbon dioxide Report equivalents per ton of go production) against a 2005 baseline in our Global Primary Products business group. We reduced our freshwater­ Water Section in Alcoa’s 2015 use intensity (consumption per Sustainability Report unit of production) by 13.2% go versus 2005 levels. We reduced our landfilled Waste & Emissions Section in waste by 13.9% versus 2005 Alcoa’s 2015 Sustainability levels. Report go We met our 2020 goal of a 15% reduction in bauxite residue land requirements per unit of alumina produced— seven years ahead of schedule—and continued reductions in 2015. 8. Businesses should We have aggressive 2020 and Strategic Sustainability undertake initiatives to 2030 goals to drive our Targets Section of Alcoa’s promote greater environmental performance 2015 Sustainability Report environmental responsibility. against a 2005 baseline. go We use Sustainability Sustainability Strategy Section Scorecards to measure each in Alcoa’s 2015 Sustainability business’ progress against key Report near­term sustainability go metrics. We included an annual carbon Climate Protection Section in dioxide reduction target as a Alcoa’s 2015 Sustainability component of our 2015 Report variable compensation go program. Alcoa Foundation invested Alcoa Foundation 29% of its 2015 funding in go environmentally focused programs around the world. Among our employees, 47% Month of Service participated in the 2015 Month go of Service employee outreach campaign. Many of the activities were focused on the environment. We have a closed­loop Recycling Section in Alcoa’s http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 5/8 5/24/2016 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact recycling system for the 2015 Sustainability Report aluminum­intensive Ford F­150 go truck. We implemented a comprehensive strategy to increase the use of revert, or post­consumer material, in aerospace markets. We segregated and recycled valuable aerospace alloys through a closed­loop system with Boeing. We operate facilities that recycle aluminum wheel scrap into billet for new wheels. Alcoa Foundation was the first committed funding partner of The Recycling Partnership, a public/private partnership to increase packaging recycling rates in the United States. Alcoa and Alcoa Foundation invested approximately US$7.3 million in recycling initiatives between 2007 and 2015. Our Global Supplier Supply Chain Section in Sustainability Program Alcoa’s 2015 Sustainability assesses the performance of Report key suppliers against varied go criteria that include environmental performance. 9. Businesses should Alcoa 951 bonding technology Products Section in Alcoa’s encourage the development enables the mass production 2015 Sustainability Report and diffusion of of aluminum­intensive vehicles go environmentally friendly like the F­150 truck. technologies. Automotive parts made with the Alcoa Micromill® material will be twice as formable and 30% lighter than parts made from high­strength steel. We introduced a lightweight, all­aluminum commercial truck frame still under development that will reduce truck weight by more than 40% compared to steel frames. Our 18­kilogram (40­pound) Ultra ONE™ heavy­duty truck http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 6/8 5/24/2016 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact wheel is 47% lighter than a steel wheel of the same size. We unveiled our Ampliforge™ process, which significantly reduces material input and simplifies production. We continued to expand the Water Section in Alcoa’s 2015 use of the Alcoa­developed Sustainability Report Natural Engineered go Wastewater Treatment (NEWT™) system to treat sanitary and process wastewater, which is then reused in manufacturing processes. We completed an ambitious Net Positive Section in Alcoa’s initiative that determined the 2015 Sustainability Report positive greenhouse gas go impact of almost all of our products and created a repeatable methodology to track this greenhouse gas handprint. Anti­Corruption 10. Businesses should work The Alcoa Code of Conduct, Ethics & Compliance Program against corruption in all its which is deployed to every go forms, including extortion and employee, and the Alcoa bribery. Supplier Standards discuss our zero tolerance for bribery and corruption. All employees receive Code of Conduct training annually. Our Anti­Corruption Policy Anti­Corruption Policy prohibits facilitation, or go “grease” payments, and commercial bribery in addition to bribery of public officials. Approximately 17,000 employees receive online anti­ corruption training annually. Employees working in identified areas, such as finance, procurement, legal, compliance, logistics, sales and marketing, and government affairs, receive annual live (in­person or webinar), country­specific anti­corruption training as well. We require all medium and high­risk third­party intermediaries to complete http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 7/8 5/24/2016 Alcoa: About: Vision and Values: UN Global Compact annual online anti­corruption training to ensure awareness of our Anti­Corruption Program requirements and company Values. Each year, we recognize International Anti­Corruption Day (December 9 in 2015). A communication from our chief ethics and compliance officer is sent to all employees reaffirming our zero tolerance for bribery and corruption and the duty to operate ethically and in accordance with the law. Our global Integrity Line and Integrity Line web reporting capability go provide employees and external stakeholders with the opportunity to confidentially report any potential violations of law, regulations, and company policies and procedures 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Reports also may be made via letter, fax, email, and online to our Compliance organization or management. We continued implementing a Supply Chain Section in third­party supplier due­ Alcoa’s 2015 Sustainability diligence program with our Report supplier base. This program go includes specific survey questions related to child and slave labor and human trafficking. Archived Reports 2014 Communication on Progress 2013 Communication on Progress 2012 Communication on Progress 2011 Communication on Progress 2010 Communication on Progress 2009 Communication on Progress http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/about_alcoa/un_global_compact.asp 8/8
