M.C.TRITON, spol. s r.o. Evropská 846/176a, 160 00 Praha 6 telefon: +420 255 710 600, fax: + 420 255 710 699 e-mail: info@mc-triton.cz, www.mc-triton.cz Company ID: 49622005, Tax ID:CZ49622005 THE COMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Brief Company Profile M.C.TRITON is a Czech consultancy company providing private and public sector entities with managerial consultancy and with education. The company is also involved in local economy support, liaising public, private and non-governmental subjects in various regions of the Czech Republic. General CSR Approach We have Joined Global Compact in 2015. We are ready to continue supporting and keeping CSR support and principles in the same way in 2016 as well. Support Confirmation of the M.C.TRITON Chairman: I am pleased to confirm that M.C.TRITON reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. We describe further below activities, through which we integrated Global Compact principles into our company culture, strategy and daily operations. Sincerely yours, Luděk Pfeifer Chairman, M.C.TRITON Group DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights  Our employees are provided with above standard office/work facilities  Our Code of Conduct and company values are built on equal right for all employees, preventing workplace harassment, abuse or threats Labour  Our company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour  Employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria Environment  We avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance of production processes and environmental protection system (air pollution control, waste, water treatment systems, etc.)  We make sure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health Anti-Corruption  We assess the risk of corruption when doing business  “Anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behaviour” clauses are include in company standards and business contract templates  Our internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES  Demographics of management and employees broken down by diversity factors (e.g., gender, ethnicity, age, etc.) are above E.U. standards  Percentage of recycled materials is 100%
