Communication on Progress (CoP) 2015 DHC Business Solutions GmbH & Co. KG | Landwehrplatz 6-7 | D-66111 Saarbrücken Geschäftsführer | Managing Directors: Dr. Rudi Herterich, Dr. Wolfgang Kraemer Telefon | Phone +49 6 81 9 36 66-0 | Fax +49 6 81 / 9 36 66-33 Web www.dhc-vision.com | mail: info@dhc-gmbh.com Handelsregister | Commercial Register: HRA 11150 Saarbrücken Bankverbindung | Bank Details: Deutsche Bank AG |IBAN: DE48 5907 0000 0011 3530 00 BIC/SWIFT: DEUTDE5M555 Umsatzsteuer-Ident.Nr | VAT Number: DE 224806460 DHC Business Solutions GmbH & Co. KG | Landwehrplatz 6-7 | 66111 Saarbrücken/Germany United Nations Global Compact United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Saarbrucken, 281 June 2016 Communication on Progress (CoP) Year: 2015 To whom it may concern: Being a good corporate citizen is an ambition enthusiastically embraced at all levels within our company. As a member of a Global Compact, we believe that our business policies incorporate the ten principles. Our company fully supports actions in working towards sustainability goals and endorses the future priorities and specific targets we set out in our report. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the agenda forward on performance related to human rights, labor rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. In this CoP, we summarize the progress we have made against these. Yours sincerely Dr. Rudi Herterich | Dr. Wolfgang Kraemer Managing Directors Page 2 of 7 Company Profile DHC Business Solutions, a Germany-based technology and services company, offers state-of-the-art business software and consulting services in governance, risk and compliance (GRC) as well as process and quality management. The company develops comprehensive GRC solutions based on its standard software product DHC VISION. As Integrated Management System (IMS), the software enables organizations to manage business processes, to comply with regulatory requirements, to manage risks and opportunities, to improve corporate communication and internal collaboration, and to enhance their capacity for effective corporate management. With its interdisciplinary IMS-approach and its high flexibility in platform configuration, DHC VISION certainly figures among the most advanced systems available on the market. DHC also provides business and technical consultancy services for software implementation. With a background of 20 years of experience in the fields of process management, quality management, and GRC, DHC has become an expert partner in even the most highly regulated business sectors. Finally, the company offers managed services for the operation of DHC VISION; and it delivers training services for the company’s international customer base. DHC operates an ITIL-based Service Desk (Helpdesk) for its software products; standard support languages are German and English. DHC Business Solutions started operation in 2011 in the context of a corporate restructuring process of DHC GmbH, founded in 1996. With nearly 20 years of experience in the fields of process management, quality management, and GRC, DHC Business Solutions is an expert partner in even the most highly regulated business sectors. The company is dedicated to the quality label of “German Engineering”; it has received a number of awards for its innovative DHC VISION solution concept. DHC holds a DIN EN ISO 9001:2008 quality management certificate and applies a regular schedule for external audits. The company also offers hosting services via a ISO 27001-certified data center and within European regulations for information security and privacy. To ensure the quality of services, DHC follows the PRINCE2 project management standard. In addition, DHC implements ITIL guidelines for IT services. Finally, DHC supports the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest network of companies committed to sustainable and socially responsible policies. Page 3 of 7 Communication on Progress The following table lists activities and shows progress made toward achieving positive results with regard to the Ten Principles. To the extent available, performance indicators and quantitative data are provided. Principle 1: Businesses DHC acts in conformity with humans rights legislation and considers its preshould support and scriptions especially with regards to following points: respect the protection Work Conditions of internationally proIt is one of the main objectives of DHC to create safe and healthy work enviclaimed human rights ronment for its employees according to existent international standards. Appropriate steps are taken to prevent accidents or injury for health arising out of or occurring during the work. DHC’s headquarters provides employees with a state-of-the-art working environment. In addition, all DHC subsidiaries meet highest standards for safe and sane working environments. In each subsidiary, there is a security officer who is trained in first aid and can be contacted in any case of injury. The security officer is also responsible for risks of injury or any dangerous situations. DHC employees have always access to drinkable water. Snack-bar, canteen and small kitchen with drinks are also available in the DHC building. Wages and Salary DHC ensures “equal pay for equal work” using a transparent remuneration scheme for permanent staff irrespective of any personal circumstances such as gender. Requirements to be met for achieving different salary levels are clearly defined and available to all employees. Labor is being paid in conformity with national legal standards. Wages and salaries paid are enough to meet basic needs of the employees. Also DHC employees can benefit from special arrangements concerning retirement provisions and other compensations for capital accumulation purposes. All employees are provided with written information about wages and salaries to be paid during their employment time before they enter the employment. Wages and salaries are to be paid in case of force majeure circumstances, such as natural disaster, resulting in interruption of operations or financial crises influencing financial stability of the firm. Specific plans for 2016: DHC expects growth of its work force in 2016. DHC will continue its efforts to Page 4 of 7 ensure favorable working conditions for its entire workforce regardless of the location. DHC will continue to strive for gender-equality and a nondiscriminatory working environment for company staff. Principle 2: Businesses DHC respects and acts in conformity with the norms of applicable legislation in should ensure that they the regions it operates. are not complicit in DHC is committed to the concept of fair dealing. Each director, officer and emhuman rights abuses; ployee should deal fairly with the Company’s suppliers, customers, employees and competitors. No one should take their advantage of another by manipulation, concealing information, misrepresentation or other similar practice. Principle 3: Businesses DHC accepts the right of employees to freedom of association and collective should uphold the freebargaining in accordance to local labor legislation. Employees have right to join dom of association and or to form trade unions. Employees’ representatives are not discriminated and the effective recognition have an ability to carry out their representative functions in a work place. of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: Businesses All labor is sourced from the open labor market, employment is freely chosen should support the and there is no forced, bonded or involuntary prison labor. All DHC employees elimination of all forms are provided with labor contracts and may resign at any time they consider of forced and compulappropriate. DHC offers Accident insurance and a Company pension scheme to sory labor; its staff. Principle 5: the effecDHC does not source workforce from child labor. It acts in accordance to foltive abolition of child lowing rules: The course of action taken shall be in the best interests of the labor; child, conform to the provisions of ILO Convention 138 and be consistent with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. Every employee under 18 should be enabled to attend and remain in quality education until no longer a child. Children and young persons under 18 shall not be employed at night or in dangerous conditions. Principle 6: Businesses It is the policy of DHC to ensure that no job applicant or employee receives less should support the favorable treatment on the grounds of sex, race, marital status, disability, age, elimination of discrimipart-time or fixed term contract status, sexual orientation or religion, or is disnation in respect of advantaged by conditions or requirements that cannot be shown to be justifiaemployment and occuble. pation. Abusive, harassing or offensive conduct by an officer and employee is unacceptable, whether verbal, physical or visual. All employees have to sign an antidiscrimination statement. Page 5 of 7 Officers and employees should report any potential incident of harassment to the Human Resources Manager when it occurs. DHC emphasizes that discrimination is unacceptable conduct which may lead to disciplinary action under the organization’s Disciplinary Procedure. DHC recognizes the great benefits in having a diverse workforce with different backgrounds, solely employed on ability. Specific plans for 2016: A culturally, ethnically, and linguistically diverse workforce has turned out beneficial for the company’s overall business performance in the past. DHC will continue its efforts in this regard making sure that making sure that the company’s corporate culture welcomes diversity in all respects. Principle 7: Businesses DHC promotes perceived attitudes to resource management and resource exshould support a prependiture in relation to environmental background. All operations have to be cautionary approach to completed undue any negative impacts on human beings or environmental environmental chalpollution. lenges; Principle 8: Businesses DHC continues the use of an additional line in all employees e-mail signature: should undertake initia“Think again – do you really need to print this e-mail?” to avoid waste of paper tives to promote greater not only internally, but also outside the house. environmental responTravel policy of DHC underlines that employees must respect environmental sibility; standards when booking flights and hiring cars. DHC practices waste separation, according to the German law. Principle 9: Businesses DHC advocates the “Green IT” concept as follows: should encourage the  DHC has increased the use of Web Meetings and Virtual Classroom development and diffuSessions for internal communication and cooperation as well as for sion of environmentally project coordination meetings with customers. This action reduces the friendly technologies need for travelling and contributes to the reduction of CO2 emissions. DHC intends to further expand its activities in this area in the coming years.  DHC supports the DHL GoGreen climate protection projects by combinPage 6 of 7 ing its shipments with DHL GoGreen services whenever possible. DHL calculates C02 emissions generated by transport using a method based on the ISO 14064 standard. In accordance with the specifications of the Kyoto Protocol, these emissions are offset by climate protection projects.  DHC also has increased and intensified its business operations in the area of “cloud computing”, providing professional services to its customers via hosted IT environments. This allows for synergies in the use of IT systems via shared IT infrastructures.  DHC, finally, has reduced the number of company cars with high CO2 emissions. With regard to reducing CO2 emissions, SUVs have been banned completely from DHC’s car pool. Performance indicators: 2013 2014 2015 # of company cars with high CO2 emis7 2 0 sions (SUVs) Principle 10: Businesses All directors, officers or employees shall comply fully with all laws affecting the should work against all business of DHC, including, without limitation, all laws prohibiting insider tradforms of corruption, ing, money laundering, bribery, improper payments and anti-competitive activiincluding extortion and ties. bribery. The consequences to the company and its directors, officers and employees of any departure from this policy can be very serious. In case of criminal violation, the company will take appropriate steps to stop the criminal conduct and to prevent such conduct from reoccurring. END OF DOCUMENT Page 7 of 7
