Sustainability Report 2015 Communication on Progress / Global Compact S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 Index Challenges and opportunities 03 About us 05 2015 Figures & facts 06 Global Goals 08 Sustainability for us 09 Our team 11 Exploration & partnerships 12 Human rights for all 15 Energy & climate 19 Reduce, reuse & recycle 23 Anti-corruption & ethics 27 2 WHITE ARKITEKTER Challenges and opportunities The year 2015 was important for sustainable development. In September the United Nations presented the Sustainable Development Goals and in December the UN’s member countries agreed on common objectives to limit climate change. The world is facing major environmenacting with participation and respect. tal and societal challenges from climate Contributing to urban equity is an impaschange to migration. In Scandinavia, we sioned issue that we have debated this are seeing an increase in social inequalyear. The only non-variable that we can ity coupled by an enormous shortage of definitely conclude is that people are difhousing. Major cities are planning for denferent and have different needs, which sification and new housing projects are also vary over time. being rapidly built, which in turn increases We have great challenges that can the necessity to ensure that social and become great opportunities to make a environmental qualities are not lost. difference. At White, we possess the At the Architecture Biennale in Venice, skills to address and respond to a multithe title was Reporting from the Front; dimensional scope of issues which can the theme mirrors the current situation in shape the future of architecture. All busisociety and encourages a collective effort nesses can contribute by embracing and amongst architects to bridge the gap implementing the Global Goals, which we between architecture and civil society. define in our upcoming strategic plan. Our “Gestaltad livsmiljö”, the new proposal for goal is to further establish our international Sweden’s National Architecture Policy, is presence, and we hope to contribute with also in line. The proposal emphasizes the our passionate views on sustainable archivalue of architecture, tecture. We will continue to support the form and design and principles of the UN Global Compact and its significance for the we value this commitment as an important individual, the environstatement for our company. ment and the sustainable development of society. 8th of July, 2016. P H OTO G R A P H E R : B R I T TA W I K H O L M For White, this stance is in complete alignment with what CEO, Monica von Schmalensee. we stand for, to be an exploratory and responsible company Director Sustainability, Anna Graaf. Monica von Schmalensee, CEO and Anna Graaf, Director of Sustainability. 3 Kallbadhus, Karlshamn White Arkitekter P H OTO G R A P H E R : B E R T L E A N D E R S S O N WHITE ARKITEKTER About us White Arkitekter was founded in 1951 in Gothenburg, Sweden. We are Scandinavia’s leading architectural practice with 16 offices across Sweden, Denmark, Norway and the UK. We are proud of being an entirely employee owned company, and amongst our almost 900 employees, about 580 are shareholders. Our vision is to create human-centred landscape architects, social anthropoloarchitecture that inspires sustainable lifegists, environmental and energy specialists styles. To achieve this, we work with three and lighting and interior designers. guiding strategies: to create emotive archiOur Code of Conduct, based on the ten tecture, to constantly challenge ourselves principles of Global Compact, describes to improve the way in which we practice, the expectations and demands we have on and to explore the field of architecture with ourselves and our business partners. White dedicated, applied research. has three fundamental policies: Employee We work across disciplines and take an Policy, Quality Policy and Sustainability explorative and holistic approach in order Policy. Our business management system, to handle the challenges of sustainability. In WhiteQ, is certified to ISO 9001 and addition to architects and engineers, White 14001 and supports our projects as well as employs a wide range of competencies, our administration. such as project managers, urban planners, Global HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Compact’s Principle 1 / Principle 3 / Principle 7 / Principle 10 / 10 Businesses should Businesses should Businesses should Businesses should support and respect uphold the freedom support a precautionary work against corrupthe protection of interof association and the approach to environmental tion in all its forms, nationally proclaimed effective recognition of challenges; including extortion and principles human rights; and the right to collective Principle 8 / bribery. Principle 2 / bargaining; undertake initiatives make sure that they are Principle 4 / to promote greater not complicit in human the elimination of all environmental rights abuses. forms of forced and responsibility; and compulsory labour; Principle 9 / Principle 5 / encourage the the effective abolition development and of child labour; and diffusion of environPrinciple 6 / mentally friendly the elimination of technologies. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 2015 Figures & facts Driven by curiosity, we explore Good architecture 15% what is possible but seldom makes people grow. imagined. Together, we find sustainable answers, both for today and tomorrow. 45% reduction in electricity 41 per employee. new research projects in sustainable of our building architecture. projects following an environmental certification system (like Miljöbyggnad, Breeam, Leed). Commissions in countries. 12 t al a w ar d) . 3 8 t i m e s ar o u nd th e pl an environmen 38 e t by Commitment to Fossil Free Sweden. train (w 94% of long-distance domestic trips are taken by train. wa y ’s ai l R e di sh in the Sw ed ult es hi c r h WHITE ARKITEKTER 40,4 years is the average age of White employees. We have almost 900 employees. At the end of 2015 62% were architects and 31% engineers. 600 66% of competitions won. employees attended study tours in the Nordic countries. 42% We have a shared ownership model with about 580 shareholders. 117 are partners. We have 16 offices in Sweden, Denmark, Norway and UK. decrease in CO 2 per 24% employee compared to 2014. 40 less combustible waste compared to 2014. specialists within environmental and h o f a W hi t e m social sustainability. u nc od MATERIALS, La CLIMATE ADAPTATION HAZARDOUS el SUBSTANCES & WASTE 1 HEALTH & ECOSYSTEMS WELLBEING & WATER MODEL FOR SUSTAINABLE Sweden Green Building Award ARCHITECTURE ENERGY EQUITY for exemplar contribution to & CLIMATE & PARTICIPATION sustainable urban development. LONG-TERM ECONOMY © White Arkitekter for sustainable architecture. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 Global Goals P H OTO G R A P H Y : P E T E R B R I N C H At our annual summit, In September 2015 the United Nations presented the SustaiWhite-Day 2016, we manifested the Global nable Development Goals, referred to as the “Global Goals”. Goals to inspire our Reaching these Global Goals is one of the most important employees to adopt their “favourite” goal. challenges for society and any company in the upcoming years. White has the ambition of leading by example. The 17 goals have the aim to transform the impact on our projects. The list includes: world by reaching three extraordinary ensuring sustainable energy; taking achievments: end world poverty, fight action to combat climate change and its inequality and injustice, fix climate change. impacts; making cities inclusive, safe, resilSix of the goals, in particular, are imporient and sustainable; ensuring sustaintant to our business as they have a direct able consumption, production and use of resources; protecting and enhancing ecosystem services and biological diversity. Additionally, it is promoted to actively form partnerships for reaching the goals, which is in line with the way we want to work. I M AG E : G LO B A LG OA LS .O R G 8 WHITE ARKITEKTER Sustainability for us As architects, we have the opportunity to influence the design of the city and its environment. Our ideas and approach contribute to our daily pursuit of positively shifting society in the direction of becoming more sustainable. In 2015, we launched a model for sustainincluded in the model are our definition able architecture based on the following: of what constitutes well designed susglobal challenges we are facing; our comtainable architecture: it places all human mitment to the Global Compact; expectawellbeing and development at the centre; tions of our clients and society; national works in harmony with the ecosystems, and local derivatives and targets. Also today and for future generations; ensures that the cycles of materials, energy and resources are kept within the planetary boundaries. MATERIALS, CLIMATE HAZARDOUS ADAPTATION Our Sustainable Architecture Model, SUBSTANCES & WASTE includes 7 primary aspects with several subcategories. In every project, we HEALTH & analyse these aspects to assist in identiECOSYSTEMS WELLBEING fying and prioritising those which can be & WATER MODEL FOR integrated into the project. SUSTAINABLE ARCHITECTURE ENERGY EQUITY & CLIMATE & PARTICIPATION LONG-TERM ECONOMY © White Arkitekter 9 Architecture Festival 2015, P H OTO G R A P H E R : T H O M AS Z A A R Stockholm office. 10 WHITE ARKITEKTER Our team Employees are our core and their creativity and competences represent our most important assets. The shared ownership business model at White is essential for our culture. That’s why every employee is offered the opportunity to become a shareholder. We can confidently say that co-ownership creates a unique engagement we’re proud of. In our plan for equal rights, we state that resentation of women and men in different every employee will have the same rights, professions, as well as in various positions obligations and opportunities regardless and levels of management. of gender, transgender identity, ethnicity, Our employees shall perceive their work religion or other belief, disability, sexual orienvironment as being positive and safe, entation or age and we do not accept any and we strive to create a company culture form of harassment or discrimination. that enables a good balance between work Our aim is to promote diversity in a wide and private life. perspective and to have a balanced repDistribution men / women in BOARD OF DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT HEAD OF OFFICE PARTNERS different roles. 64 52 59 50 50 48 41 36 Women Men Distribution men / women in WHITE TOTAL ARCHITECTS ENGINEERS OTHER PROFESSIONS persons in various categories. 58 53 53 53 47 47 47 42 Women Men 11 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 Exploration & partnerships We are convinced that collaboration is necessary to succeed in sustainable development. The key is dialogue and engagement – between different actors and competencies, across the industry and throughout society. The White Innovation Process (WIP) is our landscape of Iceland to the scenery along method for involvement in the early stages the fjords in Norway, Aalto’s architecture of a project by assisting in the identificain Finland and the northern lights in Kiruna, tion of various needs. Sustainability needs Sweden. The common conclusion is that to be incorporated from the early inception, nature itself offers indeed the most impresthroughout the design and in the delivery sive and inspiring architecture. of every project. As a leading architecture practice, we Goal no 17: The aim is to Our explorative culture is reflected in believe that we have not only the opporstrengthen the means of our investment in research and developtunity, but also a responsibility to influimplementation and revitalise the global partnership for ment. Every year we invest about 10% of ence the construction industry and society sustainable development. our turnover in R&D allocated in the in general. White is engaged in several following areas: ARQ, our research founorganisations, such as the Green Building dation; White Research Lab, our internal Council in Sweden and Denmark. We are network; Digital Design and BIM. We also committed to the Nordic Built Charter, have several researchers at the universian initiative from the Nordic Ministers for ties in architecture and urban design. Our Trade and Industry, which also organises employees are offered a range of further the Nordic Built Challenge. education opportunities and our yearly In 2015, we were engaged in Sustainstudy tours broaden our perspectives by able Innovation (SUST) for pilot projects giving us the possibility to be inspired by in energy and resource efficiency. We also other countries and environments. have a commitment to Fossil Free Sweden, The study tours in 2015 focused on the Swedish Government’s initiative for the Nordic countries and ranged from the climate action. 12 WHITE ARKITEKTER I L L U ST R AT I O N S : W H I T E Culture With their proposal “Side-by-side”, White won the competition to design Opened in 2003, the GoDown Arts Centre was the first centre for conbrings Skellefteå’s cultural centre, a new home for the arts, stage performances and temporary arts and culture in Nairobi and Kenya. The key achievement has people literature. Inspired by the region’s long been in the establishment of relations tradition of timber architecture, the between Nairobians hailing from diftogether building is proposed as a wood framed, ferent communities. In the past years, – from high-rise. The glass façade will reflect the sky and reveal the interior’s specWhite has been involved in conversations and workshops with the city, Skellefteå to tacular exposed wood-framed ceiling. Holding a central location, the stage artists, visitors and communities of Nairobi. The collective effort has Nairobi has different functions visible from the resulted in shaping a vision for a new outside to give a glimpse behind the cultural space. Development of the scenes. The ground floor will be open centre and the site acts as a catalyst for and marked by several entrances as a the regeneration of the entire area and way to contribute to a dynamic centre, serves to connect different parts of the breathing new life and a cultural realm city. The GoDown Arts Centre has the into the city. aim of handling diversity at many levels as a space for wellbeing, supporting Project: Skellefteå Culture Centre, creativity and human exchange. Skellefteå (2016) Client: Skellefteå Municipality Project: The GoDown Arts Centre, Nairobi (2015-) Client: The GoDown Arts Centre 13 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 P H OTO G R A P H E R : Å K E E : S O N L I N D M A N An open The open and public ground floor of the new Johanneberg Science Park building gramme which considered everything from energy, daylight and construction arena for new will support a new culture of co-operation and a forum for mixing of tenants materials to its restaurant’s ecological footprint. Sustainable mobility is relations and campus life with the outside community. Common conference spaces, promoted by the city's first electrical bus line and indoor bike parking, in lieu informal meeting places, a campus of car parking. café and restaurant are all elements to create a new meeting place. The Project: Johanneberg Science Park, project exceeded the highest Swedish Gothenburg (2012–2015) environmental standard Miljöbyggnad Client: Chalmersfastigheter, Gold when client and tenants united to Akademiska hus, Johanneberg Science support a common sustainability proPark 14 WHITE ARKITEKTER Human rights for all We have a human-centred perspective on architecture. Sustainable cities and communities are inclusive, secure and resilient. It comes down to ensuring human rights by creating healthy environments for the wellbeing of everyone. Achieving a sustainable urban developtecture and environments can contribute ment requires cooperation between differto wellbeing in our homes, workplaces ent stakeholders, but also the involvement and cities by reducing stress, increasing of citizens. We believe in dialogues and recovery and motivating physical activity. engagement. Goal 11 points out that sustainable urban Growing cities can create new oppordevelopment should take into account tunities for economic growth. However, the needs of women and girls, persons Goal no 11 is relevant in most they can also contribute to increased with disabilities, children and the needs of of our projects; we have great social inequalities and stresses on the older people. possibilities to make cities and ecosystem. Urban equity and a home for White has had an active involvement human settlements inclusive, everyone is a major challenge. All people in most of these issues during the year in safe, resilient and have the right to feel safe and at home in seminars, projects and media. What does sustainable. a city. Studies show that there are many it mean to create democratic environpeople, especially women, who feel ments? What needs do women and girls insecure in our urban environments. have? How do we create better condiHealth is a human right and an importions for children in our cities? How do tant driving force for social and economic we manage to create housing for all, with development, especially today in light of quality, in the acute housing shortage that increasingly poor mental and physical exists in our cities? health in society. Well designed archi15 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 I L L U ST R AT I O N : W H I T E V I E W Architecture At the psychiatric clinic in Borås, the basis of design comes from our purpose of allowing patients the choice of solitude or community. Nestled into as medicine research and experience that has led us to believe in “Architecture as the surrounding greenery, the building offers diverse views of nature. The Medicine”. The building is charactercourtyards are filled with sensory expeised by an intimacy of scale, freedom riences and invite activity and exercise of movement, participation, bright as well as encouraging social interacspaces and varying outdoor environtion. In 2013 we were awarded the WAN ments. As daylight is proven to have a Award for Best Future Health. positive healing effect, the design and orientation of the building is adapted to Project: The Psychiatry Quarters, Borås take advantage of maximum daylight. (2020) Interior spaces are formed with the Client: Västra Götalandsregionen 16 WHITE ARKITEKTER P H OTO : T H O M AS Z A A R Create your Forgotten areas in the city can be democratised by creating temporary citizen-driven city planning of temporary parks in unexpected locations, own city arenas for meetings and activities, free of charge and open for everyone. like parking areas. Behind the project are White Arkitekter and “Fastighetsä“Pallis”, White’s concept for a pop up garna Stockholm” (the Stockholm office park is such an initiative. In a growing of the-Swedish Property Federation) and densified city, parks and other with the common goal of encouraging green spaces will soon be rare; Pallis people to take initiative and breathe life offers a temporary solution for a citiinto the urban space creating the city zen-driven initiative to create a green we all wish to live in. oasis, a meeting place, a playground and a social hub. Inspired by “Pallis” Project: Pallis pop up park, Stockholm/ a new handbook was launched in Handbook for citizen-driven city planning Stockholm with guidelines for flexible (2015) ways of leasing public areas. The new Client: Swedish Property Federation, rules will make it also easier to create White and local partners 17 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 I L L U ST R AT I O N : W H I T E A city for all Room for 15,000 residents matched by as many jobs, Frihamnen is part of Park, dedicated to the celebration of Gothenburg's 400 year anniversary in Älvstaden which is the largest urban 2021. Each block will also get smaller development project in the Nordics. parks with alotments. The entire area The basis for design was determined by will be adapted for climate change, extensive dialogue with district resiincluding open storm water managedents, collecting their expectations and ment for example. Sustainable mobility needs. White has formulated an ambiwill be promoted by cycling paths and tious sustainability programme and public transportation, such as electrical there is a clear objective; Frihamnen buses, ferries and a cable car. will be a neighbourhood with room for everyone. Achieving this aim requires Project: Frihamnen, Gothenburg (2015– planned housing with half delegated to 2035) rental units at different rent levels. The Client: Älvstranden Utveckling AB district is slated to receive a Jubilee 18 WHITE ARKITEKTER Energy & climate In December 2015, the world successfully agreed on common objectives for limiting the climate changes. White engaged in the Swedish government's initiative for a Fossil Free Sweden. Goal no 7: The aim is to As architects, we can contribute to a environments which ensure optimum ensure access to affordable, fossil-free society by promoting sustainable microclimate conditions but also have the reliable,sustainable and modern urban mobility, by creating energy efficapability to handle climate changes. By energy for all. cient buildings with renewable energy and taking advantage of the natural ecosysby selecting materials with low embodied tems we not only contribute to increased Goal no 13: The world needs to take urgent action to combat climate carbon. Our expertise in Digital Design urban ecology but also can mitigate the change and its impacts. embraces energy calculations and daylight consequences of climate change. During simulation. The optimisation of energy perthe year, we continued to disseminate Goal no 15: It’s our formance relates to the possibility of taking our expertise and ecosystem services: responsibility to protect, restore advantage of daylight and creating good through our projects in physical urban and promote sustainable use of ecosystems, halt and reverse indoor qualities. installations and workshops for local land degradation and halt Through the use of wind, sun and communities. biodiversity loss. climate simulations, we can plan urban 19 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 CO2-EMISSIONS 2015 KG CO2-EMISSIONS/FULL TIME-EMPLOYEE PAPER ELECTRICITY HEATING 4 053 GROCERIES FLIGHTS 2 375 IT/TELE DOMESTIC WASTE (SE, NO, DK) CAR TRAIN FLIGHTS FLIGHTS INTERNATIONAL STUDY TOURS 2014 2015 Our targets for our daily operations is to Our travel policy dictate that we priorreduce the climate impact and reduce itize train and in 2015 was 96% of all our the combustible waste. We have reduced domestic travel by train. This is equivalent the CO2 emission by 42% per employee to 38 times around the world and resulted compared to 2014. The main reason is that in that we were awarded the Swedish we have decreased international travels Railway Society's SJ Environmental Prize. by flight and we have reduced combustiEmissions from rail travel causes only 3 kg ble waste by 28%. Other positive efforts is of CO2 while air travel produces 942 tons. that we have only renewable electricity and serves only vegetarian food. I L L U ST R AT I O N : W H I T E Zero energy White’s winning proposal for a visitor centre will tell the story about the site’s for construction are natural and local: wood, clay and natural fibres. The visitor in symbiosis revived nature on a former brownfield centre’s exhibition space is designed to site. The design uses passive house receive maximum natural daylight and with nature construction and is to be well insufeatures views of the nature, water and lated and airtight resulting in a zero the landscape. energy building. The heating demand, 15 kWh/m2 , is covered by biogas and Project: Naturum Oset, Örebro (2015, a heat exchanger while solar cells on competition) the asymmetrical roofs generate a Client: Örebroporten surplus of energy. Materials specified 20 WHITE ARKITEKTER I L L U ST R AT I O N : W H I T E V I E W Recycling and A creative, attractive and competitive campus environment at Linköping Uniis designed for the maximum production of solar electricity as well as storm water innovation versity inspired White to create an open and welcoming student building taking management. Maximising the use of daylight, the building reduces the need into consideration all aspects of sustainfor lighting and through the use of paraability, both in the building and in its surmetric design, the window sizes have rounding areas. Reuse of materials from been optimised and partitioned with the old student house is the project’s regard to daylight versus sun protecmost dominant sustainability concept. tion. The student house will be certified Incorporated into the project are energyaccording to Miljöbyggnad Gold. efficient ventilation and sun protection using printed solar cells that reduces the Project: Student House Valla, amount of cooling required, developed Linköping. (2018) by researchers at the university. The roof Client: Akademiska Hus I L L U ST R AT I O N : M I R A sustainable Our proposal for the new Bristol Arena aimed to create a unique innovative is high – to create Europe’s most sustainable arena. A truly green building, it uses and democratic performance venue and a dynamic new meeting place in Bristol. The heart of our the natural resources close to hand: sun, daylight, and the cooling potential of the arena scheme is an environmentally sustainriver Avon. We proposed the use of timber able and democratic “palace for people”, as a construction material as part of an housing the new 12,000-seat arena. It will innovative hybrid structure, minimising generate spaces and new uses that will the Arena’s carbon footprint. create a major new waterfront destination, and contribute to its neighbourhoods Project: Proposal Bristol Arena, UK (2015) and the city centre beyond. Our ambition Client: City of Bristol 21 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 I L L U ST R AT I O N S : W H I T E & B E AU T I A N D T H E B I T The eyes of The winner of the Nordic Built Challenge 2016, “The Eyes of Runavík” is White’s with the efficiency of a passive house and renewable energy, it will be possible Runavík – proposal for housing in the Faeroe Islands. Steep terrains, strong winds, to live by zero emissions over the long term. Each building is a self-contained a climatic humid climate, geothermal heat, basalt rock and local materials are some of the settlement, enveloping an inner microclimate, with a unique climate zone making challenge elements which have been carefully conit possible for growing a wider variety of sidered in the design. The three storey vegetables and other vegetation. buildings, with a combined total of 100 residential units, will be built using Project: The eyes of Runavík, Faeroe timber construction methods and local Islands (2016) sheep wool as insulation. Combined Client: The Community of Runavík 22 WHITE ARKITEKTER Reduce, reuse & recycle One of the biggest challenges for the construction industry in the coming years is to reduce the climate impact from the construction process and materials. It concerns reducing resources such as the raw material supply and using materials with low carbon footprint. Research shows that the building materials During 2015, we increased our focus on along with the building process can have sustainable materials. We have strengthas much impact on the climate – or even ened our network in wood construction more – as the operation of a building during and have pursued several projects where 50 years. As architects, we have a great “reuse” has been the guiding concept. Our opportunity to influence the choice of mateintention is to urge the development of a rials used in our projects. To be successful more circular material handling. In several Goal no 12: We can in reducing the carbon footprint of matericompetitions we have been challenged to contribute to ensure als, the industry needs to work together create buildings according to the concept sustainable consumption by investing in pilot projects, research and of Cradle to Cradle; we hope to continue and production patterns. development. This will be one of our areas with this mindset, working together with of focus in the coming years. our clients. 23 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2015 at the Royal Seaport in Stockholm. White created a warehouse where materials were sorted and, additionally, a workshop was established for swapping, repairing and creating new products from old ones. At the Future Recycling Centre, an amazing 30% P H OTO G R A P H Y : T H O M AS Z A A R of the products got new owners and a further 45% were passed on to aid agencies. The percentages are as low as 2% at a traditional recycling centre. Proximity and the ability to leave all The recyclingproducts in the same place seems to be a key to success. centre as a Can we get people to dispose of fewer things? Or, better yet, can we Project: Future Recycling Centre, new meeting inspire people to reuse and recycle more? During five days in October the Stockholm. (2015) Client: Cooperation with Stockholm hub? “Future Recycling Centre” was tested Water and Ragn-Sells. P H OTO G R A P H Y : J A N TÖV E Old interior White won the commission to design and furnish the interiors of Orangeriet by. Furniture rooted in the local history is re-used, like armchairs from the City Hall gets new life in part due to our previous success with projects incorporating recycling and and conference chairs from an old city theatre are incorporated into the new repurposing furnishings. An impressive interior design. Brass plates attached 81 pieces of furniture, especially chairs, to the furniture are engraved with the were re-used. Furniture once purchased story of their origins. The remainder of by the city of Borås, was pulled from furniture specified for the project is ecostorage, re-lacquered and re-uphollabeled and upholstered with locally stered and given a new home at Orangdesigned fabric. eriet. Past is intertwined with the present and for some residents, a chance to sit Project: Orangeriet, Borås (2015) in the beloved seating from a time gone Client: Borås City 24 WHITE ARKITEKTER P H OTO G R A P H Y : F R E D R I K SW E G E R To preserve Kiruna’s first architecture studio, opened in 2015, is a platform for White to engage rebuild and reclaim from the former city. Furniture and other materials have been an identity the community of Kiruna as the city is re-planned and relocated east. Moving collated from the city and reused to construct a studio interior imbued with a the city is a huge challenge, and one that local identity. This hands-on approach provokes both anxiety and anticipation of the studio’s interior design allows it among the citizens of Kiruna. As well to evolve over time to accommodate its as its function as a workspace, the new users’ needs. studio will act as a community centre, The project was nominated for WAN welcoming the public for informal coffee Interior Design Award 2015. mornings, hosting events and exhibitions. “One Architecture Office” has a Project: One architecture office, Kiruna design concept in line with the mas(2015) terplan for the new Kiruna: to recycle, Client: White 25 White Stockholm office, Katsan. P H OTO G R A P H E R : T H O M AS Z A A R WHITE ARKITEKTER Anti-corruption & ethics Responsibility, respect for each other and ethical, democratic ethos are core to our way of working. We oppose corruption, strive for competition on equal terms, promote social responsibility in the value chain, and respect ownership. All employees are required to act accordrisk analyses for assignments outside of ing to the ethical rules of the Swedish Scandinavia. We expect our business Construction Sector and Swedish Archipartners to act either according to the tects. We decline assignments and colSwedish Ethical rules (above) and/or the laborations that we deem to be undemoGlobal Compact principle. An evaluacratic, corrupt or where human rights are tion is performed before an agreement is infringed. signed. Based on the analyses of Transparency We have not been involved in any form International, we perform country based of corruption. 27 I L L U ST R AT I O N : W H I T E & B E AU T I A N D T H E B I T Nordic Built Cities Winner 2016 in the category, Vertical Challenge: “The Eyes of Runavik” in the Faroe Islands. CO N TAC T: Anna Graaf, Director of Sustainability anna.graaf@white.se white.se /en @whitearkitekter facebook.com/whitearkitekter
