Moving forward. Step by step. Concrete targets, measures and results: An interim review on the path to sustainability. TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2015/2016 Follow our most significant STEPS down this path of sustainability ONLINE: csr2015-16.telekomaustria.com For us, SUSTAINABILIT Y is MORE THAN A VISION. It rather is a PATH to which we are rigorously committed. STEP BY STEP. With clear milestones and key figures used to MEASURE OUR PROGRESS. This report is an INTERIM REVIEW of things achieved, exceeded and within reach. Furthermore, it defines the route for OUR NEXT STEPS. 1 M o v i n g fo r wa r d. S t e p b y s t e p. Sustainable marks in our four action areas Telekom Austria Group pursues its sustainability strategy of targeted steps. Their orientation towards four action areas is the result of a new materiality analysis conducted in 2015, involving the stakeholders. Clear goals and specific key figures thereby point the way. Network & customers In their role as ”digital pacemakers”, the Internet and applications based on it are already indispensable in today’s world of business as well as in everyday life. Telekom Austria Group covers the dynamically increasing demand for bandwidth associated with this trend with a tailored product portfolio. Furthermore, it meets growing capacity demands towards the infrastructure with massive investments in extending its broadband network. environment For Telekom Austria Group, the path towards a responsible development of its core business involves the continuous reduction of its ecological footprint. For this purpose, it sets itself guiding targets in the areas of resource conservation, energy efficiency, the increased use of renewable energy, emissions prevention and the promotion of climate-friendly mobility. 2 M o v i n g fo r wa r d. S t e p b y s t e p. Employees Telekom Austria Group clearly defines the ideal wayS of collaborating across the Group as project and team oriented, mobile, inter-disciplinary, international and based on the fundamental principle of diversity. Besides the targeted promotion of its employees’ potential and the advancement of innovation, sustainable steps in this direction are supposed to contribute to its appeal as an employer and a healthy, flexible and modern work environment. Society Access to digital media such as the Internet and know-how in using them pave the way towards the equality and depth of opportunities in the knowledge-based society. Providing comprehensive broadband infrastructure, Telekom Austria Group ensures technical access possibilities. Additionally, it uses targeted initiatives to promote the safe and competent use of media. Telekom Austria Group Geographical presence G4.4, 4.6, 4.8, 4.9, LA12 BLR Telekom Austria Group‘s markets As a leading communications provider in the CEE region with more than 17,500 employees, Telekom Austria Group is providing its approximately 24 million customers in seven markets with products and services in the areas of voice telephony, broadband internet, AUS TRIA BELARUS multimedia services, data and IT soluA1 velcom tions, wholesale and payment solutions. Revenue: 2,526.7 EUR mn Revenue: 327.1 EUR mn Employees: 8,512 Employees: 1,777 CO2: 27,856 t CO2: 32,169 t REPUBLIC OF SERBIA REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA Vip mobile one.Vip AUT Revenue: 206.8 EUR mn Revenue: 80,0 EUR mn Employees: 879 Employees: 942 CO2: 33,677 t CO2: 24,970 t BULGARIA SLO CRO Mobiltel Revenue: 364.7 EUR mn SRB Employees: 3,607 CO2: 47,953 t SLOVENIA BUL Si.mobil Revenue: 190.8 EUR mn Employees: 508 CO2: 10,145 t MKD CROATIA Vipnet Revenue: 371.3 EUR mn Employees: 1,239 CO2: 26,861 t Figures as of 31 December 2015. Employees in full-time equivalents. Full year 2015 results according to old reporting structure, which has been fully aligned with América Móvil as of Q1 2016. CO2 includes Scope 1 and Scope 2. Scope 1 includes direct emissions from combustion of fossil fuels for heating, electricity production and mobility but does not including cooling agents. Scope 2 measures indirect emissions from electric energy and district heating. CO2 in CO2 equivalents excluding compensation. Content Network & customers 18 Digital pacemakers for business and everyday life 22 Electromagnetic fields & health 24 The roadmap 25 Small steps & great leaps 6 Preface by the Management Board 7 Telekom Austria Group‘s strategic orientation environment 26 Facing progressing climate change 30 The roadmap 31 Small steps & great leaps Sustainability Management 8 Acting strategically. And measuring progress. 9 Materiality analysis 10 The four action areas Employees 12 The value chain 32 Drawing from a diversity 13 Providing direction and of competences. And harnessing forces. excelling together. 14 Playing it safe when it comes 36 The roadmap to data privacy. 37 Small steps & 14 Compliance: Taking the right path. great leaps 15 Sustainability has its roots prior to the core business. 17 The roadmap 44 GRI content table Society 52 Data appendix 38 Keeping up in a 57 Assurance statement knowledge-based society 59 Report details 42 The roadmap 60 Imprint 43 Small steps & great leaps 5 P r e fa c e b y t h e M a n a g e m e n t B o a r d The first step defines the direction. Every additional one requires progress. I t is not in the nature of sustainability to ever regard its mission as being accomplished. Here, the journey is literally the reward. The starting point that gives it direction is the initial commitment to a sustainable life and work style. And a serious and far-reaching sense of responsibility on a social and ecological level. Telekom Austria Group clearly embodies both: Firstly, with its commitment to the three-pillar model of susprinciple, for diversity and the associated mix of valuable tainable development (people, planet, profit) as well as to the competences give us the impetus that can accelerate our UN Global Compact. development as an integrated digital player. One can no more draw a final conclusion about consistently One of the central, self-imposed targets was to gradually embodied corporate sustainability. For a start, the organisaimprove the Group’s energy efficiency by 20 % until 2015. tional anchoring of professional sustainability management After all, energy consumption — especially that of the network “merely” marks a change in direction and perspective. infrastructure — represents the most significant environmental Whether the taken path yields progress for the environment impact of Telekom Austria Group. The fact that the dynamic and society or whether it also included “empty kilometres” growth of the transmitted data volumes demands ever higher must be measured by means of intermediate goals. These, in performance from broadband networks makes this goal all turn, are the base for new, even more ambitious goals. the more challenging. Nevertheless, at an increase in energy efficiency of 72 %, this goal was positively shattered. The first systematic status analysis regarding sustainability at Telekom Austria Group took place as early as 2012. In the Such progress is path-breaking, not least in terms of the carbon course of a stakeholder survey, topics relevant to the Group footprint. At subsidiary A1, apart from sourcing its electricity were analysed and prioritised on the basis of societal, econoexclusively from renewable energy sources, it enabled us to mic and environmental aspects. Since then, this has spawned operate the network in a carbon-neutral way since as early as the Group’s sustainability strategy’s focus on four action areas, 2014. Utilising such measures, we — in our sphere of influence — whereby clear goals and key figures determined the line of contribute to treaties such as the Paris Agreement which was approach for 2015. The current sustainability report sums up signed at the UN’s Climate Conference in late 2015. This agreethe steps taken in the framework of this catalogue of goals. ment aims at keeping global warming significantly below 2°C Important milestones were reached in this process. Some goals as compared to pre-industrial levels by reducing greenhouse were even exceeded and while others are within reach. gas emissions down to zero (2045 to 2060). When it comes to tasks of such magnitude, it is obvious that every step counts. Thus, for instance, we are on an extremely promising path As do the steps taken by every single one of us. when it comes to the targeted number of participants in media competence trainings in the framework of our “Internet Our interim balance as per 2015 shows that we are heading in for All” initiative: At the end of 2015, we recorded some 93,000 the right direction. However, since the path of sustainability participants. The number we aim for — in this case for 2016 — is a never-ending one, Telekom Austria Group has, by means is 100,000. When it comes to paper consumption, we missed of yet another materiality analaysis, set itself new, even more our goal, but for satisfying reasons: The fact that it shrank focussed, ambitious and perspective goals for 2018. After all, by only 3 % instead of the planned 10 % was due to corporate those who wish to cover long distances need to be perseverant. acquisitions and a growth in the number of customers. At We would be pleased if you accompanied us along this path any rate, the topic of equality yielded a positive development: with your interest! G4.1 With 35 % women in managerial positions and 38 % across the Group overall, the defined quota of 35 % was reached and even exceeded, respectively. Numbers such as these reflect our successful commitment to gender equality. Furthermore, we have made the promotion of diversity a core corporate Alejandro Plater, CEO Siegfried Mayrhofer, CFO 6 Telekom Austria Group‘s strategic orientation Telekom Austria AG and its subsidiaries aims at organic growth through expanding its Shareholder structure Telekom (”Telekom Austria Group” with headquarters existing core business and developing new Austria AG as of 31 December 2015 in Vienna) are leading providers of fixed-line fields of business and on the other hand, América Móvil and mobile communication services with at extending its footprint through targeted (direct and indirect) 59.70 % approximately 24 million customers in seven M&A activities. Besides securing the premium ÖBIB (Republic of Austria) 28.42 % Central and Eastern European countries. customer segment on the Austrian mobile Free float including employee and treasury shares 11.88 % communication market, its fibre roll-out on Through its majority owner América Móvil, the home market and LTE coverage on the G4.7 Telekom Austria Group has been part of a markets have been accelerated. Convergence, world-leading, multi-national telecommuniand thus its infrastructure leadership on the cations corporation since 2014. As a member markets could likewise be expanded. technological progress and strong customer of this group of companies operating globally, demand for premium network and service Telekom Austria Group capitalises on effects In all its strategic initiatives, Telekom Austria quality pose corresponding challenges. These of scale and synergies, among others in the Group’s conservative financial strategy require present and massive investments and areas of product development, technology always presupposes maintaining the investplace high demands on performance capabilities and purchasing. ment grade ratings Baa2 from Moody’s and and therefore, also on the infrastructure’s BBB from Standard & Poors. This central energy requirements. Thus, Telekom Austria In 2015, Telekom Austria Group set its priority, in turn, also applies to the corporate Group not only faces market risks such as strategic focus on growth and an increase in strategy’s core elements. intense competition, unstable economic efficiency. Growth is thereby strived for in momentum and regulatory market intervendifferent ways: On the one hand, the Group In terms of improving efficiency, exceling in tion, putting pressure on prices and profitabilthe core business and expanding the product ity. Progressing climate and environmental portfolio, the sustainability strategy is tied change as well as social framework conditions Core elements of the to the corporate strategy. Sustainability is can also influence corporate development. corporate strategy thereby seen as a long-term value driver To prepare for such risks in a timely manner, which, apart from actively practised ecologa central risk management constantly moniical and social responsibility, also brings tors respective developments and implements Excel in the core business with it economic advantages. For instance, appropriate counter measures when and if by reducing both environmental impact and required. For more information on the risk Expansion of products and services costs through increasing energy efficiency. management, see Telekom Austria Group’s 2015 annual report: Growth via M&A The telecommunication market offers a wide www.telekomaustria.com/en/ir/annualrange of attractive opportunities. High-quality reports G4.2 – 4.6, 4.9, 4.13 and high-performance communications Improved cost and investment efficiency solutions make both professional and private life easier and more efficient. At the same G4.7 time, a massive increase in data traffic, rapid Key financial data Telekom Austria Group 1) EBITDA Operating Market (in EUR mn) Revenue comparable2) EBITDA 3) income Net result Equity capitalisation4) 2015 4,026.6 1,372.6 1,372.2 574.0 392.8 2,426.0 3.4 (in EUR mn) 2014 4,018.0 1,286.1 850.8 –3.0 –185.4 2,218.0 3.7 (in %) Change 0.2 6.7 61.3 n. m. n. m. 9.4 –8.6 1) Full year 2015 results according to old reporting structure, which has been fully aligned with América Móvil as of Q1 2016. G4.9 2) Calculated from the EBITDA, excluding effects from restructuring and impairment tests 3) Including effects from restructuring and impairment test 4) As of 31 December 2015 (in EUR bn) S us ta i n a b i l i t y M a n a g e m e n t Acting strategically. And measuring progress. Determining the status quo, the line of approach, the route, with customers and employees are used. milestones and long-term goals. Before setting off, one should However, personal talks with suppliers, customers or NGOs are also employed have a clear idea about everything. The case is similar when in the framework of meetings, conferit comes to sustainability. Based on an assessment from 2012, ences or road shows. Telekom Austria Group has set itself ambitious targets for 2015 in this field. Now, it presents an interim performance review According to the results of another on the steps taken, considerable traces and progress. With new materiality analysis undertaken in goals for 2018, it simultaneously sets the direction towards an early 2015, the topics most important even more sustainable future. to the stakeholders remained virtually unchanged: “customer focus”, “data privacy” as well as “network quality & system stability”. “Data privacy”, in particular, is a top priority for customers A and suppliers. For employees, on the standardised system is needed The sustainability strategy focusses other hand, “customer focus” is the most to display sustainability initiaon four action areas derived from a important issue. The topics of “equality tives and progress in a transcomprehensive materiality analysis & diversity” and “media literacy” lost parent way and on a comparable basis (see page 9). By means of a stakeholder some significance for customers and (periodic, business and industry comsurvey, topics relevant to the company suppliers. G4.18, 4.26, 4.27, 4.37 parisons). Such a system also provides were thereby analysed and prioritised a valid basis for certification and audit in accordance with social, economic certificates. The following definitions and ecological aspects. Every action of terms and processes therefore conarea is supported by clear targets and sistently comply with the recommenspecific key performance indicators. In dations and requirements of the “Global 2015, new goals for 2018 were worked Reporting Initiative” (GRI G4 for susout and codified. tainability reports) as well as the annual Awards progress report as laid down in the UN Telekom Austria Group engages in conGlobal Compact. tinuous dialogue with its stakeholders. Winner of the ASRA 2015 (Austrian This exchange takes place on three levels: Sustainability Reporting The starting point of Telekom Austria Through systematic information via Award) in the category of ”Large Group’s systematic approach to sustainvarious information channels, through Companies” for the third time in a ability management is the three-pillar talks and surveys as well as by giving row (Telekom Austria Group) model of sustainable development, them the chance to actively participate CSR Award for the CSR strategy the triple bottom line “people, planet, through memberships and partnerships. as well as for the promotion and profit”. Its understanding of responsiDepending on topic and group, different implementation of various CSR bility thus includes social, ecological formats such as informational events, activities (velcom) and economic factors. idea competitions or surveys conducted 8 Identifying topics in the context of sustainability G4.2, 4.18–4.21, 4.24–4.27, 4.37 Process Stakeholders Topic identification Integration of requirements under the GRI G4 reporting standard (aspects, indicators, sector supplement) alongside topics drawn from the ongoing stakeholder process, ratings and the sector More than 120 topics Consolidation of the contents into 82 general topics Evaluation of impacts by internal experts Expert groups Evaluation of the topics by seven internal expert groups Marketing, Human Resources, Evaluation criteria: active management, financial impact, risks, opportunities and potentials Service Network & IT, Purchasing, Compliance … Long list: 57 topics Internal stakeholders Employees, company management, owners Consolidation of contents into a short list with 28 topics Direct stakeholders Customers, vendors, legislators/official agencies Online survey Evaluation by relevance using a 1 to 4 point scale system; ranking of top 5 topics Indirect Feedback from more than 1,000 stakeholders stakeholders Media, NGOs, interest groups, associations, ratings agencies Materiality matrix Expansion in remote areas Compliance Data privacy Network quality & Energy system stability Climate & environmental protection requirements very high Ecological product design Customer focus Waste Stakeholder relevance Recycling Health Economic added value Purchasing Professional trainings & further education Emissions Promotion of innovation Products offering potential for environmental protection Performance review & remuneration Media literacy Involvement of residents Electromagnetic Social Equality & diversity fields products low low Business relevance very high THE Four strategic Network & customers Details page 18 With a high-performing and secure infrastructure as well as a product range providing real added value to its customers, society and the environment, Telekom Austria Group is positioned as a responsible partner on its markets. Targets 2015 1) Ensuring Group-wide network coverage of at least 99 % with 2G and at least 90 % with 3G2) Development of innovative solutions in the healthcare, education and administration sectors Promotion of climate-friendly products and solutions Increase in customer satisfaction Management of aspects Aspects Responsibility Standards & management systems Customer focus Marketing Service platforms, surveys Network quality & system stability Operation, Service Network & IT, Business continuity plans, ISO 9001, Technology Strategy internal control systems, ISO 27001 Promotion of innovation Marketing Start up initiatives, knowledge platforms, idea management Ecological product design Purchasing, Marketing Consideration of ecological criteria into the purchasing process Electromagnetic fields (EMF) Service Network & IT Group-wide EMF policy Involvement of residents, Operation, Service Network & IT, Legal requirements, expansion in remote areas Technology Strategy Group-wide EMF policy environment Details Page 26 To continuously reduce its ecological footprint, Telekom Austria Group relies on energy efficiency, increased use of renewable energy, resource conservation and promoting climate-friendly mobility. Targets 2015 1) Target 2020 1) Increasing energy efficiency by 20 % (+72 %) Reducing CO2 emissions by 25 % (–7 %) Expanding renewable energy projects Improving the recycling rate by 10 % (+16 %) Reducing in-house paper consumption by 10 % (–3 %) Increasing the Group‘s e-billing rate to 50 % (69 %) Management of aspects Aspects Responsibility Standards & management systems Energy requirements Service Network & IT, Purchasing, Corporate Group-wide environmental policy Sustainability, Facility & Resource Management ISO 14001 Recycling Service Network & IT, Purchasing, Corporate ISO 50001 Sustainability, Facility & Resource Management EMAS Climate & environmental protection Corporate Sustainability Annual collection of Group-wide Waste Service Network & IT, Corporate Sustainability environmental key figures Products offering potential for Marketing, Corporate Sustainability Legal framework conditions of environmental protection the respective country Emissions Service Network & IT, Corporate Sustainability Management of aspects ”Data privacy”, ”Compliance” and ”Purchasing” see page 15 and ”Economic added value” see page 12. 1) Baseline for targets is 2012. Values in brackets represent the achievement status of the 2015 targets. 2) Except velcom, Si.mobil and Vip mobile action areas Employees Details page 32 Through promotion and development, Telekom Austria Group helps its employees make the most of their valuable potential. A healthy, flexible and modern work environment, diversity and equality as well as the compatibility of job and family contribute to that. Targets 2015 1) 35 % women in the Group and in management positions (38 % / 35 %) Promotion of the internal filling of vacancies, maintenance of a high engagement index Increase in internal exchange Management of aspects Aspects Responsibility Standards & management systems Professional training & further education Human Resources Human resource strategy Health Human Resources Group-wide data tools & reports Equality & diversity Human Resources Values of Telekom Austria Group Performance review & remuneration Human Resources Performance management standards Code of Conduct Society Details page 38 Digital media provide equal opportunities to all people in the knowledge-based society. That is why, apart from local and social projects, Telekom Austria Group supports competent and safe media use in a targeted manner. Targets 2015 1) 100,000 participants in media literacy trainings (by 2016) (92,704) Increasing the number of partnerships to promote media literacy within Telekom Austria Group Implementation of social projects according to local needs Implementing and further developing cost control tools Management of aspects Aspects Responsibility Standards & management systems Media literacy Marketing, Corporate Sustainability Scientific evaluation of the Group-wide initiative ”Internet for All” by the NPO Institute at Vienna University of Economics, cooperations to promote and develop the media literacy skills of children and young people Social products Marketing, Corporate Sustainability Regular evaluation of the product portfolio Achieved Not achieved In implementation Telekom Austria Group‘s value chain The diagram depicting Telekom Austria Group‘s value chain below gives an overview of the processes involved in its business operations. The necessary resources are also shown as input factors and the results as outputs. The issues identified along the value chain have been taken into account in the process of the materiality analysis. G4.12, 4.18 Telekom Austria Group Inputs Outputs Equality Network Performance review infrastructure Health Remuneration Network expansion & coverage (including in remote areas) System stability Network quality Infrastructure & Provision Electromagnetic network components fields Emissions Energy Maintenance Waste & recycling Innovations Contribution to Environmental factors Operation climate and environmental protection Data Compliance privacy Access to network infrastructure Products & tariffs Customer focus End-user devices & accessories Data protection Innovations Waste & recycling Software Contribution to climate and environmental protection Professional trainings Economic Diversity & further education added value Data & voice Products & tariffs traffic Customer Media literacy focus skills Network quality & Waste & recycling coverage Emissions System stability Contribution to Electromagnetic climate and fields environmental Energy Customers‘ use protection of the infrastructure Organisational structure of the sustainability management Control Supervisory Board reports monitors Management Board Dialogue with reports sets targets working groups Group Sustainability Team Group Sustainability Board Regular exchange Part of Group Communications Executive departments, heads of divisions & Sustainability Implementation Reporting Control/ internal/ coordination Group external Sustainability network Sustainability Team at the subsidiaries Part of Group Communications & Sustainability contribute implement Dialogue with Performance Implemenworking groups measurement tation Employees G4.46 Providing with the respective person responsible at the subsidiaries. Its cross-national tive area of responsibility and promote international exchange within Telekom direction and approach guarantees compliance with Austria Group. G4.34– 4.37, 4.42, harnessing the superordinate Group goals. At the 4.43, 4.47, 4.48 same time, the sustainability strategy forces. provides the flexibility necessary to honour regional features and a basis Certified for exchange. environmental Since 2010, Telekom Austria Group has management systems been using a Group-wide, integrated Regular workshops with representasustainability management system tives of the top management and an A1 which is progressively developed. CEO annual Sustainability Board allow for ISO 14001 for environmental Alejandro Plater, supported by CFO the advancement and development of management (since 2004) Siegfried Mayrhofer, is the principal the sustainability strategy as well as ISO 50001 for energy and patron of sustainability agendas. the adoption of concrete measures. The management (since 2008) A Corporate Sustainability Team, as board and the top management thereby EMAS (since 2013) part of Group Communications and ensure that aspects of sustainability Si.mobil Sustainability, reports directly to the are also taken into account in the corISO 14001 (since 2009) CEO. This team manages and coordiporate and brand strategy. They furtherEMAS (since 2014) nates the implementation of the susmore assume responsibility for all Vip mobile tainability strategy in collaboration aspects of sustainability in their respecISO 14001 (since 2015) 13 S us ta i n a b i l i t y M a n a g e m e n t voluntary memberships CYBER ATTACK ON A1 SUCCESSFULLY AVERTED (SELECTION) The cyber attack launched at Austrian subsidiary A1 in February 2016 is a significant example stressing the importance of comprehensive security measures. Unknown assailants tried to shut Telekom Austria Group down A1’s Internet services using a so-called DDoS attack (Distributed Denial of Service). Next Generation Mobile Networks This method uses gigantic volumes of unwanted data packages sent from different parts of the Alliance (since 2014) world to overload servers or routers. The attackers launched 150 targeted partial attacks lasting UN Global Compact (since 2012) between a few minutes and a couple of hours. Never before had a cyber attack lasted this long ETNO (since 1996) and effected a critical Austrian infrastructure network to such an extent. 95 % of these attacks GSM Memorandum of could be averted successfully and without having any effect for customers. 5 % resulted — mostly Understanding (since 1988) only for a short time — in impaired service quality. However, at no time was customer data A1 stolen or compromised. This attack showcased the effective counter measures that allowed A1 to ”klimaaktiv mobil” project partner successfully avert the attack. A1 furthermore gathered valuable experience in dealing with (since 2014) such massive cyber attacks. The company used this experience to develop and implement further Austrian Cyber Security Forum optimisation measures to help with future attacks. of Kuratorium Sicheres Österreich (since 2014) Code of Conduct on Data Centres Energy Efficiency (since 2009) Mobiltel requirements in the respective countries, all subsidiaries follow the data Compliance: Bulgarian Red Cross (since 2004) security standards created for this taking the right path. Bulgarian Charity Aid Foundation purpose as well as other data privacy (since 2004) and data security directives specific to Si.mobil their countries. In the case of Austrian Forum EMS (since 2008) subsidiary A1, for instance, comprehenHonest, fair and transparent operation Green Network (since 2001) sive certification such as ISO 27001, is an important part of Telekom Austria Vip mobile ISAE 3402 and ECO Datacenter 3.0 Group’s corporate culture. To live up to Responsible Business Forum warrant these high security standards. these standards of integrity, the Group (since 2008) For years, A1’s data privacy officer has utilises an elaborate compliance manbeen responsible for monitoring and agement system. The top management’s More memberships at complying with statutory and internal role model effect as well as employees www.telekomaustria.com data privacy regulations. acting with a high degree of personal responsibility are thereby of particular G4.15, 4.16 The European Union’s General Data importance. Protection Regulation is currently presenting a significant challenge and will To prevent potential misconduct, continue to do so in the years to come. Telekom Austria Group has established Political agreement on this regulation’s clear rules for legally compliant and content was reached in late 2015. It honest conduct in all business relationwill, for the first time, harmonise ships. Furthermore, adequate controls data protection legislation in the EU were integrated into the business and subject it to standardised rules. It processes. The Code of Conduct which focusses on the protection of personal applies to all subsidiaries of the Group Playing it data and aims at the following: Offering as well as detailed compliance guidesafe when it effected persons increased control over their data and comprehensive informalines help with specific topics which include anti-corruption measures and comes to data tion on its use, improving protection of conflicts of interest, gifts and invitaPRIVACY. children as well as facilitating access to tions, dealing with confidential inforlegal protection. mation, management consulting and lobbying, sponsoring, donations and All subsidiaries of Telekom Austria The EU’s General Data Protection advertisement, capital market compliGroup are committed to comply with Regulation comes into force on 25 May ance and cartel law. The compliance the highest data privacy and security 2018 and is already being gradually guidelines provide support in making standards. In addition to the statutory implemented by Telekom Austria Group. sure that honest conduct is a matter14 S us ta i n a b i l i t y M a n a g e m e n t case misconduct was found, the conseManagement of the quences ranged — depending on the aspects compliance nature of the transgression — from indiand data privacy vidual trainings or process improvements to the termination of the collaborations Material aspects and cases in which the Public Prosecutor (responsibilities) was notified. Some 250 questions were Requirements Compliance (Group Compliance) dealt with through “ask.me” in 2015. In towards vendors in Data privacy (Group Operation, this year, the focus was on behavioural the Code of Conduct A1 Data Privacy) preventative measures based on e-learInformation security (Group ning. In 2015, about 20.000 compliance Worker protection and work Operation) e-learning trainings in the field of conditions in accordance with the anti-corruption and data privacy were regulations of the ”International Standards and completed by managers and employees Labour Organisation” (ILO) management systems Group-wide. Furthermore, some 1,400 Environmental protection and Data privacy managers and employees were indiviresource efficiency following estabInformation Security Policy, dually trained in approximately 200 lished environmental management Information Security Standards training sessions across the Group. systems (EMAS, ISO 14001) ISO 27001 in Austria, Bulgaria SO4 Social and ecological requirements and Croatia toward products and services E-learning, awareness-rasing Further information on Telekom Austria (including life-cycle perspective) campaigns, trainings Group’s compliance management system Requirements regarding topics of Data privacy folder (A1), at: www.telekomaustria.com/de/group/ compliance such as anti-corruption information on websites compliance G4.2, 4.56–4.58 measures Compliance Certified Compliance Management System (under IDW PS 980) ”ask.me” portal and whistleblowing Sustainability platform ”tell.me” E-learnings, on-site training, has its roots information on websites, intranet prior to the core business. Code of Conduct in eight languages The sustainability of business activity is not just represented in the immediMeasures taken ate ecological and social effects of one’s in purchasing of-fact part of everyday work. The effecown business processes. That’s why tiveness of the compliance manageTelekom Austria Group also includes Behavioural guidelines for ment system is furthermore increased upstream business processes, meaning suppliers regarding sustainability by means of regular communication the purchase of goods and services, implemented measures and trainings, the help desk into the respective assessment of its ILO regulations included in the Code “ask.me”, audits as well as the anonyvalue chain. According to a 2013 study of Conduct, the general purchasing mous whistleblowing platform “tell.me”. conducted by GreenBiz.com in cooperaterms and master agreements An annual compliance risk assessment tion with Trucost 1), upstream processes Environmental and social criteria for guarantees the needs-based developsuch as resource extraction, manufacregular vendor rating of A1 developed ment of the compliance programme. In turing, transport and packaging account further; reporting process introduced 2013, Telekom Austria Group’s complifor a not insignificant 85 % of all susSelf-disclosure expanded for ance management system was certified tainability effects in the telecommunivendors in accordance with the IDW PS 980 cations industry. Sustainability criteria integrated standard by an external auditor. into tenders Sourcing 100 % of electricity from reSome 60 % of all 40 leads submitted newable sources at A1, 67 % at Si.mobil through “tell.me” in 2015 were substan1) The State of Green Business 2013, tiated and relevant to compliance. In GreenBiz and Trucost 15 S us ta i n a b i l i t y M a n a g e m e n t The core business of Telekom Austria conflict minerals such as tin, tantalum, assessment — especially at Austrian Group accounts for the majority of tungsten and gold which are often subsidiary A1 — or the acquisition of the purchasing volume: Infrastructure extracted under critical conditions preresources from sustainable sources components used in the fixed-line sents a challenge to the industry in the were successfully implemented in the and mobile communication networks, production of ICT products. Telekom past three years (see page 15). Only end-user devices (mobile phones, Austria Group does not manufacture long-term and effective measures can tablets, set-top boxes) as well as IT and such products, but uses and sells them guarantee permanent and successful hardware components. in the course of its business activities. deep anchoring of sustainability aspects in the purchasing process. Apart from commercial factors, ecological Telekom Austria Group pursues the This is why Telekom Austria Group criteria such as environmental impact approach to anchor sustainability in intends to consistently follow its and energy efficiency — depending on its supply chain to the greatest extent chosen path. G4.12, 4.13 requirements — play an important role possible. For this purpose, a perennial in Telekom Austria Group’s purchasing project was created together with the strategy, as do worker rights, antipurchasing section in 2012. Various corruption regulations and aspects of measures such as the integration of data protection. The use of so-called ESG 1) criteria into the vendors self1) Environmental Social Governance Useful information for GRI experts G4.14: In all its activities, Telekom EC1: Net added value 2015: EUR 850 mn on corruption prevention. Almost 100 % of Austria Group honours the precautionary to employees, EUR 727 mn for paid investemployees, managers and suppliers were principle by taking into account potential ments, EUR 224 mn to capital providers and actively informed. The Holding‘s Superfuture developments and findings in its EUR 53 mn to public agencies. visory Board and Executive Board as well as decisions. SO3: In 2015, the holding company as all subsidiaries receive corruption prevention G4.22, G4.23: No re-phrasing of well as 100 % of operating subsidiaries (A1, information at least once per year, the entire information from past reports took place. Mobiltel, velcom, Vipnet, Si.mobil, Vip mobile, Executive Board receives training annually. G4.25: The selection of stakeholders one.Vip) were internally assessed with PR7: No violations with regard to the was based on prioritisation via internal regards to corruption risks. The companies non-compliance of regulations or voluntary databases. generated almost 100 % of Telekom Austria rules of conduct regarding advertising, G4.26: Stakeholder dialogues are an Group‘s overall turnover and take into sales promotion and sponsoring were ongoing process and their results are likeaccount all locations of the above mentioned reported in 2015. wise included in the preparation of reports. subsidiaries. In the course of the risk analysis, PR8: No substantiated complaints G4.49: Critical issues are reported to the the management analysed 17 different regarding the violation of customers‘ privacy Supervisory Board in the framework of meetcorruption scenarios and defined mitigating or loss of customer data were submitted in ings which can be called ad-hoc, if needed. measures. Taking into consideration the 2015, the year under review. G4.50: No critical issues concerning measures that have already been implemensustainability arose in the year under review. ted, no significant remaining risks could be G4.52: No remuneration consultants identified. were involved in the year under review. SO4: All employees and business partG4.53: The Supervisory Board members‘ ners are provided information on compliance remuneration is fixed in the framework as well as corruption prevention (see of the annual general meeting during which www.telekomaustria.com). 11,179 (approxistakeholders can state their opinions. mately 63 %) of employees and managers (including Executive Board) received training 16 S us ta i n a b i l i t y M a n a g e m e n t The Roadmap — Sustainability Management Said 2014 Further adaptation and improvement of reporting systems Continuing the external certification of the management focussing on quality and time of data collection systems, such as ISO and EMAS, introduction of ISO 14001 in the Updating the sustainability strategy on the basis of the Republic of Serbia materiality analysis performed and redefinition of targets Gradual implementation of the topic of human rights (2015/2016) Evaluation and definition of further measures to promote sustainable procurement within Telekom Austria Group Done 2015 Internal reporting system improved further, particularly in the Redefinition of targets in all action areas area of processes to collect environmental figures Environmental management system ISO 14001 successfully Materiality analysis successfully conducted in early 2015 with introduced in the Republic of Serbia the participation of more than 1,000 stakeholders Planned 2016 Further adaptation and improvement of the collection of Continued use of the certified environmental management environmental figures systems in accordance with ISO 14001 and EMAS N e t w o r k & cus t o m e r s Digital paceN owadays, digitalisation and digital networking are the norm in many fields of work and life. makers for They represent a significant base for economic, social and individual development possibilities. For many people, business and they furthermore yield an increase in their quality of life: Flexible working, independent of device or location, everyday life helps combining family and work. Using video conferences or chats, one can comfortably stay in touch with acquaintances, co-workers or business partners all over the globe. Mobile An old truism experiences a triumphant digital phone applications show one’s sporting comeback: A picture is worth a thousand words. For performance in real time and contribute visual, data-intensive content becomes ever more important in to making working out more efficient. the use of the Internet. The latter, in turn, represents a major Many things have never been easier, energy source for professional and personal development. more time-efficient or less complicated than today. Telekom Austria Group meets the rapidly rising demand for bandwidth connected to this using a tailored product and The flood of data is growing. service portfolio. It furthermore shoulders the capacityWe are growing with it. related demands towards the infrastructure with the massive Business-related and private data broadband roll-out of its mobile and fixed-line networks. communication, social networking, music streaming, entertainment or infotainment through online media Where we stand 40 % fibre coverage in Austria with at least 30 Mbit/s by 2015. Where we are heading Fibre coverage in Austria exceeding 70 % with at least 30 Mbit/s by 2018. 18 N e t w o r k & cus t o m e r s In 2015, Austrian subsidiary A1 initiated the largest infrastructure programme in the company’s history with its accelerated broadband roll-out. The plan is to reach more than 70 % of Austrian households with at least 30 Mbit/s until the end of 2018 (2015: 40 %). To achieve this feat, EUR 400 mn will be invested until 2018 — in addition to the regular investment volume.2) EC7 For the purpose of extending its network capacity, the Group has acquired new frequencies in Croatia, Belarus and the Republic of Serbia for EUR 18.5 mn, EUR 4.5 mn and EUR 42.4 mn, respectively, in 2015. LTE technology What we wanted Where we stand Where we are heading Ensuring Group-wide network The target to ensure Group-wide LTE coverage of 80 % in Telekom coverage of at least 99 % with network coverage of at least 99 % Austria Group until 2018. 2G and at least 90 % with 3G by with 2G and at least 90 % with 2015 (except: velcom, Si.mobil 3G was achieved (except: velcom, and Vip mobile). Si.mobil and Vip mobile). word: “The Internet of Things”). This is Awards 4G/LTE coverage why Telekom Austria Group invests mas2015 sively into the broadband roll-out, both Overall winner of the futurezone of its mobile and fixed-line networks, to network test 2015 (A1) Austria: > 74 % optimally meet the increased customer Connect magazine test 2015: Croatia: > 55 % expectations and making the perfect awarded the best rating of Slovenia: > 96 % media experience possible. EC8 ”Excellent” for the seventh time Republic of Macedonia: > 54 % in a row (A1) PA4 The logical step: Convergence. Best Network 2015: To be able to keep managing the hugely Smartphone magazine mobile growing data volume in an efficient way, communication network test (A1) Telekom Austria Group has relied on Call Center Manager of convergence in the expansion of its the Year 2015 (A1) consumption, increasingly in the form network infrastructure for years. Apart E-Media magazine: Test winner of films, series, videos or tutorials: All from LTE roll-out in the mobile commuService/Advisory (A1) this yields a dynamically increasing nication network, it currently pushes Smartphone magazine: demand for bandwidth. For instance, the massive roll-out of its fibre network. Best Advisory Services & Highest mobile data transfer alone experiences Thus, it can on the one hand supply Customer Satisfaction (A1) an annual growth of some 45 %1) globeven remote regions with high bandNetcheck test: Fastest 3G ally and experts predict the monthly widths and on the other hand utilise the network for download in Bulgaria data volumes to increase tenfold in the capacity and stability advantages of the (Mobiltel) coming six years. Telecommunication fixed-line network. In 2015, the Group Top result in the 2015 P3 Commuinfrastructure must keep up with these has invested a total of EUR 780 mn nications network test (Vipnet) changes in user behaviour, the network (CAPEX) particularly in the broadband Leading Lights Award 2015 capacity demands associated with it roll-out as well as in the extension of its for the most innovative strategy and additional modern trends (key network capacities by means of acquirfor the virtualisation of network ing additional frequencies. Both measfunctions (Vip mobile) 1) Ericsson Mobility Report, February 2016 ures underline Telekom Austria Group’s GTB Innovation Award in the 2) This plan is subject to the announced leadership in terms of infrastructure category of ”Wireless Network Infragovernment broadband subsidy programme as well as annual budget approvals by the and thus, its leadership in terms of structure Innovation” (Vip mobile) Supervisory Board. quality. 19 N e t w o r k & cus t o m e r s (4G) allows for data transfer in the Development is progressing. mobile communication network up Reliability and safety represent the to ten times faster than in the conven“base camp”. Curiosity and being pretional UMTS network. In Austria, pared for the following legs are the Telekom Austria Group is already Telekom Austria logical next goals. Whereas the LTE approaching complete LTE-coverage. Group‘s cooperations network, for instance, was exclusively In Croatia, Slovenia and the Republic of used for data transfer until recently and Macedonia and, since 2015, the Republic Research Centre for voice traffic was automatically running of Serbia, the accelerated roll-out of the Telecommunications Vienna through the 2G or 3G network, VoLTE LTE technology is also advancing at full Vienna University of Technology (Voice-over-LTE) now also allows voice steam. Thus, the Group already offers  Christian-Doppler Laboratory transmission via the 4G network infrathe fourth generation of mobile commufor Wireless Technologies for structure. The customers’ benefits lie in nication in five out of seven markets. Sustainable Mobility crystal-clear call quality and accelerated In selected metropolitan areas, its sub Josef-Ressel Centre for connection times. In Austria, the Group sidiaries in Austria and Slovenia are User-friendly secure and mobile already offers this new technology — in furthermore implementing another environments Croatia, Slovenia and the Republic of roll-out stage of the LTE technology: G4.15 Serbia, it is currently being tested sucLTE Carrier Aggregation — an important cessfully. No less innovative was the step towards LTE Advanced (5G). This development of a cost-efficient solution technology allows data transfer rates of to supply remote regions by means of up to 300 Mbit/s. By bundling different a directional, permanently mounted frequency bands, the Group has already Austria Group deploys trained emerexterior antenna (see “Small steps & achieved these numbers in test runs in gency response teams and subsidiaries great leaps”, page 25). late 2014. IO1, EC7, PA1, 4 help each other, too. They furthermore cooperate closely with the fire brigades, Another technology with relevant Negotiating safe terrain paramedics and the Red Cross. Calling growth potential is the so-called on the Internet. the official emergency telephone machine-to-machine communication Customers expect communications numbers is free across the entire Group. (M2M): M2M applications and solutions solutions that meet highest demands. PA6 are expected to grow by 23 % annually Not least, this includes their reliable availability and security. As one of the largest backbone network operators in the world with 200 nodes in 47 What we wanted countries, the Group is a reliable partDevelopment of innovative ner when it comes to the reliability of solutions in the healthcare, its networks. Certifications such as education and administration ISO 9001 of the leased lines (including sector as well as promotion of climate-friendly products and alarm transmission) at Austrian subsidsolutions by 2015. iary A1 make sure the quality management complies with adequately high standards. The regular achievement of Where we stand top results in tests and rankings also Medical Data Network for undermines Telekom Austria Group’s secure data transfer between doctors, e-care terminal to infrastructure leadership in this respect. support taking care of patients, (see “Awards”, page 19). PA3 electronic archives, smart metering platform SMARTify, carbon-neutral network, smart In the event of an emergency, the availlogistic concepts etc. ability of a network can assume great significance. In such cases, Telekom Where we are heading Identification and promotion 3) Deloitte & Touche, Auf dem Weg in of marketable innovations, die Zukunft, Herausforderungen und for example via start up Chancen im M2M-Markt, 2014 initiatives until 2018. 20 N e t w o r k & cus t o m e r s until 2020.3) Telekom Austria Group’s other subsidiaries are supposed to evaluate and, if necessary, improve the M2M business segment supplies respecsupport local start ups, too. Providing quality of products and services from tive overall solutions as a one-stopimpetus for innovation in its markets the customers’ perspective. To measure shop: From cost-efficient fleet manageand making those innovations available and assess customer satisfaction in its ment to comprehensive smart metering to a wider audience is one of the countries of operation, Telekom Austria services with metering systems, meter Group’s general objectives. Examples Group uses Brand Net Promoter Score data management and roll-out services are Parkbob (see “Small steps & great (Brand NPS) and Touchpoint Net Proto modular solutions for industrial leaps”, page 25) and ready2order — an moter Score (TNPS). While Brand NPS automation or remote maintenance. online cash register solution which is provides information on the customers’ In August 2015, the Austrian federal affordable, future-proof and, of course, attitudes towards and “emotional state of Burgenland, for instance, has in full accordance with the law and can attachment” to the respective subsistarted to gradually convert its power be easily operated using smart phones diary, TNPS measures how satisfied consumption measurement system to and tablets. It was introduced to the customers are with telephone service, the so-called Austria Meter (“Österreichmarket in cooperation with A1 and M2M shops and online channels. Surveys as zähler”), the smart metering product GmbH. well as qualitative interviews, online designed by Telekom Austria Group and platform analyses and external studEurope’s first smart meter with 4G/LTE Hand in hand with the ies take place as warranted. As a result, connectivity. TA1, 2 customers. Austrian subsidiary A1 could, for Of course, innovation is not an end in instance, raise its customer satisfaction To promote innovation beyond its own itself. New paths must lead to practical from 34 points to 48 points, measured sphere of influence, Austrian subsidiary benefits for the customers. Thus, a by NPS in 2015. Results such as these A1 has been supporting young entrepredeep understanding of their needs help Telekom Austria Group conclude neurs in the framework of the initiative plays an important role in this context. and implement product and service “A1 Start Up Campus”. Since 2015, in Besides classic contact points such as optimisation measures to take further addition to A1 expert know-how, it has shops and service lines, Telekom Austria substantial steps towards its customers. been providing start ups with a roof Group employs social media channels PR5 over their heads and modern ICT infrasuch as Facebook, Twitter, Youtube and structure at the “A1 Start Up Campus”. Google+ as well as dedicated support In the future, Telekom Austria Group’s communities and crowdsourcing to USEFUL INFORMATION for GRI experts PR3: Telekom Austria Group is not subject to special labelling obligations. SO2: Telekom Austria Group not only complies with the exposure limits recommended by ICNIRP/WHO, it even achieves values far lower than those limits. SO7: Telekom Austria Group is committed to fair competition and meets all the respective legislation’s legal competition regulations. PA10: Cost-control and contract overview tools are offered by all subsidiaries. IO8: 70 % base stations used alone, 30 % used jointly. 21 Electromagnetic fields & health Radio applications have existed for standard has adopted ICNIRP’s limit Only end user devices that comply with more than 100 years. They are used in values in the mobile communication all applicable standards can be incora whole range of spheres of life, for sector in their entirety. PR6 porated into Telekom Austria Group’s instance in medicine or TV and radio product portfolio. Constant checks broadcasting. Electromagnetic waves To make sure the limit values defined ensure that these standards are reliably surround us wherever electricity is used. therein are complied with and to ensure complied with. Respective information Depending on their frequency, they that requirements regarding the protecis included in the devices’ operating have different effects. High frequencies tion of human health are reliably fulmanuals and can be found on the Interyield a minimal, barely measurable filled, ÖVE/ÖNORM EN 50401 has been net. IO6 increase in the human body’s temperaimplemented into the planning process ture. In the case of mobile communicaof base stations. The latter is a standard Telekom Austria Group’s tion, the energy released is so low that that applies to the installation and comoccupational protection the increase in the human body’s temmissioning of mobile communication measures perature is less than 0.1°C, even in the facilities. The protection of humans is a top pricase of long mobile phone conversaority for Telekom Austria Group: That’s tions. When doing sports, in comparison, Besides these standards of protection why the limit value recommendations the body’s temperature rises by up to 2°C. for stationary facilities, the so-called of ICNIRP/WHO for base stations and SAR value ensures that mobile phone mobile end user devices are not just Internationally recognised limit values are also complied with. The complied with, but are kept well below standards of protection specific absorption rate SAR defines those in daily use. A Group-wide EMF Since the early days of radio applications, how much of the mobile phone’s transPolicy ensures that and EMF teams scientists have constantly investigated mission performance is absorbed by inform the populations about this on their effects. Concepts protecting the human body during phone converlocation. PA8 humans from health risks are based sations. The SAR limit value of 2 W/kg on their findings. The independent as defined by the limit value standard international group of researchers EN 50360 and EN 50566 ensures that ICNIRP (International Commission on one can be on the phone around the Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection) clock without having to fear any adverse C defines limit values taking into account effects to one’s health. the entire scientific state of knowledge regarding the effects of radio waves. The World Health Organisation (WHO), the European Union as well as numerous expert committees are based on ICNIRP’s limit values. Thus, the scienExemplary illustration of a transmit ter station tific committee SCENIHR summarises1): including access description / access restrictions B “The results of the latest scientific research show that there are no obvious, A Reference values are not exceeded harmful effects provided the exposition Work / lingering in this area is possible without limitations does not exceed the values as defined and permanently without taking further measures. by the current standards.” B Reference values are exceeded The planning, construction and operaPassing is possible within defined time, lingering only once tion of base stations (mobile communiperformance is reduced and using a personal dosimeter. cation facilities) are a significant foundation of Telekom Austria Group’s C Reference values are exceeded business activities. All internationally During operation, lingering is not possible. The following A applicable safety standards are thereby measures need to be taken to allow work / lingering in this strictly complied with. In Austria, for area: For example, reducing the transmission performance or instance, personal protection regarding even switching the entire antenna off; the use of a personal high-frequency electromagnetic fields dosimeter is mandatory. However, A1 employees do not need is defined by ÖVE/ÖNORM E 8850. This to perform any work in this area anyway. 22 E l ec t r o m a g n e t i c f i e l d s & h e a lt h When it comes to the implementation (personal dosimeters) with which they These are based on measurements of of the EU Directive 2013/35/EU which can detect critical measurement values field strength in the ladder area, the defines minimum requirements for the early. directional radio platform and the protection of employees from electrosurrounding area (work area) of A1 magnetic fields (see interview below), In 2015, in collaboration with TÜV transmitter stations as well as on Telekom Austria Group has set respecAUSTRIA, Austrian subsidiary A1 has comparisons with the reference values tive industrial protection measures additionally started to evaluate their for personal protection (see graphic, at a very early stage. Since limit values large radio relay stations/large transpage 22). PR6, IO3–5, IO7, PA9 can be reached at mobile communicamitter stations with regards to the new tion locations and in certain areas Workplace Health and Safety Directive of transmitter stations, online training which needs to be implemented by July tools such as e-learning ensure that the 2016. This resulted in documentation Directive is adequately explained and and descriptions of access and work 1) EU SCENIHR 2015: http://ec.europa.eu/ understood. Furthermore, employees areas (zone map) with associated limit health/scientific_committees/docs/ are equipped with special devices values regarding electromagnetic fields. citizens_emf_de.pdf Safety first Which specific obligations does this yield for a telecommunications provider? have to act in the respective zones. These zones can be defined as follows for the range WILHELM SEIER: The operators of telecomof frequencies in which transmitter stations Wilhelm Seier, responsible for communicamunications networks must evaluate personal usually operate: Lingering / working possible tions engineering and electromagnetic protection regarding electromagnetic fields, permanently / for a limited amount of time / compatibility at TÜV AUSTRIA, on mandatory in the area of transmitter antennas and large not possible during transmitting operation. exposition assessments of electromagnetic transmitter stations. In this context, one must The effected persons must be informed about fields at the work place. especially assess the exposition of employees such zones and possible accompanying when performing maintenance work near technical measures such as reducing the What is behind the new Workplace Health antennas. transmitting performance and must oblige and Safety Directive on the protection from to comply with these measures. electromagnetic fields? Responsible companies such as A1 have WILHELM SEIER: After years of negotiations, already implemented protective measures and Together with A1, we have assessed their discussions, the publication and withdrawal methods for this purpose. These, for instance, large transmitter stations in Austria by means of previous documents, the EU Directive comply with national standards such as of measurements, also already before the EU 2013/35/EU on minimum requirements on ÖNORM E 8850:2006 or previous documents. Directive taking effect. The resulting documenthe protection of the safety and health of Furthermore, rules of conduct and technical tation and descriptions serve as a basis for employees from risks posed by physical or organisational measures regarding complithe compliance with the statutory personal effects (electromagnetic fields) came into ance with personal protection requirements protection requirements. effect on 29 June 2013 as an individual direchave been implemented. tive under the framework of the Workplace Health and Safety Directive 89/391/EEC. What approach does TÜV AUSTRIA recommend when it comes to exposition assessments? Just as the requirements on noise and WILHELM SEIER: Reasonably speaking, the vibration or artificial optical radiation, this EU basis for the exposition assessment in the Directive is also enacted as an an implementnear surroundings of transmitter locations is ing directive in the framework of the employee evaluated by means of measurement techprotection legislation. Thus, the protection nology. For this purpose, one must use approof employees from excessive exposition to priate equipment and precisely determine the electromagnetic fields is enshrined in legisfield conditions in the accessible area. These Wilhelm Seier, lation. At the same time, employers are are to be compared to the limit values as TÜV AUSTRIA obliged to have an exposition assessment defined by the Implementing Directive and Head of the Test Centre performed for their work places and to have checked on their compliance. for Communications their health and safety officers as defined in Engineering and the employee protection legislation perform In the field, zoning has proven itself as a Electromagnetic such an assessment in the course of their valuable method to assess large transmitter Compatibility since 1994 evaluation activities. stations.This clearly specifies how employees 23 N e t w o r k & cus t o m e r s The Roadmap — Network & customers Achieved NOT ACHIEVED In implementation Targets 2015 Ensuring Group-wide network coverage of at least 99 % with 2G and at least 90 % with 3G1) Development of innovative solutions in the healthcare, education and administration sectors Promotion of climate-friendly products and solutions Increase in customer satisfaction Baseline for targets is 2012. Said 2014 Pushing demand-oriented infrastructure roll-out as well as Further development of the Green ICT product portfolio, increased use of new technologies particularly in the M2M area by expanding specialised solutions Promotion of LTE roll-out at the subsidiaries in the energy-efficiency sector Constant further development of existing product portfolios in the fields of health, education and administration Done 2015 Investments (CAPEX) worth EUR 780 mn in accelerating Optimisation of existing product portfolios broadband roll-out and acquiring additional frequencies in the fields of health, education and administration Development and implementation of innovative future Increased support of start ups by Telekom Austria Group technologies such as G.fast, vectoring, LTE Carrier Aggregation (e. g. ”A1 Start Up Campus”) in selected metropolitan areas of Austria and Slovenia Hosting a customer satisfaction conference at Austrian subsidiary A1 Targets 2018 LTE coverage of 80 % in Telekom Austria Group Fibre coverage in Austria exceeding 70 % with at least 30 Mbit/s Identification and promotion of marketable innovations, for example via start up initiatives Baseline for targets is 2015. Planned 2016 Demand-oriented expansion of the network infrastructure Evaluation of the expansion of the start up initiative using innovative broadband technologies to subsidiaries Further expansion of the initiative ”A1 Start Up Campus” 1) Except velcom, Si.mobil and Vip mobile N e t w o r k & cus t o m e r s Small steps 2 & great leaps 1 3 The smart parking start Hard-to-access regions at In November 2015, the As the first operator on 1 2 3 4 up Parkbob has been high elevations receive Bulgarian subsidiary Mobilits home market, Austrian operating at the ”A1 Start Up WI-FI and stable mobile phone tel started a blog (blog.mtel.bg) subsidiary A1 introduced voiceCampus” in Vienna since April reception from A1. The depicted aimed at providing customers over-LTE (VoLTE) in November 2015. Parkbob makes the use pilot project shows Matrashaus with all important company2015. Thus, A1 made the 4G/ of parking spaces more efficient on Mount Hochkönig (federal related news as well as technical LTE network available for voice and ecological. For this purpose, state of Salzburg) at some 3,000 tips. By the end of 2015, more telephony for the first time. Voice it combines real-time data from metres above sea level. There, than 81,000 interested customtransfer thereby happens via different sources with an extenthe 4G/LTE signal emitted by a ers had clicked on this page. HD Voice, a standard that offers sive data base of parking rules station in Schladming some 45 a very audible improvement of and links them with geo inforkilometres away is being amplispeech quality. VoLTE furthermation. Thus, car drivers are fied by means of an antenna more markedly reduces the call always aware of where parking amplifier (directional exterior LTE set-up time. is allowed and how much it costs. antenna) which allows for stable It furthermore spares them data connections. Additionally, a tedious searching. Since summer local mobile communications cell 2016, it shows vacant parking (Femtocell) has been installed spaces in real time. and provides all A1 customers with crystal clear call quality. 25 environment Facing progressing climate change When assessing whether moving forward also has its dark it comes to contributing to the protecsides one must not forget to take its environmental impact tion of our climate by means of energy efficiency. At 598,133 MWh and repreinto account. This is why, for Telekom Austria Group, responsible senting 82 % of Telekom Austria Group’s development of its core business is inextricably connected to a overall energy demand, power demand continuous reduction of its ecological footprint. For this purpose, constitutes the company’s main enviit defines guiding targets for itself when it comes to energy effironmental impact. Power is primarily ciency and resource conservation as well as avoiding emissions. used to operate technical infrastructure, both in the mobile and fixed-line networks. The use of fuels, district heating A and heating energy accounts for the ccording to the US climateremaining portion of the company’s protection agency, 2015 was the energy demand. hottest year on record. Nine consecutive months shattered their Measures such as the demand-led previous heat records on a global use of GSM resources in mobile base average1) which stresses an almost stations contribute to reducing power universally accepted fact: The world’s demand: In peak periods, the systems climate is going to experience permarun at full capacity while the GSM carnent change. Which represents one of riers are gradually switched off in times the biggest challenges of the 21st century. of low traffic, whereby every activated Now, how can one counter global location can save approximately 10 % in warming, increase energy efficiency, power consumption. Likewise, the use reduce global energy consumption and of so-called Single RAN technologies boost the use of renewable energy? (Single Radio Access Network) helps Telekom Austria Group to separate What we wanted Information and communication increasing data volumes from energy Increasing energy efficiency technologies currently amount to some demand. EN6, 7 by 20 % until 2015. 2 % of the global energy consumption while experiencing a steep upward The cooling of technical equipment in Where we stand trend due to dynamically increasing data centres is no less power-consumImprovement of energy data volumes.2) 3) To address this coning but at the same time indispensable efficiency by 72 %. cern, Telekom Austria Group relies on for fail-safe operation. In this area, increasing its energy efficiency and innovative cooling concepts (cold aisle Where we are heading reducing power demand in the area of containment, hot-spot-extraction, hybrid Reducing power demand by 30 % per terabyte of transferred network infrastructure. ventilation systems, heat recovery data volume until 2018. More data, less energy. 1) National Oceanic and Atmospheric A practical way? Administration National Centers for In 2015, Telekom Austria Group’s overEnvironmental Information, 2016 all energy consumption amounted to 2) Ericsson: Ericsson Energy and Carbon Report, 2013 732,048 MWh. This is equivalent to 3) CISCO: The Zettabyte Era: Trends and the electricity consumption of around Analysis, 2015 490,000 ordinary households. Network 4) This is measured with the energy efficiency index, which indicates how infrastructure accounted for 80 % of many MWh are required per terabyte that which makes it a crucial area when of transported data volume. 26 environment systems) can be used to reduce electricity consumption by up to 75 % compared Ratings 2015 (Selection) to conventional cooling systems. The gradual increase of permissible room CDP temperatures in mobile base stations Disclosure Score: 99 (2014: 93) across the Group also saves power. Performance Score: B (2014: B) Through a reduction in required cooling Climate Dislosure Leadership Index performance associated with the aforeoekom mentioned measure, it contributes to Status: B–, Prime stabilising the overall energy demand in spite of increasing data volumes (see “Small steps & great leaps”, page 31). network infrastructure as well as cusEnergy efficiency makes tomer service require a correspondingly rapid progress. high level of mobility from Telekom Telekom Austria Group had made it its Austria Group’s employees. As a result, target to improve its energy efficiency energy demand in the form of the fuel by 20 % from 2012 to 2015.4) Thanks to used by 4,784 vehicles in its fleet a comprehensive package of measures represents a further environmental such as the ones mentioned above, it impact of the Telekom Austria Group. significantly exceeded its target, recordIn this field, innovative logistics ing an increase in its efficiency index by concepts are used to reduce the number 72 % at the end of 2015. This success was of kilometres these vehicles travel. attributable to the fact that, between Furthermore, Telekom Austria Group 2012 and 2015, Telekom Austria Group’s continuously pushes the use of hybrid, overall energy consumption increased electric and natural-gas-powered by a mere 5 % while the transferred data vehicles. Employing a variety of measvolumes currently double every two ures such as ecological driver training, years. car sharing, the use of video conference rooms and telepresence solutions like Mobility is a must. Lync, it managed to lower its consumpEnvironmental awareness tion of fossil fuels by 2 % from 2012 to even more so. 2015. EN30 Continuous extension, quality assurance and maintenance in the area of Pioneering steps in CO2 reduction. Telekom Austria Group significantly reduces the CO2 emissions related to its energy use by means of reducing demand and increasing efficiency. Its target is to cover energy demand that Cooperations ETNO (Telekom Austria Group) klimaaktiv mobil (A1) Code of Conduct on Data Centres Energy Efficiency (A1) Green Network (Si.mobil) G4.15 27 environment Thinking one step ahead when servation and trying to keep valuable it comes to resources. resources in the loop as long as possible. Internationally, the highly competitive Consistent life-cycle management guarAwards telecommunication market is characterantees that technical equipment is used ised by dynamic technological change. for a maximum amount of its permissi”Investor in the environThe result is a continuous flow of new ble life cycle, re-used in the best possiment” Award from the Bulgarian technical components aimed at optible way or properly recycled. Business Leaders Forum (Mobiltel) mising efficiency and performance. Fur” Resource saved” certificate thermore, mobile devices are replaced Although Telekom Austria Group does (Si.mobil) at ever shorter intervals. In this context, not produce mobile devices it strives Telekom Austria Group attaches great to actively contribute to preserving importance to basic ecological princiresources by means of recycling mobile ples: waste prevention, resource conphones. Most of its subsidiaries — some cannot be avoided in the most sustainable way possible, for instance through the use of renewable energy. The latter’s production is therefore particularly important to Telekom Austria Group. Using its largest solar power park close to its earth station in Aflenz, the Austrian subsidiary A1 saves about 90 tons of CO2 annually. More than 65 mobile base stations belonging to subsidiaries in Croatia, Bulgaria and Slovenia are powered with solar or wind energy or with hydrogen fuel cells. All these steps contributed to increasing Telekom Austria Group’s renewable energy utilisation rate from 56 % in 2012 to 60 % in 2015. Through an elaborate combination of versatile energy efficiency measures and the use of 100 % power from renewable energy, the Austrian subsidiary A1 has managed to operate its network in an entire carbon-neutral way since 2014.5) EN7 Overall, Telekom Austria Group managed to reduce its CO2 emissions by 7 % from 2012 to 2015 proving that it is on the right track to achieving its goal of lowering its CO2 emissions by 25 % from 2012 to 2020.6) EN6, 19 5) Approved by TÜV SÜD according What we wanted Where we stand Where we are heading to the standard PAS 2060 and the ISO standard 14064 part 3. Improving the recycling rate Improvement of recycling Reaching a constant recycling 6) Excluding compensation by 10 % until 2015. rate by 16 %. rate of 70 % until 2018. 28 environment What we wanted Where we stand Where we are heading Reducing in-house paper Paper consumption Reducing in-house paper consumption by 10 % until 2015. decreased by 3 %. consumption by 10 % until 2018. of them since 2004 — therefore offer people to drop off old devices in collecUSEFUL INFORMATION tion boxes located in their shops. These for GRI experts devices are then handed over to specialised recycling companies and recyEN4: Energy demand outside cled in an environmentally compatible of the organisation amounted to way. Revenue from mobile phone recy49,463 MWh in 2015 and represents cling is invested in Austria in climate the energy demand of the customers’ protection projects (see “Small steps mobile phones put into circulation & great leaps”, page 31), the Slovenian ronmental protection measures. By by the company as well as Telekom subsidiary Si.mobil uses it to support improving the recycling rate by 16 %, Austria Group business trips by taxi, the Si.voda funds for the protection of the respective target was achieved. Due train or aeroplane. water. EN27, 28, PA11 to a growth in the customer base as EN15: Biogenic Scope 1 emissions well as acquisitions, the company was amounted to 1,350 tons of CO2, while It is also important to act in a resourcenot able to achieve its paper reduction no data is available for Scope 2 and preserving way in everyday office work. target as planned. Measures like the Scope 3 emissions. In this area, Telekom Austria Group had digitalisation of work processes, the EN23: Telekom Austria Group is set itself the target of reducing its paper procurement of follow-me printers committed to proper waste disposal consumption and improving its recyand switching to double-sided printand complies with the applicable cling rate by 10 % each from 2012 to 2015. ing, however, yielded a reduction by regulations in the respective countries. Naturally, these two targets can only be 3 %. After all, Telekom Austria Group’s EN25: Hazardous waste was achieved with the participation of its ecological responsibility is about more subject to specialist disposal and, for some 17,000 employees working across than just large steps such as the carthe most part, domestically. the entire Group. That is why internal bon-neutral network. It is also about EN29: No fines relating to environmental campaigns are used to gradually striving to achieve a whole environmental issues were paid in raise their awareness, to motivate them range of additional ambitious environ2015. and to actively include them in envimental goals. 29 environment The Roadmap — environment Achieved NOT ACHIEVED In implementation Targets 2015 Target 2020 Increasing energy efficiency by 20 % (+72 %) Reducing CO2 emissions by 25 % (–7 %) Expanding renewable energy projects Improving the recycling rate by 10 % (+16 %) Reducing in-house paper consumption by 10 % (–3 %) Increasing the Group‘s e-billing rate to 50 % (69 %) Baseline for targets is 2012. Values in brackets represent the achievement status of the 2015 targets. Said 2014 Implementation of a certified environmental management Internal campaigns to raise awareness among employees of system in accordance with ISO 14001 at the Group’s Serbian the Telekom Austria Group about environmental issues subsidiary Implementation of measures to continue to further increase Promotion of comprehensive measures in the area of energy the number of old mobile phones collected efficiency and renewable energy Continuation of measures to reduce paper consumption Done 2015 Environmental management system successfully certified in Consciousness-building and internal campaigns on environmental accordance with ISO 14001 at the Group’s Serbian subsidiary issues such as sustainable mobility, resource conservation, mobile Energy efficiency: Harmonisation of cooling temperatures, ongoing phone recycling, participation in international environment days conversion to energy-efficient equipment, LED lighting systems etc. across the Group Targets 2018 Reducing power demand by 30 % per terabyte of transferred data volume Reaching a constant recycling rate of 70 % Reducing in-house paper consumption by 10 % Baseline for targets is 2015. Planned 2016 Accelerated introduction of energy-efficient equipment in the Optimisation of waste separation framework of the life-cycle management programme Switch to follow-me printers, digitalisation of work processes environment Small steps 2 & great leaps 1 3 To significantly reduce the Bulgarian subsidiary The project to adjust the Macedonian subsidiary 1 2 3 4 diesel fuel consumption Mobiltel, too, relies on solar average temperatures in one.Vip also relies on the — and thus the carbon emispower. In August 2015, the first utility rooms in a needs-based power of the sun and gradually sions — of the last remaining mobile base station in Banderata way across the Group was further converts its mobile base stations generator, the A1 mobile base was equipped with photovoltaic pursued in 2015 and possibilities to solar panels and hybrid energy station on Carinthia‘s Nockalm in panels and a second station in were evaluated by locations supply systems where applicable. Austria was equipped with a phoZavoya was converted in Februin the individual subsidiaries. This conversion is not only effitovoltaic system in autumn 2015. ary 2016. Three additional locaBulgarian subsidiary Mobiltel, for cient in an economic sense, but This is expected to yield savings tions are currently in the evaluainstance, has already increased also ecologically sustainable as of up to 2,880 kg of CO2 per year. tion phase. Using the solar power the control temperature of 22 % exemplified by 28 MWh of solar Design, evaluation and the instalsystems, the fuel consumption of its indoor sites to 29°C in energy produced in 2015. Eight lation of a remote query sysof the diesel generator as well as the year under review which is locations are currently supplied tem was done in-house. Special time required for maintenance expected to yield annual savings with photovoltaic systems and attention had to be paid to the and repairs could be reduced sigof up to 1.8 GWh. The complete more are scheduled to be thus location of the mast since it is nificantly. conversion of all indoor sites equipped in 2016 and the located in a nature conservation in Bulgaria is scheduled for late following years. area. The entire construction September 2016. was paid for with the proceeds of the A1 mobile phone recycling programme. 31 e m p loy e e s Drawing from a diversity of competences. And excelling together. You can’t know how to do everything alone — and you don’t need to. The collective is making a major step towards this ideal condition. Key words such as swarm intelligence are thereby not the primary focus. It’s rather about understanding diversity as a valuable resource. Cultural or ethnic affinity, age or gender: All of these attributes are usually linked to specific competences. Telekom Austria Group shows true appreciation for these skills of its employees working in seven CEE countries. By promoting, developing and empowering employees for the good of the company. country. Besides the general further development of expertise, Telekom Where we are heading 38 % women in management Austria Group thereby primarily relies on know-how transfer in the form of national and cross-departmental expert networking. Simplified processes and positions by 2018. breaking up inflexible internal structures are supposed to optimise the framework conditions for these targets. Targeted learning steps: on-the-job and online. 38 % women in the Group and Where we stand To safeguard its competitiveness and innovative performance, Telekom 35 % women in management Austria Group relies on the development of its employees through innovative learning and training positions. on the job, combined with a strong use of peer-to-peer feedback. For this purpose Telekom Austria tiveness and to adapt it to the dynamic Group uses a variety of training developments on the market. tools: collaboration platforms, What we wanted communities of expertise and 35 % women in the Group Pooling competences on the best practice experience of the way to growth. international projects. Knowand in management Telekom Austria Group sees great ledge sharing by using new techpotential for growth in linking services nology gains increasing imporpositions by 2015. aimed at global markets with local tance within the Group — helping infrastructure and services, also when it to shape modern culture within comes to saturated markets. Cross-borTelekom Austria Group. der thinking and acting when it comes V to utilising competences plays a major Furthermore, the Group gives the ia its corporate strategy (see page role in this process. Thus, following so-called „management of compe7), Telekom Austria Group pursues the principle “one to many”, innovatences“ increasing priority. It allows ambitious growth targets. At tions and successful developments the flexible and fast filling of vacant the same time, it focusses on increasor applications are rolled out startpositions with internal specialists. ing efficiency in terms of costs and ing in one country and continuing investments. Both measures are aimed to the other markets instead of The Telekom Austria Group Business at strengthening the Group’s competire-inventing the wheel in every School functions as a central develop32 e m p loy e e s ment platform. The Group’s employees made use of its training offers for a total of 11,696 hours in 2015. In addition, Telekom Austria Group increasingly relies on the use of its e-learning platform which allows Group-wide trainings independent of time and location. New forms of learning such as gamebased learning methods (Gamification), coaching, mentoring and integrated learning (the combination of e-learning and classroom training) furthermore contribute to the maintenance, broadening and transfer of know-how. LA9 In parallel with Telekom Austria Group’s offers, its subsidiaries develop education and training programmes tailored to the requirements of the respective markets. Telekom Austria Group’s total education and training expenses in the year under review amounted to Where we stand Where we are heading EUR 5.2 mn (2014: EUR 7.8 mn). LA10 Various sporting and health Implementing a corporate health offers in all subsidiaries. initiative by 2018. ”Diverse” teams find new approaches. processes and a performance promise jects, but also through exchange with Based on the corporate strategy, the with regards to the employee expericolleagues. Thus, young talents and human resources strategy aims at creaence: Telekom Austria Group strives to graduates learn both from one another ting an optimal work environment. It be regarded an attractive employer by and through being mentored by expethereby follows the conviction that, its employees, if possible at all internal rienced colleagues and managers. With especially in times of rapid change and and external points of contact. the eight-month New Manager Program, increasing complexity, it’s not the lone Telekom Austria Group furthermore wolves that make a difference. It’s rather Prepared with the right tools supports young managers who have efficient teams characterised by diverfor one‘s career path. just recently taken over a management sity in which experiences, insights, sucTo secure its future demand for specialposition. cesses and even mistakes are shared. ists and management employees, Done so in an open, trusting and transTelekom Austria Group is committed parent manner. Human Resources to apprenticeship training. In 2015, 209 therefore creates adequate framework apprentices were undergoing training in conditions to promote team diversity Austria, 106 in Bulgaria. Young talents and efficiency. The entire Group furtherand graduates can make use of different more clearly focusses on simplified programmes: Austrian subsidiary A1, Human resources for instance, offers a twelve-month strategy “Graduate Program”. The Serbian subsidValues of iary offers top graduates and master Targeted development and Telekom Austria Group students the chance to participate in utilisation of competences the “Budi Vipnet Student” project. The & talents Innovation graduate programme “Vip.alumni” and Using leadership to promote Diversity the Group Talent Management Process feedback & A culture of were implemented at the Croatian and performance across the Group Responsibility and Integrity Bulgarian subsidiaries, respectively. Making everyday work Telekom Austria Group thereby primaunbureaucratic, efficient and flexible Quality rily focusses on learning on the job for employees G4.56 and in the framework of specific pro33 e m p loy e e s Useful Information for GRI Experts G4.11: In Austria, 100 % of all employees are covered by the provisions of collective agreements; the national requirements are also observed at the Group’s international subsidiaries. LA2: Benefits are available to all employees equally. LA3: 60 % of those employees across the Group who took maternity leave in 2014 returned to work in 2015. LA4: The statutory requirements for minimum notice periods regarding operational changes are observed; the corresponding regulation can be found in the collective bargaining agreement. LA7: The indicator does not Unified path in the Health comes first. apply to Telekom Austria Group, since performance assessment Health-related aspects of life are a sigemployees are not exposed to an and promotion. nificant for Telekom Austria Group. increased risk of illness in the context The leadership qualities of managers Across the Group, a total of 13 physicians of their regular employment. have a significant effect on their teams’ and work psychologists take care of its LA8: There are no formal agreeperformance and thus on commercial employees’ health-related problems. ments on health and safety aspects success. Thus, it is all the more imporVarious initiatives are aimed at prevenwith trade unions. tant to promote a corporate culture charLA9: 11,696 training hours comacterised by trust, appreciative and open pleted at the Telekom Austria Group feedback as well as result-orientation. Business School in 2015. Male: 6,864; For this purpose, Telekom Austria Group female: 4,832. employs a uniform “Performance ManLA10: Where necessary, coaching agement Standard Model”. It focusses sessions and other measures to not just on performance but also on provide further support are offered. individual strengths and development Further training HR3: No incidents of discriminapotential. Additionally, managers across programmes (Selection) tion came to the attention of the Group the Group are assessed by means of the headquarters in 2015. 360-degree feedback method and peer-toNew Manager Program (A1) HR4: No incidents in which the peer feedback is part of daily life at work. Local Leadership Development right to exercise freedom of association LA11 Program (Mobiltel) and collective bargaining was violated ”Development@vipnet” to promote were reported in 2015. Pushing flexibility. new competences (Vipnet) IO3: Employees attend training Creating a sound life balance plays Manager’s School (velcom) courses on a regular basis and are an important role at Telekom Austria Further education programme trained accordingly as part of workGroup. For instance, employees can for managers and employees with shops. organise their work hours flexibly and key functions (Si.mobil) — in coordination with their superior — ”Vigor” — further education have the chance to work on a mobile programme for managers and basis, provided they are suitable for the employees with key functions respective position. On this account (Vip mobile) Telekom Austria Group set the target to LA10 implement flexible working arrangements in all subsidiaries by 2018. 34 e m p loy e e s Where we stand Where we are heading No uniform flexible work time Anchoring of flexible work model standards across the Group. arrangements in all subsidiaries until 2018. ting excessive stress symptoms and a wide range of cultural traditions and models, child care initiatives and the other health-related impairments. Ausskills in its seven subsidiaries. The successful expansion of a women’s trian subsidiary A1 conducts regular equality of genders is a fixed principle network at A1 (see “Small steps & great medical check-ups, health seminars in all its activities. Varied programmes leaps”, page 37) contribute to sustainand sports classes in the framework of aimed at encouraging women to take ably raise the women’s quota. Thereby, its “Fit on the Job” programme. Group up technical professions, flexible work the Group pays particular attention sports activities are offered in Slovenia, time models as well as shared leadership to diversity in recruiting and talent the Republic of Serbia and Belarus. management process. G4.15 Employees of Bulgarian subsidiary Mobiltel are given the chance to have Promoting the dialogue with their health checked in the framework the employees. of the Mobiltel Health Week (see “Small Under the heading “TAGisfaction”, steps & great leaps”, page 37). the company conducts Group-wide employee surveys at regular intervals Regular improvements of work safety (every two years). The last survey took and accident development monitoring place in 2014. In 2015, Telekom Austria measures are conducted in parallel. Group worked extensively on the impleSlovenian subsidiary Si.mobil, for Awards mentation of initiatives in the fields of instance, created the Si.good Group, in talent management, mobility, further which employees volunteer to impleMost woman-friendly and family development, diversity and leadership. ment improvements with regards to friendly large enterprise in Vienna (A1) Information about the survey, results work place safety, a healthy lifestyle and Responsible Company — and actions taken is provided regularly general well-being. Responsible Employees (Mobiltel) via Intranet, newsletters, employee Mamaforce Company Certificate magazines, events and social media Diversity and equal (Vipnet) channels. Group-wide and local idea opportunities go hand in hand. Employer Partner Certificate (Vipnet) competitions as well as knowledge Telekom Austria Group has signed the Family Friendly Enterprise (Si.mobil) platforms aim at presenting, exchanging Diversity Charter. It thus publicly and implementing ideas or improvement commits to utilising and maintaining suggestions. 35 e m p loy e e s The roadmap — employees Achieved NOT ACHIEVED In implementation Targets 2015 35 % women in the Group and in management positions (38 % / 35 %) Promoting internal replacement, maintaining a high engagement index Increasing international exchange Baseline for targets is 2012. Values in brackets represent the achievement status of the 2015 targets. Said 2014 Creation of the skill management programme ”Skill Academy” Promoting international exchange and know-how transfer to increase the use of internal know-how Implementing further measures to achieve the targets of the Strengthening the internal job market by filling vacant plan for the advancement of women positions with internal personnel as well as promoting of internal mobility Done 2015 ”Do it ourselves” — A1 employees contribute their knowPromoting the internal mobility, e. g. A1 Mobility Coaches, how and experience to projects, workshops and initiatives focussed recruiting and talent management initiatives (e. g. mentoring, internal mediation, coaching) Strengthening the international collaboration, exchange of Best Practises and increased utilisation of collaboration tools Targets 2018 38 % women in management positions Anchoring of flexible work arrangements Implementing a corporate health initiative Baseline for targets is 2015. Planned 2016 Evaluation of measures to support women Consolidation of the existing sports and health programme Establishment of a Group-wide knowledge exchange platform e m p loy e e s Small steps 2 & great leaps 1 FEEL THE DIFFERENCE! 3 а Седмица н о здрав ет 4 As early as August 2014, In 2015, Belarus subWith its Group-wide As one of the first com1 2 3 4 Austrian subsidiary A1 sidiary velcom launched the life balance programme, panies in Croatia, Vipnet started the women’s network human resources project ”Feel Bulgarian subsidiary Mobiltel has signed the ”Charter on recog”Women matter” at the initiative the difference”. In its context, promotes combining work and nition of competences acquired of two female employees. Seven back office employees accomfamily life and supports its through volunteering”. Vipnet events attended by more than pany their colleagues for up to employees in leading a healthy thereby declares to stand up for 700 participants who were given three hours of customer contact. lifestyle. In the framework of the appreciation of competences the chance to discuss topics On the one hand, this is aimed the Mobiltel Health Week, they acquired in the course of volunrelevant to women with wellat promoting a customer-orican, for instance, participate teer work in everyday work life, known guests have since been ented corporate culture. On the in various sporting activities further development and support held at regular intervals. This other hand, it is supposed to and undergo a health check-up. measures. To this end, the CSR aims at using role models to lead to a better understanding of The ”Mom and Dad” club offers initiative ”Do The Right Thing” inspire women to actively shape processes and procedures as a wide-ranging support as well has collaborated with more than their careers and consciously whole and inspire employees to as informational lectures for 40 institutions and associations use the network consisting of think in new directions. 39 velcom families on topics such as in 2015. More than 200 employees 300 internal members. employees have participated in parental leave, parenting and have participated in 50 different the project in 2015. Due to their education. Supported child care volunteer assignments for a total positive feedback, the project is in the form of an in-house of 1,600 hours. A monthly meetplanned to be extended to other kindergarten and holiday care ing was established to advance areas in 2016. complete the offerings. the exchange of experiences and knowledge. 37 Socie t y A What we wanted Where we stand Where we are heading nation’s level of digitalisation greatly influences its growth 100,000 participants in media 92,704 participants trained 150,000 participants in media literacy trainings by 2016. by the end of 2015. literacy trainings by 2018. and wealth. In the framework of the Global Information Technology Report 2015, the consulting company Strategy& analysed the economic and social effects. Their conclusion: A higher level of digitalisation leads to an increase in gross domestic product, lowers the unemployment rate and strengthens innovative activity. Against this background, global networking can simply not progress quickly enough. Despite the fact that the number of Internet users has more than tripled around the world in the last ten years, some 4.1 billion people are still offline1) — this equals approximately 57 % of the world’s population. The European Union fares comparatively better: 81 % of the population in the EU’s 28 member states have Internet access and 78 % of people between 16 and 76 use it regularly. The countries in which Telekom Austria Group operates experience huge differences. While 19 % of Austria’s population were still offline in 2014, that group represented 48 % of the population in the Republic of Serbia and in Bulgaria 42 % and in Belarus more than 32 %2) (see graphic “Households with access to the Internet”, page 39). Overall, indusKeeping up in a trialised nations experienced a higher growth rate than developing countries when it came to Internet access.3) This knowledgeunlevel playing field has a significant impact on the knowledge base and level of education in the respective countries. based society Digital competences: On a level playing field in writing, reading and arithmetic? The Internet makes our lives easier by Can digital media prepare the ground for greater equality providing quick access to information and wealth of opportunities? Yes, provided they are and an almost unlimited amount of accessible and users possess the know-how to use them. knowledge. However, access opportuTelekom Austria Group promotes both using targeted steps. nities are hardly equal for all people For one, on the level of infrastructure, by making broadband Internet available across the nation. And secondly, on the personal level, by implementing programmes aimed at the 1) http://newsroom.fb.com 2) http://ec.europa.eu sustainable development of media literacy. For having access 3) ITU Report, 2015 to the Internet opens up a world of possibilities. 4) http://eskills4jobs.ec.europa.eu 38 Socie t y everywhere in the world. Economic Promoting access via power and level of urbanisation play infrastructure and know-how. an important role. And not least, the Telekom Austria Group reacts to this quality and the nation-wide availability development in two ways: For one, on Awards of a network infrastructure are of parthe infrastructural level, by consistently ticular significance. Telekom Austria extending broadband availability in CSR Grand Prix: The Most  Group therefore invests massively in mobile and fixed-line networks, thus Socially Responsible Company in accelerated broadband expansion in its making ever faster Internet connections Belarus (velcom) area of operation. Apart from technopossible (see page 18). On the other Golden Sempler Award:  logical connection, it aims at supporthand, Telekom Austria Group also Back2School campaign in the ing the people in developing digital advocates the development of the skills category ”Best Targeted Campaign” competence. For all forecasts predict that determine whether people can (Vipnet) that this competence will — at least in actually use the potential behind this Europe — have a decisive influence on fact for themselves in a sustainable development opportunities and comway: To this end, it started the initiative petitiveness and will become as impor“Internet for All” in Austria. In 2014 tant as skills in reading, writing and similar projects and initiatives were It focusses on promoting the safe and arithmetic.4) rolled out in all the Group’s countries. competent use of digital media such as the Internet, especially in people who are disadvantaged regarding access to education. Safely navigating the Web: ”Internet for All”. Only those who know how to Households properly use the Internet, who are with access to aware of the risks of social media the Internet and capable of identifying them can also utilise the chances they present to their advantage. That is why the topic of media literacy is at the top of the agenda in the initiative “Internet for All”. For instance, by means of focus trainings and manuals especially made for children used, for example, in Bulgaria. In the year under review, the Macedonian project “Surf 2014 81 % 58 % 57 % 68 % 68 % 52 % 76 % Skillfully, Surf Smart” was devoted 2010 73 % 31 % 33 % 57 % 47 % 40 % 68 % to the safe use of the Internet by employees’ children. In Austria, workshops surrounding this topic where held both at the “A1 Internet for All” campus locations and in schools in the framework of regional tours. In addition, the Austrian subsidiary staged parent information evenings to provide the entire target group of the family with comprehensive information on competent Internet use. Teacher training sessions, too, r ia ia t ia ru s ia b S e li c o focussed on this topic. st ar oa la en rb f Au lg Cr Be ov R ia Bu Sl M ep u pu ac bl Re e d ic on o f ia According to surveys, girls and women Source: ITU, 2015 sometimes still have limited access to 39 Socie t y initiatives and social partnerships (SELECTION) S pecialisterne — Integration  of persons suffering from a condition in the autism spectrum into the labour market (A1) M tel Talent — Student  What we wanted Where we stand Where we are heading competition to promote special interests (Mobiltel) Implementing social projects Numerous social projects Continuation of local social according to local needs by implemented in the commitment until 2018. D o The Right Thing — Project  2015. subsidiaries. aimed at promoting internal volunteer work by employees (Vipnet) C hildren.Autism.Parents. —  Development and provision of the the Internet, be it due to societal reaInformational brochures for the target free application ”DAR Communicator” sons or a lower interest in technology.6) groups of seniors, children and families for autistic persons (velcom) Dedicated “Girls’ Days” in Austria thereare created by several subsidiaries of P artnership with Safe.si —  fore directly cater to this target group Telekom Austria Group — for instance Trainings for children on the safe and aim at overcoming such barriers. in Austria, Slovenia and Bulgaria — use of mobile phones and data and can be downloaded or ordered on transfer (Si.mobil) “Internet for All” also offers tailored their websites. The family guide “Safe S uper Bus — Project aimed at  trainings for seniors. Many of them and easy surfing” which was published integrating disadvantaged children participate in these workshops to make in 2015 in Austria represented a key in the Republic of Serbia (Vip mobile) their first steps in the world of the activity in this area (see “Small steps & SOS Children’s Village — Free  Internet and lots of them come back great leaps”, page 43). PA2 fixed-line phones phone; business to do them again. A very high recomcustomers are invited to donate mendation rate is testament to the 6) http://newsroom.fb.com 7) Recommendation rate surveyed in Austria (one.Vip) trainings’ quality and significance for 99 %, Slovenia 100 %, Croatia 88 % and in the G4.15 the target group.7) Republic of Serbia 99 %. 40 Socie t y to the monthly tours. These cover In order the demand for adult training in Graz, to reach Innsbruck, Linz and Vienna. USEFUL INFORMATION as many for GRI experts educationally Telekom Austria Group’s employees are disadvantaged particularly important ambassadors SO1: Programmes aimed at people as possible, of “Internet for All”. They support the supporting and integrating local “A1 Internet for All” coopinitiative in the framework of volunteer communities are implemented at all erates with more than 30 programmes. From apprentices to the subsidiaries. partners from the social and CEO, they have so far taken part 2,623 PA5: Telekom Austria Group is educational fields in Austria. With times, 838 times in 2015 alone. obliged to provide voice telephony its three permanent locations in three services at reduced rates to lowprovincial capitals as well as monthly Approaching the socially income households as well as othertours into rural areas A1 — according disadvantaged. wise eligible customers in Austria. For to the scientific evalution 2015 by the A society’s rate of development is not this, it receives financial compensation NPO Institut at the Vienna University of least reflected in the way it deals with from the Republic of Austria on a Economics and Business — significantly its weaker members. New technologies contractual base. contributes to the nation-wide bridging make it easier for socially disadvanTA5: Open source technologies of the digital divide in Austria. In 2015, taged or physically handicapped people are promoted in the framework of the dedicated tours for seniors where added to master their daily lives. On the one ”Internet for All” initiative. hand, new media can make living and working significantly easier for blind or to a high degree visually impaired people. Text and chat messages, for instance, represent valuable means of communication for deaf people. On the other hand, e-health solutions offer new possibilities in the health care sector. In Austria, for instance, “A1’s MedTelekom Austria Group furthermore Cooperations for ical Data Network” links physicians, offers products that take into account safe Internet use hospitals, laboratories and other health social aspects: Special mobile phones (SELECTION) care institutions. one.Vip in the Repubwith larger displays and simplified lic of Macedonia also reminds patients menus for visually impaired persons Vienna University Children’s of doctor’s appointments by means of or discounts for socially disadvantaged Office (A1) text messages. Slovenia’s Si.mobil helps people. Belarus’ velcom offers special BIV — Academy for Integrated diabetics monitoring their blood sugar rates to persons with impaired hearing. Education (A1) level with the app Vem, kaj jem! (“I Likewise, Macedonia’s one.Vip offers Saferinternet (A1, Mobiltel) know what I eat!”). E-government solua special rate that meets the requireZagreb City Libraries (Vipnet) tions such as the one offered by Slovements of persons with special needs. Safe.si (Si.mobil) nia’s Si.mobil facilitate communication For the common goal must be to allow Organisation for Cross-Generational and reduce administrative burdens in more and more people to participate Cooperation 35+ (Vip mobile) the communication between citizens in the digital progress — step by step. G4.15 and authorities. EC8, PA2, 5, 7 41 Socie t y The Roadmap — Society Achieved NOT ACHIEVED In implementation Targets 2015 100,000 participants in media literacy trainings (by 2016) (92,704) Increasing the number of partnerships to promote media literacy within Telekom Austria Group Implementation of social projects according to local needs Implementing and further developing cost control tools Baseline for targets is 2012. Values in brackets represent the achievement status of the 2015 targets. Said 2014 Implementation of the respective initiatives to promote media Continuation of social initiatives tailored to local needs literacy in Telekom Austria Group’s countries of operation Continuation of tools and applications for means of cost control as well as scientific evaluation as well as for children and youth media protection Development of new workshop concepts on ”coding” as well Publication of a parental guide focussing on children using as focus on the target group of parents to promote safe media the Internet use by children and adolescents in Austria Done 2015 Workshops held at six subsidiaries in the framework of ”Internet Publication of free brochures on safe media use for families for All”, redesign of a media competence programme in Belarus and children in Austria Introduction of the focus topic ”coding” into the programme Continuation of local social initiatives as well as continuation ”A1 Internet for All” in Austria as well as four parents’ evenings of cost control tools with 44 participants Targets 2018 150,000 participants in media literacy trainings Promotion of social projects according to local needs Baseline for targets is 2015. Planned 2016 More than 20,000 participants in media literacy trainings Implementation of the new media literacy workshop Continuation of social initiatives based on local needs programme in Belarus Socie t y Small steps & great leaps 2 1 4 Kinderleicht und kindersicher online. Familienratgeber Internet Höchste Zeit, dass die Erwachsenen es auch mal lernen! The family guide on ”Safe Serbian subsidiary In Summer 2015, velcom In 2015, the Bulgarian 1 2 3 4 and easy surfing” was Vip mobile’s project ”Super initiated a partnership with subsidiary Mobiltel scored developed and published by the Bus” is devoted to the integrathe National History Museum of a new record number of particiAustrian subsidiary A1 in the tion of children with social or Belarus called ”museum for kids”. pants in ”Internet for All” trainframework of the ”Internet for healthrelated disadvantages. It focusses on imparting and ings. Using two large events, All” initiative. It provides helpful In 2015, the Super Bus visited preserving Belarus’ cultural herinearly 1,100 children and information and tips on safety, more than 15 places in the entire tage. A first step saw the modadolescents were trained on focussing on topics such as Republic of Serbia, staging learnernisation of the technical equipthe safe use of the Internet. In reasonable media use, social ing and therapy workshops taiment in the exhibition rooms the framework of Sofia Science networks, cyberbullying, Internet lored to the respective target such as multi-functional interacFair, Mobiltel staged a so-called pornography as well as computer group and thus reaching some tive panels and video projectors ”Mobiltel Digital Cafe” in which and online games. This family 2,000 children. Discussions with to arouse the interest of young the teens could immediately guide is available online and in political representatives, NGOs visitors to learn more about the put to use what they had learnt, printed form. and civil associations were furhistory and culture of Belarus. supervised and instructed by thermore held on a total of nine Mobiltel employees. Mobiltel platforms to increase awareness additionally provided free highfor the local societal problems. speed Internet at the fair. 43 GRI Content Table According to the GRI G4 ”comprehensive” and Telecommunications Sec tor Supplement Pilot Version 1.0 G4.32 The following GRI Content Table lists all material aspects that are Table although they are considered as material. It is necessary to relevant for Telekom Austria Group as a whole. In the course of introduce the relevant systems and processes which make it possible materiality reassessment in 2015, the aspects were assigned to the to collect data. It is expected that these relevant aspects will be material topics. gradually incorporated in the next three to five years. The aspects ”Materials”, ”Investments”, ”Supplier Environmental The designations O and I represent the relevance of the aspect outside Assessment”, ”Supplier Human Rights Assessment”, ”Supplier (O) and inside (I) the organisation. For extent and details of the external Assessment in terms of Labour Practices” and ”Human Rights verification, we refer to the assurance statement on page 57. Assessment” can currently not be reported in a GRI compliant G4.18–4.20 manner. Therefore, those aspects are not listed in the GRI Content External Audit External Audit – Austria AR: Annual Report 2015 Indicator Page Description Comment Validation Strategy and Analysis G4.1 6 Statement provided by the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability (strategical priorities, key events, target achievements, challenges) G4.2 7, 9, 15, Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities AR 9ff Organisational Profile G4.3 7 Name of the organisation G4.4 4, 7, 60 Primary brands, products and services of the organisation G4.5 7, 60 Location of the organisation’s headquarters G4.6 4, 7 Number of countries where the organisation operates and names of countries where either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4.7 7, AR 24 Nature of ownership and legal form G4.8 4 Markets served (geographic breakdown, sectors served, types of customers and beneficiaries) G4.9 4, 7, AR 24ff, Scale of the organisation, including total number of employees, of 54ff, 72ff operations, net revenues, total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity, quantity of products or services provided G4.10 Total number of employees by employment contract, gender, Due to different reporting systems, supervised employees, regions and any significant variations in disclosure in line with GRI requireemployment numbers ments is currently not possible. Disclosure is planned within the next years. G4.11 34 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements G4.12 12, 16 Organisation’s supply chain G4.13 7, 16, AR 15ff, Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the 24ff, 94ff, 125f organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain G4.14 16 Handling of precautionary approach or principle addressed by the organisation G4.15 14, 20, 27, Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, 35, 40f principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses G4.16 14 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organisations 44 GRI Co n t e n t Ta b l e Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4.17 59, AR 141f List of all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents G4.18 8f, 12, 44 Explaination of the process for defining the report content and its implementation G4.19 9, 44 Material aspects identified in the process for defining report content G4.20 9, 44ff Aspect boundary of each material aspect within the organisation G4.21 9 Aspect boundary of each material aspects G4.22 16, 59 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports and the reasons for such restatements G4.23 16, 59 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4.24 9 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation G4.25 9, 16 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders G4.26 8f, 16 Organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement and indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process G4.27 8f Topics that came up during the stakeholder process and the reactions of the organisation Report Profile G4.28 59 Reporting period G4.29 59 Date of most recent previous report G4.30 59 Reporting cycle G4.31 60 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents G4.32 44, 59 Report of the ”in-accordance”-option, GRI index of the selected option, reference to the external audit report G4.33 57f Policies of the organisation regarding external audit of the report, scope of audit and relationship to audit company Governance G4.34 13, AR 34ff Governance structure of the organisation, including committees responsible for decisions regarding the economic, ecological and social impact G4.35 13 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees G4.36 13, AR 34ff Responsibilities for economic, environmental and social topics G4.37 8f, 13 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics G4.38 AR 40ff Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Due to personal data privacy, memberships in under-represented social groups are not disclosed. G4.39 AR 40ff Report of question whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer G4.40 AR 37ff, 40ff Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance Nomination and selection processes for body and its committees the highest governance body fall within the remit of the owner of Telekom Austria Group. G4.41 AR 40ff Processes for the highest governance body to ensure that conflicts of interest are avoided and managed 45 GRI Co n t e n t Ta b l e G4.42 13, AR 40ff Roles of highest governance body’s and senior executives’ in the development, approval and updating of the organisation’s purpose, values or mission statements, strategies, policies and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts G4.43 13, AR 34ff, Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance 41ff, 68ff body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics G4.44 Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s Due to legal requirements of the performance with respect to governance of economic, Stock Corporation Act, disclosure environmental and social topics is not possible. G4.45 AR 44ff, 68ff Role of highest governance body in the identification and According to the terms of the Austrian management of economic, environmental and social impacts, Stock Corporation Act, the Supervisory risks and opportunities Board has the role of a control body. The application of the indicator is therefore limited. G4.46 13, AR 41ff, 66ff Role of highest governance body in reviewing the effectiveness of the organisation’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics G4.47 13, AR 41ff Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities G4.48 13, 59 Responsibilities for formal reviews and approvals of the organisation’s sustainability report and fact that all material aspects are covered G4.49 16, AR 40ff Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body G4.50 16 Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body G4.51 AR 35ff, 40f, Remuneration policies for the highest governance body 131ff and senior executives G4.52 16, AR 35ff Process for determining remuneration G4.53 16, AR 40f Process for taking stakeholders’ views into account G4.54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organisation’s Telekom Austria Group considers highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations information about salary information as to the median annual total compensation for all employees strictly confidential. Information exceeding in the same country the requirements of the Corporate Governance Code will therefore not be disclosed. G4.55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for see G4.54 the organisation’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees in the same country Ethics and Integrity G4.56 15, 33, AR 9ff, Organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of 27ff behaviour G4.57 15, AR 32f Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on and lawful behaviour and matters related to organisational integrity G4.58 15, AR 32f Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour Disclosure on Management Approach G4 DMA 10f, 15 Details on the management approach of material aspects 46 GRI Co n t e n t Ta b l e Economic Performance (O/I) EC1 16 Direct economic value generated and distributed EC2 Financial risk as well as other threats and opportunities for the A disclosure in line with GRI requirements activities of the organisation posed by climate change is currently in development. For information concerning risks and opportunities due to climate change, please refer to the CDP assessment 2016. EC3 AR 122f Coverage of the organisation's obligations defined in the performance-oriented benefit plan EC4 AR 98f, 113f Financial assistance received from government Market Presence (O/I) EC5 Ratio of standard entry-level wage by gender compared to local The Telekom Austria Group considers informinimum wage at significant locations of operation mation about salary information as strictly confidential. Information exceeding the requirements of the Corporate Governance Code will therefore not be disclosed. EC6 56 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operations Indirect Economic Impacts (O/I) EC7 19f, AR 9ff Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported EC8 19, 41 Type and extent of significant indirect economic impacts Procurement Practices (O) EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant Reporting in line with GRI requirements is locations of operation currently not possible. Appropiate reporting is in progress. Energy (I) EN3 52f Energy consumption within the organisation EN4 29, 52 Energy consumption outside the organisation EN5 53 Energy intensity EN6 26, 28, 52f Reduction of energy consumption EN7 26, 28 Reductions of energy consumption for products and services Emissions (O/I) EN15 29, 52, 55 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) EN16 52, 55 Indirect energyrelated greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) EN17 52, 55 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) EN18 52, 54 Intensity of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions EN19 28, 55 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) ODS do not constitute a significant proportion of Telekom Austria Group’s greenhouse gas emissions. Consequently, they are not reported. EN21 52 NO x , SO x and other significant air emissions Effluents and Waste (I) EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination The Telekom Austria Group is not a manufacturing company. Wastewater is only discharged into public sewer system due to office activities. As a result, the indicator is not considered to be significant. EN23 29, 53 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Reporting in line with GRI requirements is currently not possible. Disclosure is planned within the next years. 47 GRI Co n t e n t Ta b l e EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills see EN22 EN25 29 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed see EN22 hazardous under the terms of the Basel convention, Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EN26 Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water see EN22 bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the organisation’s discharges of water and runoff Products And Services (O/I) EN27 29 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services EN28 29, 54 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Environmental Compliance (O/I) EN29 29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport (O/I) EN30 27 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organisation’s operations and transporting members of the workforce Overall Environmental Protection Expenditure (O/I) EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments This information is considered as strictly by type confidential and will therefore not be disclosed by Telekom Austria Group. Employment (I) LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee Reporting in line with GRI requirements is turnover by age group, gender and region currently not possible. Disclosure is planned within the next years. LA2 34, AR 131ff Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation LA3 34, 55 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Labour/Management Relations (O/I) LA4 34 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements Occupational Health and Safety (I) LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Health & safety representatives are nominated management-worker health and safety committees that help in every subsidiary to monitor and coordinate monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs health and safety aspects together with staff representatives and as representatives for the whole workforce. LA6 56 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender LA7 34 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation LA8 34 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 48 GRI Co n t e n t Ta b l e Training and Education (I) LA9 33f Average hours of training per year, per employee, by gender and by employee category LA10 33f Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA11 34 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category Diversity and Equal Opportunity (I) LA12 4, 55f, AR 34f Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity Equal Remuneration for Women and Men (I) LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by The Telekom Austria Group considers employee category, by significant locations of operation information about salaries as strictly confidential. Salary information exceeding the requirements of the Corporate Governance Code will therefore not be disclosed. Non-Discrimination (O/I) HR3 34 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining (I) HR4 34 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk and measures taken to support these rights Local Communities (O) SO1 41 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments and development programmes SO2 21 Operations with significant, actual and potential negative impacts on local communities Anti-Corruption (O/I) SO3 16 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified SO4 15f, 52 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures SO5 AR 43 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Public Policy (O/I) SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and As stated in the Code of Conduct of recipient/beneficiary Telekom Austria Group, political contributions are not allowed. 49 GRI Co n t e n t Ta b l e Anti-Competitive Behaviour (O/I) SO7 21 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, In the course of regular business activity, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes several lawsuits and other claims are pending against Telekom Austria AG and its subsidiaries. No information can be given on pending procedures. Compliance (O/I) SO8 AR 115ff, 139f Monetary value of significant fines and total number of In the course of regular business activity, non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and several lawsuits and other claims are regulations pending against Telekom Austria AG and its subsidiaries. No information can be given on pending procedures. Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society (O/I) SO11 AR 43 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Product and Service Labelling (O) PR3 21 Type of product and service information required by the organisation’s procedures for product and service information and labelling as well as percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements PR5 21, 52 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Reporting in line with GRI requirements is currently not possible. Disclosure is planned within the next years. Marketing (O/I) PR6 22f Sale of banned or disputed products PR7 16 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer Privacy (O/I) PR8 16 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws In the course of regular business activity, and regulations concerning the provision and use of products several lawsuits and other claims are and services pending against the Telekom Austria AG and its subsidiaries. No information can be given on pending procedures. Telecommunications Sector Supplement — Internal Operations IO1 20, AR 54ff Capital investment in telecommunication network infrastructure broken down by country/region IO2 Net costs for service providers under the Universal Service This information is considered as Obligation when extending service to geographic locations and strictly confidential and will therefore low-income groups, which are not profitable not be disclosed by Telekom Austria Group. IO3 23, 34 Practices to ensure health and safety of field personnel involved in the installation, operation and maintenance of masts, base stations, laying cables and other outside plant 50 GRI Co n t e n t Ta b l e IO4 –5 23 Compliance with ICNIRP standards and guidelines on exposure to radiofrequency emissions from handsets and base stations IO6 22 Policies and practices with respect to Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) of handsets IO7 23 Policies and practices on the siting of masts and transmission sites including stakeholder consultation, site sharing and initiatives to reduce visual impacts. Approach to evaluate consultations and quantify where possible IO8 21 Number and percentage of stand-alone sites, shared sites and sites on existing structures Telecommunications Sector Supplement — Providing Access PA1 20 Policies and practices to enable the deployment of telecommunication infrastructure and access to telecommunication products and services in remote and low population-density areas PA2 40f Policies and practices to overcome barriers for access and use of tele communication products and services including: language, culture, illiteracy and lack of education, income, disabilities and age PA3 20 Policies and practices to ensure availability and reliability of telecommunications products and services PA4 19f Quantify the level of availability of telecommunication products and services in areas where the organisation operates PA5 41 Number and types of telecommunication products and services provided to and used by low and no income sectors of the population PA6 20 Programmes to provide and maintain telecommunication products and services in emergency situations and for disaster relief PA7 41 Policies and practices to manage human rights issues relating to access and use of telecommunication products and services PA8 22 Policies and practices to publicly communicate on EMF related issues PA9 23 Total amount invested in programmes and activities in electromagnetic field research PA10 21 Initiatives to ensure clarity of charges and tariffs PA11 29 Initiatives to inform customers about product features and applications that will promote responsible, efficient, cost effective and environmentally friendly use Telecommunications Sector Supplement — Technology Applications TA1 21 Examples of the resource efficiency of telecommunication products and services delivered TA2 21 Examples of telecommunication products, services and applications that have the potential to replace physical objects (e. g. online telephone or video-conferencing) TA5 41 Description of practices relating to intellectual property rights and open source technologies 51 Data Appendix Network & customers Anti-corruption Customer Service 2015 2014 Change Training Customer contacts1) Customer contacts1) (in %) (in tsd.) (in tsd.) 2015 Austria 21,188 20,700 2% Austria 6,336 Bulgaria2) 3,946 3,931 0% Bulgaria 1,795 Croatia 3,772 3,592 5% Croatia 43 Belarus 4,374 4,944 –12% Belarus 1,488 Slovenia 3) 763 1,074 –29% Slovenia 484 Republic of Serbia 2,202 2,614 –16% Republic of Serbia 898 Republic of Macedonia4) 1,930 1,735 11% Republic of Macedonia 135 Telekom Austria Group 38,175 38,590 –1% Telekom Austria Group 11,179 1) Includes contacts by phone, e-mail and text messages PR5 SO4 2) Include the company Mobiltel 3) Include the company Si.mobil 4) Include the company Vip operator environment Methodology — Emissions Methodology — Energy In its calculation method for direct, indirect and other indirect emissions, The calculation method is — as long as self provision is not concerned — Telekom Austria Group follows the internationally recognised definiton based on the invoices of the respective energy providers. For the of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the WRI/WBCSD (World Resources conversion into kilowatt hours factors of the ecoinvent database have Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development), in been taken into account. When data was not available, estimates were which all greenhouse gases are included in the calculation, i. e. not just made in some cases. For the energy share of fuels the heating value those covered by the Kyoto Protocol. The calcualtion methods are was considered. EN3, 4, 6 based on the published data by ecoinvent (AR4 100-year (IPCC 2007-4th Assessment Report)). Figures given as CO2 equivalents. Nature of gases Environmental KPIs for Slovenia include the company Si.mobil, reported by energy providers for Scope 2 emissions are unknown. for Bulgaria KPIs include the company Mobiltel. EN15 –18, 21 Vehicle fleet Petrol Diesel Consumption of Mileage 2015 Vehicles (in pcs.) consumption (in l) consumption (in l) alternative fuels (in l) (in tsd. km) Telekom Austria Group 4,784 378,931 6,862,782 190,711 103,595 2014 Telekom Austria Group 4,826 343,482 6,847,508 174,762 102,870 Change (in %) Telekom Austria Group –1 10 0 9 1 Air pollutants generated by the vehicle fleet 1) 2015 (in g/km) NO x SO2 PM10 Telekom Austria Group 0.665 0.189 0.067 2014 (in g/km) Telekom Austria Group 0.666 0.188 0.067 1) The air pollutants were aligned to the published data of ecoinvent. They Change (in %) include the emissions of the vehicle fleet. Telekom Austria Group 0 0 0 Reported emissions represent relevant EN21 pollutants of Telekom Austria Group. In the Republic of Macedonia, the merger of the Macedonian subsidiary Vip operator with ONE, a subsidiary of Telekom Slovenije Group, was completed in October 2015. 52 D ata A p p e n d i x Direct and indirect energy Total energy 2015 (in MWh) Electricity 1) Heating fuels2) District heating Fuels3) consumption Austria 299,530 16,226 30,766 51,060 397,582 Bulgaria 78,970 130 243 7,377 86,719 Croatia 53,549 4,489 3,455 4,129 65,622 Belarus 79,459 0 2,867 3,904 86,230 Slovenia 23,862 0 345 275 24,482 Republic of Serbia 37,778 90 762 2,489 41,119 Republic of Macedonia 24,965 2,751 0 2,579 30,295 Telekom Austria Group 598,113 23,685 38,438 71,811 732,048 2014 (in MWh) Austria 299,840 16,798 30,853 51,730 399,221 Bulgaria4) 75,066 92 263 7,705 83,126 Croatia 42,864 61 3,323 4,020 50,268 Belarus 82,536 0 2,933 4,514 89,982 Slovenia 20,778 0 246 299 21,322 Republic of Serbia 34,408 70 733 2,483 37,694 Republic of Macedonia 9,234 844 0 479 10,556 Telekom Austria Group 564,725 17,864 38,351 71,230 692,170 Change (in %) Austria 0 –3 0 –1 0 Bulgaria 5 41 –8 –4 4 Croatia 25 7,241 4 3 31 Belarus –4 n. a. –2 –14 –4 Slovenia 15 n. a. 41 –8 15 Republic of Serbia 10 28 4 0 9 Republic of Macedonia 170 226 n. a. 438 187 Telekom Austria Group 6 33 0 1 6 Table may include rounding differences. 1 Joule = 2.77777778 × 10 -10 MWh EN3, 6 1) Purchased and in-house production as well as diesel for emergency generators 2) Includes oil and gas 3) Includes diesel, petrol, CNG, LPG und natural gas 4) Due to increased data quality, Bulgaria‘s key figure ”electricity” from 2014 was corrected. Energy and fuel consumption1) 2015 (in MWh) From non-renewable energy From sources of renewable energy2) Telekom Austria Group 93,997 4,301 1) Oil, diesel, petrol, LPG, CNG and natural gas, including diesel for emergency generators EN3 2) Share of biogenic fuels in diesel and petrol Environment — relative indicators Energy Efficiency Index1) Share of e-billing Water consumption 2015 (in MWh per terabyte) (in %) (per FTE, in m³) Telekom Austria Group 0.6 64 16 1) Energy Efficiency Index is defined as total electrical energy consumption within Telekom Austria Group, EN5 divided by total transported data volume of fixed and mobile telecommunication networks. Waste Recyclable Hazardous waste Residual Total Electronic waste3) 2015 (in kg) Paper Metal Other 1) waste Batteries Other2) Telekom Austria Group 1,159,898 1,800,630 558,198 671,119 255,761 263,639 2,277,007 6,986,252 2014 (in kg) Telekom Austria Group 1,059,060 3,485,791 605,535 774,212 72,587 233,775 2,308,188 8,539,148 Change (in %) Telekom Austria Group 10 –48 –8 –13 252 13 –1 –18 Quantities were defined according to invoices of waste management companies or if this was not possible according to EN23 volumina of waste containers combined with intervals of waste disposal. 1) Other recyclable waste includes plastic, glas and biological waste. 2) Other hazardous waste includes mainly mobile phones and other hazardours materials. 3) Due to increased data quality, the key figure ”residual waste” from 2014 was corrected. 53 D ata A p p e n d i x Waste — paper consumption Waste — mobile phone Waste — Printing & recycling water consumption 2015 (in kg) copy paper Other 1) Total Collected old Austria 96,311 792,843 889,154 2015 (in pcs.) mobile phones 2015 (in m³) Total Bulgaria 91,175 161,809 252,984 Austria 24,385 Telekom Austria Group 304,542 Croatia 11,833 140,898 152,730 Bulgaria 1,345 2014 (in m³) Belarus 40,943 40,493 81,436 Croatia 220 Telekom Austria Group 266,555 Slovenia 5,042 69,209 74,251 Belarus n. m. Change (in %) Republic of Serbia 26,867 106,398 133,265 Slovenia 455 Telekom Austria Group 14 Republic of Macedonia 35,860 138,573 174,433 Republic of Serbia n. m. Telekom Austria Group 308,030 1,450,222 1,758,252 Republic of Macedonia n. m. 2014 (in kg) Telekom Austria Group 26,405 Austria 102,714 727,172 829,886 2014 (in pcs.) Bulgaria 92,477 186,841 279,318 Austria 11,794 Croatia 33,530 160,406 193,936 Bulgaria 1,135 Belarus 49,700 43,429 93,129 Croatia 483 Slovenia 6,225 98,557 104,782 Belarus n. m. Republic of Serbia 30,434 151,394 181,828 Slovenia 5,460 Republic of Macedonia 20,000 68,172 88,172 Republic of Serbia 1,189 Telekom Austria Group 335,080 1,435,971 1,771,051 Republic of Macedonia 500 Change (in %) Telekom Austria Group 20,561 Austria –6 9 7 Change (in %) Bulgaria –1 –13 –9 Austria 107 Croatia –65 –12 –21 Bulgaria 19 Belarus –18 –7 –13 Croatia –54 Slovenia –19 –30 –29 Belarus n. m. Republic of Serbia –12 –30 –27 Slovenia –92 Republic of Macedonia 79 103 98 Republic of Serbia n. m. Telekom Austria Group –8 1 –1 Republic of Macedonia n. m. 1) Other includes mainly paper for customer invoices and Telekom Austria Group 28 paper for packaging. EN28 Environment — relative indicators Share of renewables Recycling quota2) CO2 intensity3) Average paper 2015 in the electricity consumption1) (in %) (in %) (per FTE) consumption (kg/FTE) Austria 99 67 3 11 Bulgaria 19 14 13 25 Croatia 39 42 22 10 Belarus 0.5 68 18 23 Slovenia 67 91 20 10 Republic of Serbia 24 65 38 31 Republic of Macedonia 19 90 27 38 Telekom Austria Group 60 64 12 17 2014 Austria4) 99 75 3 12 Bulgaria 17 13 18 37 Croatia 36 56 18 29 Belarus 0.5 61 18 26 Slovenia 31 94 22 16 Republic of Serbia 24 65 33 33 Republic of Macedonia 17 87 17 37 Telekom Austria Group 60 70 11 21 1) Derived from electricity consumption, values of A1 and Si.mobil were calculated, the others as measured by the standard national grid factor. EN18 2) For recycling provided fractions (non-hazardous waste, electronic waste and batteries) in relation to total waste. 3) CO2 intensity includes the CO2 emissions from Scope 1 and Scope 2 (excluding compensation) divided by the number of employees by end of the year. 4) Due to increased data quality, the key figure ”recycling quota” from 2014 was corrected. 54 D ata A p p e n d i x Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Other indirect greenhouse Direct Indirect Total Total (Scope 1+2 gas emissions Upstream processes 2015 (CO2 in t) (Scope 1) (Scope 2) (Scope 1+2) including compensation) 2015 (CO2 in t) (Scope 3) Austria 17,827 10,029 27,856 11,608 Austria 11,791 Bulgaria 3,230 44,723 47,953 47,953 Bulgaria 23,443 Croatia 2,385 24,476 26,861 26,861 Croatia 11,168 Belarus 1,446 30,723 32,169 32,169 Belarus 16,467 Slovenia 73 10,072 10,145 10,145 Slovenia 2,613 Republic of Serbia 998 32,679 33,677 33,677 Republic of Serbia 16,962 Republic of Macedonia 1,486 23,484 24,970 24,970 Republic of Macedonia 12,051 Telekom Austria Group 27,446 176,186 203,632 187,384 Telekom Austria Group 94,495 2014 (CO2 in t) 2014 (CO2 in t) Austria 18,048 10,040 28,088 11,840 Austria 14,546 Bulgaria1) 3,302 42,484 45,787 45,787 Bulgaria1) 20,474 Croatia 1,169 19,789 20,959 20,959 Croatia 9,983 Belarus 1,589 31,921 33,510 33,510 Belarus 17,995 Slovenia 80 8,755 8,835 8,835 Slovenia 2,272 Republic of Serbia 1,056 29,677 30,733 30,733 Republic of Serbia 16,227 Republic of Macedonia 608 8,343 8,951 8,951 Republic of Macedonia 5,059 Telekom Austria Group 25,853 151,010 176,863 160,615 Telekom Austria Group 86,555 Change (in %) Change (in %) Austria –1 0 –1 –2 Austria –19 Bulgaria –2 5 5 5 Bulgaria 14 Croatia 104 24 28 28 Croatia 12 Belarus –9 –4 –4 –4 Belarus –8 Slovenia –8 15 15 15 Slovenia 15 Republic of Serbia –5 10 10 10 Republic of Serbia 5 Republic of Macedonia 144 181 179 179 Republic of Macedonia 138 Telekom Austria Group 6 17 15 17 Telekom Austria Group 9 Scope 1 includes direct emissions from combustion of fossil fuels for EN15, 16, 19 Scope 3 takes into account the costs associated heating, electricity production and mobility without consideration of cooling with the upstream emissions from heating energy, agents. Scope 2 measures indirect emissions from electric energy and electricity (not included in Scope 2) and fuels (fleet) district heating. and business travel (taxi, plane, train) as well as 1) Due to increased data quality, Bulgarian‘s key figure ”Scope 2” from 2014 was corrected. emissions from customer‘s mobile phones. Upstream emissions were calculated according to ecoinvent. EN17 Employees Employee age structure1) Return to work and retention rate 2015 (in FTE) below 30 30–50 above 50 after parental leave by gender Austria 598 4,897 3,017 Parental leaves Returned to work Bulgaria 1,187 2,285 135 2015 (in HC) female male female male Croatia 198 984 57 Telekom Austria Group 805 139 347 130 Belarus 682 1,009 86 LA3 Slovenia 60 424 24 Republic of Serbia 164 702 13 Republic of Macedonia 170 732 40 Composition of the governance body1) Telekom Austria Group 3,059 11,033 3,372 (Age structure) 2014 (in FTE) below 30 30–50 above 50 Total Share below 30 30–50 above 50 Austria 870 5,286 2,478 2015 (in HC) women (in %) (in HC) (in HC) (in HC) Bulgaria 863 1,580 83 Telekom Austria Group 12 17 0 4 7 Croatia 120 970 61 1) Capital representatives in the Supervisory Board LA12 Belarus 785 1,027 69 Slovenia 57 324 18 Republic of Serbia 241 680 12 Republic of Macedonia 94 434 7 Telekom Austria Group 3,030 10,301 2,728 1) Apprentices not included LA12 55 D ata A p p e n d i x diversity 2015 (in %) 2014 (in %) 2015 (in %) 2014 (in %) Share of Share of Share of female Share of female female employees female employees executives executives Austria 26 26 18 17 Bulgaria 54 52 58 47 Croatia 42 39 40 41 Belarus 61 61 38 40 Slovenia 40 47 40 40 Republic of Serbia 51 52 45 43 Republic of Macedonia 45 54 60 37 Telekom Austria Group 38 38 35 29 LA12 Share of local Employees in partDays Accident statistics Fatal lost to management time employment 2015 (in working days) Accidents accidents accidents 2015 (in %) 2015 (in HC) Austria 129 0 1,240 Austria 98 Austria 683 Bulgaria 3 0 45 Bulgaria 99 Bulgaria 31 Croatia 19 0 396 Croatia 97 Croatia 15 Belarus 0 0 0 Belarus 40 Belarus 30 Slovenia 1 0 6 Slovenia 59 Slovenia 10 Republic of Serbia 1 0 78 Republic of Serbia 98 Republic of Serbia 0 Republic of Macedonia 7 0 221 Republic of Macedonia 100 Republic of Macedonia 4 Telekom Austria Group 160 0 1,986 Telekom Austria Group 90 Telekom Austria Group 773 2014 (in working days) 2014 (in %) 2014 (in HC) Austria 113 0 1,026 Austria 98 Austria 661 Bulgaria 1 0 68 Bulgaria 98 Bulgaria 65 Croatia 15 0 305 Croatia 98 Croatia 0 Belarus 1 1 0 Belarus 99 Belarus 32 Slovenia 2 0 41 Slovenia 96 Slovenia 10 Republic of Serbia 4 0 80 Republic of Serbia 96 Republic of Serbia 0 Republic of Macedonia 7 0 650 Republic of Macedonia 94 Republic of Macedonia 0 Telekom Austria Group 143 1 2,170 Telekom Austria Group 97 Telekom Austria Group 768 LA6 EC6 LA12 Society A1 Internet for All Recommendation rate Participating Recommendation rate 2015 Trainings Participations of participants (in %) employees1) of employess (in %) Austria 1,666 22,980 99 811 99 2014 Austria 1,487 18,704 97 715 98 Change (in %) Austria 12 23 n. m. 13 n. m. 1) Employees supporting for the first time in the respective reporting year Media literacy trainings 2015 2014 Change Participations Participations (in %) Austria 22,980 18,704 23 Bulgaria 1,055 500 111 Croatia 248 200 24 1) No media literacy trainings were offered in Belarus1) n. m. 100 n. m. Belarus in 2015. Work is currently underway Slovenia 131 1,000 –87 on the implementation of a new workshop programme. Republic of Serbia2) n. m. 60 n. m. 2) The Serbian subsidiary did conduct media Republic of Macedonia 67 250 –73 literacy trainings in 2015 but could not record Telekom Austria Group 24,481 20,814 18 the number of participants. 56 ASSURANCE Statement 1) Introduction and in cases of ordinary negligence the and Communication and training We were requested to perform a limited maximum liability is limited to EUR on anti-corruption policies and assurance engagement on Specific 5,000. This amount constitutes a total procedures (G4–SO4) Topics of the Sustainability Report 2015 maximum liability cap which may only Disclosed indicators regarding the (hereafter “the Report”) of Telekom be utilised up to this maximum amount social initiative “Internet for All” Austria Group (hereafter “TAG”). even if there is more than one claimant Procedure for the compliance or more than one claim has been “Policies and practices with respect The Report and the underlying procedures, asserted. to Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) systems and structures including subject of handsets” (IO6) matters and criteria are the responsibility Subject Matters of the Management of Telekom Austria Review of the procedures, systems Criteria AG. Our responsibility is to make an and structures for defining the Report Based on an assessment of materiality assessment based on our review. Content. and risk we have evaluated the obtained Review, if the disclosed information information and supporting documents We conducted our review in accordance on General Standard Disclosures with respect to the conformity of the with the International Standard on complies with the disclosure requiresubject matters with the Sustainability Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, ments as defined in GRI G4. Reporting Guidelines (Version G4) “Assurance Engagements Other Than Review of the procedures, systems and issued by the Global Reporting InitiaAudits or Reviews of Historical Financial structures for collecting, gathering, tive (GRI). Information” and the “Fachgutachten aggregating and validating of the foldes Fachsenats für Unternehmensrecht lowing in the Report disclosed topics: Proceedings und Revision über die Durchführung Environmental Performance IndiOur work included analytical procedures von sonstigen Prüfungen (KFS/PG 13)” cators (only the contribution of as well as interviews with employees in order to obtain limited assurance on A1, the operative subsidiary of TAG from the headquarters in Vienna notified the subject matters. In a limited assurin Austria): Energy consumption by the board of directors of Telekom ance engagement the evidence-gatherwithin the organisation (G4–EN3), Austria AG. ing procedures are more limited than in Energy intensity (G4–EN5), Direct a reasonable assurance engagement, and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions — Restriction in use therefore less assurance can be obtained. Scope 1 (G4–EN15), Energy indirect Our engagement is limited to the above greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions — mentioned Subject Matters. We did not For this engagement the “Allgemeinen Scope 2 (G4–EN16), Other indirect review any other content in the Report. Einkaufsbedingungen für Beratungsleisgreenhouse gas (GHG) emissions — We have not tested comparative data tungen und Services der Telekom Austria Scope 3 (G4–EN17), Greenhouse Group — Stand 1/2015” were agreed. gas (GHG) emissions intensity (G4– Subsidiary the “General Conditions of EN18) and Total weight of waste Contract for the Public Accounting Proby type and disposal method (G4– fessions”, as issued by the Chamber of EN23) Public Accountants and Tax Advisors in Social Performance Indicators: 1) The German text of the signed statement, Austria on March 8, 2000, revised on Total number and percentage which refers to the German version of the February 21, 2011 (“AAB 2011”), are binding. of operations assessed for risks report, is the only binding one. The English translation is not binding and shall not be In cases of gross negligence the maximum related to corruption and the sigused for the interpretation of the English liability is limited to EUR 2,000,000 nificant risks identified (G4–SO3) version of the report. 57 A S S U RAN C E S tat e m e n t from previous years. The scope of our referred to in the report regarding the Procedure for the compliance review was limited to samples. Our work General Standard Disclosures are not “Policies and practices with respect was performed on a sample basis as in conformity with the disclosure to Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) deemed necessary in the particular case, requirements stipulated in GRI G4. of handsets” (IO6) but did not include any substantial were not appropriate. testing. Therefore, the assurance that Procedures, systems and structures we obtained is limited. for collecting, gathering, aggregating and validating of specific topics Vienna, 5 July, 2016 Conclusions Based on our work described above nothing has come to our attention that causes Deloitte Audit Procedures, systems and structures us to believe that the procedures, sysWirtschaftsprüfungs GmbH for defining the Report Content tems and structures for collecting, gathBased on our work described above ering, aggregating and validating of the: nothing has come to our attention that contribution of A1 (the operative Mag. Gerhard Marterbauer causes us to believe that the procedures, subsidiary of TAG in Austria) to the Certified Public Accountant systems and structures for defining the Environmental Performance IndicaReport Content are not in conformity tors: Energy consumption within the Mag. Christof Wolf with the Principles for Defining Report organisation (G4–EN3), Energy intenCertified Public Accountant Content as indicated by GRI G4. sity (G4–EN5), Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions — Scope 1 (G4– Disclosure requirements EN15), Energy indirect greenhouse (qualified conclusion) gas (GHG) emissions — Scope 2 (G4– Due to unavailability of information EN16), Other indirect greenhouse gas the General Standard Disclosure G4–10 (GHG) emissions — Scope 3 (G4–EN17), is omitted in the report, even though Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions GRI G4 does not provide any reasons for intensity (G4–EN18) and Total weight omission for this General Standard Disof waste by type and disposal method closure. Furthermore, the information (G4–EN23) regarding General Standard Disclosure Social Performance Indicators: Total G4–2 is not provided in two concise number and percentage of operations narrative sections but on several places. assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified Based on our work described above with (G4–SO3) and Communication and exception of the above mentioned issues training on anti-corruption policies nothing has come to our attention that and procedures (G4–SO4) causes us to believe that the disclosed Disclosed indicators regarding the information respectively the information social initiative “Internet for All” 58 Report Details This sustainability report includes During the first quarter of 2015, a new tion profile and corporate governance, Group-wide activities and key materiality analysis was conducted. please refer to the Telekom Austria figures for Telekom Austria Group, in This has led to a change in the scope Group 2015 annual report (www. accordance with the reporting scope of the reported indicators compared telekomaustria.com/en/ir/annualand the reporting period of the 2015 to the previous year (see also GRI reports). Data collection for the susannual report. For selected projects, content table starting at page 44). The tainability report is based on the use qualitative information on the individselected topics and indicators were of internal reporting processes as ual topics was included beyond 2015 up reviewed by an independent auditor well as standardised questionnaires to the second quarter of 2016 and noted (see page 57 for details on the scope of in the individual lead subsidiaries of separately in the report. G4.28 the review) as part of an external cerTelekom Austria Group. This data is tification (see GRI content table, page assessed centrally and subjected to Financial key figures and staff data 44). The certification was entrusted to plausibility checks. Telekom Austria relate to the Group segment reporting Deloitte Audit Wirtschaftsprüfungs Group’s Corporate Sustainability Departsegments defined in line with IAS 8, GmbH. The aspects and indicators of ment evaluates the questionnaires while environmental key figures and the GRI Sector Supplement “Telecommuannually with regard to current develother social performance indicators nications” were also taken into account opments, requirements and objectives. were collected for the lead companies in the materiality analysis. All content, of the respective countries. Telekom topics, aspects, indicators and measDefinitions and calculation methods on Austria Group assumes that the subsidures in the report refer, unless indicated individual indicators and key figures set iaries not mentioned would have only otherwise, to Telekom Austria Group out in the report are explained in detail made a minimal contribution to the and its subsidiaries. The report was by means of footnotes either in the published key figures, due to their size released by Alejandro Plater, CEO of respective chapter itself or in the data or activity (e. g. holding function). If Telekom Austria Group on 5 July 2016. section starting on page 52. To indicate key figures for non-lead companies G4.17, 4.22, 4.23, 4.32, 4.33, 4.48 that person designations in the sustainwere collected together with those for ability report refer to both women and lead subsidiaries for organisational The report is divided into three large men, a gender-appropriate formulation reasons, they were not differentiated sections; an introductory chapter was used in some cases. For the sake of from each other and accordingly taken explains the devised sustainability legibility, only the masculine form was into account in the overall amount. The strategy in connection with Telekom used in other cases; however, the report Telekom Austria Group sustainability Austria Group’s core business and the always addresses both women and men. report is published once a year; the key social and environmental trends. report for the 2014/2015 period was pubThe main section of the report is dedilished in August 2015. G4.28–G4.30 cated to the four major action areas and deals with the strategic targets, impleThis report meets the requirements of mented measures and current chalthe Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) — lenges. In the third part of the report, Guideline G4 for sustainability reports — the quantitative data and key figures are and complies with the annual progress recapped in the form of a data section. report as defined in the United Nations The GRI content table provides informaGlobal Compact. The report meets the tion on the individual aspects and indiregulations and requirements of the cators. The sustainability report chiefly G4 version of the GRI standard “comprefocusses on environmental and social hensive” (with the exception of the aspects of Telekom Austria Group’s general standard information G4.10, activities. For further information on which currently cannot yet be reported). economic development, the organisa59 Imprint Telekom Austria AG Owner, editor & publisher Lassallestrasse 9 Telekom Austria AG 1020 Vienna, Austria Tel. +43 50 664 0 Group Communications & Sustainability Ingrid Spörk G4.5 Project team Irene Jakobi, Maximilian Rabl, Astrid Haberfelner, Anna Schwarzbauer Operating companies Advice on content of Telekom Austria Group PwC Österreich Idea & concept GREAT Art Direction, Design & Production Daniel Hammer ILLUSTRATIONS Aleksandar Savić, Agent Azur Print A1 Telekom Austria AG Si.mobil d.d. PAUL GERIN GmbH & Co KG Lassallestrasse 9 Šmartinska cesta 134 b 1020 Vienna, Austria 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia Editorial deadline: 26 July 2016 Tel. +43 50 664 0 Tel. +386 40 443 000 Contact Irene Jakobi Head of Group Sustainability Mobiltel EAD Vip mobile d.o.o. Telekom Austria Group 1, Kukush Street Omladinskih brigada 21 irene.jakobi@telekomaustria.com 1309 Sofia, Bulgaria 11070 Novi Beograd, G4.31 Tel. +359 88 8088088 Republic of Serbia Tel. +381 6 01234 Vipnet d.o.o. one.Vip DOO Skopje Vrtni put 1 Filip Vtori Makedonski 3 10000 Zagreb, Croatia 1000 Skopje, Tel. +385 14691 091 Republic of Macedonia Tel. +389 2 311000 77 This sustainability report was printed on the paper types ”Mondi Offset” (main report) and ”Rives Design” (cover). Both paper types are verified as originating from sustainably managed forests and are certified in accordance with PEFC (main report) and FSC (cover). The CO2 emissions generated in production were offset. The report was printed in velcom accordance with the Austrian Ecolabel criteria for printed products by the printing company Paul Gerin GmbH & 36 – 2, Internatsionalnaya Co KG (UZ 24, UW756), which carries the Austrian Ecolabel. 220030 Minsk, Belarus In the spirit of the Austrian Ecolabel, it was decided not to Tel. +375 17 3303303 G4.4 use foil lamination to protect the cover of this report. FOLLOW US! Telekom Austria Group velcom Twitter: TA_Group Facebook: velcomLikes Youtube: TelekomAustriaGroup Twitter: by_velcom www.telekomaustria.com Youtube: velcom Belarus www.velcom.by A1 Si.mobil Facebook: A1 Facebook: simobil Twitter: A1 Twitter: simobil Youtube: EinfachA1 Youtube: simobilsi www.A1.net www.simobil.si Mobiltel Vip mobile Facebook: MobiltelBG Facebok: vipsrbija Twitter: MobiltelBG Twitter: Vip_mobile Youtube: MobiltelBG Youtube: Vip mobile www.mtel.bg www.vipmobile.rs Vipnet one.Vip Facebook: vipnet Twitter: VipMK Twitter: vipnetHRV Youtube: VipMK Youtube: Vipnet www.onevip.mk www.vipnet.hr Follow our most significant STEPS down this path of sustainability ONLINE: csr2015-16.telekomaustria.com 1-400-001-982
