Corporate Responsibility Report 2015/16 Statutory Report cf. Danish Financial Statements Act sections 99 (a) and (b) and UK Modern Slavery Act Company registration (CVR) No. 69 74 99 17 Table of Contents Introduction 2015/16 Highlights 3 CEO Statement 4 Company profile 5 Our role in society: Empowering people 6 Product development and safety 7 Supporting beyond expectations 9 Fighting for better care 11 Community engagement 13 Our approach to people and human rights: Acting with respect 15 Code of conduct and compliance 16 Building a sustainable performance culture 18 Health and safety 20 Supply chain responsibility 22 Our environmental promise: Minimising our footprint 24 Raw material use and waste management 26 Energy consumption 26 Water management 26 Our approach to corporate responsibility 28 UN Global Compact 28 UK Modern Slavery Act 28 Governance and organisation of Corporate Responsibility 29 Stakeholder engagement 29 Materiality 29 Independent practitioner’s limited assurance report 31 Data tables 33 Environmental performance data 33 Social performance data 36 About this report This report presents Coloplast’s management of its In addition, this report constitutes the statutory social and environmental responsibilities in simple report cf. Danish Financial Statements Act, section language, while including the data needed for 99a and 99b. The report is published annually specialist use. Topics covered are based on together with the Coloplast Annual Report, and Coloplast’s most recent materiality assessment covers the financial year 2015/16, from 1 October disclosed on page 29. 2015 to 30 September 2016. This report also functions as the Communication On Progress (COP) Together with Coloplast’s own ambitions, targets to the UN Global Compact as well as Coloplast’s and challenges, this report includes general trends statement on the UK Modern Slavery Act. in the health care industry, changes in key demographic groups worldwide, and more. These For more about our approach to reporting and trends are based on Coloplast’s own assessments of corporate responsibility, please see page 28. external events. 2 Introduction 2015/16 Highlights Below is a summary of highlights specific to Coloplast’s 2015/16 corporate responsibility performance. You will find more information on these topics throughout the chapters of this report.  Launched new catheter designed for easy,  Successful roll-out of new Code of Conduct (see hygienic insertion (see page 7) page 16)  On track with our phthalate reduction target  More women in top management (see page 18) (see page 7)  Improving standards for wound care in China  New leadership programme to enable a and access to catheters in Japan (See page 11) sustainable performance culture (see page 18)  Tax policy available online (see page 13)  New reduction target for Lost Time Injuries (see page 20)  New global donation policy (see page 13)  Slight increase in greenhouse gas emission per product (see page 25)  New programme to empower refugees (see  Increase in waste per product (see page 25) page 13) 3 Introduction CEO Statement We lead our industry because we live our mission This is just one example of the ongoing fight for and our values. One of our values is ‘respect and better care that users, health care professionals and responsibility’, and as a market leader, I believe we companies like Coloplast are a part of. have an obligation to shape the industry through Empowering refugees respect and responsibility to the benefit of our users One challenge that the UN SDG could not foresee is and society. the international refugee crisis with more than 60 For years, we’ve had a strong focus on antimillion people fleeing conflict, hunger and poverty. corruption, health and safety, and the environment This is a challenge that calls for a global solution throughout our supply chain. We will continue our and a shared responsibility among all actors in focus on these topics, and as we grow, so does our society including Coloplast. level of responsibility. Besides donating funds to help people in conflict In this regard, the UN member states’ adaptation of areas, Coloplast has made a commitment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) is contribute to the resettlement of the many people encouraging. It’s positive to see so many different coming to Europe through internships. stakeholders and governments agree on a set of Having a job and contributing to the society you live common goals. I believe companies like Coloplast in is part of your identity. Through internships we will play an important role in the global effort to provide refugees with an opportunity to learn about achieve these goals. a new culture, build a network, and practice a new Fighting for better care language – in the end equipping them to get a job. Coloplast reaches more than an estimated 1.5 Our commitment continues million people living with chronic diseases. To this We’ve been committed to the UN Global Compact group of users, it is Coloplast’s responsibility to work since 2002, and we will always be committed to for better framework conditions – and our good business practices. This report discusses our contribution to the SDG no. 3 of good health and many efforts related to our corporate responsibility. well-being. And, with this report, we reconfirm our commitment The intimate conditions our users live with are to the UN Global Compact principles. amongst the last remaining medical taboos, and we’re committed to addressing the lack of awareness and understanding across society. Lars Rasmussen, For a number of years, we’ve been advocating President and CEO globally for access to more advanced catheters with better clinical outcomes. Therefore, I’m pleased that the authorities in Japan have improved reimbursement for intermittent catheters this year. This represents a breakthrough for 100,000 catheter users in Japan, many of whom will have an easier time obtaining the newest and best solutions. 4 Introduction Company profile Our business includes Ostomy Care, Continence Care, Wound & Skin Care and Urology Care. Coloplast markets and sells products globally, and in most of our mature markets, local health care authorities provide reimbursement for our products. Coloplast supplies products to hospitals and institutions as well as wholesalers and retailers. Coloplast employs more than 10,000 people and operates globally with sales subsidiaries in more than 40 countries and production in Denmark, Hungary, the US, China and France. Our four business areas Corporate responsibility is anchored in Coloplast’s Ostomy Care products are for people whose strategy intestinal outlet has been rerouted through the Respect and responsibility is a guiding principle at abdominal wall. Examples of disease areas are Coloplast and at the heart of the Coloplast culture. colorectal cancer, bladder cancer and Corporate responsibility reflects Coloplast’s mission, inflammatory bowel disease. vision and values and supports Coloplast’s leadership position and the broader responsibility Continence Care is about helping people manage that comes with it – responsibility to our users, to their bladder and bowel conditions. Examples of clinicians, to our employees, to business partners, to disease areas are spinal cord injuries, Spina Bifida society, to the environment, and to our and Multiple Sclerosis. shareholders. Wound & Skin Care is the treatment of difficult-toMission heal wounds, while skin care products are used for Making life easier for people with intimate health prevention and treatment of damaged or at-risk care needs skin. Examples of disease areas are leg ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers, and pressure ulcers. Values Closeness… to better understand Urology Care is the treatment of medical issues Passion… to make a difference related to the urinary system, the male Respect and responsibility… to guide us reproductive system and female pelvic health. Examples of disease areas are urinary Vision incontinence, pelvic organ prolapse, erectile Setting the global standard for listening and dysfunction and enlarged prostate. responding In the financial year 2015/16, total sales were DKK 14,681 million S 2,067 DKKm 2,291 9,213 14% DKKm DKKm 15% 63% 1,497 5,935 DKKm DKKm 10% 40% 3,177 DKKm 22% 5,182 DKKm 36% Ostomy care Continence care Urology care Wound & Skin care European markets Other developed markets Emerging markets 5 Our role in society: Empowering people In the coming years, we will witness a demographic and society, and to fulfil our part of the objective development that sees the world’s elderly shared with clinicians and users, which is to achieve population grow. We will also see our industry better health outcomes. affected by the rise of the health care consumer, Coloplast contributes to better health outcomes by cost pressure from payers, digitalisation of health empowering people to be active in society through care information and increasingly consolidated and life-changing products and services, supporting sophisticated sales channels. beyond expectations, fighting for better care, and This will put more pressure on health care systems community engagement. and could limit access to innovative treatment. By doing so, Coloplast empowers people to live the Coloplast is committed to helping address the lives they choose. Whether that is to resume their structural changes faced by health care systems social lives, careers, or passions. Progress overview Topic Our responsibility How we measure progress Current status Quantitative target Product Translating user insights, technical  % reduction in total consumption of 20% 40% before 2017 development and breakthroughs and design thinking phthalates safety into products that redefine care and set new standards for safe product composition. Supporting beyond Anticipating needs and taking actionsN/A N/A N/A expectations that exceed the expectations of users and healthcare providers, both in person and on the phone, creating a community of support. Fighting for better Building sustainable partnerships that Estimated number of clinicians 11,000 N/A care improve framework conditions and trained in Access to Healthcare raise standards of care for people projects (cumulative) with intimate health care needs. Community Being an active member of the local  N/A N/A N/A engagement communities Coloplast operates in through activities that empower people and motivate employees. 6 Our role in society: Empowering people Product development and safety Our responsibility Translating user insights, technical breakthroughs and design thinking into products that redefine care and set new standards for safe product composition. Progress 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Quantitative target % reduction in total consumption of 20% 0% 40% before 2017 phthalates Performance highlights in 2015/16  Increase in use of test animals This year, Coloplast used 1,490 animals for  Easy and hygienic catheter insertion for men testing in total. Compared to 295 in the last with SpeediCath® Flex financial year this is a significant increase, which Coloplast strives to reduce the burden of stems primarily from legal requirements for safety assessments when launching products. bladder management for users. Launched this For example, Coloplast has registered a number year, SpeediCath® Flex is a new flexible catheter of surgical products, which generally face for men. Designed for easy, hygienic insertion, higher safety requirements, including animal and practical disposal, SpeediCath® Flex has a testing for preclinical safety documentation. number of features that help make every step of catheterisation easy. SpeediCath Flex will be rolled out in all major markets during 2016/17. Our approach  On track with our phthalate reduction target Coloplast is committed to investing in innovation The execution of the project to reduce total because innovative products benefit users and phthalate consumption is progressing as health care systems alike. At the same time, the planned. Coloplast expects to reach the target safety and quality of our products is crucial to according to plan. Coloplast’s mission to make life easier for people with intimate health care needs.  Preliminary steps taken on new Medical Device Regulation Understanding users’ lives in full Coloplast is following the development of the Getting an understanding of our users’ needs is an new Medical Device Regulation closely, and has integrated and important part of Coloplast’s evaluated the potential consequences for product development process. All the way from the Coloplast products. Coloplast welcomes initial idea to final product. Based on this increased regulation of product safety, and will understanding, Coloplast is able to design products allocate the needed resources accordingly that make a difference and solve the problems experienced by users.  Updated policy on Quality, Environment, Health and Safety Our understanding comes from a wide variety of To meet updated ISO-standards, Coloplast has sources, which stimulate co-creation for innovation. updated its QEHS-policy. In terms of quality, Coloplast conducts numerous focus groups, Coloplast is committed to ensure quality, advisory boards and run anthropological studies to defined as reliable products and services get real insights into user needs. This year, for meeting defined customer’s needs. The QEHS example, Coloplast has facilitated more than 40 policy holds no significant changes. Read the health care advisory boards involving around 600 policy in full on Coloplast.com. clinicians. 7 Our role in society: Empowering people Product development Phthalates are commonly used to make PVC Coloplast’s mission is to make life easier for people plastics more flexible and durable. In the medical with intimate health care needs. This mission device industry, phthalates are used to soften translates into focused value propositions across products like catheters and urine bags. Although Coloplast’s four business areas that guide Coloplast products are safe to use, Coloplast Coloplast’s innovation management: recognises that there are concerns about the use of phthalates. Coloplast has therefore adopted a  Ostomy Care: reduce the burden of leakage precautionary approach and limits the use of phthalates in products. This is an area where  Continence Care: reduce the burden of bladder Coloplast leads by example and offers phthalatemanagement free alternatives to 97% of our product range containing classified phthalates. For more  Wound & Skin Care: fewer days with wounds information, please see our official phthalates policy on Coloplast.com.  Urology Care: empower surgeons to do more Coloplast welcomes the increased awareness and The cornerstone of Coloplast’s value propositions is regulation of these types of materials and to deliver superior products that address the key substances that may have long-term harmful needs of our users and improve clinical outcomes. effects, and which many companies use in their As such, Coloplast is committed to innovation to products. make a difference for our users and to benefit society. Animal testing Animal testing is a standard method for Product safety documenting the safety of medical devices. By Coloplast is mindful of the materials and substances having a precise account of the composition of used in our products, and complies with Coloplast products, animal testing can sometimes international and local regulations and standards be avoided. However, in some cases animal testing including REACH, the EU’s chemicals legislation. is necessary due to legal requirements and safety assessments. Coloplast adopts a proactive approach in scouting for alternative substances. Through a structured All animal tests used by Coloplast are performed by monitoring process of changes in science and contract laboratories, which Coloplast audits for technology, Coloplast is able to identify compliance with our Animal Testing Policy. This opportunities and risks early on, and proactively year, Coloplast has audited our main animal test substitute relevant substances – as in the case of suppliers, and found no non-compliances. phthalates. Coloplast’s animal testing policy does not cover the use of transgenic animals in research. However, Phthalates Coloplast has not used transgenic animals. Coloplast has a target to reduce the absolute use of phthalates with 40% by 2017. For more information on Coloplast’s approach to animal testing, please read our animal testing policy available on coloplast.com. 8 Our role in society: Empowering people Supporting beyond expectations Our responsibility Anticipating needs and taking actions that exceed the expectations of users and healthcare providers, both in person and on the phone, creating a community of support. Performance highlights in 2015/16 partner with clinicians who are the experts at getting people back to their normal life. With the  Expanded the Coloplast® Care footprint dialogue programme, Coloplast® Care, Coloplast Coloplast has rolled out the upgraded Coloplast® actively seeks to increase retention among users Care in the Netherlands and Denmark, with the and to improve both products and education for ambition of rolling out in several developed users and clinicians. markets throughout the next financial year. Through straight-forward advice and support,  Setting the standard for advanced wound care Coloplast® Care has guided more than 400,000 management people to a better life by providing tips on how to Accurate and timely wound assessment is take control of bladder or ostomy-related issues. important to ensure correct identification of The programme has been co-developed with our underlying conditions and for developing a plan international nurse advisory boards, and the of care to address patient, wound and skin programme’s content and call protocol has been problems that impact healing. In collaboration clinically validated. Among users, the programme with clinicians from around the world, Coloplast has been received positively where 83%1) expressed has developed the Triangle of Wound feeling an improved quality of life through their Assessment to support our users in having fewer participation. days with wounds. The Triangle of Wound Assessment is a holistic wound assessment The Coloplast® Care programme is global, and is framework, introducing an intuitive way to asses available for all users regardless of using Coloplast and manage all three areas of the wound: products. The initial programme consisted of offline Wound bed, wound edge and periwound skin. newsletters and trained advisors reaching out to Read more on triangleofwoundassessment.com users by phone at their request. Coloplast has updated the programme to include on-demand website content and personalised emails to increase the reach of the programme, and meet users where Our approach they search for information: online. Today, more and more people want a say in their Ethical marketing practices care. They are searching for answers to make Coloplast respects the boundary between the informed choices and take control of their recovery. clinical expertise of clinicians and our own product For example, 80% of internet users search for expertise. Our dialogue with users is focused on health information making health information the product and lifestyle issues, and not on medical third most popular online search activity. support. This is Coloplast’s promise to clinicians. This transformation from passive patient to active To ensure that this boundary is respected, our staff consumer is redefining health care. is trained by clinicians, and our people on the phone use assessment tools developed by our medical Coloplast’s ambition is to anticipate the needs and marketing team that have been endorsed by global take actions that exceed the expectations of users and national advisory health care boards. and health care providers, both in person Coloplast will recommend solutions within our own and on the phone, creating a community portfolio, and clearly advice patients to contact their of support. clinician if they wish to undertake a major appliance change. Coloplast therefore always recommends Users, Clinicians and Coloplast listening to the advice of the health care Coloplast wants to be a trusted guide for our users professionals. in a world of information overload, and a strong 1) Coloplast Market Study 2013. Data on file. 9 Our role in society: Empowering people Data privacy By pursuing online activities targeted at users, Coloplast is collecting and handling more personal data. Users trust Coloplast with information about their personal life, and it is a priority for Coloplast to treat this data with the utmost respect and confidentiality. In May 2018 the new EU Regulation on Protection of Personal Data goes into effect. Coloplast is already preparing to meet the new requirements and has among other things appointed a Data Protection Officer. Many countries already have legislation in place obligating companies to handle personal data securely. Coloplast handles and protects the data in accordance with national and international law – and with the same approach across our company. Internal audits and third party audits are used to ensure secure and reliable data handling. 10 Our role in society: Empowering people Fighting for better care Our responsibility Building sustainable partnerships that improve framework conditions and raise standards of care for people with intimate health care needs. Progress 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Quantitative target Estimated number of clinicians 11,000 9,150 7,000 5,450 N/A trained in Access to Healthcare projects (cumulative) Number of approved projects 35 29 24 19 N/A (cumulative) Performance highlights in 2015/16 Our approach  Better access to catheters in Japan As a market leader reaching more than an The Japanese health care authorities have estimated 1.5 million chronic care users, it is decided to improve reimbursement for Coloplast’s responsibility to work for better intermittent catheters. This represents a framework conditions for people living with chronic breakthrough in Japan for 100,000 catheter intimate health care needs. users, many of whom will have an easier time obtaining the newest and best solutions. Coloplast works to promote users’ interests through dialogue with practitioners, patient groups, payers  Increased support for people with disabilities and other government authorities. in Australia Australian authorities have implemented a new An important aspect of this work is engaging with support scheme, National Disability Insurance stakeholders in health policy dialogue, one that both Scheme (NDIS), for people with disabilities. documents the effects and costs of different NDIS reaches approx. 460,000 people in treatments and addresses issues such as quality of Australia, and will provide continence care life and better standards of care. users with increased choice, control and funding of products. An important Coloplast tool in promoting improved standards of care is our partnership programme,  New Centre of Excellence and EWMA Access to Healthcare. Through Access to Endorsement of standards for wound care in Healthcare, Coloplast works to promote better China intimate health care and educate stakeholders Coloplast partnered with Chinese health care globally. practitioners to launch a second Wound Care Centre of Excellence (CoE) in Nanjing, while the Supporting users’ personal needs CoE established earlier in Beijing obtained Health care authorities, users, clinicians and international certification from the European Coloplast have a shared interest in securing the best Wound Management Association. These health outcomes. centres train Chinese practitioners in advanced wound management, working to improve Many users of Coloplast products live with chronic standards of care. health conditions for their entire lives. Most do not pay directly for their health care solutions themselves. In fact, nine out of ten do not. Typically, health care authorities or insurance funds provide users with reimbursement for Coloplast products. 11 Our role in society: Empowering people Consequently, these institutions also influence the Sustained and sustainable dialogue with our availability and selection of products and care. partners is pivotal to the success of Access to Healthcare projects, and all projects are created in People with intimate health care needs require collaboration with local stakeholders. personalised solutions. For example, people with an Access to Healthcare projects bring together ostomy can have dramatically different body types, practitioners, users, non-governmental which influences the care they need and products organisations, and other public and private partners they use. Living with the daily demands of a chronic to: health condition becomes even more complex when product access or reimbursement  empower users requirements delay or prevent people from  train practitioners obtaining the personal health care solutions they  advocate for better care need. Access to Healthcare projects also support the Additionally, many users confront significant taboos long-term ambitions of Coloplast by bringing us associated with their chronic conditions. Many daily closer to consumers and helping us gain new or challenges are difficult to discuss, even with friends deeper insights into the needs of other stakeholders, and family – bathroom routines, leakage issues, including health care practitioners, civil society and odorous wounds that will not heal, or their policy makers. difficulties associated with going out in public for extended periods of time. Consequently, patient Responsible advocacy groups for people with intimate health care needs Coloplast also works in partnership with many are often very focused on raising awareness of the different external stakeholders to share our views challenges associated with their chronic conditions. on the issues that affect our industry, clinicians and the rights of users. Coloplast works to address these challenges through education and dialogue with practitioners, Coloplast conducts advocacy both directly as a patient groups, payers and other government company and in coordination with external authorities. Coloplast seeks to build a consensus partners, including national and regional industry around the need for better access to the associations. Our public affairs work is guided by a personalised intimate health care solutions Public Affairs Code of Conduct that is consistent Coloplast users require. with the principles outlined in Coloplast BEST. The Code emphasises respect for transparency and Access to Healthcare integrity in our stakeholder relations. Our Public Access to Healthcare, our corporate partnership Affairs team has been registered with the European programme, is committed to improving conditions Commission’s Register of Interest Representatives for people who need care in the areas of ostomy, since 2009, and is part of the Transparency continence and wound care. Established in 2007, Register. the programme has so far supported 35 projects in ten countries. To read our code of conduct, please visit Coloplast.com. 12 Our role in society: Empowering people Community engagement Our responsibility Being an active member of the local communities Coloplast operates in through activities that empower people and motivate employees. Performance highlights in 2015/16 contribute to the local communities in which Coloplast operates. Either through donations,  New global donation policy involving local NGOs or inclusion at the work place. Coloplast has adopted a new policy on In light of this, Coloplast also considers tax donations to structure the grants and charity management to be an important part of community events Coloplast engages in. Read more below engagement as taxes contribute to value or find the policy on Coloplast.com. generation.  Partnership with the Danish Cancer Society Donations Covering the approximately 1,500 employees in To ensure that our donations are meaningful and Denmark, Coloplast has entered into a benefit both the local community and Coloplast as partnership with the Danish Cancer Society. It is much as possible, Coloplast has adopted a new not only Coloplast users who have often had policy on donations, which leverages cash and cancer in their lives. Every third person in product donations. Coloplast wants to focus Denmark will have cancer in their lifetime, and donations on activities that either seek to empower a 60% percent chance of survival. The purpose our users, support the local community, or engage of Coloplast’s partnership with the Danish our employees. It is in line with the policy on Cancer Society is to raise awareness about donations that Coloplast has entered into a cancer as well as funds for cancer research by corporate partnership with the Danish Cancer offering employees activities such as charity Society. runs and collections. The policy is based on Eucomed Guidelines for grants and WHO’s guidelines for donating medical  New ambition to empower refugees equipment. Read the policy in full on Coloplast.com. In response to the current refugee crisis, Coloplast has donated 100,000 DKK to the Responsible tax management Danish Refugee Council and pledged to Coloplast sees taxes as an important part of the establish internships for 100 refugees over the business as respecting local tax laws and next three years within the EU. The aim is to regulations are important to Coloplast's reputation empower some of the many people fleeing to and brand. ln addition, taxes contribute to the Europe by facilitating integration and economic value generation in the countries where resettlement through the workplace. Coloplast operates.  Tax policy publicly available online ln Coloplast, taxes are paid where business activities Responsible tax management is important to generate value in accordance with internationally Coloplast’s reputation and contributes to the accepted standards. Coloplast does not allow economic value generation in the countries commercial needs to override compliance with where Coloplast operates. With increased focus applicable laws, nor base commercial activities on on tax management, Coloplast has made its tax tax avoidance schemes. To ensure this, Coloplast policy publicly available on Coloplast.com. maintains an open dialogue with local tax authorities. Our approach Within these principles, Coloplast will pursue tax opportunities if they arise and will proactively obtain Respecting local cultures, regulations and customs knowledge in order to have a competitive effective is important to Coloplast and Coloplast wants to tax rate and avoid double taxation. 13 Our role in society: Empowering people With increased focus on tax management, Coloplast has made its tax policy publicly available on Coloplast.com. For more on taxes paid this financial year, please read the Annual Report. 14 Our approach to people and human rights: Acting with respect Coloplast employs more than 10,000 people, Coloplast engages in ongoing dialogue with operates in more than 40 countries, and has employees and proactively informs of the rights of distributors, dealers and suppliers on a global scale. freedom of association at all production sites. In addition, Coloplast has established work councils Acting with respect towards people and local with employee representatives at all production customs is fundamental to Coloplast. In line with sites. Coloplast values, Coloplast supports Human and Labour Rights. However, Coloplast is aware that this may be different when it comes to suppliers. That is why Due to the skills needed to operate as well as the Coloplast works systematically to only approve placement of Coloplast production, forced labour suppliers in compliance with our Code of Conduct. and child labour are not considered material topics In cases of non-compliance Coloplast seeks to to focus on within Coloplast’s direct operations. improve conditions through dialogue. Relevant human rights issues in our direct Read Coloplast’s policy on human rights in full on operations include health and safety, noncoloplast.com. discrimination and personal development. Coloplast works with promoting healthy lifestyle choices, reducing occupational injuries and building a sustainable performance culture. Progress overview Topic Our responsibility How we measure progress Current status Quantitative target Code of conduct Ensuring that all our employees and  % of white-collar employees 96 100 and compliance business partners are aware of our trained in our code of conduct business ethical standards and collaborating to continuously  Number of legal actions for anti0 0 maintain and develop good competitive behaviour compliance practices. Building a Offering all employees equal  % of female managers 41 N/A sustainable opportunities for development as performance well as a working environment that  % of female top managers 15 22 before 2017 culture is engaging and motivating. Health and safety Offering healthy and safe working  Lost Time Injury frequency, all 4.1 4.5 conditions. employees  % of workplaces with ‘very high’ 1.9 0.0 level of repetitive work Supply chain Being an active member of the local  Number of suppliers with 29 N/A responsibility communities in which Coloplast improved risk profile because of operates through activities that significant improvements empower people and motivate (cumulative) employees. Our approach to people and human rights: Acting with respect Code of Conduct and compliance Our responsibility Ensuring that all our employees and business partners are aware of our business ethical standards and collaborating to continuously maintain and develop good compliance practices. Progress 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Quantitative target % of white-collar employees trained 96% 94% 94% 95% 100% in our Code of Conduct Number of legal actions for 0 0 0 0 0 anti-competitive behaviour Performance highlights in 2015/16 Our approach  Successful roll-out of new Code of Conduct Coloplast’s good reputation is a prerequisite for our Coloplast has developed a new Code of continuous support of users with our products and Conduct called Coloplast BEST for Business services, for creating value, and for being a Ethical Standards, and it represents a valuecompany where people are proud to work. based approach to compliance. Coloplast BEST It is essential to Coloplast to keep it that way. was launched this financial year with comprehensive face-to-face training followed Business cultures vary around the world. In up by a test and a certification. The target was navigating such different business cultures, to reach 100% of white-collars. Read more on Coloplast abides by national and international laws the following page. as well as specific requirements for our industry through our well established Code of Conduct and  Bribery risk assessment compliance setup – a setup Coloplast has added Coloplast has conducted a bribery risk resources to this year. assessment of sales and marketing operations. Coloplast will act upon the assessment in the Coloplast BEST – our new Code of Conduct coming financial year, and will conduct a Last year, Coloplast updated and expanded the bribery risk assessment of Global Operations as scope of our Code of Conduct. The new Code of well. Conduct, Coloplast BEST, was launched at the beginning of this financial year.  Distributor due diligence project Coloplast has fully implemented a system to Coloplast emphasises employees’ ability to use good conduct due diligence and monitor all judgement and common sense at all times rather distributors going forward. Read more on the than learning a set of rules by heart. That is why following page. Coloplast BEST is value-based rather than rulebased and has the ambition of installing a compliance mind-set throughout the organisation.  Whistleblower hotline re-launched All Coloplast employees (including executives, To raise awareness and equip employees with a officers, directors and managers) are required to supplementing tool to report serious offences follow Coloplast BEST. and unethical behaviour, Coloplast has relaunched the whistleblower hotline through To read Coloplast BEST, please visit Coloplast.com. internal campaigns and communication to all leaders. Roll-out and continued training efforts Coloplast BEST was introduced through face-toface training followed up by an online test and a 16 Our approach to people and human rights: Acting with respect certification for all white-collars. The face-to-face the UN Global Compact’s ten fundamental training sessions were performed by Executive principles within human rights, labour rights, Management and then cascaded throughout the environment and anti-corruption, which Coloplast organisation to ensure that all white-collars were endorses and works systematically to observe and trained by their manager. promote. With the increased focus on face-to-face training, Whistleblower hotline our purpose is to facilitate dialogue and to have the Coloplast has a global whistleblower hotline, which discussions on compliance dilemmas with the enables employees and others to report breaches employees who face them on a daily basis. of our Code of Conduct. Coloplast has received a total of 9 cases, 8 of which have been within the Going forward, Coloplast will continue its training scope of the hotline, i.e. relating to the topics and activities in various formats to support our culture of subjects that may be reported via the hotline. The integrity. majority of cases reported have been related to conflicts of interest or fraud against Coloplast. Distributor handling Coloplast has dedicated resources to conduct risk All relevant cases have been investigated and assessments and due diligence and to formulate followed up with appropriate remediation and action plans for compliance improvements where sanctions up to termination of contract. needed. Coloplast’s focus in the recent financial year has been to implement a system with an external partner to manage our integrity and compliance risks related to our close distributors. Coloplast runs the process transparently with the distributors through dialogue about the compliance situation in their market and on our Global Distributor Code of Conduct, which sets forth Coloplast’s expectations to a distributor. It includes 17 Our approach to people and human rights: Acting with respect Building a sustainable performance culture Our responsibility Offering all employees equal opportunities for development as well as a working environment that is engaging and motivating. Progress 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Quantitative target % of female managers (all positions 41% 43% 40% 40% N/A at or above Manager level) % of female top managers (Vice 15% 13% 12% 13% 22% by end of Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents 2017 and Executive Management) % of manager positions filled by 64% 47% 67% internal candidates Performance highlights in 2015/16 Our approach  Enabling a sustainable performance culture Striving to be the best medical device company in Coloplast has implemented a mandatory the world requires that our leaders and people leadership module on sustainable performance constantly grow and develop their skills and for all leadership teams. Through this module, competencies. the management teams work with creating a Coloplast believes that development should be sustainable performance culture in their respectful to individual motivational drivers and local area and developing their leadership skills. without the hindrance of culturally related barriers.  Consistent high engagement level Leading for sustainable performance In a global survey among all employees, As a growing company, Coloplast has a promise Coloplast achieved an overall engagement level to users and shareholders to improve the value of 74 with a response rate at 93%. This is in the creation every single year. At the same time, top quartile when benchmarked to other Coloplast has a promise to employees to ensure a companies in the Ennova Engagement Index, working environment that is engaging and and indicates a high level of engagement. It is motivating. also the same level as the last survey in 2014, except Coloplast is now 1,000 more people Coloplast wants to build a sustainable performance compared to 2014. culture that solves the challenges and sometimes the conflicts that lie in keeping both these promises  Increase in women in top management at the same time. At the end of the financial year the percentage of women in top management was 15%. To To build a sustainable performance culture, support further increase, Coloplast has Coloplast has trained management teams in conducted an internal assessment among communicating ambition, giving feedback and female leaders at VP and director level to map establishing closeness with employees. The potential barriers. One finding was a lack of management team defines locally what works well female role models. Coloplast has set up a and what may stand in the way of building a working group to process the findings in the sustainable performance culture. coming financial year. 18 Our approach to people and human rights: Acting with respect By following the guidelines of the sustainable The PDP is an annual dialogue between the performance culture module, Coloplast believes employee and the manager about performance, employees will thrive and that Coloplast will create competencies and results, employee aspirations and a platform for excellent and sustainable business work/life balance. The result is a development plan performance. for the individual employee, which is followed up by the manager throughout the year until the next On-boarding for success People Review and PDP cycle. Coloplast expects to expand the organisation by approximately 3,000 new positions before 2020, of Gender diversity which a significant number will be in sales. It is Coloplast believes that diversity is a pre-requisite for important for Coloplast to set new employees up for success when competing at a global level. The success, which is why Coloplast has implemented a People Reviewand PDP-processes reflect Global On-boarding Programme targeted at sales Coloplast’s commitment and obligation to ensure representatives and consumer specialists. The equal opportunities for employees, irrespective of programme delivers a blended learning toolbox and gender, age, nationality, etc. guidelines for local implementation with the objective being to develop knowledge, skills and According to the Danish Financial Statements Act, attitude. More than 700 sales people have started section 99b, Coloplast defines other management their Coloplast career with the On-boarding levels as all positions at or above manager level. Programme. With 41% female managers at this level, Coloplast maintains an equal distribution between men and Removing barriers for personal development women in management. Coloplast wants every employee’s career development to be performance-based without the To advance diversity, Coloplast has committed to a hindrance of culturally related barriers. Coloplast specific target for women in top management. The expects mutual respect among our employees, and target is for 22% of top management to be female Coloplast does not tolerate discrimination or by the end of 2017. Top management is classified harassment of any kind. as Vice President, Senior Vice President and Executive Management. Coloplast emphasises fairness and transparency when reviewing employees’ performance and For the second year in a row, the percentage of potential. To ensure this, Coloplast annually women in management saw a slight increase from conducts a People Review and completes 13% to 15%. The increase is due to internal Performance Development Plans (PDP) for all promotions in line with Coloplast’s preference for white-collar employees globally, and selected blueown people. collar employees. Coloplast aims for its Board of Directors to consist During the People Review process, managers take of the best qualified individuals. It is the Board’s time to reflect on their employees’ past target that the number of shareholder-elected performance and future potential. As part of this women should be one third of the shareholderprocess, they gather feedback from internal and elected Board members by 2017. external colleagues the employee has worked with, and then discuss each employee’s performance and Last year, two women were elected into the Board development with the local management team. This of Directors making the total number of process ensures that the employee’s performance is shareholder-elected women two out of eight. not only evaluated by the manager alone, but also by the insights and specific examples from other colleagues and peers. 19 Our approach to people and human rights: Acting with respect Health and safety Our responsibility Offering healthy and safe working conditions. Progress 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Quantitative target Occupational injuries, all employees 4.1 4.4 4.9 4.8 4.5 or less (LTI frequency)1) % of workplaces with ‘very high’ level 1.9% 1.7% 1.7% 2.1% 0% of repetitive work 1) Lost Time Injuries – measured as the number of injuries resulting in absence from work of more than eight hours per one million working hours. Performance highlights in 2015/16 compared to other industries, and Coloplast has never had a fatal workplace injury.  New LTI target Coloplast has set a new overall target for Lost The most common injuries for both whiteand blueTime Injuries at 4.5 or less covering all collar employees are sustained from stumbling and employees. falling. Therefore, safety initiatives often focus on simple things that can make a big difference, e.g.  Updated policy on Quality, Environment, keeping office spaces and production floors tidy. Health and Safety To meet the updated ISO-standards, Coloplast Occupational injuries has updated its QEHS-policy. Coloplast is In order to track and reduce occupational injuries, committed to preventing occupational injuries Coloplast measures Lost Time Injuries (LTI) and recognised occupational diseases, as well frequency rates from the production sites, as promoting healthy lifestyle choices among distribution centres, corporate headquarters and employees. The QEHS policy holds no most sales subsidiaries. In total, 98% of employees significant changes, and has been evaluated are included in reporting of LTI frequency rates. with employees at all sites. Read the policy in full on Coloplast.com. In addition, special attention is given to all minor and ‘near-miss accidents’ to help identify and solve problems early and minimise potential future risks.  Recertification of OHSAS 18001 in process Coloplast is in a process to get the multiple site Other initiatives to reduce occupational injuries certificate renewed according to OHSAS include sharing best practices between sites, putting 18001. The recertification process will be special focus on specific sites where LTI frequency is concluded in the first quarter of the coming above target, enforcing safety behaviour, and financial year. increasing focus on safety specifications before new machine orders are finalised. Our approach Repetitive work Coloplast emphasises an ergonomically correct Providing a safe and healthy work environment for workplace layout whenever manual labour is employees is a priority for Coloplast. In general, required in production. Therefore, Coloplast operations work in Coloplast is relatively low-risk systematically works to reduce repetitive work. Coloplast has developed a system for measuring 20 Our approach to people and human rights: Acting with respect this type of work, which enables improvements and Standards accurate tracking of progress. Since 2008, Coloplast’s health and safety management system Coloplast has more than halved the amount of is certified according to Occupational Health and stations considered to require ‘high’ and ‘very high’ Safety management standard, OHSAS 18001. This repetitive work. When these stations are is a tool to ensure that sites adhere to the same unavoidable, Coloplast ensures employees spend a rules globally and continuously improve their limited amount of time on them by rotating them to performance. Today, this management system stations with lower repetitive work levels. covers 93% of Coloplast employees in production, distribution centres and headquarters as well as our Coloplast® Life sales subsidiaries in DK and the US. Through the Coloplast Life programme, Coloplast provides different options to make healthy choices as easy as possible for employees. For example, this could be local activities such as “Bike to Work” and running clubs after work. Other activities include “Get Moving Week”, training with rubber bands during work hours, and a project to break up sedentary time in the office. In addition, free health checks have been offered to employees at several locations. For example, cancer screening at Coloplast sites in Hungary. Coloplast Life also focuses on education (e.g., nutrition classes), and in addition, Coloplast works to prevent stress on a local basis. For example, Coloplast has established a stress policy and offers a 24-hour stress hotline as well as professional stress-counselling in Denmark. 21 Our approach to people and human rights: Acting with respect Supply chain responsibility Our responsibility Improving standards with our suppliers or finding alternative suppliers. Progress 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Quantitative target Number of suppliers with improved risk 29 27 26 23 N/A profile because of significant improvements (cumulative) Number of contracts terminated 9 9 9 8 N/A because of non-compliance (cumulative) Performance highlights in 2015/16 reviewing suppliers for compliance with Coloplast standards on social and environmental issues.  Maintained 100% of raw material suppliers in supply chain responsibility programme This process usually takes place with the Coloplast For the last three years, Coloplast has procurement team in the markets where the maintained 100% of these suppliers registered supplier operates. If the Coloplast procurement in the programme. This financial year, Coloplast teams identify a supplier that is in non-compliance has performed 16 social audits to follow-up on with Coloplast’s code of conduct or a corrective supplier compliance with Coloplast standards. action plan, the Decision Board reviews whether or not to continue to do business with the supplier and help to improve the supplier’s standards. Our approach The Decision Board is made up of senior representatives from Global Operations, Corporate Coloplast monitors existing raw material suppliers Procurement, Corporate Quality, and Global and screens new ones for compliance with human Environment, Health & Safety and Corporate rights, labour rights, environmental, and Compliance. occupational health and safety issues as well as corruption. The Decision Board reviews the audit report according to local regulations, Coloplast’s code of Through a supply chain programme, Coloplast has conduct, the United Nations Global Compact standardised monitoring and auditing of existing Principles, and considers factors such as the nature and potential suppliers according to Coloplast’s of the relationship with the supplier and history of code of conduct. cooperation. This programme includes maintaining sustained Screening potential suppliers dialogue, monitoring for compliance and helping In high-risk countries, external partners audit any suppliers improve local conditions when they are potential supplier on human rights, labour rights, willing and is supervised by a Decision Board environmental and occupational health and safety made up of senior representatives. issues as well as corruption. Monitoring existing suppliers For new suppliers, Coloplast explains our Coloplast monitors existing suppliers for compliance expectations and how compliance is checked. through adverse feedback, i.e. change in ownership Standards on human rights, labour rights, or expansion of site, and the regular site visits environmental impact, occupational health and performed by Coloplast procurement teams. All safety as well as corruption are included. This Coloplast procurement teams are trained in 22 Our approach to people and human rights: Acting with respect information is also included in the final contract with provide advice regarding cost efficient best the supplier. practices that comply with local regulations. Suppliers usually respond positively and implement If an issue is identified, Coloplast and the supplier recommendations. However, when necessary, then agree on any necessary improvements, which Coloplast has terminated cooperation. Coloplast forms the basis for an action plan and provides the does not provide financial support to help suppliers means for sustained dialogue. Depending on the implement changes. level of any non-compliance found, the Decision Board considers whether or not to go ahead and do From the start of the programme until the end of business with the supplier and help to improve the the 2015/16 financial year, Coloplast has supplier’s standards. Through this process, Coloplast reclassified a total of 29 current suppliers to a lower ensures on-boarding suppliers that are willing to risk category after making Coloplast-requested improve local conditions together if necessary. improvements. Coloplast has had to terminate cooperation with a total of 9 suppliers. Improving local conditions In cases where suppliers may be unsure of how to implement improvements, local Coloplast teams 23 Our environmental promise: Minimising our footprint As a medical device manufacturer with global However, Coloplast remains committed to operations, Coloplast has the ability and minimising our environmental footprint while responsibility to do our part in addressing global growing. environmental challenges related to climate change, resource scarcity and the use of hazardous Our largest environmental impact stems from the substances. use of raw materials and energy use. That is why our priority is to minimise future use of energy and Over the coming years, Coloplast expects to grow raw materials through design of new products and 7-9% annually. This means increased production production processes. In addition, we will continue output, and consequently, increased impact on the our focus on optimising energy efficiency, waste and environment. An example of this trend, is the recycling capabilities in existing production increase of our total emissions due to the expansion processes. of our site in Tatabánya last year. Progress overview Topic Our responsibility How we measure progress Current status Quantitative target Energy Minimising the use of energy  Total indexed greenhouse gas 82 N/A consumption emissions1) (indexed, relative to required in production 2008/09)  Greenhouse gas emissions per 50 Continuous reduction product produced relative to (Less than 49 in energy use1) (indexed relative to 2014/15) 2008/09) Raw material use Utilising raw materials with lower  Total amount of production 134 N/A and waste waste2) (indexed relative to environmental impact and management 2008/09) improving waste management systems and recycling  Production waste per product 82 Continuous reduction produced2) (indexed relative to (Less than 78 in 2008/09) 2014/15)  % of recycling coverage 31 N/A 1) Scope 1 & 2 according to Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 2) Based on weighted amounts from the production sites, distribution centres and corporate headquarters. 24 Our environmental promise: Minimising our footprint Environment and climate Our responsibility Minimising the overall strain on the environment caused by our activities by focusing on the entire life cycle of our products Progress overview 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Quantitative target Total indexed greenhouse gas emissions 82 81 79 82 N/A (indexed relative to 2008/09) Indexed greenhouse gas emissions per 50 49 52 56 Continuous product produced relative to energy use reduction (indexed relative to 2008/09) Total amount of production waste 134 128 122 112 N/A (indexed relative to 2008/09) Production waste per product produced 82 78 80 77 Continuous (indexed relative to 2008/09) reduction % of recycling coverage 31% 31% 26% 23% N/A % of goods transported by air 3.8% 2.8% 4.5% 3.7% 2.3% by 2017/18 Performance highlights in 2015/16 Coloplast expects air transportation use to decrease in the coming financial year.  Slight increase in greenhouse gas emissions  Recertification of new ISO 14001 in process per product Coloplast is in a process to get the multiple site In the recent financial year, Coloplast has certificate renewed according to the 2015 expanded our production capacity in Tatabanya, version of ISO 14001. The recertification process which contributes to eliminating energy will be concluded in the first quarter of the efficiency gains. Along with production transfer, coming financial year. this has resulted in not meeting the target to continuously reduce greenhouse gases per  Stable development in recycling coverage product. Despite increased waste amounts, Coloplast has managed to stabilise recycling coverage. For  Increase in waste per product example, Coloplast has run a three-year project Coloplast has transferred production internally, at the site in Tatabanya on the internal handling which entails increased waste from production of barrels in adhesive production. The result was until the production runs efficiently. This means a 50% reduction in the use of metal barrels and Coloplast does not meet the overall target to better utilisation of our adhesives, including an reduce waste per product produced. annual saving of DKK 8 m.  Significant increase in air transportation Shortened delivery times and increased machine transferring between sites has made an above average usage of air transportation necessary. 25 Our environmental promise: Minimising our footprint Our approach reduced emissions per product by 50%, and it is the ambition to continue that trend as Coloplast grows. The primary method used by Coloplast to address Disposal environmental challenges is the incorporation of Because most of Coloplast’s products are usually eco-design principles when developing products and contaminated after use, they must be disposed of processes. This means: properly due to risk of infection. This means that Coloplast’s products are incinerated or sent to a  Utilising raw materials with lower environmental landfill after disposal. However, most of our product impact packaging is designed so that it can be recycled.  Improving waste management systems and When chlorinated plastic materials, e.g. PVC and recycling PVdC, are incinerated their emissions are harmful to the environment. These plastic materials are  Minimising the use of energy required in commonly used in medical devices due to their production unique technical properties. Coloplast recognises this environmental concern and only uses PVC or Life cycle assessments therefore guide Coloplast’s PVdC in new products when their technical environmental efforts, covering everything from raw properties are strictly necessary for product performance. For more information, please see our materials to waste management, energy official PVC/PVdC policy on Coloplast.com. consumption, disposal, and transportation of goods. Transportation of goods Raw materials use and waste management In total, transportation of goods only accounts for The use of raw materials constitutes Coloplast’s largest environmental impact. For example, approximately 14% of Coloplast’s greenhouse gas approximately 45% of Coloplast’s total greenhouse emissions. However, significant reductions in gas emissions stem from raw materials. Coloplast’s greenhouse gas emissions are achievable simply by ambition is to continuously improve the overall substituting air transportation with sea and ground utilisation of raw materials and to avoid raw transportation. Shipping goods via air transportation materials that are particularly harmful to the emits up to 200 times more greenhouse gases on a environment. given distance compared to shipping goods by sea. The amount of waste generated per product has Coloplast has successfully set up a systematic decreased by 19% since 2008/09. Coloplast has the approach to substitute the air transportation of our ambition to continuously reduce the amount of portfolio of mature products. Coloplast will continue production waste generated per produced unit. to substitute air transportation with sea and ground In addition to optimising our use of raw material, transportation whenever possible. Coloplast continuously works together with waste handling companies to identify the optimal way of To facilitate this substitution, Coloplast has set a recycling waste. reduction target for how products are transported to a maximum of 2.3% air transportation by Energy consumption 2017/18. Energy consumption in production accounts for approximately 25% of Coloplast’s total greenhouse Water gas emissions. Coloplast therefore works to increase Coloplast uses very limited amounts of water for energy efficiency in production. production. Whenever water is used, our focus is to reduce. To encourage more environmentally responsible production, Coloplast allows investments that result Only one of our production sites is placed in a river in a significant environmental improvement to have ecosystem with scarcity issues, our site in Mankato a return on investment of up to five years – twice as US, where Coloplast is especially attentive to water long as regular investments. For more information use. At our other sites, water is primarily used for about current projects, please visit Coloplast.com. sanitation purposes and gardening. Coloplast has an ambition to continuously reduce greenhouse gas emissions per product produced relative to energy use. Since 2008/09, Coloplast has 26 Our environmental promise: Minimising our footprint Expanding production Our expansion in Tatabánya was built with focus on energy efficiency technologies. Coloplast will strive to adhere to this as the minimum environmental standard for all future production sites. Environmental management system Our environmental management system is based on the internationally acknowledged ISO14001 environmental certification scheme. Today, eight out of nine production sites including our corporate headquarters have been certified according to the ISO 14001 standard. Coloplast’s ambition is to have all nine sites certified within the first quarter of the coming financial year. 27 Our approach to corporate responsibility Scope of reporting UK Modern slavery act This report constitutes the statutory report cf. As stated in our Code of Conduct “Coloplast BEST”, Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99a and Coloplast support, respects and protect 99b regarding social responsibility and the internationally recognised human rights including underrepresented gender. The report is published labour rights as made operational with the United annually together with the Coloplast Annual Report, Nations Guiding Principles on Business & Human and covers the financial year 2015/16, from 1 Rights and as framed in the United Nations Global October 2015 to 30 September 2016. Compact, which Coloplast has been a member of since 2002. In addition, this report also functions as the Communication On Progress (COP) to the UN Our commitment to human rights, which covers Global Compact as well as Coloplast’s statement areas such as forced labour, slavery, child labour, under Section 54 of the UK’s Modern Slavery Act sex trafficking, workplace abuse and human 2015 and California Transparency in Supply Chain trafficking, is outlined in our Human Rights Policy, Act. available on Coloplast.com. The aim of the report is to present complex issues in Coloplast expects employees to avoid and mitigate simple language, while including the data needed all negative human rights impacts and to inform, for specialist use. Coloplast follows Global Reporting through our management system or grievance Initiative’s (GRI) G4 to determine content and mechanisms, any breach of this expectation or quality in terms of materiality, but does not apply doubts that our expectations are being met. specific GRI-disclosures. Coloplast expects its business partners and all other This report is intended for shareholders and strategic partners to understand and address our analysts. It is a presentation of Coloplast activities in expectations related to human rights, and to inform the field of corporate responsibility, as well as the employees of Coloplast or through Coloplast’s challenges Coloplast faces. Unless otherwise noted, grievance mechanism if expectations are not being the data and reporting include the entire Coloplast met. organisation, i.e. production sites, distribution centres, administration, sales and representative Risk assessment: Due to the nature of Coloplast offices. Third parties, such as distributors, are not production and the skills needed to operate, the risk included in the reporting, except for the Code of of forced labour and child labour are not considered Conduct and Compliance chapter where Coloplast material within Coloplast’s direct operations. has expanded the programme to distribution channels as well. Suppliers are only included in the Coloplast is aware that this may be different when it specific reporting on our supply chain responsibility comes to suppliers. That is why Coloplast works programme. systematically to only approve suppliers in compliance with our Code of Conduct. In cases of UN Global Compact non-compliance Coloplast seeks dialogue to In 2002, Coloplast made a formal commitment to improve conditions. make the ten principles of the UN Global Compact part of the business strategy and day-to-day Due diligence processes: As part of our evaluation operations. These principles cover basic human on prospective suppliers, Coloplast actively conduct rights, labour, environmental and anti-corruption due diligence and audits of existing raw materials policies. To continue this tradition, this report suppliers and screen new suppliers for compliance functions as Coloplast’s annual Communication on with human rights and labour rights. Read more on Progress to the UN Global Compact. Find page 22 information on progress on the following pages:  Human Rights: Page 16-23 Audits: Coloplast selects a number of existing  Labour Rights: Page 15, 18-23 suppliers throughout the year for site visits or social  Environment: Page 24-27 audits and reviews their compliance. Read more on  Anti-corruption: Page 16-17 page 22. 28 Training: Coloplast provides training for new and regular basis. For more information, please visit existing employees on our Code of Conduct as well coloplast.com/investor_relations as other polices. Going forward, Coloplast will strengthen training on human trafficking and  Users. Coloplast conducts annual satisfaction slavery, particularly with respect to mitigating risks surveys, which target users in over ten within the supply chain, to employees who have countries. Furthermore, Coloplast engages with direct responsibility for supply chain management. users through our dialogue programme, Coloplast Care, which aims to help users by Results: Through Coloplast’s supply chain providing needed guidance and support. responsibility programme, Coloplast has successfully Coloplast® Care is currently active in more than standardised monitoring and compliance for raw 15 countries. material suppliers. 29 suppliers have made significant improvements as a result of due diligence  Clinicians. Coloplast works with clinicians on procedures. In the same period Coloplast have advisory boards by engaging in semi-annual terminated contracts with nine suppliers due to focus group meetings. This year, Coloplast held non-compliance. Read more on page 22. more than 40 meetings involving around 600 clinicians. At the same time, Coloplast also Governance and organisation of Corporate makes it easy for clinicians to submit complaints Responsibility on the corporate website. Coloplast’s corporate responsibility is anchored within the Executive Management and Board of  Society. Coloplast works with relevant societal Directors. The Board of Directors approves the organisations through the Access to Healthcare content of this report, and Executive Management partnership-programme, and maintains a makes most policy decisions within the field, sustained dialogue through regular updates on typically after consultation with senior management health care progress and challenges in local of key line and staff functions. The Audit Committee communities. Coloplast also engages external is responsible for overseeing compliance with our stakeholders through our public affairs work, Code of Conduct. where Coloplast seeks to maintain high standards of professionalism and transparency. Coloplast prefers that corporate responsibility activities are driven and executed by the relevant  Environment. Issues regarding the environment business units. The business units with formal are communicated through multiple channels. responsibility for the content in this report are For example, material for sales reps and on Corporate Compliance, Global Operations, Global Coloplast.com. The annual Corporate Quality, Corporate Procurement, Corporate HR, Responsibility Report is one of the most Corporate Communications and Public Affairs. comprehensive sources of information regarding our environmental performance. A Corporate Responsibility Manager within the Coloplast is also a member of the Carbon Corporate Communications department is Disclosure Project. responsible for coordinating this work and for communicating with stakeholders.  Employees. Coloplast communicates to Stakeholder engagement employees on a daily basis through the Coloplast’s main stakeholders include shareholders, Coloplast intranet “Connect”, and holds users, clinicians, employees, business partners, and information meetings four to six times a year society in general. This selection is based on that are broadcasted globally within the discussions with internal and external stakeholders. company. In addition, Coloplast conducts global engagement surveys bi-annually. Coloplast has ongoing dialogue with its stakeholders through different channels, and used these for the purpose of the latest materiality assessment: Materiality The topics covered by the Corporate Responsibility Report include issues material to Coloplast as well  Shareholders. An Investor Relations Unit as stakeholders. Coloplast conducts materiality facilitates dialogue with shareholders on a assessments bi-annually. Our most recent 29 materiality assessment is from 2015 and is disclosed typically as part of our ISO or OHSAS certifications. below. HR data was collected by HR Operations, Corporate Procurement, and Corporate Finance. The material topics were selected based on input from employees working with corporate In some cases, data from earlier financial years has responsibility issues from Coloplast A/S and been corrected, which can result in updates to Coloplast subsidiaries – and validated by key figures in previous reports. In order to continue external stakeholders. improving our reporting, there may be times when data has been restructured for a more precise The evaluation of the issues’ importance to representation. In case of material changes to Coloplast was done through interviews and previous figures, a note to that effect is provided in workshops with relevant personnel from all parts of the text or in the accounting policy. the organisation. The importance of the issues to external stakeholders was evaluated through Coloplast is working together with PwC on multiple interactions with our stakeholders such as assurance of selected data. The selection of data is employee surveys, workshops with health care based on Coloplast’s materiality assessment, and advisory boards, and investor meetings. the reason why compliance and product safety data has been included in the scope for this year’s Coloplast works to incorporate the findings of the reporting. materiality assessment into our decision process when prioritising activities and use them to guide Contact our communication with our stakeholder groups. Christoffer Quist Weesgaard, For example, information about our dialogueCorporate Responsibility Manager programme Coloplast® Care, as well as Coloplast’s work to improve framework conditions for users has Tel. +45 49 11 17 12 been included in our reporting, since part of both Email: dkchrqw@coloplast.com initiatives’ focus is to improve the quality of life for our users and contribute to better health outcomes. Data collection Environmental, health and safety data are collected by the Corporate Quality and Environment unit, Materiality assessment 2015 Low 18 Business ethics Product safety High Importance to stakeholders Low Medium Improving quality of life for users Gender diversity Access to 12 Human rights Healthcare Supply chain Importance to Coloplast Tax policy Recycling CO2/Energy consumption Animal testing Safe work place Waste Philantrophy 6 Water use/management Low 0 0 Low 6 12 High 18 Importance to Coloplast High 30 Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report on non-financial data for 2015/16 To the stakeholders of Coloplast A/S procedures we have performed and the evidence we We have been engaged by Coloplast A/S to obtain have obtained. We conducted our limited assurance limited assurance on the 2015/16 non-financial data engagement in accordance with International regarding Product Safety, Anti-corruption and Energy Standards on Assurance Engagements 3000, and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions as stated on Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews pages 34-36 in the 2015/16 UN Global Compact of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000). Report. Furthermore, with respect to the GHG emissions data stated on page 35, our responsibility is to express a Management’s responsibility limited assurance conclusion based on the procedures Management of Coloplast A/S is responsible for we have performed and the evidence we have preparation of the non-financial data and for stating obtained when conducting our assurance engagement data in accordance with the criteria on pages 33-36. in accordance with Assurance Engagements on The responsibility includes the design, implementation Greenhouse Gas Statements (ISAE 3410). Both and maintenance of internal control relevant to the standards are issued by the International Auditing and preparation of the non-financial data that is free of Assurance Standards Board, and both standards material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. require that we plan and perform this engagement to Furthermore, Management is responsible for stating obtain limited assurance whether the subject matter is GHG emissions data in accordance with the GHG free from material misstatement. A multidisciplinary Protocol, namely the GHG Protocol Corporate team including assurance practitioners and engineers Standard and the GHG Corporate Value Chain (Scope conducted this engagement. 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. A limited assurance engagement undertaken in Greenhouse Gas quantification is subject to inherent accordance with ISAE 3000 and 3410 involves uncertainty due to incomplete scientific knowledge assessing the suitability in the circumstances of used to determine emissions factors and the values Coloplast A/S, use of defined criteria as stated on needed to combine emissions of different gases. pages 34-36 as well as use of the GHG Protocol as the basis for the preparation of the GHG emissions. In Our Independence and Quality Control addition, it involves assessing the risks of material We have complied with the Code of Ethics for misstatement whether due to fraud or error, Professional Accountants issued by the International responding to the assessed risks as necessary in the Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which circumstances, and evaluating the overall presentation includes independence and other requirements of the non-financial data. A limited assurance founded on fundamental principles of integrity, engagement is substantially less in scope than a objectivity, professional competence and due care, reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both confidentiality and professional behavior. the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures PwC applies International Standard on Quality Control performed in response to the assessed risks. 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and The procedures we performed were based on our procedures regarding compliance with ethical professional judgment and comprised inquiries requirements, professional standards and applicable regarding applied registration systems and legal and regulatory requirements. procedures, assessment of non-financial data, hereunder data used in connection with preparation of Our responsibility the 2015/16 GHG emissions data, and assessment of Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance underlying documentation, including assessment of conclusion on the non-financial data regarding whether the scope of 2015/16 GHG emissions data Product Safety, Anti-corruption and Energy and GHG complies with defined accounting principles and the Emissions as stated on pages 34-36 based on the GHG Protocol. During our work, we have conducted 31 interviews with key individuals at Coloplast responsible financial data regarding Product Safety and Antifor data registration and data consolidation. corruption as stated on pages 36 have been prepared, The procedures performed in a limited assurance in all material respects, in accordance with the applied engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are criteria stated on pages 36. less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance Furthermore, nothing has come to our attention obtained in a limited assurance engagement is causing us not to believe that the 2015/16 GHG substantially lower than the assurance that would emissions data stated on pages 35 have been have been obtained had we performed a reasonable prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with assurance engagement. Accordingly, we express a applied criteria stated on pages 34-35 and in limited assurance conclusion. accordance with the GHG Protocol. Limited assurance conclusion Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention causing us not to believe that the 2015/16 nonHellerup, November 2 2016 PricewaterhouseCoopers Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab Fin T. Nielsen Kim Tromholt State authorised public accountant State authorised public accountant 32 Environmental performance data Waste Accounting policy Total waste is based on weighted amounts from the production sites, distribution centres and corporate headquarters. Waste recycled covers waste recycled by external waste handling companies. Waste per unit produced is converted to index values (2008/2009=100). Percentage of recycling coverage is relative to total waste generation. Unit 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Waste total Tonnes 11,770 11,288 10,752 9,886 ...of which goes to hazardous waste handling Tonnes 531 554 479 505 ...of which goes to landfills Tonnes 816 647 1,306 1,473 ...of which goes to incineration Tonnes 6,728 6,542 6,186 5,621 ...of which is recycled Tonnes 3,695 3,546 2,781 2,287 Waste per units produced Index 82 78 80 77 ...recycling coverage % 31 31 26 23 Water Accounting policy Total water use includes production sites, global distribution centres and corporate headquarters. All water use is delivered and treated by local municipalities. Coloplast only receives water from significantly affected water sources at our US operations in Minneapolis and Mankato (Minnesota), which are both located in the Mississippi estuary. Unit 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 3 Water use total m 298,130 254,535 254,864 301,036 Water sources significantly affected Number 1 1 1 1 Spills (significant / insignificant) Number 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 33 Environmental performance data Energy and GHG emissions (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2015/16) Accounting policy Coloplast has adopted the Greenhouse Gas Protocol as the basis for our greenhouse gas (GHG) accounting principles. All emissions stemming from minimum 80% of the economic spend within a single reporting category are accounted for. In cases where we do not cover the full spend (Scope 3), Coloplast has extrapolated data to cover 100%. Scope 1 and 2: Direct emissions, direct and indirect energy consumption Direct and indirect energy consumption is a major source of GHG emissions in Coloplast, whereas VOC emissions are very low due to our efficient air cleaning systems. Data for Scope 1 and 2 emissions covers all Coloplast production facilities (Denmark, Hungary, France, US and China), headquarters (Denmark and US) and global distribution centres (Germany, Hungary and US). New sites are included in the reporting on the date of takeover from the developer (owned sites) or by the first day of occupancy (leased/rented sites). GHG emissions from leased and rented sales offices and small local warehouses (reported as Scope 3 emissions). Data on energy consumption is obtained from invoiced data from our utility providers and is cross-checked with metered data. Coloplast considers the validity of the data presented as high, since it relies on exact invoiced energy consumption and emissions of CO2 and VOC are based on IPCC conversion factors. Emissions from power consumption are based on DEFRA country specific GHG emission factors, not including production and transmission losses. Scope 3: Other indirect GHG emissions Coloplast has limited Scope 3 reporting to include seven categories relevant to our operations: 1. Transportation of goods: Covers all distribution internally in Coloplast, as well as distribution of finished goods from warehouses to customers in Emerging Markets. 2. Business travels: Based on yearly GHG emission reporting from Coloplast's global travel agent for business air travel, which this year accounts for 65% of total business air travel costs. As of 2015/16, the remaining has been extrapolated to ensure completeness of data. In addition, emission reporting from our main car rental supplier have been included from this year and onwards. 3. Leased company cars: Covers all leased company cars in Coloplast. 4. Raw materials: Covers all ingoing raw materials registered in Coloplast’s production data management system. Does not include OEM/contract manufactured goods, production equipment and other capital goods, processing aids and other supporting materials. 5. Energy consumption in sales offices, subsidiaries and local/regional warehouses: Covers all sales offices, subsidiaries and regional warehouses, which primarily are leased. 6. Fluorinated hydrocarbons in products: Covers all products produced in the given reporting year in Coloplast's product portfolio containing HFC gases. 7. Custom manufacturing: Covers GHG emissions from outsourced custom manufacturing production (OEM manufacturing), e.g. finished goods produced by external suppliers under the Coloplast brand. For complete definition of the seven categories and what is left out of scope 3, please see the GHG accounting principles in full on Coloplast.com. 34 Environmental performance data Energy and GHG emissions, continued (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2015/16) Unit 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Energy and GHG emissions Scope 1 / direct energy MWh 46,237 42,858 40,286 46,755 Tonnes CO2e 9,318 8,617 8,087 9,391 ...of which natural gas MWh 46,219 42,735 40,285 46,755 Tonnes CO2e 9,244 8,547 8,057 9,351 ...of which coal or fuel distilled from crude oil MWh 18 124 0 0 Tonnes CO2e 5 33 0 0 ...of which VOCs Tonnes CO2e 69 37 30 40 Scope 2 / indirect energy MWh 91,211 88,077 82,698 81,078 Tonnes CO2e 34,143 34,326 33,832 33,967 ...of which electricity MWh 90,273 87,139 81,833 80,079 Tonnes CO2e 34,135 34,318 33,824 33,958 ...of which district heating and cooling MWh 938 938 865 999 Tonnes CO2e 8 8 8 9 Scope 1 + 2 / total emissions, direct and indirect Tonnes CO2e 43,461 42,943 41,919 43,358 ...per number of units produced Index 50 49 52 56 ...per EBIT Index 27 73 35 31 Scope 3 / other relevant indirect emissions Tonnes CO2e 156,350 134,050 157,150 154,700 …of which transportation of goods1) Tonnes CO2e 25,000 16,100 14,800 20,400 …of which business travels2) Tonnes CO2e 24,300 15,100 14,000 12,900 ...of which leased company cars Tonnes CO2e 10,100 10,300 10,100 9,100 ...of which OEM Manufacturing Tonnes CO2e 9,100 8,000 10,600 10,800 .. of which sales offices and subsidiaries Tonnes CO2e 3,750 3,550 3,150 2,800 .. of which fluorinated hydrocarbons in products Tonnes CO2e 0 1,600 11,500 9,900 …of which raw materials in products Tonnes CO2e 84,100 79,400 93,000 88,800 1) As of 2015/16, additional reporting on goods transported by road has been included. The additional reporting covers around 10% of total transportation of goods. However, the increase in 2015/16 also stem from increased use of air transportation. 2) As of 2015/16, extrapolated data based on total cost has been included to ensure completeness of data. In addition, emission reporting from our main car rental supplier have been included from this year and onwards. See accounting policy for details. 35 Social performance data Anti-corruption (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2015/16) Accounting policy White-collar employees trained in Code of Conduct accounts for the percentage of current white-collar employees in the given reporting year, who have either completed an e-learning module or received face-to-face training and completed a test in our Code of Conduct. Data from 2012/13 are not reviewed by PwC. Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour covers legal actions initiated under national or international laws designed primarily for the purpose of regulating anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, or monopoly practices pending or completed during the reporting period. Cases submitted accounts for cases that have been submitted to whistleblower hotline and evaluated if within scope. The scope of relevant cases for the whistleblower hotline includes violations to all topics covered by our Code of Conduct, Coloplast BEST. Only cases within scope of topics and subjects reported via the hotline are followed through. This does not mean that the cases are necessarily substantiated. Unit 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 White-collar employees trained in Code of Conduct % 96 94 93 94 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour Number 0 0 0 0 Cases submitted to the whistleblower hotline Number 9 9 4 19 ...of which within scope Number 8 6 4 19 Product safety (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2015/16) Accounting policy Coloplast monitors phthalate consumption based on the estimated average phthalate concentration per produced item times the quantity of sold items relative to 2013/14. Product samples are not included. Number of animal testing accounts for the number of animals used for testing performed by contract laboratories. Coloplast conducts no animal test internally. ‘Rodents’ are mice, rats and guinea pigs. ‘Other’ animals are rabbits and dogs. Unit 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Reduction in phthalate consumption % 20 0 Animal testing Number 1,490 295 755 900 … of which rodents Number 1,332 250 679 832 … of which other animals Number 158 45 76 68 36 Social performance data Employees Accounting policy Employee headcount includes all full time and part time contracts European markets include: UK, Germany, France, the Nordics, Benelux, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, Spain plus production in Denmark and Hungary. Other developed markets include: USA, Canada, Japan and Australia plus production in USA. Emerging markets include countries not listed in the other categories for all remaining markets in Americas, Asia, Africa, Europe and Oceania plus production in China. Managers include all positions at or above Manager level. Top management includes Executive Management, Senior Vice Presidents, and Vice President positions. Occupational injuries are measured as the number of injuries resulting in absence from work of more than eight hours per one million working hours. Repetitive work is measured as the percentage of workplaces in Coloplast production in Denmark, Hungary, US and China according to the degree of repetitive work. All figures are annual averages based on quarterly figures. No/low – no or low degree of repetitive work. Medium – repetitive work with 0-2 aggregating factors, High – repetitive work with 3-4 aggregating factors. Very high – repetitive work with 5 or more aggregating factors. Coloplast only conducts the employee engagement survey biannually. The sustainable performance index is made up of how leaders communicate, give feedback and their closeness with employees. Calculation is based on white-collars who have a PDP in Success Factors (based on workflow steps in system) divided by the headcount on October 1, 2014. Personal development plans for blue-collars are run locally and in local systems. Unit 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Employee headcount Number 10,275 9,706 9,250 8,925 ....blue-collar Number 4,725 4,466 4,168 4,094 ....white-collar Number 5,550 5,240 5,082 4,831 Regions European markets Number 6,687 6,271 5,952 5,869 Other developed markets Number 920 860 839 814 Emerging markets Number 2,668 2,575 2,459 2,242 Gender diversity Female employees total % 63 65 64 67 Female managers % 41 43 40 40 Female top managers % 15 13 12 13 Attraction, recruitment and retention Manager positions filled by internal candidates % 64 47 Age distribution total Employees aged < 30 % 26 24 24 25 Employees aged 30-50 % 58 61 62 62 Employees aged > 50 % 16 15 14 13 37 Social performance data Employees, continued Unit 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Occupational injuries and accidents Injuries and accidents, all employees LTI freq. 4.1 4.4 4.9 4.8 Repetitive work ...No/low % 48.1 42.5 41.2 38.9 ...Medium % 33.1 35.2 32.0 28.0 ...High % 16.8 20.6 25.1 31.0 ...Very high % 1.9 1.7 1.7 2.1 Employee engagement ...Response rate Index 93 93 ...Engagement index Index 74 74 ...Values index Index 83 81 ...Well-being index Index 78 78 …Sustainable performance culture Index 77 Personal development Personal Development Plans Index 84 67 81 Supply chain responsibility Accounting policy Percentage of raw materials suppliers fully covered by the Supply Chain Responsibility procedure. Covers the entire Coloplast organisation. Number of suppliers whose risk profile has been downgraded by the internal decision-making body from 'Consult Decision Board' to high, or high to medium, or medium to low following documented improvements in their social, environmental or business ethical standards as a consequence of Coloplast’s involvement. Unit 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Raw material suppliers covered by supply chain responsibility programme % 100 100 100 100 Suppliers with improved risk profile because of significant improvements Number 2 1 3 1 ... accumulated Number 29 27 26 23 Contracts terminated Number 0 0 1 0 ...accumulated Number 9 9 9 8 38 Social performance data Certifications Accounting policy Coloplast currently has nine production sites including the corporate headquarters (Thisted, Mørdrup, Humlebæk, Tatabanya, Nyírbátor, Zhuhai, Mankato, West River Road, Sarlat) and four distribution sites (Hamburg, Marietta, Champlan and Tata) within scope of certification to ISO 9001, ISO 13845 and OHSAS 18001. None of the distribution sites will be certified according to ISO14001 due to their low environmental impact. Site visits accounts for the total duration in days of quality or environment, health and safety visits by the authorities worldwide for all Coloplast locations. The increase in the days in 2012/13 is mainly due to recertification to ISO9001/ISO13485 and new regulations in Brazil, that caused the Brazilian health authorities to make their own inspections. Unit 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Production and distribution sites (total) Number 13 13 13 13 ISO 9001 / ISO 13485 Number 13 13 13 13 ISO 14001 Number 8 8 8 8 OHSAS 18001 Number 10 10 10 10 Site visits Days 74 86 59 102 Fighting for better care Accounting policy Accumulated sum of project funds approved by Access to Healthcare. Please note that there is usually a period of at least six months between the approval of a project and the initial payment of funds. Training ranges from one day courses to full master programmes. Unit 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Access to Healthcare project funds approved (cumulative) DKK million 25.0 19.8 16.2 13.7 Access to Healthcare projects (accumulated) Number 35 29 24 19 Estimated number of clinicians trained by our Access to Healthcare projects (cumulative) Number 11,000 9,150 7,000 5,450 39 The Coloplast story begins back in 1954. Elise Sørensen is a nurse. Her sister Thora has just had an ostomy operation and is afraid to go out in public, fearing that her stoma might leak. Listening to her sister’s problems, Elise conceives the idea of the world’s first adhesive ostomy bag. Based on Elise’s idea, Aage Louis-Hansen, a civil engineer and plastics manufacturer, and his wife Johanne Louis-Hansen, a trained nurse, created the ostomy bag. A bag that does not leak, giving Thora – and thousands of people like her – the chance to live the life they want. A simple solution that makes a difference. Today, our business includes Ostomy Care, Continence Care, Wound & Skin Care and Urology Care. We operate globally and employ more than 10,000 employees. Coloplast develops products and services that make life easier for people with very personal and private medical conditions. Working closely with the people Coloplast A/S who use our products, we create solutions that are sensitive to their special needs. We call this intimate healthcare. Our business includes ostomy care, Holtedam 1 continence care, wound and skin care and urology care. We operate globally and employ more than 10,000 employees. 3050 Humlebaek The Coloplast logo is a registered trademark of Coloplast A/S. © 2016-11. Denmark All rights reserved Coloplast A/S, 3050 Humlebaek, Denmark. Company registration (CVR) No. 69 74 99 17
