2015 ATUS Sustainability Report Sustainability Management of ATUS April 2016 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 2 Contents 00. Corporate Overview Message from the CEO Organization Chart Vision and Values of ATUS Services at ATUS Overview of ATUS Stakeholders UN Global Compact Report Information Corporate Governance 01. Economic Achievements 02. CSR Achievements Highlights on Financial Performance Ethical Management Innovation Management Management and Employees Creative Management Customer Service Local Community Business Partners 03. Environmental Achievements 04. Appendix Environmental Management Third Party Assurance Statement BEST Index Contact Information 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 3 00. Overview of the Report This section covers an overview of ATUS Corporation and its Sustainability Report. Message from the CEO Vision and Values of ATUS Overview of ATUS UN Global Compact Corporate Governance Organization Chart Services at ATUS Stakeholders Report Information 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 4 Message from the CEO We are pleased to have this opportunity to pledge our commitment to ATUS’ sustainability management through this report. Since its establishment on May, 2004, ATUS has grown into a professional enterprise in education “that invests and cultivates people.” In order for firms to sustain growth and individuals to improve competitiveness, education is needed endlessly. During the last decade, ATUS Corporation has developed and operated education programs for corporate key talents as well as diverse joint programs with business schools overseas. ATUS will continue its business so as to strengthen its international network and expand the scope of its global programs to other age groups, therefore allowing more individuals for intellectual growth. In addition, in order to ensure coexistence among medium and small sized companies ATUS will take the role of supporting assured entrepreneurs and core managers, thereby, standing as an insightful organization fulfilling social responsibility. ATUS aims to achieve the following goals in order to systematically execute sustainable management: First, ATUS will strive to meet the global standard of transparency and integrity. Second, ATUS pledges its commitment to social responsibility and will strive to achieve maximum growth by promoting the mutual advancement of all parties concerned. Third, ATUS will actively work towards a people-oriented management style in order to raise the quality of life of the executives and staff members, and thereby create a desirable working environment. ATUS will strive to further its ethical, environmental, creative, and innovative efforts, as well as effectively execute sustainability management to become a trusted and respected company. Thank you. April 1, 2016 Sung-Il Yoon CEO, ATUS Corporation 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 5 Vision and Values of ATUS Since its establishment in 2004, ATUS has been working hard under the overriding banner of sustainability management. To this day, the company remains committed, toward not only the continued survival as a business, but also toward becoming a company that fulfills corporate social responsibilities. ▪ Vision ATUS is aiming to become a Total Education Solution Provider valuing global standards, leading innovation, environment and ethics management. In doing so, ATUS pursues to establish a Total Education Solution Standard that offers solutions to the broad scope of education from education planning and operation to consulting for studying abroad. ATUS aims to apply global standards across its business in education planning, design, promotion, assessment etc. to upgrade the quality of education and firmly establish a systematic process for fostering core human talent. Global ATUS Corp. aims to In recognition of its Standard become a leading environmental innovative firm that can responsibilities, ATUS lead the education Total aims to be fully solutions market through Environ responsible by Leading Education change and innovation. mental designing and Innovati Furthermore, ATUS strides Solution Manage promoting ons to establish new grounds ment environmental-related by entering consulting Provider curricula and by services for studying providing diverse interabroad. Ethical related activities. Manage ment ATUS pursues to enhance corporate value through a strong commitment to corporate management norms, transparent management, fair competition, and integrity throughout its education services 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 6 Overview of ATUS Corporate Name ATUS Corporation CEO Sung-Il Yoon Date of Establishment May 29, 2004 Business Type Education service & education/training advisory, study abroad consuting Gross Revenue KRW 2.5 billion (2015) Corporate Address #1505 Shinchonro 16, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul, South Korea ▪ ATUS’ Corporate Image: CI ATUS, a synthesis of “At” and “Us,” implies the notion of “together,” refers to the intent to advance together with clients and customers. The idea came about through public participation, which involved an open contest and open vote amongst the entire management and staff of ATUS. 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 7 Global Compact: Ten Principles to Practice On January 8, 2008, ATUS became the 94th organization in South Korea to join the UN Global Compact and is working to practice the 10 Global Compact principles. Category Principle Practice Human 1. Businesses should support and respect the Code of Conduct Rights protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human Code of Conduct rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of Arbeitsordnung association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and Arbeitsordnung compulsory labour. 5. The effective abolition of child labour. Arbeitsordnung 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of Arbeitsordnung employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary Introduction of approach to environmental challenges. Smart Work 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater River environmental responsibility. Improvement Campaign 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of Education environmentally friendly technologies. Projects Anti10. Businesses should work against corruption in The Code of Gift Corruption all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Exchange 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 8 Corporate Governance th ATUS Corporation was established on May 29 , 2004 as Seoul Future Forum Corporation as the majority shareholder. ATUS is taking its place as a professional educational institution that provides total education solutions stemmed from more than ten years of education service experience, and serves to contribute to the cultivation of potential talents thereby advancing society through continuous challenge and innovation. Furthermore, ATUS seeks to expand its area of business by tapping into the area of study abroad consulting. ▪ Corporate Governance ATUS is a corporation consisting of 18 stakeholders and 4 board of directors, and adheres to the rights of shareholders and board of directors as stated by commercial law. The 4member Board of Directors is not influenced by the corporation’s shareholders and is run independently. ▪ Board of Directors’ Actions In March 2015, Sung-Il Yoon was Board of Directors Meeting (April 2014) appointed CEO of ATUS through the Name Title Board of Directors. Yoon’s professional Sung-Il Yoon CEO, ATUS Corporation knowledge and passion for successful Jung-Hwan, CHO Non-executive Director management is to contribute to ATUS’s (Seoul Future Forum) expectations and development. The Yong-Joo CHOI Non-executive Director Board is composed of three executive (aSSIST) directors and one auditor. This Board Eun-Joong KIM Auditor (Seoul Business & of Directors is working toward Economy Press) enhancing the corporation’s value and shareholders’ interests by utilizing a broad understanding of the industry and an array of diverse experience. 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 9 ▪ General Meetings of Shareholders The General Meetings of Shareholders are classified into provisional meetings and regular meetings. History of General Meetings of Shareholders (March 2013 – March 2016) Date Agenda March 2016 Appointment extension of directors and audits March 2016 Financial statement and budget approval April 2015 Addition of business area March 2015 Stock audit reporting March 2015 Inauguration Approval of Sung-Il Yoon as CEO March 2015 Financial statement and budget approval December 2014 Stock audit reporting November 2014 Stock audit reporting March 2014 Addition of business area: software development, e-learning March 2014 Financial statement and budget approval August 2013 Inauguration Approval of Hae-Kwang LEE as CEO March 2013 2012 Financial Statement Approval 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 10 Organization Chart New Businesses Management Team Support Department CEO Organization Chart (March 2016) The total number of executives and staff by average during the year of 2015 was 12. The total number of staff was similar to the previous year of 2014, and the activities regarding sustainability management are run by the Management Support Department. 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 11 Services at ATUS Launched in 2004 with the goal of serving as a Total Education Solution Provider, ATUS not Education Education only provides the education necessary for Design Operation developing the core human resources of business partners, but offers diversified ATUS Corp. education services to cultivate competent Study Education members of society. Through its management Abroad /Training and employees’ extensive experience with Consulting Advisory education design and operation, ATUS promotes Comprehensive Business a variety of education programs that may be Provider challenging to other young businesses and fulfills customer demands through its joint programs with prominent schools overseas, customized in-house programs and even short-term programs for grooming professional talents. In 2015, ATUS began its services in study abroad consulting, thereby, encompassing a more comprehensive scope of management education consulting. 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 12 Stakeholders A stakeholder is defined as any individual Management or group that influences or is influenced Employees by ATUS ’ management activities. It is the company ’ s policy to respond proactively to each and every stakeholder Customers Shareholder group. This report uses value chain and ATUS influence as standards to conduct a Corp. stakeholder analysis. As shown in the diagram, we have five main interested parties: management and employees, Local Business customers, shareholders, business Community Partners partners, and the local community. ATUS is committed to collecting the diverse views of all stakeholders and is highly receptive to all feedback and critique. ▪ Management & Employees All management and employees that serve at ATUS represent internal stakeholders. ATUS adopts an impartial hiring system to shape its management and employee structure, and continues to provide ongoing opportunities for life-long development and growth for its employees. Moreover, through a fair wage and benefits system, ATUS strives to provide adequate compensation as well as stable and sound working conditions for all. ▪ Customers Customers include both corporate and individual consumers that use ATUS' services. ATUS is committed to providing the best services possible to boost the competency level of core human resources in corporations as well as in society at large and its constituents. To this end, ATUS conducts regular customer satisfaction surveys and ensures the application of customer feedback in future services. ▪ Shareholders Shareholders are institutional and individual investors holding shares at ATUS. We advocate the creation of sound shareholder wealth through business performance 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 13 distribution and payout, and are working hard to enhance long-term shareholder returns by maximizing enterprise value. ▪ Business Partners Our business partners include financial institutions, distributors, online companies, ad agencies, etc., that engage in various forms of transactions with ATUS. We view all such parties as valued business partners, and are dedicated to ensuring fair and equitable business with all of them. ATUS offers all qualified companies equal business opportunities based on the principle of free competition. ATUS also provides all partners with equal access to any necessary business information. ▪ Local Community ATUS wishes to contribute to competence building and life-long learning through diverse high quality education services. A diligent tax payer, ATUS upholds all laws and regulations including those concerning environmental protection, and is making every effort to reduce its water and energy usage by adopting a rigorous system of resource management. ATUS recognizes that it is a part of the local community and intends to become leading social contributors by helping create sound personal wealth and corporate value. 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 14 Report Information Since establishment, ATUS has dedicated itself to sustainability management. ATUS published its 2015 Sustainability Report to review and build on its past and to be able to better advance toward the future. ▪ Reporting Scope and Time Period This report uses data collected as of the end of 2015. The economic productivity section consists of data collected from the last 3 years from January 2013 to December 2015. ATUS produced a comprehensive report of all business activities in terms of their economic, social, and environmental dimensions. ▪ Reporting Guidelines ATUS’ Sustainability Report adheres to the BEST Sustainability Reporting Guideline, which was jointly developed by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, the Korean Chamber of Commerce, and IPS. All figures quoted in the report are based on the Korean Won. The BEST guideline supplements the weak points of the “Global Reporting Initiative” (GRI), and is more applicable for the Korean business environment. The guideline includes both social responsibility and innovation management, and allows companies to select a standard based on company size. ▪ Report Content Economic Performance Through financial and status reports on ATUS Corporation, economic outcome as well as the innovation and creativity management initiatives are reported. SR Performance ATUS reports on its business ethics practices regarding the treatment of its management and employees; its internal control system to prevent unethical behavior; system for supporting win-win with its business partners; and customer satisfaction and service related policies. It also reports on contribution to society and related issues. Environmental Performance ATUS reports on its stated environmental policies and environmental monitoring outcome. 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 15 01. Economic Achievements This section highlights ATUS’ financial performance and current status in order to report on economic outcomes, as well as the innovation and creativity management initiatives. Highlights on Financial Performance Innovation Management Creativity Management 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 16 Highlights on Financial Performance ▪ Net Revenue Net revenue recorded KRW 1.48 billion in 2013, KRW 520 million in 2014, and KRW 250 million in 2015. As investments were made on new business initiatives, such as its online business and study abroad consulting activities, net revenue exhibited a tendency of decrease. Net Revenue (KRW million) ▪ Current Status of Tax Payment The year-end corporate tax payment for 2015 amounted KRW 0. This owes to the deficit in net revenue and net profit coming from the underperformance of the online business and study abroad consulting business newly started in 2014 and 2015. Corporate Tax (KRW million) 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 17 ▪ Key Financial Performance Indicators (KRW million) Year Revenue Corporate Tax Net Profit Asset Capital 2013 1,482 138 591 4,550 4,365 2014 524 0 -336 4,012 3,797 2015 252 0 -611 3,190 3,168 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 18 Innovation Management ▪ Education and Training Systems to Promote Continuous Education ATUS firmly believes that having superior human resources determines a company ’ s competitiveness. ATUS employs an innovative education system other than the yearlong on-the-job-training programs in order to encourage management and employees to pursue continuing education. As a result, in 2015, each employee by average had 97.8 hours of education and training. On-the-job training SIE(*)/ Internal scholarship MBA s Concerts Management & Employees’ Capacity Grants for Personal Sabbatical Developme Leave nt ATUS’ Management and Employee Education and Training System *SIE (Seminar for Intellectual Exchange): Monday Seminars for intellectual exchange among employees 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 19 Creativity Management Personal Sustainability Report Since 2013, in accordance with new HR policies, the sustainability report normally devised for businesses and corporations were applied on personal life aspects and imported as a part of measuring the performance of employees. This new attempt will encourage employees to practice sustainability not only on the corporate level, but also on individual levels. Such personal sustainability reports were written based on the model developed by the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS), a leading research institute in the field of sustainability. 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 20 02. CSR Achievements This section introduces an internal control mechanism for applying ethical management and preventing unethical acts in relation to employee treatment. This section also reports on a support system for facilitating good corporate partnership relations and service related policy for customer satisfaction. It also reports on social contribution activities and results of related issues concerning the local community. Ethical Management Management and Employees Customer Service Local Community Business Partners 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 21 Ethical Management ATUS observes ethical policies and believes that a company’s sustainable growth is possible when it offers health value to stakeholders. Under this principle, ATUS implements a company-wide ethical management system that consists of a code of ethical conduct and policies regarding gifts exchange and integrity contracts. ▪ Code of Ethics Who This Applies to All ATUS management and employees Management and Employee Responsibilities To know and comply with work-related guidelines If questions arise when the code is applied, one must receive assistance from the person in charge. If involved parties or another employee violates the code of conduct, or are asked to perform an act with the risk of violating it, one must bring up the issue immediately. Penalty for a Breach of Conduct Management and employees that violate the code may face disciplinary action. Legal Compliance and Corruption Prevention (Legal Compliance) Management and employees must adhere to the law and regulations of the country in which they are working in. (Corporate Regulation Compliance) Management and employees must adhere to corporate regulations (Conflict Avoidance) Management and employees must avoid all acts or relations that present a conflict between the interest of the company and the interest of the individual. (Prohibition of False Documentation) Management and staff must not write false documents under any circumstances The Attitude of Management and Employees (Self-Development) Management and employees should establish an appropriate rolemodel goal, continuously work toward self-development (Innovation Leadership) Management and employees should constantly strive for best practice. (Trust and Respect) Management and employees should have mutual respect and 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 22 implement trust as an underlying principle of work Responsibility toward Management and Employees (Equal Opportunity Employment) ATUS recruits, employs, trains, compensates, and promotes new employees regardless of race, religion, nationality, gender, age, and physical disabilities and also provides other employment conditions. (Equal Personnel Assessment) ATUS adopted an objective personnel assessment system with the participation of all management and staff for rational and appropriate promotion and allocation of assignments, by which corporate outcomes are altogether achieved (Impartial Regulation) ATUS considers fairness and rationality when corporate regulations are newly implemented, and publicizes those minutes transparently. (Privacy Protection) ATUS respects individual privacy and protects personal information of all employees. (Human Resource Development) ATUS provides an opportunity for all management and employees to attain the education training required for their work responsibilities. (Health and Safety Measures) ATUS creates and maintains a safe and healthy work environment and strives to prevent workplace injury. Customer Satisfaction (Prevention of Invasion of Privacy) ATUS does not disclose client information to third parties without client consent. (Customer Satisfaction) ATUS always respects all clients’ opinions and provides services and benefits from the client’s perspective and gains trust by endlessly creating value that benefits the customer. (Customer Loyalty) ATUS not only presents optimum quality to all clients, but also works to continue the relationship after the term of service is terminated, in order to increase clients’ trust. Fair Trade (Improper Payment) When offering services or during business dealings, ATUS representatives are prohibited from presenting money or other valuables, or providing services for the purpose of securing an improper position of advantage. (Fair Trade Rule Compliance) In all business transactions, including pricing, purchasing, selling and sales promotion, ATUS complies with fair trade policies and law. (Fair Trade) In order to fulfill the rights of all businesses and to abide by the principle of free competition, ATUS assures equal opportunities and impartially distributes information 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 23 necessary for creating business deals to all companies qualifying each criteria. (Intellectual Property Protection) ATUS not only protects its own intellectual property rights, but also that of other organizations. This requires proper understanding of the registration and use of word processing, printing, web postings and all other forms of asset. Environmental Protection and Social Contribution (Environmental Protection) ATUS exerts its best efforts to protect nature and to preserve a clear environment, and complies with environmental protection related laws (Energy Conservation) ATUS exerts its best efforts to eliminate wasteful consumption of resources (Social Contribution) ATUS recognizes its role in the local community and is a leader in social contribution through its ethical gains and corporate value ▪ Integrity Contract ATUS implements the Integrity Contract in efforts to eradicate acts of corruption during business transactions with subcontractors and to establish transparency during the contract process. Under the integrity contract, during the process of purchase biddings, closing of contracts, and fulfilling contracts, etc., bribes are neither accepted nor offered from participating companies. In the case of violating this bribery policy, both sides agree to a restriction penalty, which serves as a measure to prevent corruption. The main aspects of the Integrity Contract are the following: Upon signing and conducting the contract, any party must not directly or indirectly present material goods, special treatment, or unjustified profit to the other party’s executives and employees related to the contract If the above situation occurs, responsible parties will be subject to limited biddings, cancellation of contract, halt in transaction, or other forms of disadvantages. If the above case is proven true, responsible parties cannot raise any civil or criminal objections against the cancellation of the contract and against other occurring disadvantages ▪ Bribery: Guidelines for Gift Exchange with Transaction Companies In order to properly apply ethical management, ATUS sets up a guideline for bribery and related gift exchange acts that is clearly stated as a standard for ethical value discernment during the active duties of management and employees. Providing gifts to Cash prohibited unless in a major family event (In the case of a family a transaction event, such as weddings or funerals, maximum of KRW 100,000) 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 24 company Gift certificates and coupons prohibited Gifts below KRW 50,000 market price Receiving gifts Cash, gift certificates, and coupons must be returned and reported from a transaction Must report gifts that are worth more than KRW 50,000 company Must return and report gifts that are worth more than KRW 100,000 Items such as alcoholic beverages must be reported and should be shared in company events Celebration or consolation gifts exceeding KRW 100,000 must be returned and reported Other situations In the case of situations that are not included in the guideline or are difficult to judge, employees must consult with the manager to solve the problem. Code of Conduct In order to practice ethical management, a code of conduct was established for management and employees. Enacted to protect the honor and dignity of management and employees, pledges are made during the orientations for new employees so that the contents of the code are agreed upon. 1. We pledge to respect our colleagues and adhere to our roles and positions and work cooperatively. 2. We take careful observation of our oral representations and demeanor in order not to damage our dignity, and exhibit our attractiveness through formal attire. 3. We treat our clients with all sincerity and retain our smiles even when our clients make unacceptable requests. 4. When clients present us with gifts as a sign of friendship, we pledge to politely reject them without damaging the relationship. If we accept gifts due to unavoidable circumstances, we immediately report to the head of the department. 5. By regulation, we consider informal dinner meetings with clients as part of work and must adhere to the main purpose of attending such meetings and never make our clients feel burdensome. 6. We properly show our gratitude to our clients and all others who have supported our work. 7. If we are sexually harassed during interactions with our clients, colleagues, or other work-related parties, we pledge to not hide the matter and report to the head of the department to make sure that no damage is done. 8. We protect our own safety and integrity at all times and places. 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 25 9. We speak with prudence so that we can take responsibility for our words. ▪ CEO’s Will ATUS adheres to the principle that in order to instill corporate ethical management, the CEO must have a strong will and act first. To do this, ATUS joined the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies’ (IPS) B.E.S.T Forum since October 2003 and pronounced our commitment to ethical management to both internal and external audiences. The B.E.S.T Forum is a national forerunner in ethical management and seeks methods to implement ethical management at the CEO level, shares information related to ethical management strategy, and seeks to contribute to the environment and the local community. (B.E.S.T is an acronym for “Business Ethics is the Source of Top Performance”) ▪ Prevention of Sexual Harassment To build a workplace culture where people work together, ATUS implemented an education program for sexual harassment prevention for management and employees since 2004, based on the law on sexual harassment prevention. This program provides a basic understanding of sexual harassment and behavioral methods to prevent victimization of sexual harassment, countermeasures after becoming a victim, behavioral guidelines to avoid becoming a harasser, and also countermeasures for when being suspected of a harasser. Comprehensive education on violence prevention was additionally added twice a year so that a more variety of and more in-depth contents could be covered on preventing violence. Classes of sexual and domestic violence were analyzed, and the education about the processes and penalties when such cases occurred and what to do, helps form and improve the morals in management and staff at ATUS. Since implementing this program, no case of sexual harassment has been found since ATUS’ establishment. ATUS will continue to provide education in this area to create a harassment-free, enjoyable workplace environment. List of Preventive Education Dates 12th Sexual Harassment Preventive Education April 29, 2013 13th Sex Trafficking Prevention Education October 21, 2013 14th Sexual Harassment Preventive Education April 21, 2014 th 15 Comprehensive Education on Violence Prevention July 7, 2014 th 16 Comprehensive Education on Violence Prevention October 13, 2014 th 17 Comprehensive Education on Violence Prevention April 27, 2015 th 18 Comprehensive Education on Violence Prevention October 26, 2015 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 26 Regulation for the Prohibition of Workplace Sexual Harassment Article 89 (Prohibiting Workplace Sexual Harassment) The company ensures that business owners, superiors, or employees do not abuse their position and that they do not use sexual language or behavior to other employees related to work, or utilize this as a disadvantage over an individual’s employment, or cause sexual humiliation and worsen the workplace environment. Article 90 (Preventing Workplace Sexual Harassment) The company implements education for preventing workplace sexual harassment at least once a year in order to prevent workplace sexual harassment and construct conditions where employees can work in a safe work environment. The company takes action toward department transfers, disciplinary action, and other actions that apply for sexual harassers. The company must not place measures that disadvantage the victimized employee. Article 91 (Workplace Sexual Harassment Prevention Education) Workplace Sexual Harassment Prevention Education must include each of the following details: 1. Acts and subordinate statutes concerning sexual harassment on the job; 2. Handling procedures and standards for measures upon occurrence of sexual harassment on the job at the relevant business place; 3. Grievance counselling and procedures for relief of victims to sexual harassment on the job at the relevant business place; 4. Other matters necessary for prevention of sexual harassment on the job. Article 92 (Examples of Standards Identifying Workplace Sexual Harassment) 1. Examples of sexual language or behavior 1) Physical behavior: contact of parts of the body etc. 2) Language Behavior: obscene conversations just as dirty jokes etc. 3) Visual behavior: obscene photos, pictures, graffiti, publications etc. 2. Examples of employment related disadvantage Unilaterally making employment or working conditions disadvantageous such as disqualification for employment, salary reduction, exempt from promotion, move of station, suspension, leave, layoff etc. 3. Examples of worsened workplace environment Forming threatening or hostile employment environments or impeding work performance by creating sexual disgrace. 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 27 Article 93 (Workplace Environment Related Action) The company must autonomously work toward solutions for employees victimized of workplace sexual harassment that report distress by, for example, entrusting the case to the grievance committee. 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 28 Management and Employees ▪ Employment Figures ATUS has contributed to the local community’s job creation by employing the youth internship initiative, and the average length of service is 2.7 years. Number of Management and Employees Salary per Person (KRW million) ▪ Employment Policy (Equal Opportunity Employment) ATUS recruits, employs, trains, compensates, and promotes new employees regardless of race, religion, nationality, gender, age, and physical disabilities and also provides other employment conditions. ATUS also enforces policies for gender equality and is putting effort to expand the diversity in management and employees. As of December 2015, management and employees consisted of 17% women and 83% men. Compared to last year figures of 44% female and 56% male, the ratio has broken its balance, but ATUS will continue to exert effort to bring the balance back. 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 29 male 100% Gender Ratio of Management and Employees Middle Manager Ratio ▪ Flexible Off Hours Policy Since 2013 and as a part of the Smart Work policy, ATUS allowed employees to release themselves from work one hour early on every Friday. The Flexible Off Hours policy has improved the standard of living of employees through their increased personal time. The policy also suggests a transition from a job-centered drinking culture to a family-oriented leisure culture. ▪ Education Training System for Management and Employees Based on the conviction that the overall quality of service is determined by the competency of management and employees, ATUS established an education training system to promote lifelong education for management and employees. On-the-job training Internal SIE(*)/ scholarship MBA s Management & Concert Employees’ Capacity Grants for Personal Sabbatical Developme Leave nt ATUS’ Management and Employee Education and Training System 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 30 Corporate Sponsorship System ATUS offers corporate sponsorship opportunities to its management and employees who choose to enroll in an education program organized or hosted by aSSIST and other affiliated institutions. This internal scholarship program is designed to help its employees develop their competency and abilities, as well as enhance the knowledge and skills they need to perform their respective jobs. ATUS aims to create an environment that encourages all employees to strive for self-realization and growth. Category Degree Programs Non-degree Programs Internal Programs Master’s Programs Ph.D. Programs Non-degree Programs Requirement Individuals with more Individuals with more Individuals with more for than 2 full years of than 3 full years of than 1 full year of Application continued service that continued service that continued service meet matriculation meet matriculation requirements requirements * Degree Programs: programs acquiring Master’s or Ph.D degrees * Non-degree Programs: certificate program, job training program etc. * Internal Programs: operated or hosted by ATUS and other affiliate organizations Grants for Personal Development All management and employees are entitled to a total of KRW 500,000 per year (KRW 250,000 semiannually) for their individual development. Management and employees decide on objectives in which they need development and then individually plan and execute educational measures suitable to their area of need. Sabbatical Leave Since the latter half of Applicants for Sabbatical Leave 2005, ATUS implemented a sabbatical 2013 2014 2015 program for the purpose of recharging 0 1 0 employees. The program is available to anyone who has served over 3 years at ATUS and the selection process is based on years of consecutive service and work contribution. Selected employees are provided with either a 4 week or 8 week fully-paid vacation days in addition to a separate research grant, and are given an opportunity for self-development and revitalization during their sabbatical period. This policy was later expanded and reformed in 2008 to become an effective system for self-development and employee training. In the latter half of 2014, one employee was selected for sabbatical leave and this was a second sabbatical opportunity for the individual. In 2015, however, there were no employees eligible for sabbatical leave 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 31 which resulted in no cases taking advantage of this opportunity. Job Specific Education All management and staff receive an opportunity for job specific education in order to increase their job specific capacity. Every year, employees select for themselves and participate in education programs most suitable to their job specifications, which guarantees the autonomy on choice of contents. SIE (Seminar for Intellectual Exchange) SIE is a knowledge and culture sharing forum for management and employees, which was established in June 2004 as a regular seminar held for about an hour every Monday starting 7:50AM. SIE Activities (Jan 2015 – Dec 2015) No. Date Theme No. Date Theme 511 2015.01.05 Redefining Work 535 2015.07.06 Don’t Neglect Me!! Non-language Design, Embracing 512 2015.01.12 536 2015.07.13 Communication People Sympathy, the Creative FinTech Revolution 513 2015.01.19 Connection Between 537 2015.07.20 and the Future of You and Me Finance Emotionally Youth Challenging for a Communicating with 514 2015.01.26 538 2015.07.27 st Better Society Society of the 21 Century Science of the Brain, Power to Change the 515 2015.02.02 the Beginning of 539 2015.08.10 World, Out-of-box Decision Insight on the World, Introduction of the 516 2015.02.09 540 2015.08.17 Perspectives Autism Center Smart photo shooting 517 2015.02.16 Flip Learning 541 2015.08.24 in an Smartphone Era 518 2015.02.23 Coexisting with Bacteria 542 2015.08.31 Power of Space 519 2015.03.02 New China 543 2015.09.07 Collective Intelligence Success and Failure of Education on 520 2015.03.09 Firms – Learning from 544 2015.09.14 Personal Information History Protection Time Poor! Scarcity in 521 2015.03.16 Leadership Evolution 545 2015.09.21 Abundance! Learning from What Kind of 522 2015.03.23 546 2015.10.05 Psychopaths Character are You? 523 2015.03.30 Business Humor 547 2015.10.12 Burnout Syndrome 2030 Korean Society 524 2015.04.06 548 2015.10.19 Home, Sweet Home! Megatrend Research A Journey to a Different Comprehensive 525 2015.04.13 549 2015.10.26 Dimension of Business: Education on 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 32 HR Paradigm Shift from Preventing Violence Regime to Field Operation 'New China, New Good Life, Good 526 2015.04.20 Choice' to the Young 550 2015.11.02 Food 20’s Comprehensive Slogans Determine 527 2015.04.27 Education on 551 2015.11.09 Everything Preventing Violence New Point of View on 528 2015.05.11 552 2015.11.16 Music and Prejudice Advertising Howe Were They So Business by Digging 529 2015.05.18 Happy?: Conditions for 553 2015.11.23 Dirt Happiness 530 2015.06.01 Color Therapy 554 2015.11.30 Story of Stationary 531 2015.06.08 Keeping Myself Healthy 555 2015.12.07 Changing Frames Small Weddings, New Documents Also 532 2015.06.15 556 2015.12.14 Wedding Culture Need Makeup The Case Western Reserve University's 533 2015.06.22 557 2015.12.21 Digital Marketing 'Leadership Deep Dive' program Outstanding 534 2015.06.29 Performance Establishment of the Seminar for Intellectual Exchange (SIE) Funds Since July 2007, ATUS established a year-based funding system for SIE. Established to promote lifelong education for employees, it serves as a feedback system that compensates for the participation outcomes based on the number of management and employees and amount of participation in education training. The funds will likely instill interest and anticipation regarding the employee education system. In 2013, total SIE funds distributed to all management and staff amounted KRW 529 million. ▪ Education Training Fees ATUS education and training funds are invested for professional job specific education and self-development activities for management and employees. (Unit: KRW) 2013 2014 2015 Total Training Funds 17,500,000 17,166,760 25,119,500 Training Costs per person 1,555,555 1,430,563 2,283,590 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 33 ▪ Number of Lost Working Days Since 2004, there has been no case of strike or working days lost. ATUS will continue its efforts to maintain a constructive relationship with its management and employees. ▪ Health and Safety Regulation In order to protect employees, ATUS establishes employees’ safety and health protection provisions under the ethics code. Article 77 (Liability of the Company) ATUS established a safety standard of facilities and machinery as required by law and the necessary health measures to protect employees Article 78 (Liability of the Employee) Employees must abide by the following for risk prevention and health sanitation. 1. Obey regulations related to workplace safety and health care. 2. Keep the workplace clean at all times in efforts to prevent accident 3. Do not remove or alter security equipment, fire facilities, sanitation facilities, and any other related installations without permission. 4. Do not use flammable devices or smoke in other areas other than designated. 5. Always keep the workplace clean and dispose waste at specified areas. 6. Receive vaccinations and medical examinations offered by the company. Article 79 (Medical Examination) 1. The company must regularly provide medical examinations for all of its employees. However, when a new employee has already undergone a medical examination, the company is not required to provide another examination in the same year according to the Occupational Safety and Health Act which stipulates that office employees are provided with a medical examination once every two years, and for all other types of employees once every year. 2. If the medical examination results indicate that there are concerns that an illness may worsen from having an infectious disease or mental illness, or if the employee was contracted of disease, the company can restrict or prohibit work of the employee. 3. When it is recognized necessary for the health management of the employee, the company can change the work location, change the nature of the work, reduce working hours or take other appropriate measures. Article 80 (Taking measures from results) The company will carry out health measures necessary from the results of the medical examinations, and the employee shall comply 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 34 with those measures. ▪ Benefits Program ATUS does its best to support welfare benefits in order to improve employees’ quality of life. National Health Insurance, National Pension System, Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance and Employment Insurance are implemented under the legal benefits program. Retirement Pension, Schooling Expense Support, Medical Expense Support are also provided apart from the legal program. Retirement Pension Plan The Retirement Pension Plan is a corporate welfare system designed to help employees carry on stable post-retirement lives by setting aside severance payments in an external financial organization. On December 1, 2005, the Ministry of Employment and Labor set up a Laborers’ Retirement Allowance Security act to grant the autonomy of the labor-management union. Since September 2006, ATUS implemented a pension system and 7 employees have obtained the benefits of this system. Medical Expense Support ATUS establishes and conducts the following health and safety regulations in order to improve the health and safety of its employees. 1. We have a contract with a designated hospital for employees and their families’ health care management. 2. We conduct medical inspections for new employees at our designated hospital. 3. Based on the doctor’s diagnosis, we prohibit or restrict the working of the employees with infectious disease, mental illness, or work related disease. 4. Each department is equipped with a first-aid kit for use in emergency treatment response to accidents. 5. We provide safety measures on providing first aid for persons with accidental injury or disease, and preventing subsequent accidents and accident expansion. 6. We inspect and improve the workplace through qualified experts in the case of healthhazardous activities in the workplace. Medical Examination Regular medical examination for employees’ health and safety, medical inspection for new employees, standard medical examinations, and special medical examination are provided. Regular medical examinations are subcategorized for new employees and regular employees, and are each scheduled as shown in the table below. In accordance with other ordinances, we conduct regular medical examinations 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 35 regardless of the schedule when necessary. Type Examination Period Existing Employee Once per year (National Health Insurance, ATUS) New Employee At least once within one month prior to employment Under the Enforcement Decree of the Industrial Safety and Health Act Article 98 Clause 3, when employees are hired or transferred to a risk-prone department, employees are given special medical examinations every 6 months or annually. Employees are given specific medical examinations when deemed necessary. The regulations of medical examination fees are shown below: 1. The primary examination fees are charged to the company, and secondary examination fees are charged to the individual. 2. Medical fees for work injury or work-related disease is entirely charged to the company. 3. Regulations for general medical fees of employees and their families follow a separate guideline. 4. Medical compensation is unavailable in the case of neurasthenia, dental disease that does not directly affect physical health, when employees are working in mandatory military service, when being covered by the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance, or when other medical fees are deemed inappropriate for compensation. Female Employment Support Policy As a policy aimed at supporting female management and employees, maternity protection regulations were implemented. As 2 among the total 12 employees are female, ATUS takes this issue seriously in views of employee management. Based on the notion that family-oriented management is a major aspect of the company, we are striving to implement more diverse benefit policies accommodating female employees. Regulations regarding maternity protection are the following: Article 40 (Equal Treatment) According to the Labor Standards Act and Equal Employment Opportunity Act, the company shall not, without a reasonable explanation, discriminate an employee for being a female in the following. 1. Discrimination in terms of Recruitment and Employment 2. Discrimination in terms of Wages 3. Discrimination in terms of Education 4. Discrimination in terms of Assignment 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 36 5. Discrimination in terms of Promotion 6. Discrimination in terms of Retirement 7. Discrimination in terms of Dismissal Article 41 (Restrictions on Night Work and Holiday Work) 1. When the company intends to have female employees work during the time from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. and on holidays, the company shall obtain the workers' consent. 2. An employer shall not have pregnant women and nursing mothers work during the time from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. and on holidays: Provided, That this shall not apply to any of the following cases where agreement between the president of the company and the approval of the Minister of Employment and Labor is obtained. Article 42 (Overtime Work of Pregnant Women) 1. The company shall not have any women in pregnancy do overtime work, and if there is a request from that employee, the work can be changed to a type of work that is light. 2. The company shall be forbidden to have any women, for whom one year has not passed after childbirth, do overtime work exceeding two hours per day, six hours per week, or 150 hours per year. Article 42-2 (Permission to reduce work hours for pregnant women) 1. Where a female worker who has been pregnant for not more than 12 weeks or for not less than 36 weeks requests the reduction of her work hours by two hours a day, the company shall permit it: However, the company may permit to reduce her work hours to six hours if her work hours are shorter than eight hours a day. 2. No employer shall reduce a worker's wages for reason of reduction of work hours under paragraph (1). Article 43 (Permission, etc. for Time for Medical Examination of Unborn Child) Where a pregnant worker claims time necessary for a periodical medical examination for pregnant women, the company shall grant permission for such time. 1. Different examination time for the following months of pregnancy will be granted unless related laws indicate otherwise. A maximum of 4 hours will be granted for each examination visit. 1) Up to 7 months of pregnancy: once every two months 2) From 8 to 9 months of pregnancy: once each month 3) After 10 months of pregnancy: once every week 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 37 2. The company shall not cut wages of such worker by reason of time for medical examination under paragraph 1. Article 44 (Leave Before and After Childbirth) 1. The company shall grant a pregnant woman a totoal of a 90-day maternity leave (120day maternity leave, if she is pregnant with at least two children at a time) before and after childbirth. In such cases, at least 45 days (60 days, if she is pregnant with two or more children at a time) of the leave period after childbirth shall be allowed. 2. Where a pregnant female worker requests the leave under relevant laws due to her experience of miscarriage or other reasons, the company shall allow her to use the leave at multiple times any time before her childbirth. In such cases, the period of leave after the childbirth shall be at least 45 days (60 days, if she is pregnant with at least two children at a time) consecutively. 3. Where a pregnant woman has a miscarriage or stillbirth, the company shall, upon the relevant worker's request, grant her a miscarriage/stillbirth leave, unless indicated otherwise by relevant laws. However, the same shall not apply to any abortion carried out by artificial termination of pregnancy. 1) Within 11 weeks: 5 days from the day of miscarriage or stillbirth 2) Between 12 and 15 weeks: 10 days from the day of miscarriage or stillbirth 3) Between 16 and 21 weeks: 30 days from the day of miscarriage or stillbirth 4) Between 22 and 27 weeks: 60 days from the day of miscarriage or stillbirth 5) Over 28 weeks: 90 days from the day of miscarriage or stillbirth 4. The first 60 days (75 days, if she is pregnant with at least two children at a time) in the period of leave under paragraphs (1) through (3) shall be stipendiary, and the remaining 30 days (45 days, if she is pregnant with at least two children at a time) determined according to relevant laws: Provided, That when the leave allowances before and after childbirth, etc. have been paid under relevant laws, the payment responsibility shall be exempted within the limit of the relevant amount. 5. The company shall reinstate her to the same work or to the work for which wages of the same level as before leave are paid after the end of a maternity leave under paragraph (1). Article 44-2 (Paternity Leave) 1. Where a male worker requests leave on grounds of his spouse's childbirth, the company shall grant leave for at least three up to five days. In such cases, he shall be paid for the first three days out of the period of leave used. 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 38 2. No leave provided for in paragraph (1) may be requested after the lapse of 30 days from the date the spouse of the relevant worker gave birth. Article 45 (Nursing Hours) 1. The company shall grant thirty-minute or longer paid nursing time twice a day to those female workers who have infants under the age of one, upon request. Hotline System Since January 2009, a hotline system was introduced to allow management and employees to discuss problems or give suggestions regarding issues related to sustainability management in the realm of transparency and fairness related to ethical management, environment management and social responsibility. Establishment of a Joint Labor-Management Committee In July 2009, a joint labormanagement conference was established by a six-member committee. This allows employers and employees to reach a mutual consensus on business related matters, management, and other relevant matters, and thereby grow as a developing organization. 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 39 Customers ATUS’ vision is to continuously endeavor to provide the most enjoyable, forefront, and leading services to our customers “when with us.” We offer diverse business activities for customer satisfaction. (Customer Satisfaction) ATUS always respects all clients’ opinions, provides services and benefits from the client’s point of view, and gains trust by endlessly creating value that benefits the client. Responding to Client Opinions We conduct lecture evaluations, operation evaluations, satisfaction surveys and other surveys on each education program and seminar in order to respond and provide feedback to client opinions. Response to client opinions is discussed at regular meetings and is reflected in the improvement of teaching environments, educational welfare, selection of lecturers, curriculum planning, and class scheduling. Customer Support We organize meetings and family events for alumni members and also publish regular newsletters. To foster continuing education for clients, we provide useful information about our other education programs and seminars, and also provide discounts on a case by case basis. Client’s Privacy We set forth the principle not to disclose any private information of clients. In the case where disclosure of private information is deemed necessary, we are subject to release the information upon clearly stating the intent of use and matter, after receipt of full consent from the client and under the supervision of the person dedicated to such processes. Client Information Protection To protect personal information of our clients, we do not require them to present their social security numbers and we follow the laws involved in the Privacy Act. To prevent the accidental disclosure of personal information, we regularly conduct education for proper practice. (Prevention of Privacy Invasion) ATUS does not disclose client information to third parties without the client’s consent. 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 40 Local Community Interchange and Sharing through the “MBA Concert at aSSIST” – Wednesday Concert Every Wednesday, we provide our employees a time for creative inspiration and refreshment through a 30 minute music concert from 12:30 PM. This weekly event exercises sharing as it is even open to the general public with the help of a number of employees, and stands as a donation of talent by the violist Won Jin Song and pianist Se Jin Song, professors at aSSIST, who were the actual performers behind the scenes of the famous Korean drama, “Beethoven Virus.” Began in January 2011 under the title “Immortal Love Story, the name of the regular event later changed it name to MBA Concert, and has reached a total of 240 performances. Since 2013, recorded highlights of each concert became available to the public through online. 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 41 Business Partners ATUS recognizes the importance of transparent relations with our business partners and strives to establish transparent business relationships under the non-payment/payment regulation shown below. It was reduced by KRW 14 million compared to the previous year in 2015. Non-Payment/Payment Regulation Regular monthly payments are paid on the 20th day of the month according to the previous month’s tax invoice. Month-end-payments are paid at the end of the month according to the invoice. Other payments are paid within 1-5 days after internally claiming the expense. Non-Payment Balance (KRW million) 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 42 03. Environmental Achievements The Environmental Management Achievement section reports on ATUS’ environmental policies and monitoring results. 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 43 Environmental Achievements Environmental Management Policy ATUS will protect nature and sustain efforts to conserve a clean environment, and abide by laws related to environmental protection. ATUS endeavors to avoid dissipation of resources. Environmental Management Activities Recycling Shelf In order to conserve energy and resources, ATUS operates a public recycling shelf which shares office stationary that are not used very often. This is an extension of the previous A-NA-BA-DA Campaign which is an executable objective for all members of the organization so that they may take participation in conserving resources and reducing costs. Reducing Disposable Items ATUS employees prohibit the use of disposable items to protect the earth and humans. We implemented various campaigns, such as using personal mug cups, handkerchiefs, and green shopping bags for environmental protection and cost saving. 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 44 04. Appendix Third Person Assurance Statement BEST Index Contact Information 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 45 Third Party Assurance Statement To the Members of ATUS Corporation’s Management The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (hereafter referred to as the Auditor) was commissioned by ATUS Corporation as a ‘ third party assurance provider ’ to review ATUS Corporation ’ s Sustainability Report (hereafter referred to as the Report). Responsibilities and Objectives ATUS Corporation is responsible for sustainable management objectives, performance management, data collection, and related information and opinion within the Report. Based on an agreement with ATUS Corporation, the review process did not examine the claims and credibility of the Report. Rather, the objective of the Third Party Assurance Statement is to verify whether information or claims presented in the Report contain any material bias or error, and to present an independent opinion required to analyze whether there are areas of improvement needed to improve the quality of the Report. Criteria The review process was executed using the 1) AA1000 Assurance Standard(2008) 2) The BEST Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and 3) The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Opinion The Auditor presents this opinion statement below based on the materials and documents presented by ATUS Corporation. [Inclusivity] Was the establishment of strategy and participation process appropriate for ATUS Corporation’s interested parties? The Auditor is convinced that ATUS Corporation recognizes the importance of interested parties’ participation in promoting sustainability management and aims to reinforce participation of those interested parties. However, the Auditor recommends that ATUS Corporation define the scope of influence for its interested parties, and establish a strategy and process for those parties, and specifically disclose the 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 46 performance from the utilization of such strategies and processes. [Materiality] Does the Report provide key information to interested parties concerning economic, social, and environmental issues of greatest material importance to ATUS Corporation? The Auditor states that the Report did not omit or exclude any crucial information. The Auditor found the Report to contain information of key material importance to ATUS Corporation across economic, social, and environmental dimensions. Henceforth, however, the Auditor suggests that ATUS Corporation collects key issues of concern to interested parties and implement a system to report the issues. [Responsiveness] How well does the Report respond to interested parties’ demand and interest? The Auditor found that ATUS Corporation adequately categorized and defined its interest parties. The Auditor highly recommends that ATUS Corporation establish a communication channel and system where interested parties can participate in mutually active communications. Recommendation for Advancement The Auditor highly regards ATUS Corporation ’ s effort to publish its eighth sustainability report and recommends the following report to be taken into consideration Establishment of sustainability management strategies related to corporate environment and educational business Focusing on key issues and performances of the reporting year Establishment of channels to induce smooth communication and activity among internal and external interested parties Reinforcing reporting on the needs of interested parties and the actions provided Reinforcing to overcome negative performance measures. Independence The Auditor has no affiliation with any realm of ATUS Corporation ’ s for-profit business or activities and was not involved in the preparation process of any part of the Report and had full independence and autonomy in carrying out this assurance task. 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 47 Adequacy The Institute for the Industrial Policy Studies, commissioned for providing this opinion by ATUS Corporation, was established in 1993 and began gaining specialized experience in the areas of ethics management, social responsibility management, sustainable management since 2002, and is a “Third Party Assurance Provider” providing audits and opinions for sustainability reports in the Republic of Korea. April 12, 2016 Yun-Cheol Lee President The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 48 BEST Index No Details of BEST index Corporate A Corporate Overview Overview A_1 Corporate vision about sustainable management and CEO’s statement A_2 Key risk and opportunity factors A_3 Corporate name A_4 Key products and services A_5 Organization map and list of affiliates and subsidiaries A_6 List of joint ventures, partly-owned affiliate, leased facilities and vendors A_7 List of overseas business sites A_8 Legal ownership structure of the organization A_9 Characteristics of market where one operates A_10 Size of organization (total number of employees, product and service, liabilities and assets) A_11 List of international and domestic industrial & business associations B Contents of Report B_1 Scope of report B_2 Limits to the scope of report B_3 Reporting period B_4 Cost of economic, environmental and social performances, the definition and standard of calculating the cost efficiency B_5 Changes in the method of measuring economic, environmental and social performance B_6 Reporting cycle B_7 Efforts to improve credibility of the report B_8 Changes since the previous report B_9 Contact information of the person in charge of the report B_10 BEST Matrix C Stakeholder Engagement C_1 Criteria and selection of key stakeholders 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 49 C_2 Method of stakeholder engagement C_3 Stakeholder engagement and the result of their engagement D Sustainability D_1 Economic, environmental and social goal D_2 Economic, environmental and social performance D_3 Sustainable management strategy and goal of the future Economic E Economy performanc EC1 Creation and distribution of economic value produced and e distributed EC2 Financial impact by climate changes EC3 Scope of benefits by organization’s fixed rate pension system EC4 Human resource supply in key business areas EC5 Government subsidy EC6 Construction of non-core business infra EC7 Indirect economic effect EC8 Brand value EC9 Innovative Performance EC10 Creative Performance EC_DMA Public announcement of management principle _economy Social GR Corporate Governance and Risk Management performanc GR1 Corporate governance structure e GR2 Ratio of outside directors GR3 Composition of board of directors GR4 Process that shows the professionalism of the board of directors GR5 Process of managing and evaluating economic, social and environmental performance of the board of directors GR6 Organization structure that establishes, executes and supervises the economic, social and environmental policy GR7 Connection between management compensation and economic/social/environmental performance GR8 Activities and decisions by the board of directors GR9 Compliance with laws and regulations related to corporate governance structure GR10 Company’s charter related to economic/social/environmental 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 50 activities GR11 Compliance to corporate prevention principle GR12 Process to submit recommendation and suggestions to the board of directors by shareholders GR13 Process to prevent the conflict of interest by highest governance body? Policies and System considering the social influence to build GR14 investment and cooperation EM Employees EM1 Employee status EM2 Composition of executives and employees EM3 Average wage of employees by gender EM4 Level of income and welfare against other companies in the same business region and similar industry EM5 Job creation rate and turnover rate EM6 Average years of continuous service EM7 Preventive policies of discrimination and the result of monitoring EM8 Policy related to freedom of association EM9 Policy related to prevention of child labor and the result of monitoring EM10 Policy related to prevention of forced labor and the result of monitoring EM11 Overview of organizations of Labor associations EM12 Signing-in of labor union and the number of unionized employees EM13 Policy and process about providing and discussing employee information when corporate operation changes EM14 About Safety and health committee EM15 Industrial safety and health agreement between labor and the management EM16 Compliance with the employee-related international regulation and standard EM17 Compliance with industrial health and safety issues among ILO Conventions EM18 Disease prevention and health improvement programs and 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 51 policies EM19 Number of employees who suffer from injury or disease and absence rate EM20 Employee welfare and benefits EM21 Efforts to improve working conditions of employees EM22 Level of compliance with related laws by employees EM23 Reporting process of unfair labor practice and operation status EM24 Labor disputes EM25 Ethical management department, investment size, reporting structure EM26 Regular training and guideline about ethical training EM27 Average time for employee training and education EM28 Programs for employee training and education EM29 Advisory service to employees about performance and career development EM30 Ratio of employees who had human rights-related training EM31 Ratio of employees who had human rights-related training among those involved in security, guard and patrolling EM32 Policy and support system for family-friendly management EM33 Women leadership development programs EM34 Women-friendly working conditions EM_DMA Public announcement of management principle _human rights 1 EM_DMA Public announcement of management principle _labor 2 PN Partner PN1 Characteristics of the business partners and sustainable management issue PN2 Consideration of social and environmental performances among other reasons of selecting the business partners PN3 Process of evaluating the social and environmental performance of the business partners PN4 Process of supporting and auditing the social and environmental performance of the business partners PN5 Business partner complaint handling system and handling result 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 52 CS Consumer CS1 Characteristics of products and consumers and sustainable management issues CS2 Level of compliance with the consumer-related laws CS3 Policies related to fair competition and anti-trust CS4 Consumer health policies during the product and service cycle CS5 Policies related to product information CS6 Key opinions of consumers and the result of the handling of their opinions CS7 Products and services innovated in consideration of social and environmental issues CS8 Efforts to reduce product impact CS9 Policies and management of customer satisfaction CS10 Voluntary or involuntary product recall cases and reasons for recall CS11 Violations of customer safety and health regulations and customer complaints CS12 Violations of laws related to provision of product information CS13 Advertisement-related standard and compliance with voluntary regulation CS14 Violations related to laws on advertisement and marketing CS15 Complaints related to consumer privacy invention CS_DMA Public announcement of management principle _product liability CO Local community CO1 Characteristics of the local community where one operates and sustainable management issues CO2 Internal policy and process of handling requirements of the local community where one operates CO3 The time invested by the company staffs and the cost for local community programs CO4 Performance of the local community programs CO5 Policy and management related to bribery and corruption CO6 Policy and management related to political lobby and donation CO7 Donation and contribution to parties and supporting organization of political parties 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 53 CO8 Sociality-related award achievements CO9 Sanctions due to violations Social responsibility policy and performance for women, CO10 children, and elderly persons CO_DMA Public announcement of management principle _society Environmen EV01 Environment policy and investment tal EV1 Environment-related investment and cost performanc EV2 Policies to reduce environmental impact e EV3 Quantified goal and performance for environment EV4 Initiative to reduce greenhouse gas consumption and reduction achieved EV5 Initiative to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy EV6 Goals and programs to prevent and restore ecosystem EV02 Source material and energy EV7 Direct energy consumption (operation, product production, transportation) EV8 Indirect energy consumption EV9 Total amount of water resource EV10 Total amount of resources by type (excluded water) EV11 Ratio of recyclable resource use EV03 Environmental impact EV12 Amount of green house gas emission EV13 Amount of indirect green house gas emission (CO2,CH4,N2O,HFCs,PFCs,SF6) EV14 Amount of emission of ozone depletion material EV15 Amount of emission of air polluting materials such as NOx, SOx EV16 Total weight of water by type and disposal method EV17 Total water withdrawal EV18 Water recycled and reused EV19 Impact on water and ecosystem affected by the organization’s withdrawal of water EV20 Impact by the organization’s collection of water on the stability of water resources and biodiversity EV21 Impact of chemicals, oil and fuel leaks on the neighboring environment 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 54 EV22 Impact on the business site location, size and biodiversity in the region which has high value of biodiversity EV23 Environmental impact caused by key products and services EV24 Ratio of the weight of actual product to the weight of recyclable product among products EV25 Indirect energy reduction performance EV26 Business activities and operations in the region which has high value of biodiversity and the impact of its activities and operations on biodiversity EV27 Changes of natural habitats by the organization’s activities and examples of prevention and restoration of natural habitat by the organization EV28 Number of species listed in endangered animals and plants among animals and plants living in the business area EV29 Generation, delivery, import, export and handling of risky waste according to Attachment I, II, III and VIII of Basel Convention EV30 Key environmental impact of transportation among logistics process EV31 Compliance with environment-related laws(by region, by industry) and cases of violations and penalties EV_DMA Public announcement of management principle _environment 2015 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 55 Contact Information This Sustainability Report was completed using BEST Guideline, and ATUS Corporation believes that the resulting self-reflection and introspection of management and staff will serve as on invaluable foundation for ATUS’s sustainability management henceforth. For readers that to obtain more detailed information regarding this report, please contact the following: Contact. Jin Young Kang, Management Support Department, ATUS Corporation Address. 1505ho, 16, Sinchonnyeok-ro, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul, 03766 Tel. +82 70 7012 2714 Fax. +82 2 360 0797 Email. jykang@atus.or.kr
