20 global citizenship 16 report contents INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Statement of Support from the CEO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 WHAT WE DO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Help Families Find Their Way to New Homes, New Communities, and New Experiences . . . . 4 CARTUS CULTURE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Making the UN Global Compact Principles Our Own . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 OUR PEOPLE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 We Respect Those We Work With and For . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Diversity and Inclusion Makes Us a Better Company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Recognizing People Who Do Great Things . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 We Are Recognized for Doing the Right Thing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 Stringent Data Security Protocols Protect Those We Work For . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Cartus Cares for People Where We Live and Work . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 Our Employees Take the Extra Step to “Go Green” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 All interior photos provided by talented SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Cartus employees. Ensuring Compliance, Security, and Value . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 For more information, please see our Promoting Supplier Diversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 Facebook page. introduction Statement of Support from the CEO To Cartus stakeholders: For more than 60 years, Cartus has helped families settle in to new homes, new communities, and new experiences. Our promise to provide “trusted guidance” applies not only to supporting our clients and their relocating employees, but to how we give back to our communities around the world. When you operate in more than 185 countries, measuring success becomes more than just an accounting exercise: it relies on an understanding of—and sensitivity toward—the many cultures and environments we work with and within. As such, we actively support the ten principles of the UN Global Compact by continuing our efforts in the key areas of concern: Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. Over the last year, we have made exciting strides in these areas with new initiatives and practices, all described in the Global Citizenship Report that follows. Highlights of our progress include: • Remaining focused on worldwide corporate social responsibility in every aspect of our business as demonstrated by our new EcoVadis Silver designation, which places us among the top 30 percent of companies evaluated by the leading supplier sustainability platform in the field. • Working to protect our clients by maintaining stringent controls to ensure data integrity and protection, including policies and procedures for protection of private information, SSAE 16 and ISAE 3402 compliance, and the capability of agreeing to the European Commission Model Contract Clauses, which contractually obligate American companies to treat data as carefully as a European company would treat it. • A record-breaking year in terms of charitable contributions as Cartus employees around the world raised more than US$400,000 through various events and volunteered thousands of hours of time to their chosen causes and communities. • And, as always, being guided by the concept of what’s right: a focus on ethical behavior that unifies our practices and interactions. For the fifth straight year, our parent company—and by extension, Cartus—was named one of the World’s Most Ethical companies. We work diligently to earn this designation every day. A lot has changed over the last six-plus decades, but one thing that hasn’t is our commitment to global citizenship. Once again, I encourage you to read the report and internalize the spirit of giving represented by Cartus and the people who make up our company. Kevin Kelleher President and CEO CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 3 what we do Help Families Find Their Way to New Homes, New Communities, and New Experiences Our expertise began more than 60 years ago, when • Our services cover every aspect of the relocation We have more Cartus first offered U.S. domestic home-finding process—from selling a home and shipping household assistance. Since then, we have grown to become the goods to settling into new communities around the than 60 years most trusted guide in the global relocation industry, world. We provide logistical support as well as inof thought moving employees and their families into and out of house international assignment compensation services, 185-plus countries. intercultural and language training, consulting leadership services, and real estate assistance programs. • Cartus is the industry leader in mobility support to and expertise. • Cartus is part of Realogy Holdings Corp (NYSE: organizations worldwide. With more than 2,800 Cartus employees—over 800 based in EMEA and APAC— RLGY), a global leader in real estate franchising and and 18 offices worldwide, last year we assisted nearly provider of real estate brokerage, relocation, and 168,000 families. settlement services. The American Business Awards Cartus won the Relocation Management recognized Cartus with its top award in Company of the Year for the fourth the “Customer Service Team of the Year— consecutive year at the APAC Expatriate Business Services” category. Management and Mobility Awards (EMMAs). Cartus was recognized as one of the Cartus earned the Boeing Performance Achievers 50 Most Engaged Workplaces™ in Excellence Award for the third consecutive For the fifteenth consecutive year, Cartus North America. This annual award recognizes year in recognition of the outstanding was recognized by Training magazine as top employers that display leadership and customer service we provide in support of one of the Top 125 companies. innovation in engaging their workplaces. The Boeing Company’s relocation program. 4 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS culture cartus cartus culture Making the the UN Global Compact Principles Our Own The Cartus culture drives everything we do—both Guiding Principles We exist to collectively as an organization and individually as Service: We are defined by our service. members of the Cartus family. As part of that culture, our provide trusted focus on global citizenship reflects our commitment to Financial Responsibility: We manage all resources as if guidance. the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Specifically, they were our own. this commitment is revealed not only in how we provide service to our clients and their relocating employees, but Respect: We respect others and treat people well. also in what our company and employees give back to Collaboration: We are better when we work together. our communities and our planet. Ethical Behavior: We do the right thing. Mission As a business participant in the UN Global Compact, We come to work every day to help our customers and Cartus has made a commitment to integrate the ten clients succeed, fulfilling the needs and earning the trust principles into our strategic planning and day-to-day of those whose lives we touch. operations. The following Communication on Progress Vision (COP) details our efforts to fulfill this mission. We will provide trusted guidance by sharing and leveraging our vast body of knowledge and experience to create superior solutions, build relationships, and bring more value to all our stakeholders. We will work together each day to achieve excellence in all we do, fostering trust and confirming our leadership position in the markets we serve. 6 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS cartus culture Making the the UN Global Compact Principles Our Own (cont’d.) UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE CARTUS EFFORTS Human Rights Because Cartus is a service-based business, the services we offer are Our service is only as good as our people. Our mission is to provide trusted Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection guidance so our clients and customers succeed—that is our primary only as good as of internationally proclaimed human rights, and focus. As part of this mission, we follow the UN Global Compact Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human human rights principles according to the nature of our business. our people. rights abuses. Labor We are an extremely diverse global organization, including age, gender, religion, heritage, family, interests, experiences, and style. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and This diversity helps everyone—from employees to suppliers the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; worldwide—expand their understanding of the world, and these Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; differences foster richly varying perspectives. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment As a corporate citizen of planet earth, we are committed to reducing the environmental impact of our company and Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to continually look at ways to reduce our carbon footprint and to environmental challenges; educate our employees on conservation activities. Through these Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental efforts, we show our commitment to the environmental principles responsibility; and of the UN Global Compact. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption We know that how we carry ourselves and treat others affects how our stakeholders ultimately view our company. In support of this Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, goal, we maintain a Compliance and Ethics program that includes including extortion and bribery. specific anti-corruption policies and procedures; key components include our Code of Ethics and Key Employment policies, the two cornerstone documents of our corporate culture. The result: our parent company has been named one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for five straight years. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 7 people our our people We Respect Those We Work With and For At Cartus, we respect others and treat people well. We Level Recipient of the American Heart Association’s show respect to everyone we interact with, internally and Fit-Friendly Worksites Recognition program. We foster externally, earning both their confidence and their trust Additionally, Cartus was named a platinum-level and sustain an in return. Being both global and diverse, we are attuned Healthy Workplace Employer by The Business Council to the nuances of culture and diversity. We foster and of Fairfield County, CT. environment sustain an environment that is inclusive and supportive; • Cartus Singapore was awarded a Singapore HEALTH that is inclusive we consider this essential to both the excellence of our Gold Award for excellence in workplace wellness work and to the company we strive to be. We create and supportive. programs. The award was presented by the Health opportunities for our employees to get involved, build Promotion Board. As satisfying careers, balance life and work, and grow part of their Workplace personally and professionally. Health Program, Cartus Singapore staff Comprehensive Health and Safety Program were encouraged to sign up for a complimentary Highlights of the ways in which we continued to screening consisting of a coronary heart disease risk encourage and support the overall health and safety assessment, BMI and blood pressure measurement, of Cartus employees this past year include: and a blood test to measure blood glucose and • Our offices around the world held wellness fairs, cholesterol levels. health screenings, and information sessions as part • A Wellbeing Committee was launched in our EMEA of a workplace program to promote healthy living. offices with an aim to motivate Cartus colleagues For example, on National Wear Red Day®—the first to keep fit and healthy. They kicked off the initiative Friday of each February—Cartus employees brought with a Walking Group in Swindon, UK. Other planned attention to women’s battle with heart disease by events include fitness classes, discounted gym donning crimson-, scarlet-, and ruby-hued shirts to memberships, encouragement to cycle to work, show support for the cause. running groups, and sharing of healthy recipes. • Our Danbury headquarters saw the grand opening • To mark National Safety Month, the Irving, TX, office of a state-of-the-art, 6,750-square-foot fitness welcomed a different safety expert every week in June center offering the latest top-rated cardiovascular to provide advice, information, and demonstrations. and strength-training equipment, group exercise In September, Irving also sponsored a Flu Shot Clinic, classes, a fully trained professional staff, and deluxe Oral Preventative Care seminar, and free blood lockerand shower-room facilities. In recognition of pressure, BMI, and cardiovascular screenings. our fitness focus, Cartus was recognized as a Gold CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 9 our people We Respect Those We Work With and For (cont’d.) • Our Danbury, CT, headquarters completed • Cartus Singapore employees took some time out to We encourage remodeling its Wellness Center—now featuring volunteer for a cooking competition organized by the two exam rooms and a specimen drawing room. charitable foundation AWWA Family Support. Titled and support The expanded space will provide Cartus with an “My Family Chef,” the program aims to foster deeper the overall opportunity to better serve employees’ healthcare connections among family members through healthy needs, with the diagnosis and treatment of eating habits and create a network with other families health and occupational and non-occupational illnesses and and/or partners within the community. safety of Cartus injuries, urgent and emergent care, triage services, • Through our parent company, Realogy, we provide basic lab services, consultation, coordination of access to a wellness portal where employees can employees. wellness programs, preventative health screenings, review their health statistics, manage their healthcare, and vaccinations. In the past year, the Wellness and learn about wellness opportunities available to Center—staffed by a physician assistant and nurse them. Realogy’s wellness program, called iThrive, practitioner—supported more than 3,600 visits. Since frequently communicates useful information on topics it opened 13 years ago, Cartus employees have made ranging from fitness and nutrition to mental health more than 50,000 visits to the center. By doing so, and fiscal responsibility. they have saved hundreds of thousands of dollars in co-pays and health insurance fees. Each visit is also estimated to save employees approximately three hours away from work. • The Cartus Facilities department installed Automatic External Defibrillators (AEDs) throughout our Danbury facility and provided training to employees on how to use them in an emergency. 10 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS our people (cont’d.) Cartus Singapore employees turn up the heat to promote healthy eating habits during a cooking competition organized by AWWA Family Support charity. Danbury employees take advantage of a “pressure free” opportunity to receive suggestions for healthier living from the 25 vendors featured at our headquarters’ Annual Wellness Fair. Singapore’s Workplace Health Committee and HR Team The Cartus Swiss team shows off their penguin hats and their happy feet during the Coupe de Noël— proudly display their Singapore HEALTH Award trophy a popular cold-water swimming competition held every December in Lake Geneva. for excellence in employee work-life balance. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 11 our people Diversity and Inclusion Make Us a Better Company (cont’d.) As a provider of global mobility services with a Through the Diversity Council and its associated resource Collectively, our core practice in intercultural and language training, groups, we create an inclusive environment in our offices understanding and accepting cultural diversity remains and learn more about each other. Diversity-related employees speak key to our guiding principle of Respect. We embrace initiatives include: 45 languages diversity because it resonates with our culture of valuing • A new tradition coordinated by the Cartus Veterans and welcoming differences. Our sensitivity to each other Committee of selling red remembrance poppies worldwide. and to our customers’ unique and individual needs not to benefit Veterans Charities and recognize those only makes us a better service provider, but also makes who serve their countries around the world. For us a richer, more vibrant company. Veteran’s Day, our Danbury, CT, headquarters was also In our hiring and advancement practices, Cartus honored to welcome retired U.S. Navy veteran Jason continues to disregard race, color, religion, national Culbreth, who described his military experiences and origin, citizenship, age, sex, gender, sexual orientation, his subsequent transition to civilian life. Our Human sexual preference, veteran status, marital status, Resources team also attended the Hero’s 4 Hire disability, or any other characteristic protected under Veterans Career Fair in support of the initiative to applicable laws and regulations. We make reasonable promote hiring local veterans. accommodations for qualified disabled employees • In Singapore, the APAC management team was and applicants. trained in motivational positive leadership. Based on the “Edutainment” (entertaining education) concept We are particularly proud of our gender diversity. “Easier Done than Said,” the program teaches leaders to cultivate a workplace environment where 66% individuals flourish and teams perform at their peak. Managers and Above • For “World Language Beyond the Classroom Day” at Newtown High School in Connecticut, nine Cartus Intercultural & Language Solutions team members 71% 29% volunteered to speak with students on the value that Cartus Global Staff a second language provides for career success. Spearheading many of the inclusion activities across our company is the Cartus Global Diversity and Inclusion Council, which is executive sponsored by our president and CEO, Kevin Kelleher. 12 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS our people (cont’d.) Diversity and Inclusion Make Us a Better Company • The Cartus Danbury Diversity and Inclusion Council In addition, as part of the continuing celebration of our presented “Living & Working in the Middle East”— company’s six decades in business, we created a new Cartus a lively presentation exploring what assignees “60-Year Stories” video series capturing the memories employees experience as they live and work in that particular of some of our co-workers who have been along for region. For Disability Awareness Month, the Council the ride since the early days of Cartus. Our colleagues’ have living also hosted a thought-provoking Lunch & Learn recollections are in turn funny, sweet, or thought and working featuring two video clips from the TV show, provoking, and some are all that and more. “What Would You Do?” One of the clips concerned experience reacting to someone with Down Syndrome, while the in more than other featured reactions to an individual who uses a wheelchair. 125 countries. • We coordinate events and send regular communications celebrating various heritage/identity months, including Black History Month, LGBT Pride Month, and Hispanic Heritage Month. • Our Marketing team, in collaboration with our Diversity and Inclusion Council, hosts a monthly photo contest featuring Cartus employees at work, at play, and special celebrations, or reflecting Cartus’ global footprint with local festivals, iconic features, or landscapes. The images are featured in our Click above to view all the videos in our “60-Year Stories” series. annual Diversity Calendar, and here, in our Global Citizenship Report. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 13 our people (cont’d.) The Danbury Diversity and Inclusion Council and the Cartus Veterans Committee honor our veterans and all who have served or are serving their countries. The Danbury iThrive Committee wears its heart on its sleeve Our Singapore office’s Workplace Health Programme Cartus staff in Shanghai, China, and Hong Kong in celebration of the American Heart Association’s “National offers discount flu vaccinations to Cartus employees celebrate the start of the Lunar New Year by organizing Wear Red Day” to raise awareness about heart disease. who haven’t received their yearly vaccination. a staff dinner and a lion dance in the office. 14 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS our people Recognizing People Who Do Great Things (cont’d.) Another part of our guiding principle of Respect is Cartus is also proud to recognize the winners of our 62% creating opportunities for our employees to get involved, annual BRAVO! President’s Awards, which recognize of employees have flexible build satisfying careers, balance life and work, and grow exceptional achievement and consistent demonstration work schedules personally and professionally. We extend this internal of one or more of Cartus’ guiding principles. culture of respect to all those whom we touch every day— because respect is essential to every healthy relationship. Team • Group Move management team—Nancy Sedensky, Evidence of the value we place on our employees Stacy Walters, and Julie Perfetti includes the exceptional benefits Cartus provides— for example: • Volunteer time-off policy—new in 2016 • Paid parental leave—both maternal and paternal • Adoption assistance • Domestic partner benefits • Flexible work options like telecommuting and flex time More than 60 percent of Cartus employees take advantage of flexible work scheduling—whether in the form of shifted business hours, work-from-home opportunities, or a reduced or compressed work week. Nancy Sedensky (second from left) and Julie Perfetti (second from right) accept their President’s Team Award for successfully managing the Additionally, we are proud of the career opportunities largest corporate-sponsored group move in our history. we provide. Last year, Cartus promoted or offered new positions to 486 employees. Individual • Gold: Nica Ganley—Vice President, Analytics & In March 2016, our offices and employees around the Technology Solutions world celebrated BRAVO! Day—a global celebration and • Silver: Barbara Fainer—Director, Contract opportunity to say “thank you” to everyone for their Compliance & Workflow Management contribution to great Service, Collaboration, Respect, • Bronze: John Poklemba—Director, Account Financial Responsibility, and Ethical Behavior. Special Management celebrations were held in all offices by our various departments to recognize our most important asset: These winners truly exemplify the Cartus culture. our people. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 15 our people (cont’d.) President’s Gold Award Winner, Nica Ganley, provided unfailing support to the Cartus Operations team to meet our clients’ complex and evolving technology needs. BRAVO! Day recognizes those who come to work every day to help Cartus’ customers and clients succeed by providing trusted guidance through actions that demonstrate the company’s five guiding principles. Pictured here are employees in Cartus’ Irving, TX; Beijing, China; and Singapore offices. 16 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS ethics and compliance ethics and compliance We Are Recognized for Doing the Right Thing Being ethical and compliant in everything we do—“doing • Maintaining a collection of Manager Toolkits with the 100% of the right thing”—is a core guiding principle. This principle mandates ethical behavior in all our business Ethical Leadership courses provided for all employees with one or more direct reports our employees dealings. We conduct ourselves and our business with the utmost integrity. We comply with our internal and complete Code external commitments, and we make the ethical choice of Ethics training whenever challenges present themselves. Our culture of integrity as a company is absolute and non-negotiable. every year. As part of the Realogy value circle, we are proud to be named to Ethisphere® Institute’s “World’s Most Ethical (WME) Companies” list for the fifth consecutive year. The WME designation recognizes companies that truly go beyond making statements about doing business ethically and translate those words into action. Our company’s and people’s efforts to continue doing the right thing include: • Maintaining a 24/7 Ethics Hotline, where employees can raise concerns or ask questions about ethical issues; the Code of Ethics Line is accessible in 200 languages, either by phone or by Web • Mandatory annual Compliance and Ethics training for all Cartus employees, including: –– Code of Ethics and Key Policies – – Information Management and Security – – Anti-Corruption and Bribery Efforts • Regular distribution of a series of lighthearted-yetserious “Ethical Moments” videos by The Second City Communications to enliven existing ethics and Swindon, UK, and Singapore teams celebrate our inclusion among the compliance education and training programs “World’s Most Ethical Companies” by taking selfies at a pop-up photo station. 18 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS ethics and compliance Stringent Data Security Protocols Protect Those We Work For (cont’d.) The security of our clients’ and customers’ personal • Participating in two Realogy disaster recovery information is of the utmost importance to Cartus. exercises, during which Cartus validated access Last year, We conduct penetration tests to determine security to our various systems Cartus systems weaknesses of a computer system, network, or Web • Maintaining annual SSAE 16 and ISAE 3402 application to find vulnerabilities that an attacker could compliance covering key controls over our domestic blocked more exploit. Last year, Cartus was subject to penetration and international relocation accounting services than 42 million testing by both our parent company, Realogy, and by third-party resources to ensure independence. Today, one of the overriding goals of our Crisis spam messages Management team is to work with every Cartus office In addition, throughout the past year, we tested and used worldwide to make certain that a viable business and over 2,400 both our internal emergency response protocols and our continuity plan is in place. Initiatives include: viruses. They business continuity plans during initiatives that occurred at many of our facilities. Some of these include: • Continuing to meet on a regular basis to ensure that also encrypted our global teams are prepared to handle a variety • Reviewing plans for communication to employees of scenarios 5.3 million during IT outages and ability to provide status updates to all concerned • Providing continual information and training to messages. employees worldwide regarding Crisis Management • Receiving updates from a leading protective services to ensure that we are all able to react effectively and company regarding biggest challenges and security efficiently in the event of a crisis threats for businesses • Working with all departments to update their business • Hosting a presentation on local emergency planning continuity plans and support the team when they by the Director of Emergency Management for the meet with clients who are interested in our procedures City of Danbury, CT • Continuing to track all Cartus travelers and • Testing plans regularly to ascertain their communicating with each as necessary regarding comprehensiveness and communication flow, situations that might occur while traveling (e.g., as well as discover any gaps security issues, airborne illness concerns, airport delays, weather issues, etc.) Corporate Compliance & Ethics Week Corporate Compliance & Ethics Week is celebrated the • Successfully executing our annual Data Center first full week of November every year to highlight the Disaster Recovery Exercise, including restoration importance of ethics and compliance in our workplace. of network infrastructure, servers, applications, and databases CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 19 caring for our communities caring for our communities Cartus Cares for People Where We Live and Work Last year, Cartus employees around the world raised more than US$400,000 through charitable events in support of the United Way, Community Health Charities, American Cancer Society, Junior Achievement, March of Dimes, Red Cross, British Heart Foundation, Singapore Cancer Society, Children’s Aid Society of Singapore, and many other charities supported by our employees. Our people also gave thousands of hours of time to their chosen causes and donated food, clothing, and other goods to where they were needed most. • The Walk ‘n’ Roll—Danbury’s signature kickoff event for Cartus’ annual Charitable Giving Campaign— raised more than US$39,000 in a single day. Cartus kicks off its annual Charitable Giving Campaign with its signature • More than 100 volunteers participated in the United event, the Walk ‘n’ Roll, which raised US$39,435 last year. Way’s annual Day of Action, volunteering their hearts, hands, and muscles to complete much-needed projects in the community around our corporate headquarters in Danbury, CT. • A group of employees from our Singapore office volunteered to accompany residents from the Hua Kwan Seniors Activity Centre to the Sea Aquarium. Each employee partnered with an elderly couple or resident to guide them through the aquarium. • The Swindon Charity Committee brought donated chocolate Easter eggs to dementia patients at the local Great Western Hospital. • Our colleagues in Hong Kong celebrated “Dress Pink Day” by dressing in their rosiest hues for work One Day of Action is all it takes to make a world of difference. and making donations to help provide Pink Recovery Click above to view the video. Packs to breast cancer patients. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 21 caring for our communities Cartus Cares for People Where We Live and Work (cont’d.) • Our Swindon, UK, regional headquarters held a • Danbury’s iThrive Committee’s “Operation Gratitude” Our employees fundraising day to collect donations for Sport Relief, collected 321 pounds of donated Halloween candy a charity helping those in the UK and overseas. In to send to U.S. troops overseas. (Don’t worry: they “give back” in the morning, the office held a baking competition collected 47 toothbrushes and many packs of floss to countless ways. with participants entering sport-themed cakes. In the send along as well.) afternoon, they hosted a “Salsa-thon,” which saw • Cartus Singapore celebrated Halloween by organizing one employee dance continuously for two hours a bake sale to benefit Cartus Cares charities. with colleagues. • The Swindon office took part in a national fundraiser in • A “World Animal Day” celebration and fundraiser was aid of UK-based charity Children in Need. One team held in our London, UK, office, with animal costumes held a bake sale while the charity committee organized required and a small donation requested from those a parking-space auction. Employees were also who chose not to dress up. encouraged to come to work dressed as heroes, with • In Irving, TX, the FUSE Committee hosted a bake sale prizes given to the best-dressed individual and team. in support of the Wounded Warrior Project. Irving • Danbury employees donated dozens of gently worn employees also raised more than US$1,200 for suits and other business attire for the Diversity and the annual “Walk to End Alzheimer’s” event. Inclusion Council’s suit drive to benefit veterans who • The American Red Cross presented Cartus with its Top are returning to the civilian workforce. Sponsor Appreciation Award, which is given to the • Cartus Singapore volunteers dressed up as pandas top blood-drive sponsors who have made a significant for a China-focused KidzFEST event at the Children’s impact in the community. Since 2003, employees Service Centre. of Cartus have donated 2,893 pints of blood, which have helped save the lives of 8,679 patients. In • Our Danbury office lit up its driveway in support of addition, Cartus partners with the American Red the American Cancer Society’s Light Up New England Cross Connecticut Chapter through their Ready 365 campaign. Employees decorated and lit 112 luminaria Giving Program. As part of the partnership, Cartus has bags in memory, honor, and support of those affected contributed US$10,000 to the campaign. by cancer. Purchasers of the bags and other donors gave more than US$1,000 for the cause. • Cartus was represented by 14 teams at the annual Junior Achievement (JA) Bowl-a-thon, raising more • The Cartus Cares Committee hosted a Volunteer than US$7,900 in the process. Cartus fielded more Fair at our Danbury, CT, office. We had a total of 358 teams than any other company in Western CT and has employees visit 25 agencies showcasing the many been a supporter of JA for over 20 years. volunteer opportunities available in the community. 22 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS caring for our communities in the americas Cartus Irving contributes to the annual NE Tarrant County “Walk to End Alzheimer’s,” both by participating and raising funds. The Cartus Photography Club in Danbury, CT, sold calendars Charlene Lingo (Irving, TX) was named Cartus Danbury gets the ball rolling at the annual featuring club members’ artful photos to benefit the “Realogy Humanitarian of the Month” for her Junior Achievement Bowl-a-Thon. “Handy Dandy Handyman’s” charitable endeavors. extensive work for Community Matters. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 23 caring for our communities in emea Colleagues in our Swindon and London offices take part in the “Macmillan Coffee Morning”—an annual event in aid of Macmillan Cancer Support. Lions and tigers and bears unite during the London office’s “World Animal Day” celebration and fundraiser. Amsterdam colleagues smilingly solicit contributions Swindon organizes a Christmas Present Appeal on behalf of the Salvation Army to collect new, unwrapped toys and gifts for their Salvation Army clothing drive. for those in need over the festive period. 24 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS caring for our communities in apac Panda-monium breaks out as the Cartus Singapore team organizes a China-themed KidzFEST event at the Children’s Service Centre. Cartus Hong Kong gets pretty in pink to raise money Cartus Singapore employees accompany a group of seniors on a Our Singapore office celebrates Halloween by for the fight against breast cancer. tour of the Sea Aquarium. hosting a bake sale, with all proceeds going to regional Cartus Cares charities. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 25 environmental stewardship environmental stewardship Our Employees Take the Extra Step to “Go Green” At Cartus, we are committed to staying abreast of the unit that supports our data center, we conservatively ever-growing environmental needs of our industry and estimate that these improvements have increased data We continually our clients while pursuing and maintaining high corporate center efficiency by at least 11 percent. environmental standards. Therefore, we are constantly look for ways • New energy-efficient lightbulbs: Our Danbury, CT, developing and implementing new policies and headquarters upgraded its exterior lighting system to decrease our procedures as we see the need. with energy-efficient LED bulbs. environmental Our Conservation Committee has been in place for nearly • Innovative paperless business solutions: Cartus’ impact. 15 years, looking for ways to decrease our environmental Intercultural & Language Solutions division used impact as a company and educate our employees on to produce paper manuals for worldwide users of conservation activities. We participate in the Carbon its various products. However, after converting all Disclosure project and continually look to reduce our learning materials to an e-delivery model accessible footprint in all areas. We are also working to establish via the user’s computer or tablet device, we saved CARTUS POLICY additional baseline measures (e.g., travel miles, domestic nearly 3,000 pages’ worth of paper each year and THE CARTUS and international air travel) to set more meaningful goals. realized other significant environmental savings in ENVIRONMENTAL terms of production resources, postage, preparation, POLICY Cartus has employed a number of innovative technologies and shipping. This particular initiative earned to reduce our energy consumption, including: us a gold award from the Connecticut Quality • New energy-efficient HVAC equipment: We have Improvement Awards. replaced the 25-year-old HVAC equipment in our Danbury, CT, global headquarters with brand new Other highlights include: energy-efficient units, including boilers and rooftop • The Connecticut Department of Energy and Click above to read our Environmental Policy. units. This has allowed us to reduce the number Environmental Protection (DEEP) awarded Cartus of boilers at the facility from eight to three. As a its GreenCircle Award for the result, we anticipate improvements in efficiency of company’s efforts to protect approximately 15 percent. the environment and natural • State-of-the-art data center technology: Through resources. Cartus was one of just virtualization technology, we have reduced the number 16 Connecticut businesses and of physical servers in our data center from 500 to 100 individuals to receive the award at over the last several years. We have also replaced/ DEEP’s Hartford headquarters. upgraded our power-hungry cooling units. Based on calculations from the Uninterruptable Power Supply CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 27 environmental stewardship Our Employees Take the Extra Step to “Go Green” (cont’d.) • The Cartus Conservation Committee sponsors the Our global recycling efforts last year resulted in these Last year, annual Danbury Earth Day Fair, which provides our accomplishments: employees with environmental and conservation • Cartus’ office supply recycling program saved the 286 employees products and services for both home and office. company an estimated US$28,500. were involved This year’s fair had 600+ attendees. • We recycled approximately 30 tons of comingled in carpooling, • Our Danbury cafeteria renovations featured LEEDwaste—material that will not end up in landfills. and gold-certified, low VOC countertops; LEEDan effort certified booth seating; zero VOC paints; and • Our employees recycled 961 pounds of lamps, recyclable flooring. We also eliminated all Styrofoam batteries, and other used office items. that reduced products in the process. • Shred-it® bins resulted in 1,870 trees saved in the U.S. emissions by and 297 trees saved in the UK. • In our Swindon, UK, office, the old diesel generator nearly 226 tons. tank was replaced with a new double-layer tank to Swimming in the Carpool Lane further insure against any chance of leaking. Last year, the Cartus Conservation Committee sponsored • In 2015, we published the Cartus Environmental our third annual International Transit Day. Cartus Policy to demonstrate our commitment to promoting employees all over the world joined together to make environmental protection, preventing pollution, a positive impact on the environment by sharing a ride, Our recycling supporting sustainable development, and walking, taking a train or a bus, or riding a bike to work— efforts saved minimizing waste. and in some cases, using roller skates, skateboards, • Cartus currently has two printer and toner recycling and tricycles. 1,870 trees in programs: one for multifunction printers that are The goal of this event was to decrease (and track) the U.S. and 297 being recycled by the manufacturer and another that our company’s carbon footprint in an effort to raise donates any small desktop printer cartridges to a trees in the UK. environmental awareness. school recycling program. • Cartus is a member of the Staples purchasing We also hosted multiple transit-related Lunch & Learn program, which enables employees to purchase sessions in our Danbury, CT, headquarters to promote office supplies made from recycled materials. ridesharing initiatives. Representatives from CT Rides, Hart Bus, and VRide were on site to give information about each of their services. 28 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS environmental stewardship (cont’d.) Danbury employees stop and smell the cilantro during our annual Earth Day fair, which featured local vendors offering environmentally friendly products and services. Our third annual International Transit Day recognizes When opting for more environmentally friendly modes of transportation, Danbury puts the pedal to the pavement to Cartus’ global efforts to promote carpooling and it’s safe to say that Swindon likes their bikes! reduce its carbon footprint. alternative forms of transportation. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 29 sustainable procurement sustainable procurement Ensuring Compliance, Security, and Value Our commitment to global sustainability extends to our suppliers. It tracks hundreds of data points managing the suppliers we use to serve our clients and that provide a view into the global compliance of Last year, their employees. Cartus has maintained ISO 9001:2008 each and every network member, including OFAC/ more than certification for more than a decade. We manage a international watch lists and a country risk ranking. network of suppliers The system integrates supplier profiles with supplier 8,500 supplier around the globe who contracts, providing a clear view into the companies provide support to that are interacting with our customer base. Profile representatives clients and assignees assessments include annual compliance certification, completed in over 185 countries background checks, and PII/system compliance. in every key phase We ensure that our network consists of reputable our online of the relocation vendors that have passed the highest level of scrutiny compliance experience, including in the industry. destination support, home finding, temporary housing, training course. and household goods shipment. Our networks are Last year, more than 8,500 supplier representatives experienced and monitored by more than 100 regionally completed our online compliance training course. We based Cartus Supply Chain staff, facilitating accurate, have designed our training module in a way that allows our proximate monitoring and support. suppliers to train their own suppliers using the tool as well. • Cartus holds every member of our supply chain to the We strongly encourage our supplier partners to develop same standards we apply to ourselves. Each network and implement innovative solutions to sustainability supplier signs a contract agreeing to full compliance challenges in the services they provide our clients and with all laws and regulations and with global human relocating employees. Over the past year, some of these rights mandates. solutions included: • All Cartus suppliers are required to adhere to our • Innovative inventory management strategies from parent company, Realogy’s, Vendor Code of Conduct. our corporate housing partners, which minimized In addition, in order to be a Cartus network provider, rate increases through faster turns and availability, all suppliers must take an annual online training reduced need for hotels and incurred expenses, course that includes modules on Health, Safety, and increased housing availability and selection, and the Environment. better accommodated last-minute reservations. • Cartus utilizes a third-party risk management system that allows us to easily document, monitor, and report on inherent risk factors associated with managing CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 31 sustainable procurement Ensuring Compliance, Security, and Value (cont’d.) • Specific truck-idling mandates for our van line Our van line partners, many of whom have also invested in auxiliary power units to save fuel and significantly partners reduce air pollution. These energy-efficient systems have slashed provide supplemental power to maintain on-board systems and heat, cool, and assist starting in cold their diesel weather without idling, slashing diesel consumption consumption up to 90 percent. by up to 90%. Cartus’ 15th annual Global Network Conference allowed us to recognize the extraordinary achievements of our network members in serving our clients and their relocating employees worldwide. Conference attendees Our annual Global Network Conference celebrates the “World of included 400-plus members of the Cartus Global Opportunity” available to our extraordinary network members. Network, representing 180 companies from 40 countries. Honored at the ceremony was the winner of Cartus’ Global Citizenship Award, chosen from among the members of the supplier network who are nominated for their commitment to making an impact on the health, welfare, and safety of others, and/or for improving a community’s quality of life on a national or international basis. This year, ABODA Global Housing Management of Redmond, WA, was named the Global Citizenship winner, and Cartus donated US$2,500 to the organization’s charitable fund. ABODA Global Housing Management earned Cartus’ Global Citizenship Award in recognition of their extensive nonprofit efforts through their philanthropic program, ABODA Cares. 32 | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | CARTUS sustainable procurement Promoting Supplier Diversity (cont’d.) Cartus is dedicated to promoting supplier diversity and • Cartus President and CEO, Kevin Kelleher, was the building it into our corporate culture. Since establishing featured speaker on minority business programs at a Cartus has a formal department in 1983, Cartus has become a gathering sponsored by the Tuck School of Business disbursed more recognized leader in this area and the recipient of at Dartmouth College. He was also a keynote speaker numerous awards. Our supplier diversity team conducts at the GNEMSDC Advanced Leadership Program. than US$216 outreach, monitoring, and measurement on behalf of million to numerous clients. minorityand To achieve these goals, the department focuses on developing and maintaining bidder lists of small, women-owned minority-, and women-owned business enterprises (S/M/ businesses WBEs) from all possible sources, while also ensuring the inclusion of S/M/WBEs in all solicitations for products or over the past services which they are capable of providing. To ensure an five years. equitable distribution of business, we periodically rotate potential subcontractors on bidder lists and require the bid proposal review board to document its reasons for not selecting low bids submitted by S/M/WBEs. Cartus President and CEO, Kevin Kelleher (center), discusses minority Last year: business programs at Dartmouth College’s Tuck School of Business. • Cartus disbursed US$36.1 million to minorityand women-owned businesses. Over the past five years, we have disbursed more than US$216 million. • Tom Davis—Cartus’ Vice President of External Supplier Diversity—continued as third vice GNEMSDC chairperson of the National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) Chairperson’s CT • MA • ME • NH • RI • VT Committee. Tom was also elected chairperson of the NMSDC’s Program Committee and the Greater New England Minority Supplier Development Council’s (GNEMSDC) board of directors. CARTUS | GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP | 33 Trusted Guidance – For Every Move You Make ®. Cartus guides our clients through thousands of unique and complex programs. Ideally equipped to lead you, Cartus is ready to help—whatever, whenever, wherever your relocation program is moving. To learn more, please email trustedguidance@cartus.com or visit our citizenship page on www.cartus.com. www.cartus.com | trustedguidance@cartus.com connect with us © 2016 Cartus Corporation. All rights reserved. Cartus and the Cartus logo are registered trademarks of Cartus Corporation.
