SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DESPITE CHALLENGING CONDITIONS, THE GROUP HAS UNDERTAKEN SOME GOOD WORK DURING THE YEAR IN RECOGNITION OF OUR RESPONSIBILITIES TO OUR PEOPLE AND THE SOCIAL LICENCE TO OPERATE GRANTED TO US BY THE COMMUNITIES. Following feedback received as part of the I would like to reiterate that, whilst 2013 Board Evaluation process on the role embarking on this cost review REDUCTION IN ACCIDENT of the CSR Committee, I was delighted to programme, we have not moved our FREQUENCY INDEX SINCE 2007 accept the invitation to act as Committee focus away from ensuring the health 13 2.08 Chair from 1 January 2014. In this capacity, and safety of our people and managing I am pleased to be able to introduce the the impact of our activities on the 12 3.33 2013 Sustainability report and would like environment and our responsibilities 11 3.63 to record the appreciation of the Board with respect to the local communities. 10 3.70 to Eduardo Hochschild for his support Despite these challenging conditions, 09 5.22 in this crucial area. the Group has undertaken some good 08 5.75 INTRODUCTION work during the year in recognition of 07 7.59 As stated earlier in the Annual Report, 2013 our responsibilities to our people and was a difficult year for the Group due to the the social licence to operate granted unprecedented volatility in precious metal to us by the communities. prices. This led to management taking a Firstly, I am pleased to report that there number of initiatives under the auspices were no cases of occupational illness of the Cash Optimisation Plan. registered during the year resulting from Due to necessity, management’s actions Hochschild Mining activities. We also were wide-ranging and impacted all made significant progress during 2013 parts of the Group’s costs, which meant on safety, having achieved a reduction of that budgets in the areas that we 38% in the Group’s accident frequency traditionally focus on in CSR had to be rate and a 43% reduction in the accident more targeted. Inevitably, this has resulted severity rate. However, we have failed in in difficult decisions being taken, leading our long-term and ongoing objective of to reductions in personnel and our budget zero fatalities, given the two incidences of for sustainability-related activities. We loss of life at our operations during 2013. have sought to communicate with all Our Operations and safety teams have been those affected transparently and honestly reviewing the causes of fatalities at our sites and have provided, and will continue to over the past few years and, consequently, provide, the appropriate level of support as a new behaviour-based safety programme we manage our way through this difficult has been designed for imminent but, hopefully, temporary period. implementation across the Group. Wildlife surrounding Ares Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2013 We do not consider our responsibilities to our local communities as simply limited to providing employment opportunities but we seek to enhance crucial aspects of their standard of living by focusing on our three core areas: education, health and socioeconomic development. Details of the specific initiatives undertaken during the year can be found on pages 46 to 47. REPORTING I am also pleased to report that the Group produced its first standalone Sustainability report which is available on our website. This report has been prepared with reference to the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative with reporting declared at Level C. In compliance with the new reporting requirements as a UK listed company, the numerical information on the split between the number of male and female employees and the carbon emissions produced by the Group have been included in the relevant sections of this report. I hope you find this report informative. If you should have any questions or comments, please do not hesitate to contact me. ROBERTO DAÑINO Chairman, CSR Committee Countryside close to Arcata www.hochschildmining.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED GOVERNANCE OF CSR THE BOARD HAS ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY FOR ESTABLISHING GROUP POLICIES RELATING TO SUSTAINABILITY AND THE CSR COMMITTEE HAS BEEN ESTABLISHED WITH THE RESPONSIBILITY OF FOCUSING ON COMPLIANCE AND ENSURING THAT APPROPRIATE SYSTEMS AND PRACTICES ARE IN PLACE. WHAT IS HOCHSCHILD MINING’S The CSR Committee has been established APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY? as a formal committee of the Board To ensure that our values are adhered to, with delegated responsibility for we have adopted a number of policies various sustainability issues, focusing on which demonstrate our commitment to: compliance with national and international standards and ensuring that appropriate • a safe and healthy workplace systems and practices are in place Group • managing and minimising the wide to ensure the effective management environmental impact of our operations of sustainability-related risks. • encouraging sustainability by respecting Following his appointment as Chairman of the communities of the localities in the CSR Committee from 1 January 2014, which we operate. Roberto Dañino has Board level responsibility for sustainability issues. We prioritise these three areas in terms of resource allocation, with respect to Following a management re-organisation governance, policy development and during 2013 as part of the Cash performance measurement. In our efforts Optimisation Plan, the Vice President of to achieve the above objectives, we seek to: Legal assumed responsibility for Group • comply with all relevant legislation and Corporate Affairs, which includes the leading international standards functional areas that, collectively, are responsible for sustainability issues. • promote continuous improvement of our management systems with the A working group of relevant personnel aim of incorporating best practices meets on a periodic basis to support the work of the CSR Committee and is tasked • adopt a proactive approach to preventing to consider, at an operational level, local and managing the risks that may limit health and safety policies, environmental the achievement of our corporate Arcata leisure club programmes, community relations and responsibility objectives employee matters. These meetings are, • encourage employees to adopt the also, attended by members of the Group’s Group’s values through the use of Legal and HR functions. training and internal communications. Whilst each area has its dedicated area MANAGEMENT OF SUSTAINABILITY of focus, they often collaborate with The Board has ultimate responsibility each other as required, for example for establishing Group policies relating to in the provision of health services to sustainability and ensuring that national the communities. and international standards are met. Workers at Pallancata Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2013 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE FOR SUSTAINABILITY BOARD OF DIRECTORS CSR COMMITTEE HR WORKING GROUP LEGAL COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT HEALTH & HYGIENE SAFETY RELATIONS TERMS OF REFERENCE OF THE • evaluating and overseeing, on behalf of • monitored the status of the Group wide CSR COMMITTEE the Board, the quality and integrity of initiatives launched to raise the profile Under its terms of reference, the CSR any reporting to external stakeholders of safe working practices through Committee is responsible for: concerning health, safety, environmental international communication campaigns and community relations issues and the annual Luis Hochschild Safety • evaluating the effectiveness of the Group’s Innovation Competition (see case study policies and systems for identifying and • reviewing the results of independent on page 41) managing health, safety and environmental audits commissioned on the Group’s risks within the Group’s operations performance in regard to health, safety, • considered updates from the work done environmental or community relations across the Group to manage community • assessing the policies and systems matters and reviewing any strategies and and labour relations. within the Group for ensuring compliance action plans developed by management with health, safety and environmental in response to issues raised and, where In addition, during the year the full regulatory requirements appropriate, making recommendations Board received presentations on the two to the Board concerning the same. fatalities that occurred during the year • assessing the performance of the Group and the impact of the Cash Optimisation with regard to the impact of health, safety, THE CSR COMMITTEE’S WORK IN 2013 Plan on the Group’s risk profile including environmental and community relations During the year, the CSR Committee: sustainability risks and the mitigating decisions and actions upon employees, • approved the 2012 Sustainability report actions taken by management as a result. communities and other third parties. It shall also assess the impact of such decisions for inclusion in the 2012 Annual Report and actions on the reputation of the Group • monitored the execution of the yearly plan • receiving reports from management in each of the four key areas of focus concerning all fatalities and serious • considered the ongoing progress of accidents within the Group and actions the implementation of a number of taken by management following internationally accredited management each incident information systems to control and monitor sustainability related risks www.hochschildmining.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED SAFETY MINING HAS AN INHERENTLY HIGH RISK PROFILE AND SAFETY IS OUR HIGHEST PRIORITY. THE HOCHSCHILD APPROACH TO SAFETY OUR ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2013 Mining has an inherently high risk • Continued implementation of the DNV 2013 HIGHLIGHTS profile and safety is our highest priority. Safety Management System at all operating • 43% reduction in accident Ensuring the safety of the Group’s units and Advanced Projects to support the severity rate employees is considered crucial in Group’s proactive approach to safety. measuring the successful implementation • Compliance with international standard, • 38% reduction in LTIFR of corporate strategy to which the Board OHSAS 18001:2007, was certified in respect • Luis Hochschild Safety Innovation and management are committed. of the Peruvian and Argentinian operations. Competition held (see opposite) The Luis Hochschild Safety Innovation The Group regrets that there were two Competition which, in 2013, received over fatalities during the year. In the first 180 proposals with suggestions on how incident, a worker was undertaking safety could be enhanced. drilling work inside a stope when loose rock fell from above. The second fatal • In order to implement a Behaviour Based accident occurred at the San Jose mine Safety (BBS) tool, a working group comprised when a scoop operator was trapped by of members from the Human Resources, the machine when he attempted to Psychology and Safety teams has been drive it from outside the driver’s cab. established with the first stage of training for safety supervisors already carried out. Circumstances leading to these tragic events have been investigated by management, reported to the Board and the resulting recommendations implemented (see details of the behaviour-based safety programme below). After each incident, the Group suspends operations at the mine to conduct an internal review of the relevant operation and safety procedures and carry out safety briefings. Group session on Golden Rules of Safety Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2013 HOW WE PERFORMED AGAINST OUR 2013 OBJECTIVES Target Status Commentary 5% reduction in LTIFR A 38% reduction was achieved. 20% reduction in accident severity rate A 43% reduction was achieved. Achieve the following levels of implementation of the DNV International Sustainability Rating System (ISRS) 6th Ed: Ares – Level 6 Ares – Level 6 Arcata & Pallancata/Selene – Upper Level 7 Partial Arcata & Pallancata/Selene – Level 7 San Jose – Upper Level 6 San Jose – Level 7 Inmaculada Project – Upper level 3 (internal certification) Partial Inmaculada – Level 3 (internal certification) SAFETY INDICATORS 2013 2012 2011 2010 Fatal accidents 2 4 3 2 Accidents leading to an absence of one day or more 49 81 81 66 LTIFR1 2.08 3.33 3.63 3.70 Accident Severity Index2 598 1058 910 777 Accidentability rate3 1.24 3.52 3.30 2.88 1 Calculated as total number of accidents per million labour hours. 2 Calculated as total number of days lost per million labour hours. 3 Calculated as LTIFR x accident severity divided by 1,000. 2014 TARGETS • 2.5% reduction LTIFR • 25% reduction in accident severity index • All supervisors to be trained in ‘5 Steps Observation Methodology’ under the Behaviour Based Safety programme • To have undertaken a full impact assessment of moving from DNV ISRS 6th edition to DNV ISRS 8th edition as the principal form of appraising the Group’s Safety Management Information System CASE STUDY: LUIS HOCHSCHILD SAFETY INNOVATION COMPETITION The Annual Luis Hochschild Safety Innovation Competition was held during 2013 for which 184 suggestions were received from across the Group. The first prize of US$25,000 was won by workers at Selene who designed a metal structure that could be used to protect workers during the inspection process of the processing plant. Winners of the competition with Senior Management www.hochschildmining.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED HEALTH & HYGIENE UNDERLINING THE IMPORTANCE WE PLACE ON OUR PEOPLE AND THEIR WELLBEING, THE GROUP’S HEALTH AND HYGIENE DEPARTMENT IS TASKED WITH PROVIDING AN INTEGRATED APPROACH TO EMPLOYEE WELFARE. THE HOCHSCHILD APPROACH TO • Prevention comes first. HEALTH AND HYGIENE • Maximising quality of life. 2013 HIGHLIGHTS Underlining the importance we place on • Zero incidence of our people and their wellbeing, the Group’s • Adopting measures for the long-term occupational illness Health and Hygiene department is tasked benefit of our people. with providing an integrated approach • Taking a proactive stance so that hazards • Inmaculada Advanced Project to employee welfare. Whilst the Health are identified and controlled at source. benefits from the Group’s Health team has been established to ensure that and Hygiene’s SAP module These principles adopted by the Health employees have access to the relevant services and infrastructure to ensure that & Hygiene team inform the approach it treatment can be provided, the Hygiene takes in the provision of medical services, team looks to reinforce the importance of occupational health, industrial hygiene the quality of life at work and seeks to work and occupational psychology. in the prevention of occupational illness. OUR ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2013 Given the nature of the work, and the • Review of new health and safety legislation two-week shift patterns which result in to ensure the Group’s ongoing compliance. frequent periods of absence from families, • Conducting corporate prevention the Group recognises the importance of campaigns on health issues (common ensuring the mental wellbeing of its and occupational diseases). employees. For this reason, the Group’s Health & Hygiene teams are also trained • A review was conducted of the organisational structure of the in occupational psychology. industrial hygiene function. Our Health & Hygiene teams undertake their work in line with the following guiding principles: Travelling Doctor Vehicles (see page 46 for further details) Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2013 HOW WE PERFORMED AGAINST OUR 2013 OBJECTIVES Target Status Commentary To redefine health services provided A new organisational structure for the medical function was at San Jose established with a doctor specialising in occupational health as the team leader. This new team structure is better aligned with our corporate standards. To be prepared to ensure continued Our health team has actively participated in ascertaining the compliance with relevant requirements requirements of the new regulations. in light of the new health and hygiene The team has participated in discussions at a national level regulations expected to come into force to agree best practice on complying with the new regulations in Peru in 2013 in Occupational Health and Safety in Peru. To implement the Health and Hygiene’s This was implemented in August 2013. Now Inmaculada SAP module at the Inmaculada project shares the same status with regards to health software as our other operations. HEALTH INDICATORS Indicator 2013 2012 2011 2010 Average number of medical attendances at Peruvian operations and at San Jose per month 3,614 3,376 3,065 2,961 Average number of work-related incidences requiring medical attention at Peruvian operations and at San Jose per month 14 18 32 26 Average number of occupational health examinations at the Group’s wholly-owned Peruvian operations and Moris per month 475 441 396 237 2014 TARGETS • To improve data storage facilities at our mine sites • To constantly review and update, as necessary, the structure of the Health & Hygiene department to best meet the needs of the organisation • To establish a health referral network in major cities near our mines www.hochschildmining.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED OUR PEOPLE THE QUALITY OF OUR PEOPLE IS KEY TO THE SUCCESS OF THE BUSINESS IN ACHIEVING ITS STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES AND OUR ONGOING OBJECTIVE IS THEREFORE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN THE BEST PEOPLE. THE HOCHSCHILD APPROACH ACTIVITIES IN 2013 TO OUR PEOPLE The Group’s team of HR professionals 2013 HIGHLIGHTS actively participated in the Company’s Training and development • Percentage of workforce trained The quality of our people is key to the restructuring process, the Cash – 79% success of the business in achieving its Optimisation Programme, during strategic objectives and our ongoing 2013 to further their shared objective • Average number of hours of objective is therefore to attract and retain of ensuring the Group is appropriately training per year per employee the best people. The Group’s HR team resourced for the future challenges. – 31 hours adopts various techniques to ensure that The following highlights some of the our people contribute to the Company’s work carried out during the year. success, which include the provision of Developing our people competitive remuneration, a positive Driven in part by the cash optimisation working environment (through the process, budgets have been globally Organisational Climate Survey) and adjusted for all HR programmes, having ongoing professional development. to prioritise training and development in Group values, labour relations and key areas and positions. human rights In order to achieve greater efficiency, One of the primary responsibilities of the we have further implemented an online HR team is to ensure the clear ongoing platform which not only delivers training communication of the Group’s corporate through virtual means, but also forms part values: Integrity, Teamwork, Quality and of the Group’s official records in monitoring Excellence, Responsibility and Commitment employees’ participation, particularly with to our People. These values are embodied in respect to compulsory safety training. our Code of Conduct which, amongst other things, sets out our commitment to the fair Managing our talent treatment of all employees and the right We carried out our People Review to be free of harassment or intimidation process focused on the mapping of talent in the workplace. We recognise the core in the organisation, which identifies key labour rights principles and, in this respect, employees and the succession plans for support the right to freedom of association our critical positions. and collective bargaining. Creating a better place to work Approximately 60% of our total The Group continues to make use of an workforce is represented by a trade Organisational Climate Survey (‘OCS’), union or similar body. which has embedded itself as a key tool to measure levels of satisfaction amongst As a signatory of the Global Compact of employees and identify opportunities for the United Nations, Hochschild Mining further development. The survey held in respects the human rights of all of the 2010 resulted in over 360 recommendations Company’s stakeholders including those with the aim of improving the overall of our employees, our contractors and working environment. suppliers, as well as our local communities. The importance placed by the Company The Company commissioned the 2012 OCS on human rights is reflected in the Group’s in collaboration with the Hay Group and it training programme which seeks to ensure showed an overall increase in employee that all employees are aware of their rights satisfaction of 8%. and the Company’s commitments. Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2013 HOW WE PERFORMED AGAINST OUR 2013 OBJECTIVES Objectives Status Implement improved talent identification process and continue with the implementation of development plans Continue with the entire leadership programme for all levels of management Implement the leadership programme for operational management * Establish alliances with leading universities as part of the Group’s recruitment strategy * * Following the implementation of the Cash Optimisation Plan, these initiatives did not proceed. PEOPLE INDICATORS 2013 2012 2011 2010 General Average number of Group employees and contractors 6,853 7,557 6,395 5,776 Gender diversity statistics Number of employees* Male 4,080 – – – Female 276 – – – Number of senior managers** Male 23 – – – Female 2 – – – Number of Board Members Male 8 – – – Female 0 – – – Training Average number of hours of training undertaken per employee during the year 30.77 52.03 37.86 16.86 Percentage of workforce trained during the year 79% 90% 90% 87% Labour relations Number of production days lost as a result of industrial unrest 15.5 7 28 1 * as at 31 December 2013. ** defined as those who qualify under the relevant statutory definition of ‘senior manager’ as at 31 December 2013. During 2013, various action plans Embedding a safety first culture Resourcing for the future were carried out to ensure continuous Working in conjunction with the Safety We concluded the ‘junior engineers’ improvement of our working environment. and Psychology teams, the HR team has programmes which aimed to identify For example, events were held in Peru been supporting the implementation of outstanding students from different and Argentina entitled ‘Open Dialogue’ in a Behaviour Based Safety Programme to universities and train them in different which the Executive Chairman, CEO and tackle the root cause of recent fatalities areas of our Company’s operations. Vice Presidents in the case of Peru, and at the Group’s mine sites. Twenty-one of these participants will the General Manager and HR in Argentina assume positions of responsibility within all participated. the Company from January 2014, after 18 months in the programme. www.hochschildmining.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED WORKING WITH OUR COMMUNITIES HOCHSCHILD MINING SEEKS TO DEVELOP AND MAINTAIN AN OPEN AND HONEST RELATIONSHIP OF TRUST WITH LOCAL COMMUNITIES. THE HOCHSCHILD APPROACH TO OUR ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2013 WORKING WITH OUR COMMUNITIES We undertook a number of practical 2013 HIGHLIGHTS Hochschild Mining seeks to develop and initiatives during the year aimed at making • Continued focus on Education, maintain an open and honest relationship a measurable improvement to the quality Health and Socio-economic of trust with local communities by: of life of the communities living close to development our operations as summarised below. • ensuring that we comply with all relevant • Digital Chalhuanca project commitments including agreements with Education won several awards the communities Maestro Líder – This umbrella programme • prioritising training and recruitment of launched in 2012 was designed to community workers develop primary and secondary education programmes by using the teacher as a • facilitating efficient programmes promoting factor of change. These teachers received community development training and certification in basic skills • promoting the participation of other key programmes, entrepreneurship, leadership stakeholders in the development and and digital inclusion. sustainability of rural communities. Elementary Education – Aimed at Our commitment to respecting human 17 schools and 665 students from first rights forms the foundation of our to sixth grade, these sessions sought to approach to community engagement improve basic literacy and numeracy skills. and development. As a signatory of the In 2013, we paid particular attention to United Nations Global Compact, direct teaching, with the use of technology Hochschild Mining has a duty to behave as appropriate. in a way that respects the human rights Secondary Education – Motivated by of host communities and points of best a need to give young people the tools practice are integrated into the Group’s they need to face their future, the Project Code of Conduct to ensure that we adhere Life programme was implemented in to this commitment across all our activities. partnership with the Vision Partnership COMMUNITY RELATIONS STRATEGY Institute. This series of sessions to over 300 Continuing with our medium to long-term teenagers focused on positive thinking and vision of our relationship with the local securing ways to achieve their ambitions. communities, this year we continued to Digital Inclusion – We continued to focus our efforts on the core areas of promote the use of technology as a means education, economic development and of enhancing education to both teachers health, as well as enhancing life skills and students alike. In 2013, 117 teachers and employment opportunities. were trained in the use of ICT and, to date, We have also placed a greater focus over 2,000 students have benefited from on encouraging sustainability in our this programme. communities rather than being driven by a shorter-term approach to Health Medico de Cabecera (the Travelling Doctor satisfying objectives. programme) – In 2013, we joined efforts In light of the budgetary challenges with the Ministry of Health to establish faced in the Cash Optimisation Plan, we cooperation agreements with the aim developed our social initiatives to ensure of extending the reach of the Travelling continuity and maximise their impact. Doctor programme to more communities. In addition, we increased the scope of the medical services provided. Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2013 HOW WE PERFORMED AGAINST OUR 2013 OBJECTIVES Target Status Commentary To continue making improvements to the literacy skills The Group redesigned its strategy and, as a result, of primary and secondary schoolchildren achieved improved academic results. To increase the level of engagement between the We have developed business plans and provided Group’s mining operations and local businesses technical training as well as infrastructure to promote local development. For further details, see the ‘Socio-economic development’ section below COMMUNITY RELATIONS INDICATORS 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Community investment1 $3.2m $6.5m $7.7m $6.7m $6.0m Production days lost as a result of community conflict 0 0 1 0 1.5 1 These figures represent only the portion of administrative expenditure (excluding corporate support) on social and community welfare activities surrounding the Company’s operating units. Total social expenditure by the Group in 2013 amounted to $10.14 million. 2014 TARGETS • Continue the development of our socio-economic programmes • Maximising employment opportunities to members of the community • Enhance sustainability in the communities living close to our Inmaculada project Socio-economic development CASE STUDY: DIGITAL CHALHUANCA Digital Chalhuanca – This year, we have been able to enhance and further The Digital Chalhuanca project, which aims to provide free internet access, has completed strengthen the Group’s flagship project its second year of implementation and has focused on training in information technology where free internet access has been and communication (ICT) to all interested parties, as well as the use of technology as a installed in the city of Chalhuanca to teaching tool for teachers and students alike from nearby schools. promote education and economic Significantly, the project works by bringing digital resources to rural and semi rural development in the surrounding area. populations, primarily for education and training with the active participation of local This project has already won several awards and regional government. The project has received several awards in recognition of the for the great results achieved. In particular, project’s significant impact and benefits. the project has been hailed as a successful This year, the Digital Centre was boosted by the provision of 25 computers as a result of example of partnership between private high demand. The next stage, in the coming years, will be to achieve the sustainability companies, the state and community of the project through its beneficiaries. (see case study opposite); Development of local trading skills In order to promote a self-sustaining economy in our areas of influence, we have facilitated technical training and compiled business plans for those wishing to embark on a career or to commence their own businesses. This also requires the formation of partnerships with local governments who jointly fund these Local child using the project’s IT facilities Recognised for innovative use of technology community development projects. www.hochschildmining.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED MANAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT WE ARE COMMITTED TO ENSURING THE SUSTAINABILITY OF THE ENVIRONMENT IN WHICH WE DEVELOP OUR OPERATIONS AND NEW PROJECTS. THE HOCHSCHILD APPROACH TO disturbed areas where mining activity ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT has ceased, and to contribute to the 2013 HIGHLIGHTS We are committed to ensuring the socio-economic sustainability of • ISO 14001 Certification at sustainability of the environment in communities that have been affected Peruvian and Argentinian which we develop our operations and by the operations. operations maintained new projects. Our environmental OUR ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2013 management system has been established • Group Compliance Performance • Following the approval of the Inmaculada on a corporate level in order to apply the Indicator of 84% (vs target of 80%) Project’s Environmental Impact Assessment, best international practices available, and we obtained the building permit with is backed by the continued ISO 14001 construction now in progress. certification of our operations. In addition, as the most valuable resource, water usage • Approval of Crespo and Matarani and discharge are subject to strict protocols Environmental Impact Studies. and procedures in order to comply with • Maintained ISO 14001 certification for local and international regulations. the Group’s operations in Ares, Arcata, Selene, Pallancata and San Jose. Hochschild Mining recognises that Environmental and Social Responsibility • Group Compliance Performance Indicator extends beyond the life of our operations, (CPI) reached 84.5% (vs a target of 80%). mine closure plans are in place to restore HOCHSCHILD ENVIRONMENTAL TEAM VP LEGAL & CORPORATE AFFAIRS ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL SUPERINTENDENT SUPERINTENDENT SUPERINTENDENT ENVIRONMENTAL FOR PROJECTS AND FOR OPERATIONS FOR CLOSURE AND CHIEF FOR PERMITS EXPLORATIONS REHABILITATION Through this structure, dedicated The environmental department functions personnel in the environmental team within our mining operations and projects provide the services described below: and alongside the Community Relations, Legal, Permitting and Finance teams, • Operations: Implementing standards, thereby assuring continuity of operations. procedures and best practice. • Permitting and new projects: Assuring compliance with local and international regulations along the mine life cycle. • Social work: Communications, training, support and facilitating participation of communities in environmental works. • Explorations: Implementing environmental controls in greenfield and brownfield projects. • Closure: Rehabilitation and remediation of disturbed areas where mining activity has ceased. Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2013 HOW WE PERFORMED AGAINST OUR 2013 OBJECTIVES Target Status Commentary Approval of Crespo EIS Obtained in July 2013. Implementation of improved environmental Compliance Established new environmental CPI structure Performance Indicators (‘CPI’) with improved evaluation criteria. Maintain ISO 14001 certification for Ares, Arcata, Selene, This was achieved during the year. Pallancata and San Jose ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS1 2013 20122 2011 2010 2009 Average monthly fresh water consumption per metric tonne of treated ore (cubic metres) 0.15 0.18 0.24 0.21 0.63 Electricity consumption per metric tonne of treated ore (Kw-h) 82.75 88.69 53.29 57.75 53.32 Diesel consumption per metric tonne of treated ore (gallons) 1.18 1.53 1.29 0.97 1.23 Number of material environmental incidents across entire operations4 0 0 0 0 0 Estimated volume of water withdrawn per day (cubic metres) 15,538 15,925 32,424 30,628 29,668 Estimated proportion of recycled water used 55% 60% 69% 32% 27% Estimated volume of water discharged per day (cubic metres) 32,878 30,773 37,979 37,538 35,606 Greenhouse gas emissions data 3 (tonnes of CO2e) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Emissions from combustion of fuel and operation of facilities (tCO2e) 56,234 – – – – Emissions from purchased electricity (tCO2e) 72,946 – – – – Emissions intensity, per thousand ounces of total silver equivalent produced (CO2e/k oz)4 4.89 – – – – 1 Includes data for operations in Ares, Arcata, Selene, Pallancata and San Jose. 2 From 2012, figures are based on guidelines and information gathered for the Company’s 2012 GRI Sustainability Report published during the year. Data for previous years was calculated using different criteria and is therefore not directly comparable with subsequent years. 3 Includes data for operations in Ares, Arcata, Selene, Pallancata, San Jose, Inmaculada, Matarani, Moris and office locations. 4 Total production includes 100% of all production, including attributable to joint venture partners at San Jose and Pallancata. 2014 TARGETS • Update mine closure schedules for Ares, Arcata, Selene, Pallancata and Sipan. Additionally, present site closure plan for Matarani • Obtain ISO 14001 recertification for Arcata, Selene, Pallancata, Ares and San Jose • Initiate the mine closure process for the Ares and Moris mining operations www.hochschildmining.com
