Global Compact Communication on Progress Communication on Progress 2015/2016 Declaration of Support and Progress Support Report m:con-mannheim:congress LLC Regarding Its Membership in The United Nations “Global Compact” Mannheim, Germany – November 2016 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Introduction The m:con – mannheim:congress LLC (hereafter m:con) is an established an respected service provider in the event and trade fair industry in Germany. Since 2008 m:con has been committed to the guidelines and principles of the UN Global Compact and was one of the first in this industry to join the U.N. Global Compact network. The commitment to a policy of sustainability within the corporate sector poses within the event and trade fair industry presents an enormous challenge, and requires a continuous and conscious handling of and respect for resources. This demands a high degree of innovative thinking as well as unceasing degree of self-reflectivity. m:con is sincerely committed to this issue. The subject of sustainability in the event and trade fair industry is influenced by and consists of various contradictions. Temporary structures that are intended for very short periods of time are quickly constructed with a great deal of effort, materials and energy. It is often the case in this industry that more priority is given to convenience and temporary construction rather than to longevity. In addition, many of the methods for advertisement for such events, simultaneously produce large amounts of paper products, which ultimately contribute to massive quantities of waste. Therefore, the power and influence of the event and trade fair industry in regard to ecological, economic and social sustainability cannot be underestimated. The m:con is consciously aware of the ongoing necessity for concrete measures regarding sustainability. We firmly believe that these measures must be communicated to our clients and partners and implemented within the conceptual planning of events and trade fairs. The m:con views itself as a pioneer in this field and increasingly strives to sensitize it clients and partners regarding the significance of sustainability in this sector. This report documents the achievements of m:con from September 2015 to November 2016 and also provides information regarding future projects that are currently underway. 1 Global Compact Communication on Progress Human Rights/ social aspect Principle 1 Enterprises shall support and respect the protection of International Human Rights within their area of influence as well as Principle 2 – ensure that they are not guilty of violating human rights in any area of their business dealings Socially oriented initiatives and projects of m:con The m:con company has been steadfast in its participation in socially oriented initiatives and projects. m:con strives to continuously increase its social engagement and firsthand participation in such projects. As in past years, the company carefully selects and pays very close attention to the sustainability of the projects in which it is engaged throughout the year. Moreover, m:con strives to find creative and innovative ways in which to be socially engaged in the city of Mannheim as well as in the Rhine-Neckar region. The company started the year 2014 off with a project that speaks not only to the physical wellbeing of its employees and visitors, but also generates funding for an extremely important cause, namely pediatric oncology. In cooperation with the company A Punkt Wellness LLC, m:con installed in January 2014 several massage chairs in the building’s foyer where they can be accessed by all. These massage chairs can be utilized for 1 Euro per 5 minute session. In the year 2015, an income of € 614.00 was generated by the massage chairs. This sum was rounded up by m:con to € 1,000.00 in favour of the Uniklinikum Mannheim (University Clinic of Mannheim). In 2016, the income totalled € 544.00, which was handed over to the Uniklinikum Mannheim as part of the annual total m:con donation sum of € 2,950.00 for their Neuroblastoma Project. For several years now, this cooperation between m:con and the Kinderklinikum Mannheim (Children’s Clinic, Mannheim) has existed in order to support research into neuroblastomas. The support from m:con does not limit itself to the company’s own annual donation and the massage chair promotion, but also comprises amongst other things the organization and execution of an annual Charity Golf Tournament. In the year 2016, this charity event, entitled “m:con goes golf”, was held in cooperation with the Dorint Kongresshotel (Congress Hotel) and the ice hockey team Adler Mannheim for the seventh time in a row on the second of July. Here a record donation sum of € 25,000.00 was achieved (of this € 2,950.00 by m:con), which, as in the previous years, was presented to the Neuroblastoma Research Project at the Uniklinikum Mannheim. m:con is of the opinion that the health and well-being of children and teenagers is of decisive importance and that fun and entertainment should be a part of their 2 Global Compact Communication on Progress lives. In order to provide sustainable support for the research, a Charity Golf Tournament has once again been planned for next year. Every two years, a Volunteer’s Day is held in the metropolitan region of Rhine-Neckar. In the year 2014, m:con employees renovated the terrace of the Klinik für Kinderund Jugendmedizin (Clinic for Children’s and Adolescent’s Medicine) at the Universitätsmedizin Mannheim (University of Medicine Mannheim), and thus extended the existing collaboration with the research into neuroblastomas conducted by the Uniklinikum. The materials for the renovation were provided by regional sponsors and the terrace was completely rebuilt within the course of one day. This year’s Volunteer’s Day, which took place on 17th September 2016, was intended to expand on this success. However, to extend the range of the commitment still further, a new social association was selected as the beneficiary organisation. With the cordial support of the Dorint Kongresshotel Mannheim, Reinshagen & Harting GmbH and the Blumenhaus in the Augustanlage, the team worked this year in aid of the “Aufwind Mannheim”, an establishment in the Neckarstadt-West which provides children of primary school age with all-round care. The boys and girls were able to submit their favorite recipes from their country of origin prior to the event. On Volunteer’s Day, the children then cooked a small international menu together with the chefs from the Dorint Hotel in the Congress Center Rosengarten. In order to secure the sustainability of the project and to achieve some financial support for the association in addition to a unique experience for the children, a cook book is to be produced from the end of 2016/start of 2017, which documents the collaborative day once more. The proceeds from the sale of the book will go exclusively to “Aufwind Mannheim”. Furthermore, m:con supported, together with the association Freundeskreis Rosengarten e.V. (Association Circle of Friends Rosengarten) and other organizations, the carnival society Feuerio e.V. in the execution of a masked ball for children and adolescents between the age of three and twelve years, which was held on 08th February 2016 in the Congress Center Rosengarten. The young guests were not only able to participate in games and costume competitions, and to have a lot of fun, but also had the possibility thanks to the ReissEngelhorn Museum to get creative in handicraft events to do with the theme of the current special exhibition “Die DUCKOMENTA – Weltgerschichte neu ENTdeckt” (The DUCKOMENTA – Rediscovering International History). The Kunsthalle Mannheim (Art Gallery Mannheim) also took part in this event, and organized an opening reception in their own rooms with pictures by the children who had participated in the event. This collaboration is to be repeated in the coming carnival season. 3 Global Compact Communication on Progress On 13th September 2015 and on 17th September 2016, m:con provided technical support, a stage, transportation and personnel for the rowing regatta “Rudern gegen Krebs” (Rowing against cancer) within the scope of the cancer prevention charity event in Heidelberg. This event underlines m:con’s social commitment, not only in the City of Mannheim, but also within the entire region. You can find more details under: http:/www.rudern-gegen-krebs.de/8169.htm. On 07th June 2016, m:con celebrated its 10-year anniversary with the annual Dance Festival m)))motion. For the anniversary, the “Anpfiff ins Leben e.V.” was obtained as a further partner. This association has, in addition to the holistic youth sports promotions from 2015, also set up an organization division with equal authorization under the name “Bewegungsförderung für Amputierte” (Promotion of movement for amputees). The association was able to present itself and its new division within the scope of the m)))motion. m:con wishes to further its links with this collaboration in 2017, in order to dedicate itself to this dancing sport, too, and in future to integrate it sustainably into the event concept. Here dancers from the “Bewegungsförderung für Amputierte” should be more heavily involved, and the message should be mediated that opportunities in life do not end through amputation, and it is still possible to participate in social life. Since the year 2014, m:con has also supported the charity auction “Kunst tut gut”! (Art does you good!) held by the Kompetenzzentrum zu sexuell übertragbaren Infektionen Mannheim (KOSI.MA – Competence Centre for sexually transmittable infections, Mannheim). This is an organization which advises and supports citizens, independent of their sexual orientation, on questions concerning HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmittable infections. You can find more information under: http://www.rosengarten-mannheim.de/kalender/kosi-ma-kunstauktionkunst-tut-gut/. On 29th November 2015, m:con invited people in cooperation with KOSI-MA and the “Künstlerbund Rhein-Neckar” (Artists’ Association, Rhine-Neckar) to the charity auction “Kunst tut gut!” in the Mannheim Rosengarten. For the year 2016, too, a cooperation with the m:con Congress Center Rosengarten has been planned with regard to a third charity art auction. Initiatives and networks of m:con – mannheim:congress GmbH In 2006, three DAX companies Daimler, Deutsche Bank, Deutsche Telekom along with BP Europe SE joined forces and initiated the Corporate Charter of Diversity in Germany. The German Charter of Diversity is based on the French business initiative titled Charte de la Diversité and served as a step in the recognition of the significance of diversity and the ensuing demographic changes regarding Germany’s workforce. Many companies have come to realize 4 Global Compact Communication on Progress the significance of diverse teams and staff, and that such teams open new opportunities for innovative and creative solutions. The implementation of the Charter aims to create and maintain workplace environments that are free of prejudice and discrimination. Diversity and inclusion are topics that are important to the corporate culture and environment of m:con. In April 2013 the m:con – mannheim:congress LLC became a signatory of the Corporate Charter of Diversity for Germany and is as of now the sole congress venue and professional congress organizer in the Federal State of Baden-Wuerttemberg to support this business initiative. In addition to commitments regarding regional events and national initiatives, the company m:con is also active in multiple regional, national and international networks. Here the focus is placed in particular on the promotion of the exchange of knowledge between different branches. In the year 2016, network activity increased enormously. At the moment, m:con actively participates in approx. 50 mainly regional networks. Barrier-free measures in the Congress Center Rosengarten In the past years m:con has taken architectural and constructional measures to ensure accessibility for individuals with reduced mobility and for those who are hearing impaired. m:con congress center is currently in the process of creating and installing pictographic images that indicate wheelchair and induction loop access. Induction loops are necessary for the generation of an electromagnetic field that produces a better tone quality and transmission for hearing aid devices. Pictograms which indicate the access points for wheelchair users and the access to induction loop systems should in future be visible at the entrance, in the building foyer and in the entire building area leading to the two main conference halls. The well-being of employees and visitors with special requirements is of great importance to the Management of m:con – mannheim:congress GmbH. Therefore, a person has been appointed who acts as a contact for both employees and for visitors, represents the interests of these people and deals with their needs. The tasks of this contact are:  Attending to the concerns and complaints of employees and visitors with special needs  Revision and implementation of measures which further assist individuals with special needs in the workplace and in the Congress Center Rosengarten (preventive as well as conducive measures) m:con – mannheim:congress LLC fulfills the yearly quota (according to Art. 80 Section 2 of the Social Legal Code). This Social Legal Code stipulates that 5 % of the entire staff must be 5 Global Compact Communication on Progress comprised of employees with special needs. In the case that these regulations are not adhered to, companies are penalized and required to pay a fine. The company is pleased to announce that it has not had to pay any fines during the last years. Future Measures: m:con – mannheim:congress LLC is continuously seeking to increase access for all clients and visitors with special needs. Until now, wheelchair users could only get into the building via a side entrance or a temporary ramp at the main entrance. However, m:con is working on the design of a permanent wheelchair ramp which is to be mounted at the main entrance. Here, however, building preservation matters regarding the Congress Center Rosengarten must be taken into account. The aim is to permit all visitors with restricted mobility the same quality of access to the building. During events in the Congress Center Rosengarten, participants should furthermore have the opportunity to be guided through the Congress Center. To this end, an appropriate Touchtable is to be provided at the entrance to the building. This guidance should also be transferable onto Smartphone via a QR code. In future, the mobile routing system should also be available as an App. The use of pictograms, too, is to be expanded. In the coming year 2017, the homepage should also be updated and renewed. The aim is to improve the flow of information and to increase user-friendliness. 6 Global Compact Communication on Progress Working Standards/ the economic and social aspect Principle 3 Enterprises should safeguard freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining as well as Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced labour Principle 5 the abolition of child labour Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in both hiring practices and on-the-job assignment work Social aspects, working standards and antidiscrimination As a one hundred percent subsidiary company of the City of Mannheim Investment Company LLC, m:con is legally obliged to uphold the stipulations of the Collective Wage Agreements for Employees in Public Service Jobs (TVÖD). m:con – mannheim:congress LLC strictly adheres to the statutory and standardized salary payment regulations entailed in this agreement for all current as well as future employees. As early as 1996 the company demonstrated it willingness to accommodate and promote a work-life balance model by introducing the possibility of home-office for several of its employees, in particular for those who take parental leave. In 2007, the flexi-time scale model was introduced so that employees are not required to punch a time clock and enjoy greater freedom to select their working hours based on individual needs. In order to better control the work-life balance of the employees and to accord with legal responsibilities and requirements, m:con has installed an electronic time recording system in November 2015 which accurately calculates and determines the working hours. The company’s management and Workers Council entered into an agreement that permitted employees to individually and independently create their own work schedules as long as these remained within the time frame as specified by the company’s flexi-time scale. In order to ensure the accuracy of employee working hours, a detailed system, one which is similar to a traffic light account (Ampelkonto), was created and implemented. Work hours are accumulated and stored in an account that offers an oversight and management thereof. The traffic light system works in the following manner: Green light: the employee is within the monthly 30 overtime and 10 minus hours limit 7 Global Compact Communication on Progress Yellow Light: A warning is given if the employee has exceeded the monthly 30-50 hours maximum or is in overdraft with 1020 minus hours. In this case the employee’s Line Manager is contacted and asked to assist in finding a solution to decrease or increase the number of hours within the account. Red light: In the case that overtime hours have surpassed the 50 hours of overtime limit or the work hours account indicates 20 hours in the minus; the Human Resources department and the Line Manager are called together to swiftly find and implement a solution. In order to promote family and vocation, m:con closed a Company Agreement on the Childcare Allowance on 01st January 2016 for the year 2016. This voluntary service is granted to employees actively employed at the company who have a child living in their household who does not yet have to attend school up to an age of max. six/seven years. The topic of discrimination and exclusion are both taken very seriously by the m:con – mannheim:congress LLC. The company’s human resources policies strictly prohibit discriminatory practices or behavior towards its staff or during recruitment. Advertisements for vacancies are formulated in gender neutral language and are impartial to the sex, “race”, sexual orientation or religious beliefs of the applicant. As mentioned earlier m:con became the first congress center in Southern Germany to promote the topic of diversity by signing the Corporate Charter of Diversity for Germany in 2013. Since June 2014 the m:con’s staff has grown to 118 employees. The make-up of the staff is as follows: 93 employees (17 on a parttime basis), 9 auxiliary workers (all part-time), 12 trainees and four interns. In December 2013 an introductory workshop (“Einsteiger-Tag”) that offers an overview of the company’s various departments and specific tasks was implemented for all new m:con employees. The head of each department at m:con was requested to give a 30 minute introduction and overview of her or his specific area and to explain exactly how the various departments interact and cooperate to complete the tasks that are demanded of a service provider. Further, a guided tour through the entire congress center has also become part of a welcoming incentive offered to all new employees so that they can familiarize themselves with the history and inner as well as outer workings of the building and its various halls. In the year 2015, the company introduced a Starter Package in addition to the existing “KickStart” welcome brochure in order to make life easier for new employees when starting work. The Starter Package contains all the necessary information on the history of the company and its structure as well as on directives. Since the year 2016, “Kick-Start” will now also be provided to new employees in digital form on a USB stick. 8 Global Compact Communication on Progress The collaboration between employees is of great importance to m:con. Therefore the HR Department has already actively called team-building measures into being over the past years, for example “After Work” events. These give employees the opportunity to meet outside work and to exchange information. Two annual team-building events are, amongst others, the Christmas Party and the Summer Festival. This last is traditionally organised by the apprentices at m:con. Not only the employees and their families come together, but also collaborative events are conducted (for example a team quiz) which are intended to intensify the exchange and collaboration between employees. In addition to regular further training, subject-related closed conferences held within the scope of the internal further training academy, IECA, are intended to reflect the team-building concept. In the year 2016, m:con employees also formed their own football team for two football tournaments. Another team-building measure planned for the year 2017 by m:con is the revival of the “Lunch&Learn” format. Here employees are given the opportunity to meet informally during a collaborative midday meal and a subject-specific lecture. The health and wellbeing of all m:con staff members are also of importance to the General Management of the company. In 2011 a joint collaboration ensued between m:con and the fitness and rehabilitation center “sportomed”. “sportomed” offers every m:con staff member the opportunity to work-out and enjoy the facilities of this fitness center without additional cost. In addition, regular consultations take place on the subject of old-age provision. Here, in addition to the general consultation, it is possible to obtain information individually in a subsequent dialogue. The m:con has its own Works Council which is re-elected regularly every four years. The last election took place on 10th April 2014. The members of the Works Council take on the task of protecting the rights of their colleagues and representing their interests. The Works Council acts as a neutral instrument and contributes towards the work standards of the Global Compact of the United Nations being upheld. The next elections are planned for the year 2018. The Workers Council has and will continue with the improvement of communication measures. This is achieved by maintaining fixed weekly office hours where employees have direct access to members of the council. Communication is also enhanced by use of an intranet platform where employees and council members can exchange ideas and information. In addition, one member of the council has been assigned the duty of attending to the needs and concerns of the B.A. degree trainees and apprentices. 9 Global Compact Communication on Progress Planned measures: In the coming year 2017, the Intranet is to be updated and renewed. The aim is to improve the flow of information and to ease responsibilities. The entire Intranet should thus become more user-friendly. In addition, the team-building measures in particular are to be further extended. Furthermore, a Project Team is to be founded which conducts cross-departmental exchanges and possible activities concerning the topic of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility). In this way, employees should amongst other things be given the possibility to participate actively in the positive design of their workplace and their work activities and to introduce their ideas. Education and Advanced Training The m:con – mannheim:congress GmbH offers vocational training, dual study courses and trainee positions and apprentice internships in various divisions. The following specialist subjects are offered:  Event technician  Event administrators  Administrators for office management  Office administrators  Voluntary work in the field of company communications  Dual study course in trade fair, congress and event management  Dual study course in digital media  IT specialist in the field of system integration m:con also offers training opportunities and short term internships to high school pupils and students so that they can gain practical work experience in the event and congress management sector from early on. At the time of this reporting, our company currently has three trainees who are B.A. students from the Baden Wuerttemberg Cooperative State University; Nine are vocational-technical trainees. In addition, there four secondary school interns. It is m:con’s goal whenever possible to offer its trainees upon completion of their studies an employment contract. As mentioned above, the Summer Festival, which takes place annually in July, is traditionally organised by the apprentices. The idea behind this is to give apprentices at m:con space for the development of their creativity and an opportunity for independent planning and execution 10 Global Compact Communication on Progress of projects. This year’s Summer Festival on 24th July 2016 was themed, for example, on the subject of “China”. For the first time, invitations were extended via video message. In addition, regular meetings take place in which the apprentices can exchange crossdivisional information and provide mutual assistance in case of problems. In this way, the apprentices should grow to form a team. In the year 2015, the AZUBI-BLOG was called into being. Apprentices are requested to describe their experiences in and impressions of the company. In this way, the employees should receive a more in-depth insight into the apprenticeship fields and study subjects. In addition, this blog serves the exchange of experiences between younger and older employees. Every year, and depending on requirements, m:con employees receive the opportunity to attend further training courses and seminars from all areas of event and congress management. Here employees can also utilise the range of offers provided by the in-house Further training Academy IECA . In 2005 m:con established The International Event & Congress Academy (IECA) which offers additional training to employed individuals who are already working in the event and congress sector. Since 2010 IECA has cooperated with the regional Rhine-Neckar Chamber of Industry and Commerce and continuously built upon and advanced the types of workshops and courses offered by IECA. Since 2012 the IECA Academy has expanded its seminar/course selection and includes workshops and seminars in the areas of sustainability in the congress and event sector, event management & compliance, diversity and intercultural communication. These seminars are open to not only outside participants but, also to m:con employees as well. In June 2015 m:con opened an office in Berlin and will therefore expand the IECA Academy and offer additional seminars and courses for the event and congress industry. Additional seminars on the topics of sustainable development and compliance regulations in the event & congress industry will also be part of the roster for 2016. 11 Global Compact Communication on Progress Environmental Protection/ecological aspect Principle 7 Enterprises shall take preventive actions and support preventative measures when dealing with environmental issues. Principle 8 – take initiatives to create greater awareness and responsibility towards the environment and Principle 9 – promote the development and distribution of environmentally friendly technology. Initiatives and awards In addition to creating public awareness regarding the issue of environmental protection and responsibility within the business and entertainment event sector, m:con has completed additional certification. In 2011 m:con received it first certification by the FAMAB -Sustainable Company. FAMAB Sustainable Company has developed a certification system for environmental sustainability for the event and trade fair sector in cooperation with the companies CO2OL and Viabono. FAMAB Sustainable Company has in the meantime become a cross border European label. As of now, FAMAB is recognized as the sustainability certification process for Germany and Switzerland. After rigorous reporting and two extensive telephone interviews, m:con was awarded in 2011 the FAMAB certification for a two-year period and became re-certified in February 2014. The company is in the process of preparing for re-certification in 2016. m:con became a supporter in October 2012 of the German Convention Bureau’s (GCB) and European Association of Event Centre’s (EVVC) sustainability initiative titled Fairpflichtet .m:con also fulfilled the conditions for the Fairplichtet certification. Fairpflichtet advocates a sustainability codex for the German event and trade fair industry that corresponds to the principles of the UN Global Compact. In the year 2014, a certification procedure was carried out once more. m:con is proud of these achievements and has communicated its continuous advancements in the field of sustainability through the issue of external and internal press releases. The company is currently preparing itself for re-certification in the year 2017. In autumn 2014, m:con set up an Information Stand (InfoQuelle) in the foyer of the Congress Center. Here visitors can on the one hand inform themselves on event-related subjects, and on the other on restaurants, shopping possibilities and further attractions within Mannheim as well as the Rhine-Neckar region. In case of selected events, the participants are also provided with bicycles free of charge as a means of environmentally-friendly transport at the event 12 Global Compact Communication on Progress location. The sustainability successes and memberships of m:con are also listed at the InfoQuelle. You can find more information under: http://www.rosengartenmannheim.de/en/organiser/benefits/sustainability-2/. This area entails the following:  Global Compact certificate,  Fairpflichtet certificate  Sustainable Company certificate  ClimatePartner – carbon footprint calculation certificate  Charta der Vielfalt – diversity & inclusion  100% green electricity for travel certificate awarded by the German Railways (Deutsche Bahn) Since January 2014 m:con is listed in the “Green Meetings 2.0” data base, which lists all event and congress organizers that offer green meetings: http://www.greenmeeting20.de/location/ 26-m-con-congresse-tagungen-events-mannheim. m:con installed a C02 computer and had their C02 balance inspected through the consulting company ClimatePartner GmbH: http://www.climatepartner.com/en/services/ consulting/carbon-footprint/. ClimatePartner has branch firms in Munich and Berlin and is a consulting partner of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The demand for sustainable events and the use of the C02 computer has up to now been low on the part of our customers. Therefore, m:con is currently working on an extended communications concept in order to obtain customers for the sustainable implementation of events. Deutsche Umweltpreis (2019)German Environmental Award: After fulfilling strict criteria regarding technical, administrative and organizational capacities; the German Environmental Foundation (DBU-Deutsche Bundesstiftung Umwelt) https://www.dbu.de/ selected the city of Mannheim and the m:con – mannheim:congress LLC from twenty-four competitors from the event and congress industry across Germany to host the German Environmental Award in 2019. See: http://www.forum-csr.net/default.asp?News=8397. 13 Global Compact Communication on Progress Environmental friendliness of the m:con in collaboration with specialised partner companies WISAG/MVV As in past years, m:con still maintains its partnership with the facility management company WISAG Service Holding and the energy provider MVV Public Holding Company. Both corporations are vital to m:con’s infrastructure The Congress Center procures ecological power from the MVV AG and strives to consistently increase the proportion of ecological power used. In autumn 2014, the ecological power proportion of power consumption lay at 33.5%. By autumn 2016, an increase of 6.7% took place, so that the proportion currently lies at 40.2%. Within the time period April-May 2016, the “BFE Institut für Energie und Umwelt GmbH” (Institute for energy and the environment) conducted an energy consultation on a voluntary basis. Here current data were collected, analysed and assessed by the Congress Center Rosengarten. In addition, economic and ecological savings potentials were revealed. In the near future, plans and considerations are to be made regarding the optimisation and the appropriate implementation, and these are to be recorded in the energy management system. WISAG and MVV provide m:con with the following services: Energy (electricity, heating, water) and electrical utility maintenance Documentation, reporting and consultation in regard to the optimization of these processes Technical building engineering management Maintenance of the facility and its premises Seating Housekeeping m:con maintains the following ecologically friendly measures for disposal of waste products and house-keeping: Utilization of bio-degradable cleaning products Leftover foodstuff is collected and processed into biogas by an organic waste contractor Sanitary facilities that utilize a “lotus effect” (water repellent) system In-house separation of waste materials Over the past years, we have begun in collaboration with the WISAG to retrofit several halls and other areas of the Congress Center Rosengarten with LED lighting. Within the scope of 14 Global Compact Communication on Progress the summer break 2016, the light cushions in the foyer and in the largest hall of the Rosengarten are equipped with environmentally-friendly and durable LED lighting. In this way, the energy consumption and the resulting costs are to be lowered. Resulting from this, the CO² emissions can also be reduced. Dorint Congress Hotel The Dorint Congress Hotel is the catering partner of m:con and works in close cooperation with the company to provide sustainable catering options to clients. Our catering partner provides the following: Dorint Hotel has implemented a user-friendly Co2 calculator for guests Locally grown produce from the Palatinate region is utilized, which minimizes transport, thus reducing CO2 emissions Organic food catering services and Fair Trade coffee and tea upon request Procurement of still and carbonated water in returnable deposit bottles instead of plastic bottles via a regional supplier The utilization of energy saving of dishwashers that have reduced water consumption by more than 35% Reusable flatware is used for all events Other partners: Office requirements: Ordering of office materials from a manufacturer from the RhineNeckar metropolitan region, which offers environmentally-friendly products. Print orders: m:con has also concerned itself in-depth with the reduction of printed materials and the use of advertising means which are gentle on resources. Print orders are only issued to FSC-certified printshops. On 29th February 2012, m:con introduced its mobile congress App for Smartphones and an online questionnaire for customers with which they can assess the performances and services of the agency. The introduction of these environmentally-friendly products has ensured that only a few printed congress guides and questionnaires are still required. Advertising means: With a view to environmentally-friendly advertising means, m:con uses brand pens, notebooks from FSC sources and keyrings on a textile basis and waives products (e.g. made of plastic) which continue to place strain on the natural resources and the environment. 15 Global Compact Communication on Progress Planned measures: In future, the aim is to gradually equip further areas of the Rosengarten with LED technology. In the near future, participants are also to be provided with lunchboxes made of brown recycled paper. In addition, they can put their lunches together themselves to avoid further generation of waste. At the time of completion of this report, m:con is optimizing its sustainable snack concept for seminars. During seminars and conferences, snacks with packaging are to be avoided wherever possible in the in-house seminar rooms. In addition, the hygiene factor and the aspect of health play an important role. Procurement of two E-bikes: In the year 2017, the City of Mannheim will celebrate the 200year anniversary of the invention of the bicycle. The company m:con will provide 2 E-bikes for its employees on the occasion of the celebrations. As of January 2017, the employees thus have the opportunity of using the bicycles as an environmentally-friendly means of transport for service trips to nearby locations within Mannheim or Ludwigshafen. In addition, the bicycles represent the identification of the employees with the City of Mannheim and the anniversary year of the bicycle. m:con – mannheim:congress LLC Surroundings: Superb Location and Climate Friendly Infrastructure The m:con congress center Mannheim has a superb location in the low emissions zone of the city center and is seven minutes away (by foot) or 900 meters from the main station Mannheim’s main station is the second most important railway junction in the ICE highspeed inter-city train system. Thirty minutes by train from Frankfurt International Airport makes arriving in Mannheim easy and as of January 2014 climate neutral train service, since the German National Railway now utilizes 100% green electricity. m:con – mannheim:congress LLC maintains its partnership with the German National Railway and provides visitors with a rail/travel event entrance ticket. In addition, m:con cooperates with the local transportation network (ÖPNV) of the Rhine-Neckar metropolitan region and provides congress and cultural event visitors with a combined public transportation and entrance ticket. 16 Global Compact Communication on Progress Rental bicycles are offered free of charge to m:con guests and visitors during their stay in Mannheim Electric cars are used by m:con for shuttle services to and from Mannheim’s main station and the city center. A public recharging station for electric vehicles has been implemented and is currently in use. The m:con Berlin office enables clients located in Northern Germany to reduce travel time and distance, thus reducing carbon (CO2) emissions. 17 Global Compact Communication on Progress Fight Against Corruption Principle 10 Enterprises shall take action against all forms of corruption, and especially against blackmail and bribes. Compliance-System In April 2015 m:con’s detailed compliance system went into effect. In addition, a compliance brochure was produced that outlines the basic compliance principles as upheld by the (MCGK) Mannheim Corporate Governance Codex. This brochure will serve as a tool to better assist all m:con-mannheim congress staff members (Line Managers as well as lower level employees) in their interactions with clients in regard to compliance guidelines and standards. Pledge to Make Public Announcements m:con is a 100% subsidiary of the city of Mannheim’s Investment Company (LLC) and as a contractor of public services m:con appoints all delivery, construction or service contracts according to policies stipulated by tendering laws against restrictions on competition (GEB). The company ensures fair competition in conformity with the market for all contracts by making public announcements for all tenders. Compliance to the Pharamceutical Code: As a Professional Congress Organizer, the planning and hosting of scientific and medical conferences is one of our main activities. These conferences take place in collaboration with the pharmaceutical industry and members of this business sector. m:con always strictly respects the regulations of the pharmaceutical code (FSA-Code) as stipulated by the Union of “Voluntary Self-Regulation Controls for the Pharmaceutical Industry e.V.”) when planning and hosting an event so that such may be carried out according to the wishes of our clients and free of dishonest influences. To ensure that all endeavors are transparent and adhere to these regulations, several m:con employees have attended workshops and received additional training so that they are informed about the contents, regulations and interpretations of the pharmaceutical codes that need to be considered while planning events that deal with or concentrate on this topic. 18 Global Compact Communication on Progress Measure to Prevent Partiality As in the past, all invitations to m:con-mannheim congress events contain an explicit notification that anyone who receives an invitation to an event must ensure that her/his participation in the event has been authorized by the responsible authorities. Our invitations contain the following passage: “This invitation is being sent to you under the conditions that you have obtained the necessary approval from the responsible authorities to attend this event. If this has not been granted, then please disregard this invitation”. 19 Global Compact Communication on Progress This progress report and the measures described within will also be made available in German, thus making it accessible to all our stakeholders. The report shall be posted on our Green Meetings website as of December 2016. Please see: http://www.rosengarten-mannheim.de/en/organiser/benefits/sustainability/ Furthermore, we continuously make reference to m:con’s membership in the UN Global Compact Network in order to foster more public awareness in our region for the UN Global Compact and its principles. Johann W. Wagner Chief Executive Officer m:con-mannheim:congress LLC Rosengartenplatz 2 68161 Mannheim, Germany 20
