UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2015 THINKING AHEAD – MOVING FORWARD 2 3 04 HELLMANN AT A GLANCE 2015 06 FOREWORD 08 STANDARD DISCLOSURE 10 OUR STRATEGY 11 VALUE-BASED MANAGEMENT 12 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 15 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS 17 CSR POLICY 18 HUMAN RIGHTS 20 HUMAN RIGHTS RESULTS OF STAKEHOLDER ANALYSIS 21 ENGAGEMENT 23 EMPLOYEE OPINION SURVEY 24 WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND WHAT WE WANT TO ACHIEVE 26 LABOR 29 LABOR RESULTS OF STAKEHOLDER ANALYSIS 29 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 30 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 32 WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND WHAT WE ARE GOING TO DO 34 ENVIRONMENT 36 ENVIRONMENTAL RESULTS OF STAKEHOLDER ANALYSIS 37 ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING 39 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 43 ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTS 46 WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND WHAT WE ARE GOING TO DO 48 BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION 50 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 51 COMPLIANCE 52 WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND WHAT WE ARE GOING TO DO CONTENT 54 APPENDIX 4 5 Hellmann at a Glance 2015 Products and Services & Industry Solutions 6 7 Jost Hellmann Klaus Hellmann Dr. Thomas Knecht Managing Partner Managing Partner Managing Director “The secret of change is to focus all your activities. As we advance our reporting and discloenergy, not on fighting the old but on buildsures, we continue to support and measure our ing the new.“  (Socrates) sustainability progress against the principles outlined in the UN Global Compact. 2015 was a year full of changes for our company. We not only restructured our top management at With this statement, we would like to thank all Hellmann Worldwide Logistics, we also built up a employees and stakeholders for their support completely new department by bringing different and engagement in the past years and for the sustainability departments together. many more years to come. Our newly formed Global QHSE (Quality, Health THINKING AHEAD – MOVING FORWARD & Safety, Environment) department consists out of CSR, environmental, energy, health and safety Forward-looking Statements as well as quality experts. Combining those and This Communication on Progress (CoP) report conadditionally focusing on health and safety on a tains forward-looking statements that are partly broader scale was one of the main impulses we based on estimations as well as information curreceived from our stakeholders when conducting rently available. These statements are in no way a our first global stakeholder analysis. guarantee of prospective corporate performance. They may be subject to risk and uncertainties, As you will experience in this Communication on which are beyond our control and therefore may Progress Report, we made significant progress in cause actual results and developments to differ advancing our sustainability priorities in 2015. One from the expectations expressed in this CoP. example is the development of a global minimum standard regarding sustainability. This new policy Report Profile was introduced at the beginning of 2016. This is the fourth CoP published regarding our commitment to the UN Global Compact to date. Overall, we are pleased – but not satisfied – with The data and information reported in this report our sustainability progress and the milestones cover the time period from January 1, 2015 until FOREWORD we’ve reached. We are continuously striving to December 31, 2015. improve our understanding of the interests and expectations of our diverse stakeholder groups, and to integrate these into our business and CSR STANDARD DISCLOSURE 10 11 OUR STRATEGY VALUE-BASED MANAGEMENT W e are committed to being the leading global logistics provider in terms of service excellence, quality, innovation and environmental care. D NA is the abbreviation for deoxyribonucleic acid, the “building block of life”, which carries hereditary codes and traits from parent to Family defines not only who we are, but also forms the basis of our Corporate DNA: F.A.M.I.L.Y. Our corporate genes and family values continue to child. Like individuals, every company has its own inspire the way everyone in our global network We recognize that people are the foundation of DNA in the form of a unique culture and way of thinks and acts from country to country and from our success. We make every effort to provide them doing business. generation to generation. They also continue to with a fulfilling and engaging working environdetermine the integrity and mutual trust with ment. We carry out our commitment to customers Our Corporate DNA defines who we are and what which we build both our business and our partby being responsive to their needs and providing makes us stand out. It also ensures our endurners‘ business. them with logistics solutions that create value and ing heritage through successive generations by support their success. enabling new team members from around the world to share our values. At Hellmann, we see THINKING AHEAD – MOVING FORWARD our Corporate DNA as being far more than mere words on paper. Ultimately, our corporate genes inspire the way we think. They determine the F.A.M.I.L.Y motives behind our actions and define what we F irst, people first should expect from one another. Most imporA ll about the customers, always M aking it work better, everyday tantly, they highlight the qualities which ensure I nnovation and entrepreneurship that we are, and will always be, different from L ive sustainability other logistics service providers. Y ou and Me! CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 14 15 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS I n 2014, we, at Hellmann, conducted our first global stakeholder analysis. This was a step we undertook in order to align our corporate goals of nine stakeholder groups took part in our survey and shared their opinion regarding 21 corporate social responsibility (CSR) topics with us. Due to and strategy with the expectations of our stakethe fact that this was our first stakeholder analysis, holder groups. The feedback and participation we we concentrated on broader sustainability topics received was impressive. Over 2,670 participants in order to identify our scope for improvement. “Through a regular materiality assessment, we do not only align strategies and performance management to emerging social and environmental constraints and opportunities but also systematically engage stakeholders and capture their view into what is most important for our company.”  Pia Stein (Project Specialist QHSE & CSR) 16 17 Results of the Stakeholder Analysis Since this topic also relates heavily to environWhen comparing our management´s expectations ment and quality, Hellmann formed a new global with the ones from our stakeholders’, five main topics department called QHSE (Quality, Health & Safety, were identified as most important: Environment). This department has the responsibil1. Corporate integrity & compliance 2. Data protection & security ity to set the foundation for a standardized working environment for all our employees worldwide. CSR POLICY 3. Elimination of child & forced labor This means: 4. Health & safety  Creating a QHSE framework from which global 5. Respectful treatment of employees and local QHSE procedures will be developed; Actions Until the end of 2015 not all identified topics were  Controlling of the overall external audit process; and  Monitoring of internal QHSE topics and interC SR is a broad topic and every company defines it differently, depending on their services and products. We, at Hellmann, align CSR with our In order to reach all employees, we prepared an extensive communication program, including specifically tailored trainings for our Managing fully anchored in our corporate culture and top national standards across the organization. commitment to the UN Global Compact and the Directors, toolbox talks (informal safety meetings management support wasn´t fully defined. One of four main topic areas: human rights, labor, envibefore a work shift starts), conference calls, etc. those is the focus point “Health & Safety”. We are planning to repeat the stakeholder analysis ronment and anti-corruption. Part of our new Our overall goal is to make this policy part of our on a regular basis in order to prioritize our resources Global QHSE Policy is the sub-policy called “Coremployees´ daily work life. Global Board Policy Sponsor in the context of this ever changing business enviporate Social Responsibility”. It summarizes all Corporate integrity & ronment and to adapt to the scope of this report. important areas to which we are committed to. compliance x x Due to the many interfaces to labor, human rights Data protection & security x x Trends and environment, it became part of this overall Elimination of child & One of the trends recognized from our stakeholdglobal minimum standard. forced labor x x ers´ behavior is the shift from environmental to Health & safety Missing x labor and compliance topics. This could be based Respectful treatment of employees x x on new country and regional legislations which are not only requiring non-financial data but also an Since the 1st of January 2016, our new Executive integration of corporate social responsibility from Board Member, Dr. Thomas Knecht, took over the global operating businesses. Therefore, also the role as a Board Sponsor for “Compliance” as well as demand from customers and suppliers increases for all QHSE related topics. regarding these issues. HUMAN RIGHTS 20 21 HUMAN RIGHTS RESULTS OF STAKEHOLDER ANALYSIS ENGAGEMENT C ompliance with human rights is a matter of course at Hellmann.The results of our stakeS ince the beginning, we at Hellmann, are actively participating in giving back to communities and the environment in which we live In several dilemma scenarios, the future teachers of the BBS Pottgraben and the University of Applied Sciences in Osnabrueck needed to evalholder survey regarding this topic were pretty clear. This topic is important, but not an issue in and operate in. Over the years, we were engaged uate those from different stakeholders´ point of our company. in many different projects supporting different views. This not only shows how difficult it is for social purposes. As part of our new Global QHSE businesses in a globalized world to find fitting But despite this fact, compliance with interna& CSR Policy, we encourage our Hellmann counsolutions to please all stakeholder needs, but also tional proclaimed human rights is of such importries to engage in at least one social cause they emphasize a continuous exchange between comtance for us that we exceed international labor are passionate about. panies and its key stakeholder. law standards. In our Business Code of Conduct we are committing to employ only those individCSR and global change are not only topics for uals with a minimum age of sixteen, despite the universities and colleges but it is also of high International Labor Organization’s (ILO) minimum importance for students of vocational schools age of fourteen. who are already working in companies of different industries. Students and future teachers are facing the advantages and issues of globalized companies every day. Therefore, we, at Hellmann, committed ourselves to give prospective teachers insights into this topic by incorporating CSR issues in the form of lectures and case studies into their syllabus. 22 23 EMPLOYEE OPINION SURVEY C onducted biannually, the Employee Opinion Survey (EOS) which transpired in 2015 was participated by a total of 6,187 of our employees worldwide. The results showed that, on an individual level, we continue to score highly at maintaining relationships across all areas of the company and that we are committed to moving Hellmann forward. “At Hellmann, putting people first is part of our corporate DNA, therefore, we strive to make employees feel heard through the As an organization however, we are slowly losEmployee Opinion Survey (EOS). The survey gives our employees ing touch with our Corporate DNA. Hence, it is around the world the opportunity to share their feedback and important that we continue to build on our core strength – long lasting relationships – to ensure we perspective on topics such as work environment, leadership, culfind new alignment on a company level. ture & values, career and performance, allowing us to identify our strengths and areas for improvement.” The EOS was followed by a comprehensive action plan approach per country as well as a follow-up survey. Together with our Global Learning and  Milena Beledelli (Global Learning and Development) Development Team, the countries are implementing defined corrective actions. 24 25 Activities in 2015 Progress Activities in the upcoming years WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND Principle 1 WHAT WE WANT TO ACHIEVE  Professionalizing our Corporate Volunteering Initiative (“Perspektivwechsel”) and making the initiative available in further countries  All countries in which Hellmann operates are encouraged to demonstrate their effort to improve the standards of life for their local com Integrating the “Perspektivwechsel” initiative munities through joint actions (e.g. environmental into the Hellmann Learning Experience (HLE) projects, volunteering program for employees,  Distributing the initiative to further countries support of local schools/ homeless shelters, etc.) (Global QHSE Policy).  Creating awareness of sustainability and corporate  Creating awareness of sustainability and corporate citizenship internally as well as externally citizenship internally as well as externally  Collaboration with schools and universities  Collaboration with schools and universities  Guest lectures  Guest lectures  Consulting external projects like Global Value Project and support regarding CSR matters Principle 2  Global Employee Opinion Survey (EOS)  Global Employee Opinion Survey (EOS)  Measuring progress of results by repeating the  Defining action plans per country EOS in all our branches worldwide  Holding follow-up meetings with 100% of Managing Directors and Country HR Managers  Defining action plans per country by Q4 in 2015  Global Employee Induction Survey  Requesting feedback from newly hired employees regarding their induction  Initiating follow-up workshops and action plans, which are created according to individual country results  Developing a new global compensation and benefits system to ensure equal treatment and payment until Q2 2017  Corporate Health and Safety Program  See chapter three “Labor”, page 27  Developing a concept for a global health and safety approach until August 2016  Implementing a global Health and Safety minimum standard by 90% until Q1 in 2017 LABOR 28 29 LABOR RESULTS OF STAKEHOLDER ANALYSIS D erived from our stakeholder analysis, our key stakeholders (employees and customers) determined “Health & Safety” as one of their top concerns regarding our company. This result perfectly aligns with our corporate strategy by pushing and further developing this topic on a global basis. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY W e, at Hellmann, care about the health and safety of our employees. It is crucial to us that we continually strive to improve our health Do you want to have a look at our new Global QHSE Policy? Scan this and safety procedures in order to provide our QR-Code to get to know employees and externals on site with a safe workmore. ing environment. In the previous year, we stated that we had started to develop a global health “We, the Global QHSE Team, are aiming to implement a worldwide and safety policy in order to ensure an internal minimum standard in all our branches worldwide. While we recognize that every country has its own minimum standard for Quality, Health & Safety, Environment & Energy national laws and regulations, we feel that it is as well as CSR. Our first steps will be analyzing the current state and Now, we are pleased to report that a Global Qualimportant to have a global minimum framework developing leaders, our so-called best-practice offices and warehouses, ity, Health, Safety and Environment (QHSE) policy that not only ensures the same standard across has been finalized and approved by our Executive the globe, but also provides a baseline which supwhich should train further branches in the future.” Board. Due to the fact that these topics overlap ports our branches. In addition, the policy will betstrongly with our CSR requirements, we also inteter facilitate the process of locating best practice  Tobias Jüchter (Global QHSE Team) grated a policy regarding this topic in the overall warehouses to share their knowledge and experione (see chapter 2). ence with other ones. Through an extensive communication program, Another goal is developing a concept for our we are planning to roll-out this policy in Q1 of global health and safety approach by August 2016. 2016. With this, we are planning to include all During Q4 of 2015, we created a new department key stakeholders as much as possible. Part of this called Global QHSE. This department consists of program will be for example, a Managing Director qualified Quality, Environment, Health & Safety training including their countrywide commitment as well as CSR Representatives who will promote regarding this new policy. these topics on a global basis. 30 31 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION T his years’ diversity topic is fostering women in all stages of their life. Becoming a mother is a transforming change for every woman. That being for an informative exchange within the Hellmann World in a homely atmosphere. This not only fosters the connection between the employees on said, we committed ourselves to support them. In leave but also facilitates the re-entry into the job. our headquarter, we implemented a comprehen3. In the reporting year 2015, our Diversity Repsive program for our female employees. resentative, Anja Staschinski, also implemented a “Parent-Child-Office”. In the case of day care when During pregnancy: the kindergarten or school is closed, the parents 1. When a pregnancy is disclosed, our employees have the possibility to bring their child to work. In will receive abundant tips regarding pregnancy the new “Parent-Child-Office”, our employees find “Hellmann is a family-friendly company putting importance to a that include parental leave, financial support, legal a well-stocked office with an integrated play corner balanced family and work life. In order to facilitate all facets of this requirements, necessary medical appointments, for the youngsters. This allows them to combine among others. work and family life, even in critical situations. lifestyle especially for young families, we, at Hellmann, offer different 2. In order to also prepare the affected department ways of support. Combining our diverse Hellmann Family with the one for the upcoming personnel change, managers Next to this initiative is our fostering of further diverat home is a self-evident fact for us.” receive a guideline and checklist. sity initiatives like the MobiPro campaign with which 3. A workshop offers the future families an addiwe are offering young truck drivers from Spain, who tional individual training, aiming on a well-balhave difficulties finding a job in their country, the  Anja Staschinski (Human Resources) anced life between work and family. possibility to work for Hellmann in Germany. After pregnancy: 1. Additional workshops support the new moms on returning to the job including job specific qualifications like computer-based trainings. These are subsidized by our company. 2. All parents on parental leave are invited to the annual “Breakfast for Parents”. In this event, our new F.A.M.I.L.Y members will have the chance to get to know each other and have the possibility 32 33 Activities in 2015 Progress Activities in the upcoming years WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND Principle 3 WHAT WE ARE GOING TO DO  Building a constant dialogue to trade unions in further countries/strengthening relationships  Evaluating laws and regulations for collaboration  Building a constant dialogue to trade unions in further countries/strengthening relationships with trade unions or work councils in all countries  Receiving a 90% training/acknowledgment level  Developing a global induction program for employof our Hellmann Business Code of Conduct ees incl. standard mandatory trainings by Q2 2017 among employees Principle 4  Promoting the Business Code of Conduct in  Including Business Code of Conduct in future Inducfurther countries tion Program for new employees  Making Business Code of Conduct part of internal QHSE audits Principle 5  Analyzing and setting standards for employment This project is curpolicies/standards regarding child labor of our rently on hold. external temporary labor agencies/partners 3rd party due diligence process Principle 6  Fostering the development of our Diversity Man Fostering the development of our Diversity Manageagement Program in Germany ment Program in Germany  Offering internships to people with disabilities and foreigners  Introducing our new Performance Management Program and competency model globally  70% of Hellmann employees will be evaluated based on the new Performance Management Program until the end of Q4 in 2016  Corporate Health and Safety Program  Corporate Health and Safety Program  Developing a concept for a global health and  Developing a concept for a global health and safety safety approach until August 2016 approach until August 2016  Implementing a global Health and Safety guideline by 90% until Q1 in 2017 ENVIRONMENT 36 37 ENVIRONMENTAL RESULTS OF STAKEHOLDER ANALYSIS ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING P roviding environmental data like carbon emissions or energy consumption is a very importI n 2014, the Quality and Environmental Management Team developed an eLearning for environmental management in Germany in order to of CO2 emissions and climate change are also covered in the training as well as emergency preparedness and handling of dangerous goods. ant topic for our customers and our company as well. In order to create more transparency in their create more awareness regarding environmental value chains, our customers demand environmenrequirements and related risks. Training is also a In 2015, the existing training was translated into tal data from us. This was also one of the main main aspect of our ISO 14001 certification and English and was made into an international trainfacts which was pointed out by our stakeholders. the eLearning helps us to be compliant with the ing which was scheduled for Q1 in 2016. To prerequirements of this standard. In the first step, this vent technical challenges during a global roll-out, Basing from the results of our stakeholder analtraining was rolled out for trainees as a test group. Hellmann chose a country by country implemenysis, our employees are more interested in operEventually, all German employees took part in it. tation starting in the Netherlands. This will enable ational support regarding environmental topics. Up to now more than 800 people have successfully the organization to continuously improve the They wish to receive more information and be completed the training. With the help of the HelleLearning over time and to incorporate the feedinvolved in waste management and in using mann Learning Experience (HLE), the QHSE departback from our colleagues worldwide. energy more efficiently. To satisfy the requirement can manage the trainings and follow up on ments of our employees and to create more the current performance of the organization. In conjunction with trainings for health and safety awareness, the Global QHSE Team developed as well as the Business Code of Conduct trainings, trainings regarding environmental management The eLearning includes information about the enviour employees will have all necessary information and environmentally friendly behavior. ronmental impact and aspects of Hellmann and regarding environmental aspects to be compliant what the employees can to do in order to support with requirements coming from legal, internathe environmental management and to reduce the tional standards and from customers. influence on the environment. The harmful effects 38 39 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Carbon Footprint Region Europe ment system in Europe in order to further reduce As mentioned before, our customers demand more our consumption of energy resources and carbon transparency of our environmental performance to emissions. An overall reduction of 10% CO2 consatisfy their stakeholders along their value chain. sumption compared to the previous year is a great Our road freight operations have the most signifisuccess, especially in a rapidly changing industry cant influence on direct emissions. Our own trucks like logistics. are responsible for 2/3 of our European carbon footprint. An example of our continuous efforts Carbon Footprint Region OMEA on improving efficiency and lowering our overall After publishing a carbon footprint for Asia and “By using eLearnings as one of our communication channels, we have emissions are driver trainings with a dedicated eco Europe in the last years report, Hellmann is proud trainer or renewal of trucks. This is supported by to include a third region in the report. For the first the possibility to reach a large number of employees at the same time. initiatives on lowering the fuel consumption of our time, our region OMEA (Oceania, Middle East, It is no longer necessary to schedule meetings, rooms and resources car pool and by replacing old diesel-powered forkAfrica) was able to prove good data quality and for classroom trainings. Integrated quizzes at the end of each eLearnlifts with electric ones. will, from now on, be incorporated into our global carbon footprint. Similar to Europe, our footprint ing ensure that the employees understand the training content. Some Emission Europe 2014 Europe 2015 is driven by road freight service with own trucks trainings also offer discussion forums for the users to enable feedback Gasoline 381,273 309,636 which are mainly used in South Africa. and information exchange. With our integrated online platform, it is Diesel 20,210,305 17,734,334 Gas 2,872,704* 2,945,181 Emission OMEA 2014 OMEA 2015 also possible to follow up the participation of trainings and to be comElectricity 8,192,397 7,673,448 Gasoline – 199,014 pliant with legal requirements. Of course, developing an eLearning Total CO 2e 31,656680 28,662,599 Diesel – 4,886,701 means an excessive workload, but counting in all benefits, it’s a low *Conversion factor changed compared to 2014 Gas – 37,178 Electricity – 1,474,581 price to pay.” Total CO 2e – 6,597,474 The consumption of natural gas showed a slight increase which is mostly depending on weather  Markus Meyer (People Development Specialist, Academy) conditions. Replacing a heating installation in one Although the region OMEA has less offices and of our biggest warehouses (see COP 2014) saved employees than other Hellmann regions, it shows more than 25% of gas compared to the old one. a comparable amount of total emissions from elecIn 2016, we are establishing an energy managetricity. The reason for that are multiple warehouses 40 41 with cooling facilities. One of them is placed in In order to create more transparency and com“Our refrigeration plant Dubai where a high amount of energy is necessary parability for our customers and stakeholders, all utilizes ammonia which has for lowering the temperature. Another temperaour emission calculations are based on the “DSLV tur controlled warehouse is located in Auckland, guideline for transport emissions” which is equal a very low carbon footprint New Zealand. This facility was built in 2015 and is to the ISO 16258 as a global standard for calculatand by installing a large a best-practice example of implementing sustaining transport emissions. The most important conair-cooled condenser, this able aspects into a modern logistics building. version factors can be found below: plant requires no water or Carbon Footprint Region Asia Conversion factors kWh CO2e other chemicals. We have Almost every emission group in Asia shows an Emission Europe Americas OMEA Asia also invested in high-end increase, which is based upon the fact that HellGasoline 2.88 2.88 2.88 2.88 mann is still entering new countries that have now Diesel 3.24 3.24 3.24 3.24 electric forklifts, variable been added to the global emission report.The Gas 0.242 0.242 0.242 0.242 speed drives, EC fans main driver in this region is electricity. It is primarily Electricity 0.424* 0.497 0.692 0.928 (=electronically commuused for office devices, air conditioning and our IT service center in Hong Kong. Source: DSLV Guideline for transport emissions, 2013 tated), LED lighting and *DE 0.583/EU daylight harvesting to miniEmission Asia 2014 Asia 2015 Gasoline 601,771 591,039 mize power usage.” Diesel 276,712 489,338 Gas 101,206 188,299  Chris McCagney (Managing Director, Electricity 2,913,556 3,284,114 New Zealand) Total CO 2e 3,893,246 4,552,790 42 43 ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTS “We are facing a global economic situation in which fuel prices E-Mobility the end of 2015, the EV saved more than 1.5 tons dropped to an unforeseen level. This reduced the motivation of individWhen you think of ways to reduce carbon emisof CO2 compared to a diesel-powered vehicle. sions in personal transportation, you cannot avoid uals to invest resources into renewable technologies. Nevertheless, we, thinking of electric vehicles (EV). We, at Hellmann, Clever connectability and decent planning enable at Hellmann participate in current research projects for LNG and electric thought of this carefully and found different ways us to do medium to long haul trips with stops at trucks to identify the best technology for reducing our company´s carto include EVs into our fleet. the growing network of electric charging stations. When a longer trip is planned, a car-swap with bon footprint.” Plug-in hybrids help us reduce emissions on short other colleagues works well since everyone is looktrips and daily commutes while ensuring full flexiing forward to driving the EV in exchange. That is  Matthias Magnor (Chief Executive Officer, CEO Germany) bility in terms of range and comfort. After analyzthe spirit of mobility in the 21st century which we ing our driving profiles, we can identify vehicles are aiming to foster in the upcoming years. that can be replaced by a plug-in car and we will move forward in modernizing our fleet accordingly. But we also took the concept one step further by replacing a conventional car from the Environmental Management Team with a fully electric vehicle. Only a replacement will ensure that there is no “rebound effect” when investing into new technologies. By 44 45 “For me, as a new “plug in driver”, I experienced that an electric car drives “I spend 1 1.5h driving to and from work every day. Since I drive like a normal petrol car. The funny thing is that driving a hybrid car automatan electric car (Ford Fusion), my commuting expense has dropped ically triggers you to drive on the ‘electric mode‘ as much as possible and to $0 because I get to charge my car for free at work and in the try to extend the range by driving anticipatorily and economically. I surprised apartment I live in. Also, the driving experience is so much more myself that I don’t use the accelerator pedal unlike before.” pleasant because the car is so quiet.”  Niels Grommel (Controlling)  Jil Hellmann Regouby (Global Human Resources Management) Energy Management Implementation tem (EnMS). This will not be limited to the size of This type of data has been included into the regular With an Environmental Management System in the site or the infrastructure, giving us the opporfinancial reporting and controlling in order to keep place since 1996, we have always cared about tunity to also create future emission reports with it as lean as possible. minimizing the energy consumption of our services a maximum of data accuracy. Our EnMS will take and activities. However, the implemented measures the following factors into account: The EnMS will enable us to benchmark our offices were limited to our road freight and contract logis Fuel for vehicles and warehouses which will give us the possibility tics operations mostly located in Germany.  Oil / Natural gas for heating and forklifts to identify investment opportunities to improve  Electricity energy efficiency. With the EU Energy Efficiency Directive in place, we will now include all European business units into a comprehensive Energy Management Sys46 47 Activities in 2015 Progress Activities in the upcoming years WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND Principle 7 WHAT WE ARE GOING TO DO  Achieving and maintaining a training level of 90% of employees worldwide on our Hellmann Business Code of Conduct  Achieving and maintaining a training level of 90% of employees worldwide on our Hellmann Business Code of Conduct  Auditing each of our 33 ISO 14001 certified  Implementing a new risk-based internal audit branches in 2015 scheme to reduce the needed annual ISO 14001 audits to 19 in 2016.  Completing more than 1000 environmental train Increasing the number of audit participants for the ings in Germany national training to 1000 participants  Finishing and launching an international environ Launching the global environmental e-Learning in mental training at least five European countries by Q4 in 2016  Creating emission report based on Scope 1 + 2 for  Adding at least one further region to the compatwo additional regions by Q1 in 2016 ny’s emission report Principle 8  Certifying 33 branches according to ISO 14001  Certifying 36 branches according to ISO 14001  Including Bor (Czech Republic) and Anroechte  Including Emstek (Germany) Nuernberg (Germany) (Germany) in the certification process by Q4 in and Kleinaitingen (Germany) in the certification 2015 process by Q4 in 2016 Principle 9  Fostering the process of the first LNG truck filling Project has been station in Germany stopped.  Acquiring 5 LNG trucks in the upcoming years  Transporting approx. 300 400 swap bodies with  Transporting approx. 300 400 swap bodies with Hellmann Rail Solutions on a daily basis Hellmann Rail Solutions on a daily basis  Increasing the number of E-Bookings by 5% to  Increasing the number of E-Bookings penetration ensure further development and to save paper of 70% within the next two years (58% per cent resources by the end of 2015)  Increasing the number of containers with Hell Increasing the number of containers with Hellmann Rail Solutions International to China by 7% mann Rail Solutions International to China by 7%  Conducting emissions report analysis compared to  Conducting emissions report analysis compared to air and sea freight air and sea freight  Fostering further roll-out of new lighting systems  Implementing LED lightings in all new contract with LED-technology in 2015 if applicable logistics branches  Purchasing the first full electric company car  Replacing a further conventional vehicle by an EV BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION 50 51 Air/Seafreight Managing Partner Executive Team CEO Jost Hellmann Jochen Freese Hamburg Hamburg CDO CPO Jürgen Burger Frank Liebelt Executive Directors Osnabrueck Hamburg Road Managing Partner CEO Klaus Hellmann Jürgen Burger Osnabrueck Osnabrueck CFO CCO Carsten Fuhlendorf Jochen Freese Osnabrueck Hamburg Contract Logistics Managing Director CEO Dr. Thomas Knecht Felix Scherberich Osnabrueck Duesseldorf CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE A s with all companies that focus on integrity and ethics, corporate governance plays an integral role in managing and driving the Hell Jürgen Burger, Chief Digital Officer (CDO), Global Processes, Architecture & Organization and Information Systems W e, at Hellmann, are committed to operate responsibly and according to ethical business practices. This is not only our commitment We will continue to take all reports raised on the EthicsPortal seriously and confidentially. In order to increase the awareness of our employees and mann culture. All essential functions within our  Jochen Freese, Chief Commercial Officer (CCO), but also anchored in our policies and procedures. stakeholders, we will further promote the platcompany are represented throughout our various Industry Solutions, Global Sales and Global We continuously strive to improve our global comform through diverse channels globally. boards: Finance, Controlling, Operations, IT, Sales, Marketing pliance program, the awareness of our employees, Products and Services, Human Resources, as well  Carsten Fuhlendorf, Chief Financial Officer as well as the channels we use to respond. as our Co-Chief Executive Officers. (CFO), Global Finance & Controlling, Global Business Services and Indirect Procurement One of them is our Whistleblower Program called In the past year, our company decided to restrucOrganization the EthicsPortal. Vie this website, internal as well ture our Executive Board in order to align it to our  Frank Liebelt, Chief People Officer (CPO), as external stakeholders are able to report posnew lean structure. Our Executive Board is comGlobal HR as well as People Development & sible violations against policies and regulations. posed of three Executive Directors: our owners Training All reports have been duly evaluated by the Chief Jost and Klaus Hellmann as well as our new CSO, Compliance Officer and detailed investigations Dr. Thomas Knecht, who is responsible for StratThe three Product Managers, Jochen Freese for have been started where necessary. Due to the egy, Corporate Development ad Legal & CompliAir/Seafreight, Jürgen Bürger for Road, and Felix evaluation and investigations conducted, all ance. The Executive Team consists out of the four Scherberich for Contract Logistics, report to the reports filed in 2015 were closed by the beginoverachieving departments: Executive Team. ning of 2016. 52 53 Activities in 2015 Progress Activities in the upcoming years WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND Principle 10 WHAT WE ARE GOING TO DO  Achieving and maintaining a training level of 90% of employees worldwide in our Business Code of Conduct  Achieving and maintaining a training level of 90% of employees worldwide in our Business Code of Conduct  Conducting Compliance Risk Assessments on a  Conducting Compliance Risk Assessments on a regular (at least) bi-annual basis regular (at least) bi-annual basis  Analyzing reported violations and actions taken of  Analyzing reported violations and actions taken of our policies to Hellmann EthicsPortal our policies to Hellmann EthicsPortal  Achieving and maintaining a training level of  Achieving and maintaining a training level of 90% of employees worldwide in our Hospitality & 90% of employees worldwide in our Hospitality & Entertainment Guideline Entertainment Guideline  Implementing global Third-Party-Due-Diligence ongoing  Implementing global Third-Party-Due-Diligence process by Q4 in 2017 process by Q4 in 2017 54 55 APPENDIX Stated in Hellmanns UNGC Principles Our Commitment Policies and Regulations P1: Businesses should support and Hellmann firmly believes in adopting  Global QHSE Policy respect the protection of internationally and embracing respect for human rights  Business Code of Conduct proclaimed human rights. (as articulated in the United Nations (p.13) Human Universal Declaration of Human Rights)  Corporate DNA Rights all around the world and, therefore, comP2: Business should make sure that pliance with the UNGC principles and the they are not complicit in human rights Business Code of Conduct is mandatory abuses. for every employee and office. P3: Businesses should uphold the It is our company’s policy to act with  Global QHSE Policy freedom of association and the effective integrity and fairness and treat all  Diversity Charta recognition of the right to collective employees and persons with dignity,  Business Code of Conduct bargaining. decency and respect by providing a (p. 6, 13, 23) healthy, safe and secure work environ Employee Handbook P4: Business should uphold the eliminament.  Corporate DNA tion of all forms of forced and compulLabor sory labor. P5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. P6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. P7: Businesses should support a preFor a globally active company such as  Global QHSE Policy cautionary approach to environmental Hellmann Worldwide Logistics, the devel Corporate DNA challenges. opment of economic interests is inherently  Business Code of Conduct connected to our responsibility for the (p. 7, 15) P8: Businesses should undertake initiaenvironment, and the idea of sustainable  Environment Protection Environment tives to promote greater environmental development has long been our focus. Policy responsibility. At Hellmann, we are committed to working within a structured system of environP9: Businesses should encourage the mental management using task-oriented development and diffusion of environmethods, continuous self-monitoring and mentally friendly technologies. regular external auditing. P10: Businesses should work against One key element of our success is our ded Global QHSE Policy Contact Point corruption in all its forms, including ication and commitment to integrity and  Global Anti-Corruption We value your feedback! extortion and bribery. ethics which serve as our foundation when and Antitrust Compliance As a valued stakeholder, we welcome your feedback, interacting with customers and vendors. Manual concerns and suggestions regarding the content of this Our compliance policies and commitments  Business Code of Conduct report as well as our commitment to the United Nations are the embodiment of the highest level (p. 16-22) AntiGlobal Compact. of ethics practiced every day and serve as  Hellmann´s Commitment Corruption a constant reminder to all our employees to Compliance on the importance of maintaining our  Annual Compliance AcknowPlease provide us with your feedback by writing to our standards for ethics and excellence. ­ledg­ment and Certification Hellmann QHSE Department qhse@hellmann.com.  Hospitality and Entertainment Guideline  Supplier Code of Conduct WWW.HELLMANN.COM
