COP Head Office : 42 Ali Basha Zo Elfokkar St, Kafr Abdo,Alex , Egypt –Tel : (+203) 5456918 – Fax : (+203) 5447007 Mob : (+2) 01110074953 Borg El Arab Branch : Strict no 10 , block 18, east 2nd industrial area – Mob : (+2)01118211717 Cairo Branch : 26 Adan st, from Shehab st, Mohandseen –Giza –Egypt – Mob : (+2) 01142700004 web site : www.island-gr.com Email: agencies@island-gr.com CEO statement of continued support Date: 22/9/2016 Dear Sir\Madam, I am pleased to confirm that Island Agencies reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Eng. Wael Shaker Chairman & general manager We follow the global compact performance model to main streaming the 10's principles into our activities, actions and operations. The model consists of: strategy, policies, processes/procedures, communication, and training, measuring the impact and finally reporting. Several techniques and policies related to human rights, labor, and environment fields to prevent any encroachment to those rights. Beginning from our chairman & general manager support human rights issues which ensure that those issues receive the required attention. The senior manager assigns its functions in the company to HR Manger & assistants. Head company accountant. Strategy Island Agencies scope is to supply various types of services either industrial or domestic such as – but limit tosupplying services and facility management services. Our mission is to innovative services to our customers. We have responsibilities towards our customers, employees and workers, and our community. We obligate to not authorize, tolerate, assist, allow or encourage directly or in directly in human rights violation even if we don't positively cause it. Our philosophy is to be one of the business initiatives on human rights by implementing unique, creative strategies across a range all business sectors, issues and geographical location. Supplying manpower to industrial organization especially to those working in petroleum, cement and chemicals materials requires us to develop a strategy through a circle of continuous improvement. We establish a control system for managing & merging 10 principles in our business, policies and objectives such as: Avoid Corruption:  We have several rules to prevent corruption by determining each employee rule and apply a disciplinary provisions system. If an employee was proven corrupted, some procedure taken starting from discount from his salary then alarm dismissal and finally expulsion. Provide Security:  We implement several accident correction actions, safety rules, industrial procedures, risk analysis and other rules may be areas on to keep workers save and protect the human soul from serious situations.  We follow HSE and provide professional industrial expertise in each working site. The expertise's mission is to monitor the workspace and  We declare that all the workers are subject to legal valid insurance.  We are responsible for providing medical care and necessary social services. fighting Discrimination:  Everyone has fair opportunities to prove his self and apply for a job and we fairly choose according to a skill card which measures skills and abilities.  We encourage the women work through Appling provisions governing the employment of women workers and males alike, without discrimination  The employment of women in the period between seven o'clock at night and seven in the morning  Prevent women from positions that cause harm to health or ethical  Working women the right to take 90 days paid vacation at the position in addition to wage compensated an amount equal to the overall wage  Managers are prohibited from working during the vacation season situation  Provide 5% of jobs to disabilities. Protect Privacy:  Our clients information cannot be shared without a handwrite permission from to authorizes it. Ensure the provision of a decent life for our employees:  We offer job implementing not less than international minimum salary.  Duplicate the wage in case of working during holidays. Identifying target group to receive human rights training Notify accepted The candidate Apply employee Line manager employee with Signing the Advertising Receiving C.Vs Screening C.Vs Pre Interview become an test Interview the hiring process contract employee Notify the Low Performance employee with Contract performance Appraisal the termination termination Appraisal level decision Employees Training During 2015 Human resources Development Course:  Courses include: Senior HR Hr specialist Social insurance Diploma Human development & communication skills course  Number of employees = 3 Marketing course: Firing Process  Courses include: Electronic marketing Number of employees = 2 Accounting courses: Accounting manager Number of employees = 2 Iso training and interior revision Number of employees = 5 Opportunities:  Having fair working rules, creating opportunities for positive public relationships between employees and subordinating Security We believe that everyone has the right to work to just and favorable conditions of work according to his/her skills, abilities and preferences. But our rule is to provide job opportunities under fair and equal requirements to employee. Training TOB (train of beginners), respecting human intelligence makes us believe that everyone can do more than he knows. Our TOB program enhances the beginner employee experiences with technical and professional knowledge. TOB is not a mixture of the employee duties but also it contains our company vision towards humanity. Community Encouraging employees to freely share ideas and thoughts with each other. The suggested and shared ideas are subject to artistic or literary protection. WE guarantee -meetings hold every 15 days. Every time we meet, we emphasize two rules: 1Be opened mind and respect all ideas. 2Commit to evaluate the ideas objectively. 3Include our responsibilities to the community development into our profile and website content. Environmental protection  As long as we use Computers, fax machines and photo copiers much number of papers are being created some are being filed and kept and the rest are being thrown away but in order to protect the environment Island has created a plan to recycle these papers to be used in other industries .We Sort the paper by keeping white separate from colored, and ensuring it is free of contaminants such as rubber bands and plastic wrappers, makes it more valuable. Provide recycling bins and get someone to collect it but we usually give them to Resala and they use them to help in the charity work Certificates : Island obtained the ISO certificate 9001:2008 in February 2015 Certificate of joining the un global compact 30/9/2010
