Communication on Progress 2016 Serac -­‐ COP – September 2016 1 Serac -­‐ COP – September 2016 2 General Introduction & CEO’s Statement Human Rights • Description • Implementation • Measurement Labor Practices • Description • Implementation • Measurement Environmental Principles • Description • Implementation • Measurement Anti-Corruption Principles • Description • Implementation • Measurement Serac -­‐ COP – September 2016 3 General Introduction & President’s Statement Serac’s con:nued support towards the Global Compact ini:a:ve It is with great pleasure that I wish to renew for the second :me our support towards the Global Compact ini:a:ve, by addressing our 2016 Communica:on On Progress to the United Na:ons. This year has been for the Serac Group a year of audacity and achievement: with 3 new buildings in 3 diﬀerent countries, we have basically doubled our factories sizes as well as our industrial capaci:es. By inves:ng in these structures, we are addressing a strong message to our stakeholders: we foresee our business on the long term, and the future is bright. This sustainable development is what makes us able to achieve the 10 Principles in a very serene way: our way of doing business is based on the trust our customers allow us, as well as on our staﬀ’s and by extension, all of our stakeholders. From a CSR standpoint, 2016 has been a construc:ve year as well: Guy Dumargue improvement of our CDP score, Silver Medal from our EcoVadis audit, numerous ac:ons and ini:a:ves Serac Group President that make us all proud and that I invite you to discover here or in our Annual CSR Report. It is again my pleasure to provide this year the informa:on on our contribu:ons to all the commitments of the Global Compact and the ac:ons implemented. I take this opportunity to reiterate the support of Serac Group to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and the ﬁght against corrup:on. With my best regards, Serac -­‐ COP – September 2016 4 Human Rights Extract from our Ethical Descrip(on Code regarding Human Rights: With our interna:onal deployment (our factories are located in France, Malaysia, Brazil and the USA), Serac is directly concerned about the deﬁni:on of Human Rights, “By adhering to the United since it covers several legal frames. Our main objec:ve is to inﬂuence all of our Na1ons Global Compact, Serac is stakeholders to respect the Universal Declara:on of Human Rights and environmental commi<ed to respect and promote protec:on. Our Ethical Code complies with the principles in The Universal Declara:on fundamental rights from the of Human Rights of 1948; the Principles from the Interna:onal Labour Organiza:on; Universal Declara1on of Human the Guiding Principles of the Organisa:on for Economic Co-­‐opera:on and Rights, the dignity and value of a Development (OECD) intended to interna:onal companies; the Principles of the human being. United Na:ons Global Compact, and any legisla:ve frame speciﬁc to countries in Serac is also commi<ed to respect which the group operates. legisla1ons which come from local Labour Codes where the group Implementa(on operates, as well as those from the Interna1onal Labour Based on our commitment towards Human Rights, we have set up an Ethical Code, Organiza1on (freedom of which has been handed out to all employees, to make our posi:on clear for all our associa1on and the eﬀec1ve stakeholders. We have published and ac:vely informed all our suppliers, partners and recogni1on of the right to employees of our commitment and encouraged them to commit as well. An internal collec1ve bargaining, eﬀec1ve system is in place where the employees are trained in regards to our commitment. aboli1on of child labour, elimina1on of all forms of forced or compulsory labour).” Serac -­‐ COP – September 2016 5 Principle 1: Human Rights Businesses Measurement should support and respect the • We launched a whistleblower system in order to allow all of our employees, clients protection of and partners to report back if they suspect any wrongful doing in regards to our CSR internationally guidelines and Ethical Code. No reports have been ﬁled since the system has been proclaimed human implemented. rights; • In May 2015, the independent organism EcoVadis audited Serac Group; EcoVadis Compliant! combines technology and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) exper:se to deliver simple and reliable supplier scorecards, covering 150 purchasing categories and 21 CSR criteria. The EcoVadis methodology framework assesses the policies and Principle 2: measures put in place as well as the repor:ng published by companies with regards to environmental, labor prac:ces & human rights, fair business prac:ces and sustainable Make sure that procurement issues. they are not complicit in The labor theme takes into account both Labor Prac(ce issues (e.g. health and safety, Human Rights working condi:ons, etc.) and Human Rights issues (e.g. discrimina:on, child labor, abuses Assessment, etc.). Policy and Goals. Below is our detailed Labor Prac:ces and Human Rights score from EcoVadis: Compliant! Average scoring Principle 3: Serac score Businesses Labor Prac(ces and Human Rights: should uphold the freedom of Serac is in the TOP 14 % of suppliers association and the effective assessed by EcoVadis in the category recognition of the Manufacture of general-­‐purpose right to collective bargaining; machinery. Serac -­‐ COP – September 2016 6 Compliant! Labor Practices Extract from our Ethical Descrip(on Code regarding Labour Serac complies to legisla:ons and regula:ons related to child labour and other forced Prac:ses: or compulsory labour. In compliance with interna:onal standards, Serac commits to “Serac ensures its associates’ systema:cally compensate or remunerate its associates through the following means rights. By adhering to the United (non-­‐exhaus:ve list): salaries, paid leave and over:me. Serac is also commihed that Na1ons Global Compact, Serac these compensa:ons be at least equal if not above the minimum required by the law commits to create an ini1a1ve to in the country in which Serac is established. promote diversity, in conformance with the Millennium Development Implementa(on Goals. Same implementa:on than for Human Rights (please refer to our Ethical Code). Serac Serac also commits to ﬁght prohibits all illicit conduct cons:tuted of sexual or moral harassment, including in the against all forms of discrimina1on, absence of hierarchy or subordina:on. Serac commits to guarantee its employees an regardless its nature, whether adapted working environment in adequacy with its health and security awareness linked to sex, ethnic origin, policy. Moreover, Serac thoroughly makes sure that each associate is in legal age to na1onality, religion, health, work as well as legal in the scope of their work and projects (visas, work permits, etc.). handicap, marital status, sexual orienta1on, poli1cal opinion or philosophical opinion of its associates, whether during the hiring process or in working rela1onships.” Serac -­‐ COP – September 2016 7 Labor Practices Measurement •We launched a whistleblower system in order to allow all of our employees, clients and partners to report back if they suspect any wrongful doing in regards to our CSR guidelines and Ethical Code. No reports have been ﬁled since the system has been implemented. Principle 4: •In May 2015, the independent organism EcoVadis audited Serac Group; EcoVadis combines technology and The elimination of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) exper:se to deliver simple and reliable supplier scorecards, covering 150 all forms of forced and compulsory purchasing categories and 21 CSR criteria. The EcoVadis methodology framework assesses the policies and labour; measures put in place as well as the repor:ng published by companies with regards to environmental, labor prac:ces & human rights, fair business prac:ces and sustainable procurement issues. Compliant! The labor theme takes into account both Labor Prac(ce issues (e.g. health and safety, working condi:ons, etc.) and Human Rights issues (e.g. discrimina:on, child labor, etc.). Principle 5: Below is our detailed Labor Prac:ces and Human Rights score from EcoVadis: The effective abolition of child labour; Average scoring Compliant! Serac score Principle 6: Labor Prac(ces and Human Rights: The elimination of discrimination in Serac is in the TOP 14 % of suppliers respect of assessed by EcoVadis in the category employment and occupation Manufacture of general-­‐purpose Assessment, Policy and Goals. machinery. Compliant! Serac -­‐ COP – September 2016 8 Environmental Principles Descrip(on Extract from our Ethical Code regarding Serac is aware of environmental impacts linked to its ac:vi:es and therefore encourages all its stakeholders to prefer policies which respect the environment. In Environmental Principles: this context, Serac commits to respect the Principles established by the Rio “Serac commits to decrease Conven:on. nuisances linked to the manufacturing (exhaus1on of non-­‐ Implementa(on renewable resources), use (energy consump1on) and end of life Serac’s environmental objec:ves are numerous: local and interna:onal legisla:on (pollu1on) of its IT equipment. conformity, con:nuous improvement of exis:ng systems, communica:on on progress to organisa:ons such as the United Na:ons, sejng-­‐up extra-­‐ﬁnancial indicators, environmental issues awareness towards associates, analysis of CO2 rejec:on and Serac also commits to take the energy consump:on… To materialise these objec:ves, Serac commits to mul:plying ini1a1ve to analyse the energy these ini:a:ves: waste repurposing, energy saving programs, responsible resource eﬃciency of its machines: management, less travelling… electrical consump1on, water consump1on, pollu1ng products…” Serac -­‐ COP – September 2016 9 Environmental Principles Measurement Principle 7: Businesses During the ﬁrst year of our adherence to the Global Compact ini:a:ve, we launched mul:ple repor:ng tools should support a inspired from the Global Repor:ng Ini:a:ve (GRI). During second year, we analysed our ﬁrst ﬁgures and the precaution any results are here: we’ve been improving our Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) score, as well as our score in approach to EcoVadis’ evalua:on. These two independent and recognized audi:ng companies reward our eﬀorts so far. environmental challenges The environment theme takes into account both opera(onal factors (e.g. energy consump:on, waste management, etc.) and product stewardship (e.g. product end of life, customer health and safety issues). Compliant! Below is our detailed Environmental score from EcoVadis: Principle 8: Undertake Average scoring initiatives to Serac score promote greater environmental Environment: Serac is in the responsibility; TOP 20% of suppliers assessed Compliant! by EcoVadis in the category Manufacture of general-­‐purpose machinery. Serac -­‐ COP – September 2016 10 Environmental Principles Measurement The 2015 results from the Carbon Disclosure Project are materializing our eﬀorts in environmental repor:ng: Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals. Compliant! This year for the ﬁrst :me, Serac Group ranked at the same level as the average calculated by the CDP in its category of ac:vi:es (general purpose machinery). We recorded an improvement of nearly 100% over the past two years and our disclosure score is composed of the categories below: Serac -­‐ COP – September 2016 11 Extract from our Ethical Code regarding An:-­‐ Anti-Corruption Principles Corrup:on Principles: Descrip(on “Serac’s associates will act Serac is convinced that trust is the base of a healthy economy and society – according to the OECD Conven1on corrup(on destroys that trust. Through the risks and diﬀerence it causes, corrup:on from 17 December 1997 on the slows economics growth and social progress: the sums which are embezzled are omen ﬁght against corrup1on. On a at the cost of collec:ve interest, increasing poverty, and environmental and health general note, Serac encourages all concerns. Corrup:on prac:ces, pursuits and scandals which are triggered are serious its associates to contribute to concerns to the reputa:on of companies and those of implicated individuals. these eﬀorts of transparency in business while having constant Implementa(on vigilance, lucidity and ethics. Opera1ons and transac1ons which Serac is hence commihed to respect the Principles of the United Na:ons Conven:on are performed by Serac Group are against corrup:on: through this, Serac refuses to give, receive or supply, directly or saved accurately in the accounts indirectly, any form of beneﬁt (whether it be monetary or in nature) to a State of each subsidiary, in compliance representa(ve or on his/her behalf, to a poli(cal party or on their behalf, to an with the eﬀec1ve norms and employee or a client’s public or private agent or on their behalf, to a loan organiza:on regula1ons. No parallel un-­‐saved or a bank or on their behalf, in the sole objec:ve to obtain or maintain a commercial ac1vity, or other secret account transac:on or even receive any ease or favour implying the transgression of a will be tolerated within Serac regula:on. Group.” Serac commits to communicate fully and accurately on such informa:on to concerned par:es when necessary. Serac -­‐ COP – September 2016 12 Anti-Corruption Principles Measurement •We launched a whistleblower system in order to allow all of our employees, clients and partners to report back if they suspect any wrongful doing in regards to our CSR guidelines and Ethical Code. No reports have been ﬁled since the system has been implemented. Serac has also never faced any legal charges regarding any bribery, corrup:on or an:-­‐trust cases. •In May 2015, the independent organism EcoVadis audited Serac Group; EcoVadis combines technology and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) exper:se to deliver simple and reliable supplier scorecards, covering 150 purchasing categories and 21 CSR criteria. The EcoVadis methodology framework assesses the policies and measures put in place as well as the repor:ng published by companies with regards to environmental, Principle 10: labor prac:ces & human rights, fair business prac:ces and sustainable procurement issues. Businesses should work The fair business prac:ce theme focuses primarily on corrup(on and bribery issues, but also takes into against corruption account an:-­‐compe::on and responsible marke:ng depending on the industry of opera:on. in all its forms, including extortion Below is our detailed Fair Business Prac:ces score from EcoVadis: and bribery. Compliant! Average scoring Serac score Fair Business Prac(ces: Serac is in the TOP 11% of suppliers assessed by EcoVadis in the category Manufacture of general-­‐purpose machinery. Serac -­‐ COP – September 2016 13 Serac -­‐ COP – September 2016 14 For any enquiries, do feel free to contact Serac’s CSR manager, Thibaut FIATTE: thfiatte@serac.fr Serac -­‐ COP – September 2016 15 Serac -­‐ COP – September 2016 16
