United Nations Global Compact 2015 Communication on Progress ME Bank United Nations Global Compact 2015 Communication on Progress 1 General Information 3 2 Human Rights Principles 4 2.1 Assessment, policy and goals 4 2.2 Implementation 4 2.3 Measurement of outcomes 4 3 Labour Principles 5 3.1 Assessment, policy and goals 5 3.2 Implementation 5 3.3 Measurement of outcomes 6 4 Environmental Principles 8 4.1 Assessment, policy and goals 8 4.2 Implementation 8 4.3 Measurement of outcomes 9 5 Anti-Corruption Principles 10 5.1 Assessment, policy and goals 10 5.2 Implementation 10 5.3 Measurement of outcomes 11 PAGE 2 OF 11 1 General Information 12 February 2016 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that ME reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In our 2015 Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Jamie McPhee Chief Executive Officer PAGE 3 OF 11 2 Human Rights Principles 2.1 Assessment, policy and goals ME is committed to upholding the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and all other international standards relating to the protection of these rights. In addition to the measures in place to protect the human rights of our people relating to labour (see Labour Rights section of this document), ME abides by all legislation relating to human rights protection in Australia, where ME conducts all of its business. ME is also committed to ensuring it partners with suppliers that demonstrate a proactive approach to economic, social and environmental responsibility, including the protection of human rights. 2.2 Implementation United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment ME is a signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment. As a professional services partner signatory, ME acknowledges the relevance of environmental, social and governance issues within the investment sector, including the protection of human rights. Our participation in this initiative represents a commitment to providing and promoting services that support the implementation of the Principles by those within our business network, primarily our shareholding industry superannuation funds. Dignity at Work Policy Our Dignity at Work policy outlines our commitment to providing all employees with the opportunity to pursue excellence in their workplace endeavours in a caring, healthy and safe environment. Discrimination, harassment, vilification, bullying and workplace violence are not an acceptable part of the work culture at ME. All ME employees are trained in our Dignity at Work policy. This training module must be completed annually. Our complaints resolution procedure outlines employee options for addressing unacceptable behaviour, including discrimination, harassment and bullying. Diversity and Inclusion ME has developed a formal commitment to diversity and inclusion. This commitment defines what diversity and inclusion mean at ME and explains why diversity and inclusion are important to us. The primary focus to date has been on achieving gender diversity. This is overseen by the Board, who are committed to promoting gender diversity across the organisation. Supply Chain When partnering with new suppliers, particularly those who conduct activities outside of Australia, ME asks them to demonstrate their approach to a range of corporate responsibility indicators including human rights. We work with our existing suppliers on an ongoing basis to better understand their economic, social and environmental impacts and partner with them to build their capability in these areas. 2.3 Measurement of outcomes During the reporting period, ME has complied with its obligations under the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment. It has also complied with all Australian legislation relating to human rights protection. ME strongly supports diversity and inclusion in our workforce and recognises the rights of our lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI) employees to live and work, free of prejudice and discrimination, with all the essential freedoms enjoyed by other members of ME and the broader community. As such, in 2015 ME joined other Australian organisations in publicly calling for marriage equality to be legislated in Australia. PAGE 4 OF 11 3 Labour Principles 3.1 Assessment, policy and goals ME is committed to upholding the principles of the ILO core instruments in all our operations. As a wholly Australian owned and operated company, ME complies with Australian laws and regulations relating to labour rights. ME is the first Australian banking organisation to enter into a formal partnership with a union to work collaboratively to solve business issues. ME’s partnership with the Finance Sector Union (FSU) recognises that management, employees and the union have a mutual interest in the ongoing success of the business and uses collaboration as an important means of achieving our business objectives while improving employee satisfaction and engagement. The partnership is a more sophisticated way to engage on business issues such as change, modernisation, productivity and employment terms and conditions and hinges on a shared understanding of, and working towards, agreed business objectives. 3.2 Implementation Remuneration and Recognition Policy ME aims to provide recognition and rewards that attract, motivate and retain employees to achieve its purpose and overall objectives within its risk framework. ME uses a range of different remuneration elements to effectively reward employees. Any variable pay and performance-based components of remuneration are designed to encourage behaviour that supports our long-term financial soundness and our risk management framework. Work, Health and Safety Policy ME’s Work, Health and Safety policy establishes the responsibilities of ME employees, contractors, consultants and agency staff in relation to health and safety. Primary responsibility for employee safety at ME sits with our Chief Executive Officer who is committed to taking all reasonably practicable steps to ensure ME complies with Work, Health and Safety Legislation in Australia and that appropriate mechanisms are provided to regularly monitor and report on health and safety performance. Employees are consulted on health and safety matters through elected Health and Safety Representatives at all our major workplaces and through our Workplace Health and Safety Committee. Employee Assistance Policy and Procedure ME offers an Employee Assistance Program (EAP) to support employees in dealing with issues at home or work. The EAP is a voluntary professional and confidential counselling service provided for employees to assist them in managing the demands of their job, personal issues and to increase employees’ overall well-being. Poor Performance and Behaviour Policy The Poor Performance and Behaviour policy details the disciplinary procedures to be followed in the event of poor performance or behaviour by an employee. The policy supports ME’s cultural aspirations to be a values based, high performing organisation. ME’s approach to managing poor performance and behaviour is to provide a transparent process which is consistent with the principles of procedural fairness. Freedom of Association and the Financial Sector Union ME’s collective agreement contains a range of facilitative provisions including recognition of the role of union delegates as critical to building union capability. ME provides financial assistance towards a Finance Sector Union (FSU) membership or a Professional Association fee. Employees receive a contribution to a professional membership to receive ongoing professional development; the FSU for support or training purposes; or an association useful for the development of working relationships PAGE 5 OF 11 Collective Bargaining ME’s enterprise agreement provides the cornerstone for ME and its employees to create a workplace culture in accordance with our commitments regarding labour rights. ME worked closely with our partner the Finance Sector Union (FSU) to develop the most recent ME Enterprise Agreement in 2013. In negotiating this agreement we worked together with the FSU, guided by our partnership principles and a shared commitment to our business objectives. All ME employees had the opportunity to contribute to creating the agreement by submitting ideas and feedback. The draft agreement went to an employee vote. The agreement was voted in and subsequently approved by the Fair Work Commission. The agreement covers all ME employees. It has formally been in operation from 30 July 2013 and will remain in place until 30 July 2016. The agreement covers:  Employment categories  Hours of work  Job grading and remuneration  Performance development and reward  Leave  Workers compensation and make up pay  Redundancy, redeployment & retrenchment  Termination of employment  Workplace diversity and flexibility  ME/FSU Partnership  Workplace change  Dispute resolution  Work, health and safety  Training and development Supply Chain When partnering with new suppliers, particularly those who conduct activities outside of Australia, ME asks them to demonstrate their approach to a range of corporate responsibility indicators including labour rights. We work with our existing suppliers on an ongoing basis to better understand their economic, social and environmental impacts and partner with them to build their capability in these areas. 3.3 Measurement of outcomes Workforce Profile At the end of June 2015 ME had 933 permanent employees and 49 contractors. Our 12 month rolling average workforce turnover for the year was 19.3 per cent. Work, Health and Safety ME continues to be committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace for our employees, contractors and visitors. Employees are regularly consulted on health and safety matters through Health and Safety Representatives at all our major workplaces and through our Health and Safety Committee. In 2015, ME continued to refine and update policies, procedures and tools so they are accessible and easy for everyone to use. A common Health and Safety benchmark is Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) which measures the number of lost time injuries per million hours worked. ME’s LTIFR in 2015 was 0, which compares favourably to the industry rate of 1.2 (source: SafeWork Australia). Diversity Metrics ME’s gender diversity profile and the number of employees utilising parental leave in 2015 are shown in the table below. PAGE 6 OF 11 Gender Diversity FY15 Non-managerial employees Female 50% Male 50% Managers Female 34% Male 66% Executive (including CEO) Female 3 Male 6 Board (including Chairman) Female 3 Male 4 Utilisation of Parental Leave FY15 Primary Carer’s Leave Female 41 Male 8 Secondary Carer’s Leave Female 0 Male 7 PAGE 7 OF 11 4 Environmental Principles 4.1 Assessment, policy and goals ME is committed to upholding the principles of environmental stewardship. We understand that our environmental impact extends beyond our own operations to include the products and services we provide and procure, as well as the investment decisions we make. In 2011, ME developed a policy statement on climate change and our response to this challenge. We understand that climate change is a significant issue for our shareholders, our community and our business. As such, ME has committed to managing its own carbon emissions through the development of a carbon and resource reduction strategy. In 2015, ME publicly affirmed its position to not invest in fossil fuels, coal mining, coal ports, coal power, gas power or liquid gas natural plants. ME prefers to partner with suppliers that demonstrate a proactive approach to economic, social and environmental responsibility. Our expectations of, and how we work with, our suppliers with regard to environmental management is outlined in ME’s Procurement Policy. 4.2 Implementation Resource Reduction ME has measured the environmental impact of its operations our major impacts are in energy and paper use. We have initiatives underway to reduce our consumption in these areas. Our head office in Melbourne, where the majority of our people are located, received a Green Star rating of 5 stars from the Green Building Council of Australia in April 2013. Our green star accommodation has provided significant environmental benefits, including reduced electricity consumption, largely due to improved heating, cooling and lighting efficiencies. In 2014 ME renovated two additional floors in our head office, also with a Green Star rating of 5 stars. ME has implemented two initiatives that have significantly reduced our paper use. The technology transformation program ME has undertaken over the past few years has digitised and streamlined the processes involved in customer applications and opening new accounts resulting in a decline in paper use. ME also encourages customers to choose electronic communications rather than receiving paper communications by post. We expect to see our paper use continue to decline in coming years as more of our processes are digitised and more customers choose to receive electronic communication. Supply Chain ME’s Procurement Policy describes how we assess the performance of potential new suppliers across a range of corporate responsibility indicators in the areas of governance, environmental management, health and safety, workplace policies and human rights, supply chain management and community impact. ME also manages the use and disposal of goods and services to minimise social and environmental impacts. We work with our existing suppliers on an ongoing basis to better understand their economic, social and environmental impacts and partner with them to build their capability in these areas. In 2014 ME became a member of ECO-Buy, a non-profit membership program for organisations to access sustainable procurement expertise, resources and peer networks, in order to build our sustainable supply chain expertise. PAGE 8 OF 11 4.3 Measurement of outcomes Resource reduction In 2015, ME produced 2,056 tonnes of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from its operations including electricity use in offices, our vehicle fleet and employee air travel. This is a decrease of nearly 20% from the previous year, which was achieved from a reduction in emissions from air travel, our vehicle fleet and electricity use in offices. In 2015, ME used 22 tonnes of paper. Of this, more than 70% was used in our offices and 30% was used for printed material for customer product information, banking activities such as application forms and marketing material. ME’s overall paper use significantly decreased this year, down from 106 tonnes in the previous year. This continues the trend of the past few years where ME is significantly reducing the paper we use in our operations. More details about ME’s resource over the past year use can be found in its 2015 Annual Review available at www.mebank.com.au Supply Chain In 2015, ME again requested information on all potential suppliers’ economic, social and environmental impacts and incorporated this information into its decision making process when selecting suppliers. We also incorporated an assessment of the sustainability and environmental policies and performance of our existing business critical and material suppliers as part of our annual due diligence process. PAGE 9 OF 11 5 Anti-Corruption Principles 5.1 Assessment, policy and goals ME is committed to the protection of its employees and customers and to maintaining the integrity of the bank’s operations and reputation. To this end, we have policies and systems in place to protect against corruption, fraud, crime or serious misconduct within our organisation. ME is committed to complying with all relevant Australian legislation and codes to prevent corruption. ME complies with Australia’s Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act 2006. ME has a number of policies and procedures to prevent instances of corruption and these are reviewed and updated every year. 5.2 Implementation Code of Conduct The ME Code of Conduct sets ethical standards for employees to adopt and advocate. The code of conduct establishes mandatory behaviour in the areas of conflicts of interest, personal transactions and abiding by the law. Conflicts of Interest Policy This policy provides guidelines to the ME Board, management and employees on managing potential conflicts of interest. Fraud, Crime and Serious Misconduct Policy This policy outlines the responsibilities of ME employees in regards to fraudulent/criminal acts and acts of serious misconduct and the possible consequences of committing such acts and supports ME’s cultural aspirations to be a values based, high performing organisation. Gifts Policy As part of managing actual, perceived or potential conflicts of interest, this policy provides guidance for the acceptance, non-acceptance and reporting of gifts and benefits by ME employees. The policy is also intended to reduce the actual or perceived risk that the acceptance of a gift or benefit might influence or appear to influence an employee. ‘Speak Up’ program A ‘Speak Up’ program was established in 2010 to support employees to report actual or suspected instances of fraud, crime or serious misconduct. All employees are trained in the policy as part of their induction program. Suspicious Matter Reporting Relevant ME employees undertake annual training in Suspicious Matter Reporting. This training course advises employees on how to identify a suspicious matter and the appropriate actions regarding suspicions. If ME forms a suspicion when dealing with a customer on a matter that may relate to an offence, tax evasion or proceeds of crime, ME must complete a suspicious matter report. Offences include money laundering, terrorism financing, operating under a false identity or an offence under a Commonwealth, State or Territory law. Business Customer Identification and Verification Policies and Procedures In compliance with Australia’s Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act 2006, ME has implemented Business Customer Identification and Verification Policies and Procedures. The laws are intended to reduce the risk of Australian businesses being misused for the purposes of money laundering or terrorism financing. They also aim to meet the needs of law enforcement agencies for information about possible criminal activity and terrorism. PAGE 10 OF 11 5.3 Measurement of outcomes In 2015, ME complied with both the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act and with the suspicious matter reporting requirements of the Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre. In 2015 ME improved its financial crime detection capabilities by implementing an online web and application monitoring tool. This tool assists with early detection of external and internal fraud. In 2015 ME undertook 14 internal fraud investigations which have either resulted in termination of employment or final written warnings. ME is currently developing a Financial Crime Strategy which will further enhance our capability in this area. PAGE 11 OF 11
