Sustainability Report 2015 Table of contents Welcome from our CEO 2 1. About Salini Impregilo 5 1.1 Our sustainability model 9 1.2 Accolades and awards 13 2. Solidity 15 2.1 Building a sustainable future 15 2.2 Building shared growth 21 3. Excellence 27 3.1 Innovating to meet evolving needs 27 3.2 Developing people for growth 30 3.3 Fostering a strong supply chain 35 4. Transparency 37 4.1 Ensuring transparent governance 37 4.2 Conducting business with integrity 38 4.3 Promoting fair relations 41 5. Respect 45 5.1 Promoting health and safety 45 5.2 Promoting employee well-being 47 5.3 Protecting the environment 50 Appendix 57 Materiality analysis 57 Performance data 59 Methodological note 63 GRI Content Index 70 Assurance report 81 Sustainability Report 2015 Welcome from our CEO 2015 was a year of progressive evolution for Salini Impregilo. We grew as a global company, united by a common set of values, and stepped up our focus on creating resilient, high quality, sustainable infrastructure in a rapidly evolving world. Infrastructure has always been fundamental to developing thriving economies and societies. Now, with two thirds of the global population expected to be living in cities by 2050, it is more crucial than ever. Indeed, the United Nation’s new Sustainable Development Goals, launched in 2015, highlight the growing importance of our industry’s role in achieving sustainable development. We intend to help lead our industry in embracing that responsibility and contributing to building a better world. Above all, we aim to improve people’s lives, whether it is by supporting the renewable energy transition with major hydro-electric plants or developing sustainable mobility solutions for 21st century cities. We believe that largescale, high quality infrastructure should be accessible to all, and we are making it happen. Salini Impregilo completed some highly challenging projects in 2015. For example, the Lake Mead Intake No.3 and hydraulic tunnel, which will help supply water to Las Vegas for many generations, was nominated Global Tunnelling Project of the Year by New Civil Engineer. Some of our ongoing projects also obtained important accolades such as the Sydney Metro Northwest, designed to withstand the challenges posed by an evolving climate and the risk of extreme weather, which was recognised by the Infrastructure Sustainability Council of Australia (ISCA) as worldclass best practice. Through every project, we aim to create economic, social and environmental value for our stakeholders. We call this our Shared Value approach. This builds on 110 years of putting respect for people at the heart of our business, and represents our firm commitment to integrating our values and sustainability ambitions with our core business strategy. Creating a holistic, consistent sustainability culture is vital as we continue to expand. In particular, we aim to exceed our clients’ expectations, ensure a healthy return for investors, and develop infrastructure that addresses pressing social and environmental challenges. This is particularly relevant in developing countries, where resilient infrastructure can empower local communities and boost economies. Wherever we do business, we seek to be transparent with our stakeholders, inviting their views, building trust, sharing our plans and progress, and promoting a culture of accountability. In 2015, we maintained our commitment to supporting local communities economically and socially. We spent 75% of our purchasing budget with local suppliers, and created employment for more than 10,700 people through sub-contractors and service providers. Additionally, we provided more than 17,000 free healthcare sessions to communities in remote, rural areas across Africa. We also launched the E4Impact Foundation, a landmark initiative to help inspire and support social entrepreneurship in Africa. 2 Sustainability Report 2015 Importantly, we stepped up our efforts to reduce impact on the environment, lowering our energy intensity rate by 13% and cutting our greenhouse gas emissions rate by 14%, year on year. Salini Impregilo has obtained a 100/100 rating in the CDP’s climate change programme, and in 2015, we were recognised by the CDP’s Italian Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). We adhere to rigorous environmental standards throughout the lifecycle of each project, continuously innovating to reduce waste, conserve natural resources, reduce emissions and protect soil and local biodiversity. We have raised the reuse rate of excavation materials by 19%, compared to 2014, for example. And in Panama, we have collaborated with the country’s national parks to rescue and relocate more than 4,100 animals from the area surrounding our works. The ongoing success of our business sits firmly in the hands of our 30,600 employees. Their health, safety and well-being are top priorities at each and every construction site. In 2015, we introduced a new initiative to strengthen our health and safety practices, creating health and safety leaders, in order to help all employees and sub-contractors take an active role in ensuring a safe workplace. Overall, we reduced our injury rate by 14%, year on year, invested €34.8m in protection and prevention, and delivered more than 637,000 hours of training to employees. We have taken definitive steps to create a strong future for our business and our industry, including the recruitment of 100 of Italy’s top engineering graduates through our ‘Tomorrow’s Builders’ campaign, and collaborating with Milan’s Polytechnic to launch a new Master’s in International Construction Management. By equipping both current and future employees with the skills and knowledge required to succeed in the construction industry, we are reinforcing our commitment to support sustainable development through high quality, resilient infrastructure. In 2016, our 110th anniversary, we will retain our keen focus on maintaining high performance standards, improving people’s lives through large scale infrastructure projects, supporting local communities and protecting the environment, in line with the UN Global Compact’s principles. In addition to completing the expansion of the Panama Canal, we will also inaugurate the Gibe III hydroelectric project in Ethiopia and the Stavros Niarchos Cultural Centre in Athens, which has achieved the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum certification, the highest possible sustainable building ranking. Finally, I would like to thank all our employees, whose hard work and dedication has allowed us to achieve these results, as well as our wider group of stakeholders for their continued support. I welcome your feedback and views on our progress, as we move forward together on our journey to build a better world for current and future generations. Yours sincerely, Pietro Salini 3 Sustainability Report 2015 1. About Salini Impregilo Salini Impregilo is a leading global constructor of major infrastructures, specialising in hydroelectric plants and dams, railways, metro systems, motorways and roads. The Group has been active for more than 110 years. Today, we operate in more than 50 countries, across five continents, with more than 30,000 employees. At the end of 2015, our turnover was approx. €4.7 billion with a backlog of more than €33 billion. Our business areas Salini Impregilo operates in all sectors requiring complex large-scale infrastructures, such as renewable energy, water, transport and urban infrastructure, offering both design and construction services. We develop bespoke, innovative proposals for every project, analysing the client’s needs in depth and researching the most effective technological solutions. We collaborate with our designers, engineers and suppliers to prioritise environmental, social and health and safety issues throughout. Once a project is in motion, our collaborative approach continues, as we transform drawings into reality, engage with local stakeholders, and recruit, train and care for large workforces. 5 Sustainability Report 2015 Dams, hydroelectric plants Railways and metros Hydraulic engineering, including dams and hydroWe strive to meet citizens’ needs for greater mobility electric plants, is a key strength of the Salini while supporting the development of lower-carbon Impregilo Group. We are currently recognised by transport alternatives. To date, we have built some Engineering News Record (ENR) as world leader 6,830 km of railway lines, 400 km of metro lines and in the construction of infrastructure projects in the 1,450 km of underground infrastructure, focusing water segment, and act as a strategic partner for on technical efficiency, safety and environmental our clients, helping to develop projects from their sustainability. Salini Impregilo has installed innovative inception. We have built some 257 dams and technologies such as the ERTMS Level 2 (European hydroelectric plants across five different contiRail Traffic Management System) in some sections nents, with an installed capacity of more than of the Italian High Speed Railway Network. Together 37,500 MW of low-cost, clean energy. In this way, with system suppliers, we are also building some UTO we contribute directly to the renewable energy Metros (automated, driverless trains) using a computertransition and sustainable development in multiple based train control (CBTC) system. countries. Additionally, the Group constructs high-speed railway The Group is currently engaged on the Expansion lines such as the High Speed Ankara-Istanbul line in of the Panama Canal, and the Grand Ethiopian Turkey, and the Milan Genoa High Speed line in Italy, Renaissance Dam in Ethiopia, which will be the part of the Rhine-Alpine Corridor. The latter is one of largest dam in Africa. In December 2015 we the Trans-European network corridors, and is helping successfully completed South Nevada Water to promote a “rebirth” of metro urban transport Authority’s new intake pipeline, created to draw throughout the world. Projects in progress include water from Lake Mead (one of the largest manthe new Cityringen metro in Copenhagen, Denmark, made lakes in the US). This project’s construction the Red Line in Doha, Qatar, one of the largest has made tunnelling history, due to the hydrostatic infrastructure developments in the Middle East, as pressures encountered. well as Line 3, the longest line of the new Riyadh metro in Saudi Arabia, two lines of the Lima Metro in Peru and line 4 of Milan’s metro in Italy. Motorways, roads and bridges Transport infrastructure, particularly road Civil and industrial buildings, airports networks, play a fundamental role in supporting socio-economic growth, and can help to Working in partnership with respected architects accelerate industrialisation, as well as enhance and designers, we continue to participate in the accessibility and communication. Salini Impregilo construction of iconic buildings such as the Great has constructed over 51,660 km of roads and Mosque in Abu Dhabi, the Kingdom Centre in motorways and 350 km of bridges and viaducts. Riyadh, and the European Parliament in Strasbourg. The Group is currently involved in numerous The Group’s experience includes hospital complexes, projects of varying size and complexity. These university campuses and government buildings, span from the A1 motorway in Poland to the as well as cultural buildings such as the Nigeria Gerald Desmond Bridge in California, which is set Cultural Centre and the Millennium Tower in Abuja. to significantly improve traffic congestion in this We also contributed to the development of the busy port area. The new bridge will be one of the Stavros Niarchos Cultural Centre in Athens, which tallest of its kind in the United States. was designed by world-famous architect Renzo Piano. The project, currently under construction, has obtained the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum certification. 6 Sustainability Report 2015 Salini Impregilo both constructs and modernises control towers (Rome’s Leonardo da Vinci airports in Italy and internationally. We have built international airport and Milan Malpensa 2000 control runways and taxiways, terminals, office buildings, tower, for example) as well as large-scale hangars. Our track record Our global footprint 257 400 km >50 dams and of metro systems Countries hydroelectric plants 51,660 km >30,000 37,500 MW of roads and motorways Staff worldwide of installed capacity 350 km >100 1,450 km of bridges and viaducts Nationalities of underground works 6,830 km of railways 7 Sustainability Report 2015 KPI summary Distributed economic value Spending on local suppliers Employees under 30 years of age 2015 4,356 € million 2015 75 % 2015 41 % 2014 3,950 € million 2014 58 % 2014 44 % 2013 3,111 € million 2013 82 % 2013 42 % Training hours provided Injury rate HSE expenses 2015 1,022,475 hours 2015 0.74 2015 68.3 € million 2014 705,118 hours 2014 0.86 2014 36.9 € million 2013 316,233 hours 2013 1.09 2013 49.7 € million Reused excavation materials Energy intensity Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 2015 82 % 2015 1,882 GJ/€ million 2015 140 t CO2e/€ million 2014 63 % 2014 2,157 GJ/€ million 2014 163 t CO2e/€ million 2013 54 % 2013 2,372 GJ/€ million 2013 180 t CO2e/€ million 8 Sustainability Report 2015 1.1 Our sustainability model As an established company with 110 years’ investors and clients, and social and environmental experience, we have developed a strong business value for the communities where we operate. model based on delivering both economic growth for Salini Impregilo’s Sustainability Model Identifying legitimate stakeholders AS K VALUE APPRO RED projects tha S EC A AC CH SH astructure t crea te s H ES S h infr are dv lding alu B ui e ECONOMIC SOCIAL & Monitoring results VALUE ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE and setting For Clients and investors For people and the planet key improving targets priorities areas ADDRESSING Countries’ Sustainable infrastructure development needs goals D O AN PL Implementive effective management systems 9 Sustainability Report 2015 Our shared value approach In pursuing these ambitions, the Group contributes to: Operating in diverse cultures and environments • Addressing the growing infrastructure needs of across the world, we have fostered a robust business the countries in which we operate; culture focused on human value. We continuously • Achieving the Sustainable Development Goals seek to meet the expectations of local institutions, (SDGs) endorsed by the United Nations, which clients, and communities, and collaborate effectively recognise the role of infrastructure in supporting with suppliers and technical partners. sustainable development. Building on this experience, we have developed a For further information on sustainable development shared value approach that fully integrates our and infrastructure please refer to sections 2.1 and values and sustainability strategy with our corporate 3.1. strategy. This approach will contribute directly to our ongoing commercial success, and create: Our stakeholders • Economic value completing infrastructure Through our global operations, we interact with many projects that meet or exceed our clients’ stakeholders interested in our business and activities. expectations and ensuring a return for our Identifying and engaging with our key stakeholders investors; is a top priority. By building robust stakeholder • Social and environmental value contributing relationships, we aim to gain new perspectives and to the sustainable development of the countries opportunities to create shared value. where we work by improving infrastructure in a way that addresses evolving environmental challenges and supports local communities and economies. Typical Typical interest areas Typical duration of relations interaction level Stakeholders International Local Economic Governance Social Environmental Community Long-term Medium-term Project life Ad-hoc Interest Employees & Unions ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Shareholders & Investors ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Clients & Potential clients ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Suppliers, Contractors, Subcontractors & Business partners ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Local communities & NGOs ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Governments & Public Administrations ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Trade associations & media ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ 10 Sustainability Report 2015 Our priorities We have identified three key priorities through our materiality analysis process (described in the appendix): for our investors and clients; our workforce and High performance standards partners (including health and safety and attracting talent); local communities; and the environment in the countries where we operate, by supporting socio-economic growth through job creation, Local development vocational training, local sourcing in our supply chain, and community support to our key stakeholders to ensure mutual Accountability confidence, fairness and transparency. Our policies and guidelines Salini Impregilo further reinforced our commitment to human and labour rights through an International To implement our sustainability Framework Agreement signed by the Italian and approach and priorities effectively International Construction Unions in 2014. throughout our organisation, Salini Impregilo has created an integrated The Group has also voluntarily adopted an framework of policies and management and Integrated Management System in compliance control systems that respect major international with the ISO standards 9001 (for quality), 14001 (for standards and guidelines. the environment), and the OHSAS 18001 (for health and safety). All Group companies have implemented In 2015, we developed a comprehensive new this system, and our conformance is verified by an Sustainability Policy outlining ten core principles to independent external body. guide the behaviour of all our employees. We require our operating divisions to commit to adopting these Finally, Salini Impregilo has adopted an Antiprinciples, along with our Code of Ethics. Corruption Compliance System, reinforcing the prevention and control structure defined by company We are also a signatory to the UN Global Compact procedures and by Model 231, a compliance (UNGC), the world’s largest voluntary corporate scheme provided for by Italian law. sustainability initiative, and have thereby committed to align our operations and strategies with the UNGC’s ten principles relating to human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption. 11 Sustainability Report 2015 Our results and ambitions Here, we share the results we have achieved across our different sustainability areas together with our future targets. Area 2015 Results Ambitions Developing employees Provided more than 1 million training hours to employees Continue investing in training, in order to and attracting talent Recruited 100 young engineers through our “Tomorrow’s guarantee our employees’ professional Builders” campaign development Launched the Salini Impregilo Learning Academy for Deliver the first edition of the “International employees Construction Management” 1st and 2nd Level Master’s jointly with Milan’s Polytechnic Launch a new e-learning platform for the Group’s employees Health and safety Reduced injury rate (IR) by 14%, compared to 2014 Introduce a structured leadership plan on Invested 34.8 € million in H&S protection and prevention health and safety aimed at improving injury Delivered more than 637,000 hours of training to rates by at least 3% in 2016 employees on H&S issues Environmental protection Reduced our energy intensity rate by 13%, compared to Continue improving environmental 2014 performance; develop resource efficiency Lowered our GHG emissions intensity rate by 14%, programmes to reduce scrap by 5% in three compared to 2014 years; optimize energy consumption and Increased the excavation materials sent for reuse by waste recycling 19%, compared to 2014 Supply chain Spent 75% of purchasing budget with local suppliers Continue supporting our local value chain, Created employment for more than 10,000 people with a focus on strengthening support and through subcontractors and service providers training activities Provided more than 90,000 training hours to subcontractors’ employees Stakeholder engagement Founded the E4Impact Foundation to promote social Continue engaging with local stakeholders and community support entrepreneurship in Africa Increase our dialogue with global Provided more than 17,000 free healthcare interventions stakeholders from our clinics to local communities in remote, rural Continue supporting our communities, areas through direct interventions and social Hosted more than 29,000 people at our projects during programmes open-doors events Engaged over 1 million people through our digital platforms 12 Sustainability Report 2015 1.2 Accolades and awards Salini Impregilo is regularly assessed by independent organisations on our business practices, programmes and achievements. We are honoured to highlight here some of the awards and recognitions that we have recently received. Salini Impregilo was named among the Top 20 in Italy’s Best Employer of Choice ranking (a survey of more than 2,500 recent graduates), winning the Best New Entry 2016 title. We entered the CDP’s Italian Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) 2015, composed by the top 10 performers, having obtained a 100/100 rating in the CDP’s climate change programme, which is supported by 827 investors with $100 trillion in assets under management. Our website was awarded Best Improver 2015 in the annual Webranking award of listed companies’ online communications, climbing 25 positions. The website also won the NC Digital Awards for “Best storytelling” and received the bronze medal, being classified among the top three institutional websites. Salini Impregilo’s intranet “@work” has achieved multiple accolades: Nielsen Intranet Design Award; “@work” was recognised in early 2016 as one of the world’s ten best intranets due to its usability, multilingual format and user involvement European Excellence Awards 2015, selected from more than 1,600 companies to win a place among the top five intranet sites in Europe Ragan's Employee Communications Award 2014; honorary mention in the Best Design section of the “Intranet” category Intra.NET Award 2015; won third place in User Experience Design & Content Management category. Salini Impregilo was acknowledged at the Online Talent Communication 2016 awards, held by Swedish research firm, Potential Park. We joined the best Italian companies in the Social Media and Mobile categories, ranking 20th and 25th respectively. We were named Contractor of the year by the International Tunnelling and Underground Space Association (ITA) from a shortlist of Chinese, American and European competitors. Salini Impregilo’s Sydney Metro Northwest project in 2015 earned the “Leading” Infrastructure Sustainability Design rating from the Infrastructure Sustainability Council of Australia (ISCA). Salini Impregilo’s Lake Mead project won the Global Tunnelling Project of the Year (over $500 million) at the NCE Tunnelling & Underground Space Awards 2015. 13 Sustainability Report 2015 2. Solidity We build resilient, durable infrastructures, helping to promote sustainable economic growth and development for the world’s rapidly growing urban population. >12,600 MW Expected renewable capacity from ongoing hydroelectric projects > 3 million Daily passenger capacity expected from ongoing metro projects 2.1 Building a sustainable future Robust infrastructure is the lifeblood of strong economies and societies, playing a major role in industrial, agricultural, rural and urban development. In particular, with two thirds of the world’s population expected to be living in cities by 2050, there is a pressing need to improve urban infrastructure across the globe. This is reflected in the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adopted in 2015. SDG 9 recognises the role of resilient infrastructure 15 Sustainability Report 2015 sector in achieving sustainable development, CASE STUDY 1 empowering communities and ultimately, improving Designing Australia’s largest public transport lives. project to withstand a changing climate We aim to help fulfil this role at an international level The Sydney Metro Northwest is Australia’s largest by developing high quality, reliable and durable public transport project and a priority infrastructure infrastructure, with a focus on affordable and investment for the New South Wales Government. equitable access for all. This also includes upgrading We integrated sustainability principles throughout the infrastructure and retrofitting industries, in line with project and collaborated with multiple stakeholders the UN’s 2030 target, and facilitating sustainable and – clients, public authorities and communities – to resilient infrastructure development in developing minimise the metro’s carbon footprint. countries. We developed the project and the overall Business Our projects help to enhance accessibility and raise Management System based on the outcomes of a countries’ economic potential through energy and Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA) and a project-specific transport infrastructure. We also seek to improve Climate Change Risk Assessment and Adaptation public utility services via hydraulic engineering works, study. Additionally, we introduced a holistic approach as well as civil and industrial buildings. to sustainability on site, ensuring that decisionmaking included environmental, social and economic In designing and delivering our projects, we aim perspectives at every step: design, procurement and to minimise the environmental impacts of both construction. the initial construction and the structure’s lifecycle over the long term, thereby helping to reduce In particular, in the design phase, we considered the carbon emissions and pollution. In addition, in the climate change risks related to more frequent and construction phase we adhere to environmental extreme heat waves, higher annual temperatures, management systems certified to ISO 14001 increased rainfall intensity, flooding, wind, storms, standards. This helps us to address all the relevant lightning and hail. For each risk, we identified design issues (such as resource use, energy, emissions, solutions to help make the project more resilient. water, waste, soil, noise and vibrations, biodiversity, traffic, restoration of projects’ areas) in an efficient, For example, we designed the foundations of the structured way. viaducts and bridge to withstand to a 2000 years flood event, and specified the size of culverts and catch drains to account for a 10% increase in rainfall intensity. Additionally, given the projected increase in mean wind of 10% by 2100 in the area, we designed the viaducts and bridge to withstand extreme gusts of wind of 173km/hr. That is 47% greater than the maximum recorded wind speed in Sydney. Using the LCA results, our project team identified a set of focus areas with related sustainability targets to be included in the design phase and then integrated with procurement, workforce and construction processes. These include: Climate Change; Carbon Management and Energy Efficiency; Community; Water Efficiency; Waste and Materials; Land Use and Biodiversity; Pollution Control; 16 Sustainability Report 2015 Workforce Development; Sustainable Procurement; Finally, we monitored day-to-day construction Temporary Site Facilities; Innovations. activities to review performance against our The targets range from energy saving (-5% of sustainability policies and requirements, tracking diesel and electricity consumption in comparison results in real time. with the standard design) to water (minimum 50% We sought independent verification of our replacement of drinking water with non-drinking progress via the ISCA IS Rating Tool. This is an water), waste recycling (90% of construction waste Infrastructure Sustainability (IS) scheme developed to be reused or recycled), low-carbon steel (60% by the Infrastructure Sustainability Council of of reinforcing bars and meshes produced through Australia (ISCA). It verifies and validates the recognised energy reduction processes) and carbon successful delivery of environmental and social reduction (-2.5% of GHG emissions). Modelling sustainability initiatives throughout the project demonstrates a reduction in materials lifecycle lifecycle. impacts of 44%. The IS Rating is determined by a score out of Social targets include a minimum value of supplies 100 and has three rating levels: “Commended” to be drawn from local businesses (at least 160), indicates that a project is achieving better than employees to be hired from the local community ‘business as usual’; “Excellent” recognises (minimum 20%), development and diversity targets Australian best practice; and the “Leading” (at least 15% of trainees and minimum 2% of rating indicates “World-Class Best Practice in employees from disadvantaged groups). Sustainability”. To engage our supply chain, we integrated key In October 2015, Salini Impregilo was awarded sustainability criteria in our procurement checklists, the “Leading” IS Design rating in recognition of asking potential suppliers to respond to a the collaborative efforts of our project team in sustainability questionnaire in the tender process and Sydney and our design partner SMEC to integrate arranging workshops to explain our requirements. sustainability at the heart of the project. 17 Sustainability Report 2015 CASE STUDY 2 helping to make the area more resilient to climate Developing hydropower projects with a low change and extreme weather. environmental footprint in Malaysia Our designers kept environmental issues front of In Malaysia, Salini Impregilo is completing the 382 mind, developing solutions to optimise the project’s MW Ulu Jelai hydropower project, a plant that will environmental footprint, both during the construction help meet the growing demand for electricity at phase and on an ongoing basis. For example, we peak times and reduce carbon emissions. have created and built an underground powerhouse, eliminating any landscape impacts and avoiding land The project, located in the hills of a tropical degradation. rainforest with about 4,000 mm of rainwater per year, is set to reduce CO2 equivalent emissions Additionally, through the project layout, we have by some 250,387 tonnes annually by substituting improved the overall efficiency of electricity conventional fossil fuel-powered generators with generation, making it among the most efficient in the hydroelectric power during peak periods. country. According to a report by the United Nations, Ulu Jelai allows “high power output with a small In addition to supporting the growth of renewable reservoir size”. energy in Malaysia, we have also focused on improving the site’s environmental footprint and 18 Sustainability Report 2015 The project is also unique in Malaysia due to the In addition to paving all site roads with draining roller-compacted concrete (RCC) we used for the materials to ensure safe access in all weather, dam. This progressive engineering method means: we have also focused on slope-cutting activities. Slopes are installed with a network of drainage • faster, large RCC dams can be completed up channels that carry the rainwater in silt traps and to two years more quickly than regular mass control weirs. This prevents sediments from being concrete dams; dispersed in the river basin. • project costs are lower, as RCC is 25 to 50% less expensive than conventional concrete; Another example of innovation at Ulu Jelai is the • less cement is consumed because leaner use of ‘fibromat’, a biodegradable coconut sheet concrete mixtures can be used, helping to placed on the slope immediately after cutting and reduce environmental impacts upstream in the seeding activities. This technique protects the slope supply chain. and safeguards the seed from water run-off. It also encourages the environment and local biodiversity to Finally, given that the area is exposed to soil stability recover more rapidly. These measures allowed us to risks due to tropical rainfall, we have taken action to reduce soil erosion rates by 93% compared to the prevent soil erosion and control sediments, drawing worst scenario, and by 97% in comparison with a on comprehensive risk assessments to model pre-development scenario for the access road and impacts before, during and after construction. the upstream control weir. 19 Sustainability Report 2015 Creating resilient, sustainable Promoting low-carbon urban mobility infrastructure Cities are undergoing great expansion as more Creating infrastructure allows to secure an ongoing people migrate to urban areas, particularly in Africa supply of natural resources such as water. However, and Asia. This rapid growth requires continuous sourcing these resources in a way that respects the investment in urban infrastructure – mobility in environment is a major challenge. We continuously particular – in order to fight the escalating air seek to propose solutions that address this pollution caused by traffic congestion. Indeed, challenge, while still ensuring the same high quality. more than 90% of air pollution in cities is attributed to vehicle emissions, mostly caused by the high Additionally, as the global climate changes and proportion of older vehicles, coupled with poor extreme weather events become more frequent, vehicle maintenance, inadequate infrastructure, and the construction sector has a major role to play low-quality fuel. It is estimated that more than one in ensuring infrastructure is resilient and durable, billion people are exposed to urban air pollution and developing renewable energy solutions that annually, with significant health consequences3. reduce greenhouse gas emissions. For example, Mobility infrastructure both facilitates the movement the International Energy Agency (IEA) forecasts that of goods and people, and gives underprivileged or global installed hydropower capacity will continue to developing communities, often located on the urban grow, reaching 2,000 GW by 2050 and preventing periphery, access to education, jobs and social annual emissions up to 3 billion tonnes of CO2 from services. fossil-fuel plants1. We contribute to the development of solutions that In the hydroelectric sector, we seek to secure address evolving population needs and resolve reliable electricity and lower energy costs, which air pollution challenges in urban areas. We are in turn help to boost economies, generating building eight underground metro projects on four positive impacts in terms of business opportunities, continents, designed to ensure sustainable mobility job creation and social well-being. In 2015, we solutions for more than three million people daily, contributed to 12 hydroelectric projects in 11 thereby reducing the use of private vehicles and countries on four continents. Once these projects pollution. In addition to metro projects, we are also are completed, their combined installed capacity developing urban road projects geared to reducing will be 12,600 megawatts (MW) with an annual congestion in more densely populated areas, directly production of 39,000 gigawatt-hours (GWh). This improving traffic flow and environmental conditions. would be enough to meet the energy demand of 58 million people2, which is equivalent to the population of Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Norway, Sweden, Belgium and Holland combined. These projects will also help to avoid the emission of five million tonnes of greenhouse gases annually, which is equivalent to the emissions of one million cars. 1 Technology roadmap: hydropower, IEA, 2012 2 Data is an internal estimation based on project documents. 3 It is estimated that urban air pollution is linked to up to one million premature deaths and one million pre-natal deaths each year, while urban air pollution costs approximately 2% of the GDP in developed countries and 5% in developing countries. Source: United Nations Environment Programme 20 Sustainability Report 2015 2.2 Building shared growth Boosting local economies Salini Impregilo aims to develop infrastructure The Group is committed to expanding opportunities projects that act as catalysts for growth in the for suppliers of goods and services in every host countries where we operate. We seek to support country by prioritising local sourcing, wherever local suppliers, create jobs, promote skills and possible. capacity building, boost national economies and enhance the well-being of local communities, while In 2015, we maintained good relationships with local creating value for shareholders and investors. suppliers, spending 75% of our procurement budget (on average) locally. Additionally, our construction We create value for all our key stakeholders: our sites contracted 3,500 new suppliers in 2015, of supply chain (in terms of purchasing of goods which 89% were local. and services), human resources (in terms of direct and indirect remuneration), lenders (interest rate), In financial terms, the total economic value shareholders (dividends) and other investors, as distributed to the supply chain was €3.6 billion, and well as public administration (in terms of total taxes consisted mainly of services (41%), sub-contracts paid). The majority of the value we generated in 2015 (33%), raw materials, and goods (22%). relates to our contribution to local economies and employment. 75% Procurement from local suppliers 2015 Economic value distributed Creating employment 3% 1% We focus on engaging a local workforce in areas Value distributed to providers of capital Value distributed to governments where projects are located, whenever possible. 13% In 2015, Salini Impregilo employed some 41,300 Value distributed to human people, comprising both direct employees and resources indirect5 workers. Some 71% of our 30,598 directly83% employed staff6 consisted of local personnel, mainly Value in our African operations, followed by Asia, the distributed to supply chain Middle East and Europe. Salini Impregilo’s job creation programme plays a crucial role in enhancing the capabilities of local personnel, mainly in developing countries – in addition to the salaries paid and the contribution we make to local economies. Our approach is welcomed by local authorities and governments, who value the contribution of vocational training in supporting local welfare and economic growth. Importantly, creating 4 It includes community initiatives’ expense. 5 Indirect employees include subcontractors’ personnel and workers of other service providers employed at Group’s sites. 6 In 2015 direct employees decreased in comparison with 2014, due to the physiologic lag between the demobilization of some large projects and the mobilization of personnel in new-awarded projects, as well as due to the retirement of employees from some projects located in unstable areas. However, beyond the headcount at 31st December 2015 (equal to 30,598 employees), it should be noted that in 2015 the FTEs calculated based on the worked man-hours at sites included in this report were equal to about 43,000 (+7% compared with 2014). 21 Sustainability Report 2015 local employment is also fundamental to fostering a Supporting communities skilled workforce for current and future projects. For Salini Impregilo, building shared growth also means More information on people development is reported interacting with and supporting the communities in the “Excellence” section. that live near our sites. We have a longstanding commitment to understanding the cultures, needs, and In addition, sub-contractors and other service expectations of those communities. For example, we providers (including technicians, consultants, seek to integrate our sites with the surrounding areas catering staff, etc.) contribute significantly to local by deepening our knowledge of the country and local job creation. In 2015, some 10,700 people were area, and regularly engaging with communities. In 2015 employed by our sub-contractors and service we did it engaging over 86,700 local stakeholders providers, 82% of whom were hired locally. through meetings, information campaigns and opendoors events. In 2013-2015, we contributed to local communities with over 180 initiatives as reported in the table below, 74% investing €5.7 million (around €1.3 million in 2015)7. Total workforce (direct and indirect) hired locally 11 7 Sport 44 58% 12 & environment l Ed cia are u & c cati So althc Managers hired locally he ult on ure & Denmark Belarus Italy Ukraine Kazakhstan Greece Saudi Tunisia Arabia Qatar UAE Nigeria Etiopia Malaysia Colombia Zimbabwe Australia In 2013-2015 we contributed to local communities with over 180 initiatives investing over €5.7 million 7 This amount comprises direct costs only, and not the value created for local communities, nor the costs sustained for infrastructure developed by the Group for project-related needs (e.g. mainly roads, bridges, water wells and basins) which remain available to communities after the project has been completed. 22 Sustainability Report 2015 Salini Impregilo consistently shows its support • Community initiatives and programmes for communities by promoting a wide range of conducted directly and in partnership with other programmes and activities designed to contribute organisations (related to social, cultural, sportive, positively to local communities and environment, artistic, educational and humanitarian topics); including: • Free access to some of our sites’ facilities (on-site health clinics, training rooms, water wells, roads) • Direct interventions for building and delivering for communities living in rural areas not served by infrastructures for the benefit of local residents basic amenities. (schools, health centres, public offices, water networks, roads, and bridges); In 2015, we offered more than 17,700 free healthcare sessions to our communities, in order to help improve their quality of life. 23 Sustainability Report 2015 CASE STUDY 3 We founded E4Impact Foundation together with Supporting Africa’s economic growth by Italian companies Securfin and Mapei, the Università investing in social entrepreneurs Cattolica del Sacro Cuore of Milan (Europe’s largest private university), and the Always Africa association. At Salini Impregilo, we believe that human capital Our collective effort builds on a previous programme is central to unlocking economic potential, launched in 2010 by the ALTIS Graduate School particularly in developing countries. Business and Society at the Università Cattolica. The Foundation’s flagship initiative is the Global MBA in In 2015, we contributed to founding the E4Impact Impact Entrepreneurship, offered in partnership with Foundation to promote social entrepreneurship in the Università Cattolica and local African Universities. Africa, where we have been present for 60 years. E4Impact has an ambitious vision: offering social “We strongly believe in the value offered by young entrepreneurship programmes in at least 15 African people, and most of all in the importance of countries by 2020, training over 3,000 social creating future leaders, capable of contributing entrepreneurs, creating 500 new enterprises and to long-term structural growth. That is why we thousands of new jobs in the formal economy. have such great enthusiasm for this initiative,” commented Group CEO, Pietro Salini. “By helping To address this challenge, the Foundation will pursue to empower local entrepreneurs, we will also be four key goals: able to count on high quality local suppliers for future projects. This will create employment while • To develop a new generation of social allowing us to source high quality materials and entrepreneurs capable of combining economic services locally.” success with positive social impact; 24 Sustainability Report 2015 • To foster the replication of successful Italian The Foundation is currently offering the E4impact and European social enterprises in the African MBA to over 200 people in Kenya, Ghana, Sierra countries where the MBA is offered; Leone, Uganda and Ivory Coast, helping to create • To strengthen the capacity of African an inspiring environment for entrepreneurs. Some universities to offer effective and action-oriented 180 MBA Alumni were involved in the pilot phase entrepreneurship education programmes; (2011-2014), with 60% of participants starting a • To build a community of universities, incubators, new business and 37% advancing their careers. investors and corporations dedicated to social entrepreneurship. The Foundation also launched another programme, called First-Step Africa, aimed at The Executive MBA provides potential, early stage supporting the expansion of foreign small-toand high growth entrepreneurs with results-oriented medium sized businesses (SMEs) in Sub-Saharan education, coaching and interaction with the local Africa through the E4Impact MBA. Through business community and potential investors. the MBA programme, an SME can engage Participants acquire knowledge and skills that African professionals to study the feasibility of could help them start or scale a business, while its business in a particular African country. The contributing to the sustainable development of their local professionals attend the MBA and develop countries. a business plan for helping the SME to establish itself in the local market, building a network with In particular, the E4impact MBA supports participants local suppliers, customers and institutions to in transforming a business idea into a business plan, support the start-up of the project. improving existing businesses, creating partnerships with investors, suppliers and customers. 25 Sustainability Report 2015 3. Excellence We believe in competence and skill, in work that is well done and capable of exceeding client’s expectations. >10 Accolades and awards related to 2015 8 >1 million Training hours provided to direct employees 3.1 Innovating to meet evolving needs We aim to advance large-scale infrastructure construction worldwide, working in close collaboration with the entire value chain to ensure continuous innovation and client satisfaction. Supporting continuous innovation Continuous innovation is vital to achieving success 8 For details, please refer to Section 1.2 in the large-scale infrastructure sector. In addition 27 Sustainability Report 2015 to making technological advances in materials, This procedure is an integral part of the Group’s components, and production processes, we also Project Management System and ensures that largedesign each project with respect for its environmental scale public works conform to the highest standards. context, the safety of personnel, local communities, and end users, as well as commercial profitability. In order to develop bespoke construction solutions > 92,000 and high-quality project proposals, we conduct Individual quality control a comprehensive analysis of the client’s needs, operations completed together with a rigorous study of the most relevant technological innovations. We also foster long-term strategic partnerships with experienced professionals > 4,000 and engineering companies, as well as with the most Meetings with clients dedicated innovative suppliers and technology developers. to Quality and HSE issues Overall, this enables us to win important international contracts on the basis of strict criteria, which include not only the quality of work, realisation, running Innovating for sustainable design costs, and financing schemes, but also innovations to improve safety and reduce environmental impact. Being a resource intensive industry, the infrastructure sector has a wide margin to save natural resources We apply the ISO 9001-certified Quality Management and reduce the environmental impacts associated System for the entire scope of the Group’s activities, with its activities. from the design stage and management of works Salini Impregilo has adopted sustainable design and to the implementation and running of construction construction schemes in multiple projects worldwide. activities. Salini Impregilo assigns specific These schemes allow us to integrate environmental responsibilities and duties to expert technicians, who considerations into project development, improving follow the project throughout, from the design phase performance throughout the infrastructure’s lifecycle. to the construction site itself, carefully managing the This approach encompasses three key stages: organisational, operational, decision-making, and internal control aspects of the project. Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Assessing Developing Implementing environmental sustainable sustainable impacts design solutions construction 28 Sustainability Report 2015 Currently, the Group is adopting the following eco-design and construction schemes for a number of its projects: Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED), an initiative of the US Green Buildings Council, is one of the most important voluntary programmes providing third-party verification of green buildings. It is based on a framework for implementing measurable green design, construction, operations and maintenance solutions across the supply chain. It comprises four rating levels: Certified, Silver, Gold and Platinum. Global Sustainability Assessment System (GSAS) is the Middle East’s first integrated and performance-based sustainability assessment system for the built environment, also covering social issues throughout the entire project lifecycle. It comprises a certification system based on scoring levels from one to six stars. Infrastructure Sustainability (IS) is Australia’s only comprehensive rating system for evaluating sustainability across the design, construction and operation of infrastructure. IS evaluates the sustainability (including environmental, social, economic and governance aspects) of infrastructure projects and assets over their lifecycle, assigning a third-party certification that comprises three rating levels: Commended, Excellent, Leading. Some of our projects under development have Importantly, the GSAS and IS schemes include both achieved or are expected to achieve high ratings environmental and socio-economic issues, covering under these schemes, such as: all sustainability aspects of infrastructure projects. In addition to these schemes, Salini Impregilo is • the Stavros Niarchos Cultural Centre project adopting Building Information Modelling (BIM) on in Athens (Greece), which has obtained LEED several projects. Using BIM, we generate and Platinum certification; manage digital representations of buildings, in order • the Red Line North project in Doha (Qatar), which to help plan, design, construct, operate and maintain aims to reach the GSAS 4 stars certification; physical infrastructures. The technology also helps • the Sydney Metro Northwest (Australia), SEE ALSO CASE HISTORY us to integrate green design and construction which in 2015 was awarded with the 1 techniques, providing immediate projections on how Leading IS rating. design decisions affect infrastructure performance over its entire lifecycle. 29 Sustainability Report 2015 3.2 Developing people for growth By the end of 2015, Salini Impregilo employed 30,598 direct employees worldwide9, 41% of whom Our people are fundamental to our development and were under 30 and 10% were women. The majority ongoing success. Their technical and managerial of our workforce is based in Africa, followed by the skills, as well as the expertise they gain on diverse Middle East and Europe. projects worldwide are crucial to ensuring excellence in our operations and achieving the Group’s Enhancing our people’s skills objectives. and competencies Our priorities are: We are firmly committed to creating a work • Enhancing our people’s skills and competencies, environment that enhances individual capabilities through development and training programmes and helps our employees to fulfil their potential, while for consolidating and transferring skills among our developing the competencies we need to succeed. employees; In this way, we empower our people to contribute to • Attracting and nurturing talented people, with achieving our collective goals. a focus on graduates and young professionals through employer branding programmes and We believe that an ongoing training schedule is partnerships with educational institutions. In this vital for our employees, and for the Group’s future. way, we are fostering a strong future workforce For this reason, we develop and implement annual and ensuring business continuity. training activities with a view to consolidating 30 Sustainability Report 2015 and developing the key skills we need to excel in We will launch a new e-learning platform in 2016, professional standards, performance, and results. empowering our employees to learn regardless of geographical or logistical barriers. The platform We also invest in the development of professionals will cover diverse themes, including an orientation in the areas where we work, in order to build strong, section aimed at supporting new employees, skilled workforces for local projects and other future teaching them strategic corporate processes and initiatives. procedures, and providing information on our organisation. In 2015, we provided more than 147,000 hours of training for the Group’s managers and staff, both at Developing local skills and expertise our head office and on site, equal to an average of approximately 21 hours per individual (16 hours in Ensuring excellence in all our operations requires that 2014). our entire workforce, including unskilled workers, is well trained to perform in compliance with our Fostering a strong global learning culture stringent technical, quality, environmental, health and safety standards. In 2015, we launched the Salini Impregilo Learning Academy, with the aim of promoting a new training In addition to maintaining high employment model capable of strengthening existing skills and standards and running health initiatives, our sites expertise, and sharing knowledge throughout the provide extensive skills training programmes for organisation. the local workforce. In 2015, we provided nearly 874,600 training hours to our workers globally, which Carefully selected internal trainers are running is equal to an average of approximately 37 hours per “Train the trainers” workshops to help improve the individual (22 hours in 2014). consistency of our educational methods and training materials, creating the academy’s first faculty team. Our commitment to building local employment capacity has been officially rewarded by local During the year, the Learning Academy conducted authorities and governments, given the important its first international training programme on contribution that vocational training plays in fostering Administration, Finance and Control issues. Some local welfare and growth, particularly in developing 200 financial and non-financial Group managers countries such as Ethiopia, where we regularly attended, gaining practical tools to participate receive encouragement by authorities to continue proactively in the business. building the capacity of local people. The Learning Academy complements our existing Combined with managers and staff training, the total training programmes, which include induction hours provided in 2015 amounted to over 1 million training on Group policies and procedures for all hours, 45% more than in 2014. new employees; courses on legal and regulatory compliance; training and knowledge-sharing courses tailored to employees’ assigned tasks; and institutional and language learning programmes. We hold all these activities either at our construction sites or head office, through face-to-face lessons, e-learning platforms and blended training methods. 9 Indirect employees include subcontractors’ personnel and workers of other service providers employed at Group’s sites. 31 Sustainability Report 2015 CASE STUDY 4 While this represents an important contribution to Enhancing local skills while improving the local economy, it also presented substantial safety performance in Ethiopia training challenges. Health and safety training was a key priority, particularly for all those who would be Creating large-scale projects such as using complex machinery and large vehicles. In this hydropower plants in developing countries poses way, we sought to keep both our new recruits and significant challenges. These range reaching existing colleagues safe on site. remote, rural areas with support for production activities and services such as accommodation, We have therefore opened two Driving Training food and basic amenities, to ensuring that the Schools at our Ethiopian sites to provide theoretical workforce has adequate skills for the work in and practical courses for local drivers and hand. machinery operators. At the GERD site, in 2015 we delivered safety training totalling 29,149 hours to In Ethiopia, Salini Impregilo is involved in the 445 employees, an average of 65 hours per trainee. construction of two major hydroelectric projects Drivers’ safety performance improved significantly that are set to transform Ethiopia into the as a result, with the number of vehicle and renewable energy hub of the African continent. machinery-related incidents decreasing by 61% Gibe III will have an outgoing power of 1,870 MW (compared to 2014), despite a 10% increase in the and a generation capacity of 6,500 GWh per number of vehicles and machines in use. year, while GERD (Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam) will have a power of 6,000 MW with a By improving safety conditions at our sites and production of 15,700 GWh per year. helping local people gain new skills, together with our other efforts to support the local economy by We engaged nearly 15,000 people to participate spending on local suppliers and develop community in the projects at the end of 2015, 97% of initiatives, we aim to pave the way for further whom come from rural communities nearby. sustainable development in Ethiopia. 32 Sustainability Report 2015 Attracting and nurturing talented people Attracting world-class students We continuously invest in developing people, By attracting talented students, we are able to build attracting the best talent and offering our employees and grow stable relations with potential employees. well-defined development paths. In 2015, we Salini Impregilo defines strategic agreements launched a campaign to recruit, train and develop with the most respected Italian and international 100 young students from among the top performers universities, in order to identify and recruit the most in the Italian Engineering Faculties, creating a pool of talented individuals in the local and international “Tomorrow’s Builders”. In this way, the combination labour market. We foster their development and or existing technical expertise with new energy professional growth through tutoring and/or curricular brought by talented young people will continue to be internship programmes for top performers. one of the driving forces of our growth worldwide. In 2015, the Group conducted some focused Collaborating to help graduates forge employer branding and talent attraction activities a career in construction both in Italy and in other strategic countries. Through several career fairs, recruiting days, thematic We believe in helping young people fulfil their workshops and site visits, we met thousands of potential. For this reason, in collaboration with students and recent graduates. We offered them leading universities, we promote specialised tutoring and information about the construction programmes connected to the key activities of our sector, and selected the most talented people. business. We also forged a new partnership with the Board of In 2015, we began collaborating with Milan’s European Students of Technology (BEST), Europe’s Polytechnic, an outstanding academic partner for leading student engineering association, through specialist training and integrating recent graduates which we held various recruiting and tutoring into the professional world. We helped to adapt initiatives. an existing Masters degree course, inaugurating the first edition of the “International Construction In addition, we are attracting young people through Management” first and second Level Masters digital and social communication, implementing an in early 2016. The course is designed to attract integrated online talent communication system in international students interested in starting careers order to engage positively with potential new recruits. in the infrastructure sector. It also enables graduates to gain practical knowledge of both the industry In 2016, Salini Impregilo was named among the and our business, through training provided by our “Top 20” in Italy’s “Best Employer of Choice” ranking employees and ‘on the job’ activities. (a survey of more than 2,500 recent graduates), winning the “Best New Entry 2016” title. Please refer The new Masters courses also presents an important to section 1.2 for further information on our awards. opportunity for internal knowledgesharing, while our employees will have access all the Master’s materials through our new e-learning platform. 33 Sustainability Report 2015 CASE STUDY 5 The Group’s senior managers welcomed the 100 Developing tomorrow’s engineering graduate engineers at a dedicated “Tomorrow’s professionals Builders” event in March 2015. Over three days, we held interactive sessions designed to welcome them Transferring skills and knowledge to future to the company and kick-start the induction process. generations is vital to our company’s ongoing Our senior people presented the company’s strategy success. In the infrastructure industry, this represents and business, while project managers explained how a significant challenge, due to the skills gap between we work, including at construction sites. We also experienced industry professionals and young ran comprehensive working groups to help our new graduates. recruits become more familiar with the company, and understand our values and culture. To help bridge this gap, Salini Impregilo launched the “100 Young Engineers – Tomorrow’s Builders” We then assigned the new engineers to diverse campaign in late 2014. We sought to recruit 100 of Group projects around the world, where they Italy’s most talented civil, mechanical, environmental began a cross-functional training on site, supported and management engineering graduates, offering by an e-learning platform and other structured them the opportunity to learn diverse, crossdevelopment initiatives. functional skills. In this way, we aim to equip today’s In the first year of the programme, we delivered more young engineers with the skills and knowledge than 100,000 on-the-job training and tutoring hours, required for key roles within our organisation, helping and over 1,000 e-learning training hours to our 100 them to become tomorrow’s project managers. engineering graduates. By the end of 2015, they had also participated in a project management course, In early 2015, we recruited 100 top engineering focusing on managing complex, large-scale projects graduates, selected from some 1,800 applicants. and working effectively in teams. The new recruits comprise 20% women and have an average age of 26. We have since offered them In 2016 the “100 Young Engineers – Tomorrow’s the opportunity to gain experience in projects in Italy Builders” program will continue with further training and abroad, so that they can develop the same skills and development activities, comprising job rotation as engineering professionals already working at our at sites and at the headquarters. construction sites. 34 Sustainability Report 2015 3.3 Fostering a strong system, we then determine whether suppliers will be supply chain confirmed or denied any further business with the Group. Building a strong supply chain is vital to the overall success of our projects. Supporting and monitoring suppliers Promoting responsible purchasing The Group provides a range of strategic support for suppliers and sub-contractors, to help ensure To ensure consistent quality levels and performance satisfactory performance in quality, health, safety, and worldwide, we require our partners to conform to environmental matters. rigorous standards and rules, including ethical, social and environmental principles, along with respect for Sharing our knowledge and skills with local suppliers human rights. and sub-contractors allows us to develop strong partnerships and to support their growth and their We support production activities at our global technical development. We regularly provide tailored sites by placing a keen focus on supply chain training activities, particularly for sub-contractors’ management, particularly in terms of procuring personnel. In 2015, we delivered over 91,000 training facilities, equipment, and materials. Our central hours on quality, environment, health, and safety and local procurement teams manage the entire issues. process, including site visits to suppliers’ factories, and shipping and customs activities. In selecting and In addition, our site-based Quality and HSE evaluating suppliers, our buyers check a number of departments regularly monitor sub-contractors to issues, both linked to the Group’s general policies help ensure that they adopt the same quality and (technical requirements, ethics, quality and HSE health and safety standards that we expect from our certifications) and any specific requirements (e.g. employees. In 2015, over 4,000 formal meetings prior verification of the compliance of the materials to were held with subcontractors on these issues and, be used in LEED projects). also thanks to this awareness raising activities, their Injury Rate (IR)10 improved of about 33%, passing We also pay special attention to sub-contracts, as from 0.89 in 2014 to 0.60 in 2015. these can have significant social and environmental impacts on our supply chain. For this reason, they The Group also periodically checks the compliance are subject to the same rules that apply to our direct of sub-contractors and service providers with regard workforce and activities throughout the world. to legal obligations related to wages, social security, and insurance for workers employed at our sites. In all supply contracts, we require suppliers and sub-contractors to comply with the principles of As with our direct workforce, sub-contractors are Salini Impregilo’s Code of Ethics and Anti-Corruption eligible to use our on-site grievance procedures Model. Special contract termination clauses apply if to report their concerns and suggestions to the the supplier acts in direct opposition to the provisions management. of the Code and of the Model. We assess all major and strategic suppliers, both > 91,000 before and during the execution of contracts. Training hours provided to Through our in-house performance evaluation subcontractors’ employees 10 IR represents the number of injuries occurring per 100 employees, and it is calculated as a rate between the total number of injuries with prognosis longer than 3 days occurring in the period (fatalities included) and the total hours worked, multiplied by 200,000. 35 Sustainability Report 2015 4.Transparency We promote an ethical, open and transparent conduct with all our stakeholders. > 86,700 People engaged at project level > 1 million Global stakeholders engaged through digital platforms 4.1 Ensuring transparent governance Throughout all our activities, we aim to achieve optimum efficiency and the highest levels of transparency towards stakeholders. This begins with our governance system, which adheres to respected international standards of business practice. At the end of 2015, the Group’s Board of Directors comprised 14 members (including four women), 11 of whom meet the independence requirements, representing 78.6% of the Board. 37 Sustainability Report 2015 The Board appointed the following four internal 4.2 Condicting business committees: with integrity • Executive Committee; For Salini Impregilo, balancing commercial goals • Control and Risk Committee; with a solid work ethic and maintaining integrity is • Compensation and Nominating Committee; integral to the way we do business. To help guide • Committee for Related-Party Transaction. our employees’ behaviour, we have implemented a Compliance System composed of policies, The Board of Directors also appointed an Integrity procedures, models, organisational structures and Board to help ensure that we apply and comply with control activities. Model 231 (required by Italian law) effectively. The System is also structured to ensure that we An internal Sustainability Unit oversees social and respect applicable competition laws preventing antienvironmental issues under the Compliance Director, competitive practices and corrupt behaviours, and who reports directly to the CEO and regularly meets maintain high levels of integrity in all our interactions the Control and Risk Committee, comprised of five with public authorities. independent Directors, to discuss results and new plans. A whistleblowing system completes the Compliance System, allowing individuals to anonymously report We communicate our sustainability strategy and presumed or known violations, and giving them results to analysts and stakeholders through this protection against any form of retaliation, discrimination, report and our corporate website. Similarly, our or penalty. Investor Relations and Sustainability Units are in regular contact with investors and sustainability Our Code of Ethics ratings agencies. The Group’s commitment to business ethics is In 2015, Salini Impregilo launched a Performance stated in our Code of Ethics, which defines for Management pilot programme for approximately 120 each corporate value the principles that guide senior employees, with the aim of reinforcing our our behaviours. These include honesty, fairness, results-driven culture. We structured the programme integrity, impartiality, confidentiality, physical integrity into two phases: defining objectives and evaluating protection, respect for human dignity, environmental performance. protection, and the respect of local communities. The Code represents a reference point for our The system comprised three objectives categories employees and everyone who contributes to our (company performance, department/unit mission and objectives. Similarly, the principles performance, organisational behaviours) aligned with provide conduct guidelines for the Group’s directors, those of senior management. Each department and employees, and all those who collaborate with the unit must strive to meet specific objectives, including Salini Impregilo Group. sustainability ones. We require all new employees to sign up to the Code of Ethics, and all contracts with Group’s partners, suppliers, providers of services, consultants, etc. include an obligation to comply with the rules of the Code. 38 Sustainability Report 2015 ‘Organisational, Management and Control’ A special Anti-Corruption Legal Support Unit, model founded within the Compliance Department, is responsible for providing assistance and advice on Salini Impregilo has adopted a Group Organisational, anti-corruption issues, as well as for monitoring the Management and Control model (also called Model Model’s application and its effectiveness. 231) aimed at: The violation of the principles and provisions of • Defining and embedding a corporate culture the Anti-Corruption Model, or the failure to report based on compliance and transparency; known or suspected illegal actions, represents • Raising awareness among employees and a serious breach of contract between the stakeholders. Company and its employees or collaborators. In these cases, Salini Impregilo would take the The Model operates under the scope of the Internal appropriate measures, as prescribed by legal and Control System and is aimed at preventing offences contractual requirements (such as conservative under Italian Law 231/2001, through the monitoring sanctions, dismissal, termination of the contractual of operations with a risk of civil and penal liability for relationship, damages, etc). the company and our representatives. In order to promote awareness and understanding of The Model contains measures that guarantee the Model, Salini Impregilo provides a mandatory antiactivities are conducted in compliance with the law corruption training programme for all employees. The and that promptly detect and eliminate potential risks. course is adapted to the qualifications and position of the individual employee, and to the extent of his/her An independent control body – the Integrity Board involvement in potentially sensitive activities. – oversees the effective implementation of and compliance with the Model by means of audits Additionally, all contracts with third parties now conducted by the Compliance Department. include specific clauses obliging compliance with the principles contained in the Group’s Code of Ethics Anti-corruption compliance system and the Anti-Corruption Model. To reinforce the provisions of the Code of Ethics and All employees at our corporate head office, as well fully integrate the tenth principle of the Global Compact as those working on construction projects in Italy, into the organisation, Salini Impregilo developed its own receive dedicated training on anti-corruption, through Anti-Corruption Compliance System. This comprises both traditional in-house courses and e-learning. In a specific policy, a management model, and detailed 2016 this training drive will cover all Group employees guidelines and procedures that assign roles and working on projects outside Italy and people hired in responsibilities for operations and monitoring at all levels 2015. of the organisation. The Anti-Corruption Model is an element of the Group’s internal control system. By following this model, we aim to strengthen certain prevention protocols, minimise the risk of active or passive corruption, and ensure compliance with the principles introduced by anti-corruption laws and international best practices. 39 Sustainability Report 2015 4.3 Promoting fair relations such as the Group’s strategies, values, sustainability and development plans. Working with our on-site stakeholders closely every day has shown us the importance of dialogue At an operating level, our principal engagement in the success of any project. Transparency and activities relate to the features of a particular project. engagement are therefore intrinsic features of our Our key stakeholders in this context include partners, sustainability strategy. employees, local communities, suppliers, contractors and sub-contractors, clients, local authorities, and Additionally, as a leading global infrastructure company, organisations such as unions and NGOs (nonwe have developed specialist, flexible engagement governmental organisations). practices to respond to our stakeholders’ diverse needs. At a corporate level, our key stakeholders In 2015, we held the below stakeholder activities, include investors, clients, current and potential as part of our ongoing commitment to open employees, partners, governments, media and the dialogue: public. We engage with them mainly on general issues Our engagement efforts were recognised with various awards and accolades in 2015 (reported in the section 1.2). Salini Impregilo local and global stakeholders Face to face Digital communication channels communication channels Meetings, presentations, focus groups, workshops, Corporate website, interviews, consultations, site visits, career fairs, public events interactive reports, intranet, social media > 3,000 > 29,800 > 53,800 > 1 million people engaged in people hosted people engaged visitors over 190 meetings at our projects during in over 190 to Group’s held with local communities about 640 information campaigns digital platforms and their representatives open-door events about our projects +59% +45% +499% +35% versus 2014 versus 2014 versus 2014 versus 2014 41 Sustainability Report 2015 CASE STUDY 6 stakeholders and the industry. In 2015, we Communicating with global stakeholders experienced more than 93,500 downloads and in a digital world some 600,000 unique users from 200 countries. In order to respond to stakeholder needs more Technological innovation is central to communicaefficiently, our website features dedicated microting effectively with our stakeholders, from consites and other digital platforms, developed to necting employees in remote locations to updaaddress the needs of specific stakeholder groups. ting investors on our financial results or providing These platforms include, for example, an Investor transparent information on our sustainability Relations App that provides financial news and performance. updates to analysts and investors in a simple direct way, interactive financial and sustainability reporting We have therefore adopted an integrated digital and a dedicated Panama Canal website. In 2015, communication strategy, based on a multiall our web-based platforms received more than one channel and multi-stakeholder communication million visits, with an increase of 35% year on year. system, in order to respond to stakeholders’ needs effectively, convey information clearly and In October 2015, we launched an online news reach audiences within seconds. magazine, “We Build Value”, focusing on global economic trends, with a particular focus on the For example, in 2015, we listened to our infrastructure industry. Additionally, we have employees and optimised our global intranet tool, stepped up our social media communications with known as “@work” (launched in 2014), in line with stakeholders to promote further interaction and their needs. We published multiple news updates, discussion. We have seen an increasing number of together with all our internal procedures and followers, with peaks of over 30% on Linkedin and processes, as well as interactive organograms. Twitter in comparison with 2014. We also made the “@work” platform more “social”, creating an online networking facility We have won multiple awards for our internal to help foster a more collaborative work communications, and for our global intranet “@ environment. Additionally, we launched a work”, in particular, including recognition as one of video storytelling section called “Symphony Europe’s “Top Five Intranet sites” at the European of Values”, through which we aim to illustrate Excellence Awards 2015. Our Group website was Salini Impregilo’s corporate values through real also named the “Best Improver 2015” award in employee stories. Comprehend’s 2015 Webranking (gaining 25 places compared to 2014), which measures how Italy’s We are enabling our global employees to largest listed companies are meeting stakeholders’ communicate and share information in real time expectations on terms of transparency and dialogue via a new “virtual office”. In this way, we aim to through digital channels. help new joiners feel part of the company more quickly, create a consistent corporate culture Finally, we were also recognised among Italy’s worldwide, and share updates on our business Online Talent Communication 2016 rankings for strategy, as well as increasing efficiency. We our efforts to communicate with millennials online also aim to engage and motivate employees, and via social media. For more information on our encouraging them to become “ambassadors” awards, please see 1.3 Recognition and Awards. for the company, catalyse more interactive discussions and knowledge-sharing, and better In 2016 we will continue to seek new ways to understand employees’ needs. communicate our activities and performance using digital channels, also through the development of We aim for our corporate website to be an only-social projects, as well as through improving authoritative source of information for our integration of financial and non-financial disclosure. 42 Sustainability Report 2015 Engaging with local communities We require our sites to establish dedicated communication channels with external stakeholders, Transparency is fundamental in managing relationships both face-to-face (such as information offices at with the communities living near our sites. Our the site and/or next to it) and virtual, in the form of engagement with communities is guided by fairness and dedicated telephone help-lines and websites, for respect for local cultures. example. These channels allow us and our clients to maintain direct contact with local people, both Working in partnership with our clients, we conduct providing information and gathering community communications campaigns to keep local people feedback. Our site managers review their comments informed about how we are executing our projects and and observations, responding to any queries in line our progress to date. with specific procedures. 43 Sustainability Report 2015 5. Respect We respect people, diversity and the environment. 14% Injury Rate compared with 2014 14% GHG emissions intensity rate 5.1 Promoting health and safety Salini Impregilo recognises the critical importance of occupational health and safety in ensuring the protection and welfare of employees and third parties across all activities at its offices or construction sites. We aim to minimise or eliminate the risk of accidents through rigorous prevention protocols. Managing safety effectively We seek to manage health and safety effectively at each operating site by employing dedicated staff 45 Sustainability Report 2015 to oversee risk assessment, planning and training reviewing their strengths and weaknesses, and programmes, as well as engage our employees and taking corrective measures to ensure continuous sub-contractors, and monitor operational activities. improvement. By adopting the Safety Management System, certified according to the BS OHSAS 18001 standard, Salini Impregilo has raised awareness of Strengthening our safety performance health and safety issues among our employees; reduced accidents at work; taken action to prevent In 2015, we invested further in health and SEE ALSO CASE HISTORY occupational illness; and lowered insurance costs safety training and communications. We 4 and fines. delivered some 637,500 hours of training to We require everyone working on our sites to comply our employees on health and safety issues, with our safety standards. We provide an induction as well as 82,800 training hours to sub-contractors’ course to all new employees and sub-contractors personnel. Additionally, we trained 4,500 people in on the Group’s health and safety policies and first aid, and 7,900 in fire control and emergency procedures, along with any additional training on response. specific risks associated with particular tasks. Health and safety was the key focus of some 4,900 Our central Quality, Environment, Health and Safety technical meetings, of which nearly 1,300 were held Department conducts regular audits of our on-site with clients, and 2,900 with business partners. safety procedures and evaluates how well our teams In addition, on-site teams and external control are upholding company health and safety standards. bodies (including clients, funders, local authorities, Senior managers review the suitability and and assurance bodies) completed more than 4,500 effectiveness of our management systems annually, control activities and some 160 audits. CASE STUDY 7 encouraging employees to put safety at the heart Evolving our safety culture by engaging of their daily work. We will first target managers, employees and creating safety champions who will be responsible for sharing our health and safety values with their teams. While health and safety standards have improved significantly in the construction industry, In order to set the initiative in motion, we will influencing workers’ behaviour is still a key focus hold interactive workshops for managers to raise for improvement, with some 90% of injuries awareness of our safety vision and the theoretical connected to behaviour. and practical tools needed to implement it. We will also hold events to help share the key concepts Salini Impregilo has recently launched a of our safety vision with the entire workforce, and programme aimed at creating a strong offer training courses for on-site personnel on the organisational health and safety culture, use of innovative safety tools. These allow anyone supported by our senior managers. Firstly, we to intervene effectively in the event of unsafe aim to engage all employees at every site – situations, reinforcing good safety behaviours. managers, supervisors and workers, helping them to improve their attitude, behaviour and way We launched the project in late 2015 in two pilot of thinking. Additionally, to reach everyone in the sites: the Cityringen Metro project in Copenhagen organisation, we are creating credible, respected (Denmark), where we are building a new circular safety leaders. line in the city centre with 34 km of tunnels and 17 Overall, we aim to improve safety through our new stations, and the Sydney Metro Northwest leaders’ ability to influence workers’ behaviours, project (Australia), where we are developing the thereby moving from a compliance approach to “Skytrain” bridge and other civil works. 46 Sustainability Report 2015 In 2015, our Injury Rate (IR)11 was 0.74, a decrease of due to the performance registered by our motorways 14% compared with 2014, while the Lost Day Rate and railways projects in Europe, where we will focus (LDR)12 was 18.23, slightly more than in 2014, mainly our attention in 2016. Total workforce Injury Rate Total workforce Lost Day Rate 28,05 1,09 0,86 0,74 15,12 18,23 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 14% Injury Rate compared with 2014 5.2 Promoting employee well-being The tenets of the agreement are in line with declarations ratified by the United Nations, the International Labour Salini Impregilo is committed to providing optimal Organisation, and the OECD. Overall, the agreement working conditions for our entire workforce, with acknowledges the importance of promoting a positive the aim of improving employees’ quality of life, and approach to union activities and an open attitude fostering a good work/life balance. towards unionisation in all countries in which the Group operates, in conjunction with fair collective bargaining Equal rights and opportunities procedures. It promotes the implementation of best practices We aspire to promote multicultural work such as non-discrimination, prohibition of child and environments based on equal opportunity, and forced labour, fair pay, health and safety, respect for respecting and empowering individuals. the environment, freedom of association and collective In line with our Code of Ethics, we advocate strict bargaining. guidelines for protecting workers’ rights, and strive to Additionally, through this agreement, we aim to help prevent any form of discrimination toward individuals improve working conditions in the countries where we or groups engaged in Salini Impregilo’s projects. operate. We will monitor our performance jointly with the BWI In late 2014, the Group became the only Italian (Building and Wood Workers’ International) and Italian company in the infrastructure construction industry labour unions. Workers at our sites will also have to have signed an International Framework grievance mechanisms at their disposal, enabling them Agreement with both the Italian and the International to communicate any concerns to managers. Construction Unions aimed at promoting the Where applicable, minimum legal wages are rigorously fundamental principles of human rights worldwide. respected in all countries in which Salini Impregilo operates. 11 IR represents the number of injuries occurring per 100 employees, and it is calculated as a rate between the total number of injuries with prognosis longer than 3 days occurring in the period (fatalities included) and the total hours worked, multiplied by 200,000. Reported IR is related to the total workforce (direct and subcontractors’ employees). 12 LDR represents the number of working days lost per 100 employees, and it is calculated as a rate between the total number of lost days (related to injuries with prognosis longer than 3 days) and total hours worked, then multiplied by 200,000. Reported LDR is related to the total workforce (direct and subcontractors’ employees). 47 Sustainability Report 2015 CASE STUDY 8 everything from nutrition, health and communication Creating a blueprint for improving pay and issues, to more work-specific questions on wages, labour conditions for foreign workers tax, work time regulations etc. Additionally, we are participating in a pilot scheme, In Denmark, some 1,300 workers on the along with three subcontractors, whereby employees Copenhagen Cityringen Metro construction will covered by the overall agreement can work 37 benefit from a new landmark agreement that hours per week. They can opt to work eight hours combines respect for Danish laws and traditions overtime, which would total 45 working hours across with better wages and working conditions for a six-day week. Workers have also received an extra foreign workers. The agreement took effect from Metro supplement of DKK 10 per hour as well as January 2016, and is designed to help Denmark increased hourly supplements for evening and night meet the needs of an international workforce on shifts of DKK 25 and 70 respectively. large scale building projects. It could serve as a Workers can work flexibly on three different shifts, model for future construction initiatives in the region. day, evening and night, as long as there is an The main contractor, Copenhagen Metro Team approved and signed plan. The agreement contains (CMT), led by Salini Impregilo, and the trade union clear rules about notice periods and switching BJMF/3F, forged the unprecedented agreement in between shifts, and trade union representatives are late 2015. Workers from 24 countries are involved involved in workload planning. They approve any in the project, employed by some 250 companies. updates to working schedules when workers are When completed in 2019, the Metro Cityringen will moving to another shift, for example. comprise 17 new stations and 34 km of tunnel, We took a pragmatic, open-minded approach to the substantially improving Copenhagen’s urban negotiations, striving for improved understanding transport system. and dialogue throughout. With the agreement now With both Danish and international companies in place, we hope that it will set an example of participating in the project, people have had to positive engagement with local stakeholders and adapt and understand foreign cultures, in order help the construction industry to make progress on to identify suitable solutions. This has covered respecting local culture and social needs. Our healthcare system regularly offer local employees training courses and provide information to local communities. The Group’s health service comprises a dedicated Topics include improving hygiene and sanitation, medical team at headquarters that plans and promoting a healthy lifestyle, preventing the develops all activities related to health, including spread of endemic diseases (such as malaria), and disease prevention and control procedures and sexually transmitted diseases (including HIV and health monitoring programmes. It also carries out hepatitis). In 2015, medical professionals delivered information campaigns and inspections at our some 440 training sessions to more than 5,300 operating sites, in order to review workplaces individuals. and check compliance with occupational health Our site clinics are also in charge of monitoring regulations. hygiene in workers’ accommodation and canteens, The team also coordinates the medical facilities at as well as analysing drinking water, and providing all our sites outside Italy, which provide 24-hour pest-control services. medical and ambulance services to both direct In 2015, Salini Impregilo employed some 220 and indirect employees – as well as their family medical staff worldwide. They completed more members and local people – for any acute or than 155,000 consultations, treated 148,000 serious medical matters. cases, performed 6,600 medical check-ups and Doctors responsible for the operating sites conducted 50,000 laboratory tests. 48 Sustainability Report 2015 >188,500 athletics fields, markets, bars and telecommunication systems. Healthcare interventions provided We also provide schools for employees’ children on to direct and indirect employees major sites, in order to support their childcare needs and attract young people to our most challenging projects. Experienced teachers deliver lessons >17,700 in a variety of languages, and these schools also Free consultations, check-ups typically receive official recognition from the local or and medical treatments provided international education authorities. to local people Our Village Chiefs, specifically hired to manage sites’ camps, are also in charge of arranging social activities for residents and guests, such as sportive, cultural and recreational events. Caring for our employees on site Security at our operating sites is managed in We pay particular attention to the provision of agreement with clients and the local authorities, adequate living conditions for all our employees, as and operated by a combination of in-house well as security for staff employed in remote areas or personnel, specialist external companies, and – challenging socio-environmental contexts. where necessary – public security authorities. Our Our efforts involve designing and building suitable security managers are responsible for ensuring that and secure camps to accommodate workers and all employees involved in surveillance activities are their families. The camps are equipped with facilities aware of and comply with the Group’s policy and including canteens, hospitals, fitness centres and ethical principles. 49 Sustainability Report 2015 5.3 Protecting the environment change programme. Salini Impregilo has obtained a 100/100 rating in that programme, having full Salini Impregilo has a longstanding commitment disclosed on our strategy and governance, risk and to lowering the environmental impact of our opportunity management, as well as on management construction activities. We aim to be transparent and verification of emissions. with our stakeholders on all environmental issues, mitigation activities, and performance. Our environmental footprint In 2015, the Group entered the Italian Climate Here, we share our 2015 environmental performance Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) that comprises data and progress against our KPIs. For more the top 10 companies involved in the CDP’s climate details, please refer to the Performance data section. INPUTS -13% Energy intensity rate 93% 3% 70% 91% Aggregates Ready-mix From rivers Diesel and sand concrete 79,429,370 t 31,169,387 m3 8,918,723 GJ Main resources used Water withdrawals Energy use 1% 2% 30% 9% Cement Other From other sources Other sources 6,069,993 m3 Concrete 1,807,045 t Asphalt +19% CONSTRUCTION Excavation materials recycled and reused ACTIVITIES 15,936,770 m3 Earth-moving 76% Scope 1 CO2 -14% GHG emissions 690,208 t 6,054,080 t intensity rate GHG emissions Waste 5% 19% 94% 6% Scope 2 Scope 3 Non-hazardous Hazardous OUTPUTS 50 Sustainability Report 2015 Managing our impact on the environment Once the project is approved, contractors are then responsible for preparing Environmental and Environmental considerations are an important Social Management Plans to address the impacts focus in the development of every infrastructure identified in the Environmental and Social Impact project, given the close link between the project Assessments. and its environment. For this reason, almost all SEE ALSO legislations worldwide provide for the carrying Salini Impregilo manages our worldwide CASE HISTORY 1 out of Environmental (and recently also Social) activities according to a structured Impact Assessments for infrastructure projects, Environmental Management system that through which projects’ proponents (typically conforms to the ISO 14001 standard requirements. our clients), environmental protection authorities, This table summarises the main activities completed affected communities and funding agencies (if any) at each stage of the system, based on the Life Cycle determine whether and under what conditions approach. projects will proceed. Planning We assess all potential environmental impacts deriving from our construction activities according to a >10,500 activities standardised methodology, based on specific criteria (probability of occurrence, consequences for the Environmental environment, duration of the event, mitigation challenges). control activities Following the impact assessment, each project prepares an Environmental Management Plan, which completed describes the management and monitoring activities (Environmental Control Plans) for all the relevant environmental issues. Footprint Environmental Control Plans assess in detail the environmental footprint of the project in the 133 monitoring local community, through a three-stage evaluation process (pre-construction, construction, postAudits performed construction). Our site environmental departments, supported by external agencies and the HSE Department at 28 headquarters, conduct regular audits of construction sites and sub-contractors to check compliance Environmental with relevant environmental policies and procedures. management Environmental performance is reviewed by Salini Impregilo’s senior managers, who assign targets to reviews completed ensure ongoing performance improvements. Supply chain We implement environmental prevention and protection measures in the supply chain involved in the >570 evaluation execution of projects. This particularly applies to sub-contractors and suppliers of certain materials New suppliers they have to pass a qualification process based on the projects’ requirements. screened about We evaluate logistics needs in order to reduce environmental impacts and related costs. When goods environmental are not available on the local market, the Group ships equipment and materials by sea as much as aspects possible, in order to minimise carbon emissions. 99% Goods shipped by sea Training and Each site plans and delivers training activities for all employees involved in operations with potential 220,700 awareness impacts on the environment, sub-contractors’ personnel included. Environmental In addition, all new employees receive an induction session on the Group’s environmental policies training hours and procedures, and we develop regular awareness campaigns on specific topics (e.g. waste, spills, provided to the chemicals, etc.). workforce 51 Sustainability Report 2015 Protecting the environment We have monitoring, control, and mitigation SEE ALSO CASE HISTORY measures in place at all our sites to help 2 protect the environment and prevent pollution. This table summarises the main activities completed at an operating level on key environmental issues. Natural We prioritise rationalisation and efficiency in the use of raw materials, favouring Green Design 82% resources solutions that enable: Excavation • a reduction in the consumption of natural resources; materials reused • the reuse of discarded material (e.g. unpolluted excavation earth); • the use of reusable/recyclable products or items resulting in lower costs and reduced environmental impact. Energy and Salini Impregilo strives to reduce energy consumption and related GHG emissions in multiple ways, -13% GHG emissions including: Energy intensity • linking the site plants and facilities to local power grids; rate • regularly maintaining vehicle fleets; • replacing equipment with more efficient models; -14% • implementing energy-saving lighting systems; GHG emissions • switching to renewable energy technologies at plants (e.g. from diesel to natural gas); intensity rate • installing energy recovery systems; • increasing employee awareness of energy-saving behaviours. Water We are committed to managing water responsibly at all phases of the water cycle: from identifying 9% water requirements and supply sources, to developing water-handling networks with related supply Water recycled and discharge points, control plans, and emergency response procedures. and reused We implement closed-loop water systems wherever possible, with the aim of recycling and reusing industrial water, e.g. at crushing plants, batching plants, and machinery washing stations. >2,800 Wastewater is collected in treatment plants and, before being released into the environment, its Water analysis quality is carefully monitored, ensuring compliance with local laws. campaigns performed Waste We establish waste management plans at each site, and comply with all applicable regulations and 49% best practices. Waste diverted All construction waste is segregated and collected in dedicated enclosed areas. We reuse as much from landfills of it as possible, while the remainder is sent via authorised transport companies to approved waste disposal facilities. In particular, we focus on preparing adequate deposit areas, verifying the qualifications of truckers and waste companies, and providing training to all employees involved in waste management. Soil Salini Impregilo carefully monitors the effect of our activities on the soil and subsoil, in order to avoid 2 million m2 any potential pollution or damage. Soil interested by Containment tanks, water collection networks, and waterproofing operations are installed or erosion-protection implemented during the initial site-development stage, while specific environmental risk assessments activities are completed for all chemicals, oils, fuels, and hazardous material that might come into contact with the soil and/or groundwater. We have environmental emergency plans in place at our sites to manage both environmental accidents and cases of polluted soil. Specific plans are also in place for preventing soil erosion through drainage and soil-consolidation systems, as well as seeding activities. 52 Sustainability Report 2015 Respecting local people and wildlife and are committed to minimising disruption to our neighbours (in the form of noise, traffic, and other We seek to operate construction sites with respect community-related inconveniences). for surrounding communities and wildlife habitats, Air Air pollution in the construction industry is mostly related to the dispersion of dust caused in different phases: >426,000 digging, soil movement, circulation of heavy vehicles on unpaved roads, crushing equipment, and the Anti-pollution demolition of existing structures and objects. controls carried out To minimise the production of dust at our sites, we implement a series of preventative actions that include on equipment and keeping unpaved roads moist, equipping crushing plants with sprinkler systems to moisten aggregates, and machines using air filters at cement storage silos. In urban areas, road washing is carried out regularly by dedicated vehicles. We transport materials using covered trucks and, where possible, materials are moistened prior to transportation. We also monitor the emissions of vehicles used to process and transport materials to and from construction sites, through regular maintenance of machines, installation of particle filters, and the use of low-impact vehicles. Noise and Before starting any activities, we conduct an assessment of the potential impacts deriving from >42,000 vibration noise and vibration, determining which measures to adopt to safeguard workers’ health and safety Noise and vibration (e.g. through the use of personal protective equipment) and the surrounding environment (e.g. by measurement consolidating structures and using acoustic insulation). campaigns Areas of greatest acoustic impact are screened off by noise barriers, both fixed and mobile, and made performed either with artificial materials or from rows of trees capable of absorbing noise. In densely populated areas in particular, we complete studies before starting any activities to understand how vibrations could affect the surrounding ground and identify the optimum technologies. We take noise and vibration measurements throughout in order to verify the effectiveness of preventative measures and intervene in the case of any incidents. Measurement instruments are installed close to sensitive locations (e.g. buildings, urban parks, offices, etc.). Traffic and Each project has a dedicated Traffic Management Plan, which specifies the general circulation rules >8 million commuting for vehicles and pedestrians within the confines of the site. Traffic is controlled by dedicated teams Hours worked by comprising in-house personnel and, in some cases, local police. site vehicles Personnel who drive dumper trucks or vehicles for transporting passengers receive special training on safe driving, and are regularly tested for alcohol and drugs. At some sites, speed is monitored through >390,000 GPS systems installed in our vehicle fleets. Routine To reduce vehicle traffic and related emissions, sites use special personnel mobility management maintenance programmes, aimed at optimising transfers between work areas, canteens, and lodgings. These activities carried comprise collective transport vehicles for workers, and car-pooling for site office staff. out on vehicles Biodiversity Salini Impregilo consolidates its monitoring and mitigation efforts with a commitment to preserving and 0.1% protecting biological diversity at its operating sites. Our environmental impact assessments also include an Project areas analysis of the potential risks of interference with protected species. located inside Technical arrangements are implemented to mitigate any possible impact of works on the environment. protected areas Flora and fauna are protected by careful management of water, operating areas, quarries, and areas designated for the storage of materials. >320 In particular, the Group strictly prohibits the removal, damage, or disturbance of natural habitats in its site Wild fauna rescued areas, applying in advance to the relevant authorities for any intervention. Moreover, internal procedures forbid the hunting, capture, or disturbance of animals, including damaging nests or eggs. Educational campaigns are arranged at project sites so that all workers can contribute to safeguarding local species, starting with the simple reporting of sightings of wildlife. Reclamation We are committed to reclaiming all areas affected by our plants, facilities, quarries and landfills during and >3.7 million m2 of affected after the completion of a project. The aim is to leave these areas in a condition that facilitates natural re-vegeAreas interested by areas tation, prevents soil erosion, improves slope stability, thereby returning affected areas to their original state. reforestation and soil Reclamation activities are agreed with our clients and planned in partnership with local authorities and comreclamation activities munities. We aim to understand the needs of future stakeholders (e.g. farmers) and where possible, we arrange the handover of these areas to local farmers after restoration, ensuring a direct benefit for local com>280,000 munities. Planted trees Reforestation activities are usually carried out using native plants and species, also grown at special nurseries at our projects. 53 Sustainability Report 2015 CASE STUDY 9 In order to develop the plan, we conducted an Protecting biodiversity in Panama in-depth study of the area, analysing the local climate and habitats on both sites of the canal Protecting the environment and minimising (Atlantic and Pacific), and comparing them the impacts of our construction activities is with those in Panamanian parks and protected vital throughout the project life cycle. When areas. Having identified parks with the same developing the Panama Canal expansion biodiversity of the working area, we agreed that project, we created a structured plan to protect they would host rescued wildlife from the area biodiversity, right from the initial construction surrounding the site. stages. Indeed, the Consortium Grupo Unidos Por El Canal (GUPC) (of which we are a Through the first field stage, specialised member), has defined a wide-ranging Rescue researchers monitored the area for a week to and Relocation Plan for Wildlife, in line with identify the species present and the number the local authorities and bodies responsible for of animals to relocate (including the nests managing Panama’s National Parks. and beehives on the trees). In particular, they focused on species that may move slowly, those The Plan has two key objectives. Firstly, we injured or in imminent danger, as well as young aim to protect, conserve, rescue and relocate animals. wildlife inhabiting the areas affected by forest harvesting, grubbing and movement of The researchers classified the species identified earth. Secondly, we aim to help field workers during the observation activities, including the understand the importance of conserving local endangered and endemic species, in line with wildlife in a structured way, while developing the Panamanian Wildlife Laws, the Convention the country. on International Trade in Endangered Species of 54 Sustainability Report 2015 Wild Life and Flora (CITES), and the IUCN Red We deliver weekly training talks, helping workers List. remember the rescue plan and the procedures The real rescue operation could then take place. to follow if they see any animals during the On the Pacific side of the project, camera traps construction activities. Additionally, we display were installed in strategic places a week prior murals and brochures relating to the protection to the works, for example, to help locate the of wildlife throughout the site, as well as installing animals as efficiently as possible. The monitoring signs showing crossing fauna and speed limits. and rescue activities will continue both during and at the end of the works. From the beginning of the project in 2009 until the end of 2015, we have helped to rescue more Experienced vets examine the rescued animals than 4,100 animals, mainly reptiles, mammals and determine if they are well enough to be and amphibians (of which about 4% were found released into a new habitat, or if they require injured) and relocate them to protected parks. recovery and rehabilitation (in places such as the Shelter Temporary Metropolitan Park). Finally, the animals are released in the agreed parks, with the collaboration of the park guards or other ANAM (Autoridad Nacional del Ambiente) officers. With worker collaboration essential to rescuing any wildlife still in the working area, we strive to make the process as proactive as possible by engaging them through dedicated and continuous training on conserving biodiversity. 55 Sustainability Report 2015 Appendix Salini Impregilo was the first Italian company in To identify topics relevant to Salini Impregilo and the construction industry to produce and publish determine the report’s content, we have developed an Environmental Report in 2002; it was also the a dedicated process in line with the G4 Guidelines: first to publish a Sustainability Report, prepared in compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) • Internal identification of possible sustainability Guidelines in 2009. topics relevant to our industry, including an analysis of peers, sustainability ratings agencies, With a strong commitment to transparency and industry surveys, and media; accountability, we continue to lead by example. • Internal prioritisation of identified topics with This, our 2015 Sustainability Report, is the third the Group’s management, through consultation consecutive report we have produced in line with GRI with senior leadership including human G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. resources, quality and HSE affairs, procurement, production, technical department, and investor relations; Materiality analysis • External prioritisation of identified topics with the main Group’s stakeholders, through The G4 Guidelines place considerable emphasis interviews at selected operating sites (with on materiality, whereby organisations are required representatives of clients, employees, unions, to focus their reporting the key economic, social, and sub-contractors), a survey of a crossand environmental issues that are most important section of employees, as well as interviews with to their business and stakeholders. In defining external stakeholders, both at headquarters these issues, companies must also maintain an (investors and clients) and at operating sites open dialogue with both internal and external (local communities and authorities); stakeholders. • Final approval from Group senior management of the defined shortlist of priority topics. Through this process, we identified 12 priority topics, as reported in the materiality matrix below, which form the basis of this report. We have grouped these topics under four key areas of commitment that reflect our corporate values. For further details, please refer to the Methodological Note. 57 H Importance To Our Stakeholders dialogue Business an Corporate integrity HIGH Tale governance Personnel and Open wellbeing Sustainability Health Report 2015 Innovation Importance To Our Stakeholders dialogue Job creatio and Safety and client Business satisfaction Corporate integrity Local econ governance Talent attraction Environmental and development protection Community Innovation Supply chain and client Job creation satisfaction Environmental Local economies support protection Community support MATERIALITY MATRIX 2015 Supply chain LOW Importance To Salini Impregilo LOW HIGH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 STRUCTURE Personnel Open wellbeing Health OUR VALUES Importance To Our Stakeholders dialogue LOW Importance To Salini Impregilo Business and Safety Section 2 Section 3 HIGH Section 4 LOW Corporate integrity Solidity Excellence Transparency governance Talent attraction SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 STRUCTURE • Building a sustainable future • Innovating to satisfy emerging needs • Ensuring a transparent g and development • Building shared growth • Attracting and developing talent • Conducting business wit Innovation OUR VALUES • Fostering strong supply chain • Promoting an open dialo and client Job creation Section 2 Section 3 Section 4 Section 5 satisfaction Environmental Local economies support Solidity Excellence Transparency Respect • Building a sustainable future • Innovating to satisfy emerging needs • Ensuring a transparent governance • Protecting health and safety protection • Building shared growth • Attracting and developing talent • Conducting business with integrity • Ensuring personnel well-being Community support • Fostering strong supply chain • Promoting an open dialogue • Protecting the environment Supply chain LOW Importance To Salini Impregilo LOW HIGH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 STRUCTURE Sustainability OUR VALUES challenges and opportunities Section 2 Section 3 Section 4 Section 5 Solidity Excellence Transparency Respect To provide a broader • Building a sustainable future viewtoof • Innovating our satisfy materiality emerging needs • Ensuringanalysis, a transparent governance •potential Protecting health andrisks safety and opportunities, divided into our four • Building shared growth • Attracting and developing talent • Conducting business with integrity • Ensuring personnel well-being the following table shows our main sustainability • Fostering strong supply chain • Promoting an open dialogue •areas of commitment. Protecting the environment Area Topics Potential risks Potential opportunities Solidity Job creation Not being able to recruit specialised local Lower transport and customs costs through use workforce; lack of local qualified suppliers; of local suppliers; capacity building in terms of staff Local economies low awareness of HSE issues; reputational training and support for suppliers; access to qualified support risks linked to perceptions of malpractice in labour and suppliers for future projects; tangible community relationships. benefits at a local level derived from the generation Community support of direct and indirect employment, additional income; social initiatives for local communities. Excellence Innovation and client Increased competition from peers in response Clients and communities served by us are able to satisfaction to clients and societal demand for innovative benefit from the deployment of the best available and sustainable construction solutions; not technologies and know-how; low recruitment costs Talent attraction and being able to deliver high quality projects due to internal training of employees and increased development due to difficulties in developing personnel; capacity to fill vacancies; ability to involve suppliers and impacts on morale and productivity due to partners in project development. Supply chain low investment in training; operational and reputational risks of perceived malpractice in supply chain management. Transparency Corporate Reputational risks of perceived malpractice; Reduced reputational and financial risks due to the governance loss of confidence from investors and compliance system in place; licence to operate granted authorities; possible opposition by local by local and global stakeholders due to the Group’s Business integrity communities, incurring delays and increased engagement with all parties involved in projects; costs. climate of mutual trust and broad local approval; Open dialogue reduced risks of opposition to projects; improved staff safety and fewer delays. Respect Increased absence rate and personnel Increased productivity due to employee wellbeing; Health and Safety costs due to injuries and perceived labour lower absence rate and insurance costs; capacity to malpractice; poor evaluation of environmental win contracts from clients who prioritise H&S in their Employee wellbeing impacts; poor management and control tenders; reduced environmental impacts ensured by plans; causing disruption among local strict assessment, management and control practices; Environmental communities; potential damage to existing low risks of delay in the delivery of projects due to protection infrastructure and private properties. local communities’ environmental concerns; reduced litigation risks; improved reputation. 58 Sustainability Report 2015 Performance data Economic KPIs Direct economic value generated and distributed Unit 2013 2014* 2015 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated €M 3.515 4.244 4.757 Operating costs 1 €M 2.560 3.253 3.626 Employee wages and benefits €M 383 512 538 Payments to providers of capital €M 132 158 141 Payments to government €M 36 27 51 Economic value distributed €M 3.111 3.950 4.356 Economic value retained €M 404 294 402 Direct employees hired from the local community Unit 2013 2014 2015 Africa % 96% 96% 93% Central and South America % 97% 96% 91% North America % 96% 96% 77% Europe % 85% 88% 76% Middle East, Asia and Oceania % 61% 46% 21% Total % 90% 86% 71% Indirect employees hired from the local community2 Unit 2013 2014 2015 Africa % 99% 97% 96% Central and South America % 100% 92% 87% North America % 100% 100% Europe % 78% 69% 58% Middle East, Asia and Oceania % 86% 46% 95% Total % 87% 74% 82% Proportion of spending on local suppliers Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-EC9 Africa % 56% 40% 56% Central and South America % 93% 49% 64% North America % 95% 99% 100% Europe % 93% 97% 84% Middle East, Asia and Oceania % 75% 68% 86% Total % 82% 58% 75% 59 Sustainability Report 2015 Social KPIs Direct employees3 Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-10 Africa no. 18.700 18.839 15.242 Central and South America no. 5.811 4.454 2.927 North America no. 252 299 71 Europe no. 2.136 3.634 4.025 Middle East, Asia and Oceania no. 4.273 6.911 8.333 Total no. 31.172 34.137 30.598 Indirect employees2 Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-10 Africa no. 2.737 2.108 2.493 Central and South America no. 3.749 5.455 3.453 North America no. 4 58 Europe no. 8.086 4.857 3.129 Middle East, Asia and Oceania no. 2.737 4.270 1.628 Total no. 17.313 16.748 10.703 Total workforce (direct and indirect employees)2 Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-10 Africa no. 21.437 20.947 17.735 Central and South America no. 9.560 9.909 6.380 North America no. 256 357 71 Europe no. 10.222 8.491 7.154 Middle East, Asia and Oceania no. 7.010 11.181 9.961 Total no. 48.485 50.885 41.301 Direct employees by category Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-LA12 Manager % 1% 1% 1% Staff % 17% 20% 22% Workers % 82% 79% 77% Direct employees by age group Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-LA12 Under 30 years old % 42% 44% 41% 30-50 years old % 48% 47% 49% Over 50 years old % 10% 9% 10% Direct employees by gender Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-LA12 Women % 8% 8% 10% Men % 92% 92% 90% Total training hours provided to direct employees Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-LA9 Manager hours 4.079 7.822 31.783 Staff hours 65.467 109.096 116.076 Workers hours 246.686 588.201 874.616 Total hours 316.233 705.118 1.022.475 60 Sustainability Report 2015 Average per capita hours of training provided to direct employees Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-LA9 Manager hours 13 18 111 Staff hours 15 16 17 Workers hours 11 22 37 Average hours 12 21 33 Total workforce injury rate by region Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-LA6 Global IR 1,09 0,86 0,74 Africa IR 0,55 0,94 0,93 Central and South America IR 2,11 1,06 0,61 North America IR Europe IR 2,22 1,48 2,05 Middle East, Asia and Oceania IR 0,41 0,16 0,19 Total workforce lost day rate by region Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-LA6 Global LDR 28,05 15,12 18,23 Africa LDR 11,36 13,21 18,85 Central and South America LDR 52,17 20,28 7,51 North America LDR Europe LDR 75,25 31,58 76,69 Middle East, Asia and Oceania LDR 6,69 5,36 5,67 Health and Safety expenses Unit 2013 2014 2015 Health and Safety protection expenses €M 13,9 11,7 18,9 Health and Safety prevention and management expenses €M 11,6 10,7 15,8 Total €M 25,5 22,4 34,8 Community support initiatives Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments no. 27 8 3 Social programmes no. 57 48 41 Total no. 84 56 44 Community investments Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-EC7 Pro-bono €M 0,7 2,1 1,3 In-kind €M 1,3 0,4 0,0 Total €M 1,9 2,5 1,3 61 Sustainability Report 2015 Environmental KPIs Materials used Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN1 Aggregates t 16.645.970 23.219.469 74.139.346 Bitumen t 96.643 181.996 34.638 Cement t 925.191 1.424.483 1.099.083 Reinforcing bars t 215.252 465.760 1.300.379 Precast concrete t 335.773 351.434 320.694 Ready-made asphalt t 987.354 479.268 537.609 Ready-made concrete ** t 3.278.064 1.891.966 1.997.621 Total non-renewable materials t 22.484.247 28.014.377 79.429.370 Materials intensity (aggregates excluded) t/€ M 1.790 1.143 1.116 G4-EN3/ Energy consumption Unit 2013 2014 2015 EN4 Diesel GJ 5.383.522 8.358.798 8.122.721 Gasoline GJ 1.339.087 112.078 213.530 Kerosene GJ 2.565 12.700 3.474 Natural gas GJ 40.460 66.655 89.849 Electricity GJ 961.626 496.683 413.566 Electricity from renewable sources GJ 5.381 1.256 75.584 Total energy consumption GJ 7.732.641 9.048.170 8.918.723 Energy intensity GJ/€ M 2.372 2.157 1.882 Total water withdrawal Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN8 Ground water m3 4.006.348 1.625.909 2.789.941 River m3 7.610.765 14.149.383 21.931.473 Lake m3 91.451 10.598.380 5.694.071 Sea m 3 6.824 339 Municipal water supplies m3 699.434 680.072 753.563 Total m3 12.414.823 27.053.744 31.169.387 Water intensity m3/€ M 3.805 6.450 6.577 Direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2 and 3) G4greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Unit 2013 2014 2015 EN15/16/17 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) t CO2e 328.963 473.619 526.032 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) t CO2e 89.037 47.520 34.509 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) t CO2e 203.199 194.796 129.667 Total GHG emissions t CO2e 621.199 715.935 690.208 GHG emissions intensity t CO2e/€ M 180 163 140 Other significant air emissions from stationary sources (power stations) Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN21 NOx t 1.437 3.086 3.162 CO t 107 230 235 HC t 10 22 22 PM t 14 31 32 Total waste by activity Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN23 Construction and demolition waste t 1.469.760 236.061 229.268 Excavation waste t 738.609 4.031.917 5.775.752 General and other waste t 19.714 19.207 49.060 Total non-hazardous and hazardous waste t 2.228.083 4.287.186 6.054.080 Waste intensity (excavation waste excluded) t/€ M 457 61 59 62 Sustainability Report 2015 Total waste by disposal method Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN23 Recovery, reuse and recycling t 1.037.933 2.351.633 2.982.962 Incineration t 1.014 159 1.784 Landfill t 1.189.136 1.935.394 3.069.334 Total non-hazardous and hazardous waste t 2.228.083 4.287.186 6.054.080 Total waste by type Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN23 Non-hazardous waste t 2.223.410 4.101.342 5.694.885 Hazardous waste t 4.673 185.844 359.195 Total non-hazardous and hazardous waste t 2.228.083 4.287.186 6.054.080 Waste diverted from landfill Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN23 Waste recycled and reused % 47% 55% 49% Environmental expenses Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN31 Waste management, emission treatment and remediation costs €M 16,2 4,7 18,9 Environmental prevention and management expenses €M 8,0 9,7 14,6 Total €M 24,2 14,5 33,5 1. The figure includes community investments. For further details please refer to G4-EC7 2. Indirect employees include subcontractors’ personnel and workers of other service providers employed at Group’s sites 3. The decrease of direct employees in comparison with 2014 is due to the physiologic lag between the demobilization of some large projects and the mobilization of personnel in new-awarded projects, as well as due to the retirement of employees from projects located in unstable areas. However, beyond the headcount at 31st December 2015 (equal to 30,600 employees), it should be noted that in 2015 the FTEs calculated based on the worked man-hours at sites included in this report were equal to 43,000 (+7% compared with 2014) * 2014 economic data has been restated in compliance with IFRS 5 based on the new boundary following the selling of the Todini Costruzioni Generali’s Group ** 2014 data has been restated due to a more accurate recalculation Methodological note Initiative (GRI) in 2013 and early 2014 respectively. By applying the Comprehensive option, we have opted As of 31st December 2015, the Sustainability to disclose all indicators relating to our 12 material Report (hereinafter also referred to as the “2015 topics. Sustainability Report” or the “Report”) aims to provide reliable, comprehensive, balanced, accurate, In addition, the Report contains references to the and comparable information regarding Salini ten principles of the Global Compact, showing the Impregilo’s values, strategies and performance during actions and systems implemented by the Group in the reporting period. order to integrate these principles into the corporate strategy and day-to-day activities of the company. Reporting cycle Material topics The Sustainability Report is published annually, under the instruction of the Board of Directors of Salini In order to implement the Reporting Principles Impregilo S.p.A.. for Defining Report Content provided for by the GRI G4 Guidelines, the Group has defined an Adherence to best practice standards internal procedure aimed at identifying, prioritising, validating, and reviewing material topics, as The Salini Impregilo 2015 Sustainability Report has described at paragraph Materiality analysis. Material been prepared in line with the “Comprehensive” topics identified through this process with related option of the “GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting boundaries are listed below. A complete list of Guidelines” and the “Construction and Real Estate significant sites where topics are material is available Sector Disclosures”, issued by the Global Reporting hereinafter. 63 Sustainability Report 2015 Salini Impregilo material Related GRI G4 material Material within Material outside topics issues the organisation the organisation Solidity Headquarters and significant Sub-contractors and service Job creation Market Presence sites providers at significant sites* Headquarters and significant Sub-contractors and service Local economies support Economic Performance, Investment sites providers at significant sites* Indirect Economic Impacts, Local Community support Significant sites Communities, Indigenous Rights Excellence Innovation and client Headquarters and significant Partners, suppliers, subsatisfaction sites contractors* and consultants Employment, Training and Education, Talent attraction and Headquarters and significant Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Equal development sites Remuneration for Women and Men Procurement Practices, Supplier Headquarters and significant Suppliers and sub-contractors at Supply chain Assessment for Impacts on Environment, sites significant sites* Labour Practices, Human rights, Society Transparency Corporate governance Governance Headquarters Ethics and Integrity, Public Policy, AntiCompetitive Behaviour, Anti-Corruption, Headquarters and local Third parties as per Code of Business integrity Compliance, Supplier Assessment for subsidiaries Ethics and Anti-corruption System Impacts on Society Stakeholder engagement, Local Headquarters and significant Clients and sub-contractors at Open dialogue communities, Grievance Mechanisms for sites significant sites* Impacts on Human Rights and Society Respect Occupational Health and Safety, Supplier Sub-contractors at significant Health and safety Assessment for Labour practices and Significant sites sites* Human Rights Labour/Management Relations, Nondiscrimination, Freedom of Association and Sub-contractors and service Collective Bargaining, Security Practices, providers (i.e. recruitment Personnel wellbeing Child Labour, Forced or Compulsory Significant sites agencies, security providers) at Labour, Assessment, Grievance significant sites* Mechanisms for Impacts on Labour Practices and Human Rights Materials, Energy, Water, Biodiversity, Emissions, Effluents and Waste, Land degradations, Contamination and Sub-contractors at significant Environmental protection Significant sites Remediation, Transport, Compliance, sites* Overall, Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Environment *We require to all our sub-contractors and service providers to supply us with data on their socio-environmental performance; however, based on the geographical area of operation, this is not always available. 64 Sustainability Report 2015 Third-party assurance • The “Control approach” criterion, through which we identify all the active projects with To verify the information provided in the Report, and one of the following characteristics: to improve our reporting processes, we engaged direct contract; Reconta Ernst & Young S.p.A. to audit the activities contract managed by a consortium/joint and results reported. The independent assurance venture/temporary partnership in which report is available at the end of this document. Salini Impregilo is the leading partner; • The “Significance” criterion, through which Scope of the Report we determine which of the projects identified via the above criterion have been involved The 2015 Sustainability Report contains an overview in significant production activities during the of the initiatives and activities carried out by the reporting period, in terms of revenues and Group in 2015, as well as performance data from the man-hours worked. period 2013–2015 and important developments in early 2016. The sites excluded from the scope are therefore The information provided in the Report refers to Salini considered not relevant to this report. Impregilo S.p.A. and its subsidiary companies. Unless otherwise specified in the Report and/or Any specific limitations to the scope are directly in the GRI Content Index, the scope of the report indicated in the Report, particularly in the GRI follows the criteria described below: Content Index. • Financial data (except for the figures on local The injury figures in this report refer to a scope wider purchases) and workforce data relates to than that used for the Group Quality, Environment, the scope of the 2015 Salini Impregilo S.p.A. Health and Safety management system, which Consolidated Financial Statements; applies to contracts where decision-making roles • Corporate governance data and information (e.g. Head of QSE) are entrusted to Salini Impregilo. relates to Salini Impregilo S.p.A.; • Environmental and social data (excluding A list of operating sites included under the reporting workforce and including local purchases) refers scope of the Sustainability Report can be seen on to a scope of significant sites (listed below) pages 66-67. For more information about these established applying the following two criteria: projects, visit our website, www.salini-impregilo.com. 65 Sustainability Report 2015 Country Project name Area of expertise Company Impregilo S.p.A. S.A. HEALY Argentina Riachuelo environmental restoration project Dams, hydroelectric plants Company UTE Australia NW Rail Link Project Railways and metros Impregilo Salini Joint Venture Colombia Ruta del Sol* Motorways, roads and bridges Constructora Ariguani S.a.s Colombia El Quimbo* Dams, hydroelectric plants Consorcio Impregilo – OHL Colombia Sogamoso* Dams, hydroelectric plants Grupo ICT II S.a.s Denmark CMT Copenhagen (Cityringen)* Railways and metros Copenhagen Metro Team Ethiopia Gibe III Project* Dams, hydroelectric plants Salini Impregilo S.p.A. Ethiopia Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD)* Dams, hydroelectric plants Salini Impregilo S.p.A. JV Todini Costruzioni Generali Georgia New Kutaisi Bypass – Kutaisi lot* Motorways, roads and bridges S.p.A./ Takenada Engineering Construction Ltd. JV Todini Costruzioni Generali Georgia New Kutaisi Bypass – Samtredia lot* Motorways, roads and bridges S.p.A./ Takenada Engineering Construction Ltd. JV Todini Costruzioni Generali Georgia New Kutaisi Bypass – Zestaponi lot* Motorways, roads and bridges S.p.A./ Takenada Engineering Construction Ltd. Civil and industrial buildings, Impregilo-Terna SNFCC Joint Greece Stavros Niarchos Cultural Center* airports Venture Salerno-Reggio Calabria S.c.p.a. (Lot 5) Italy Salerno-Reggio di Calabria motorways Lots 5-6* Motorways, roads and bridges Reggio Calabria Scilla S.c.p.a. (Lot 6) COCIV (High speed/High capacity Italy Railways and metros Consorzio Cociv Milano Genova)* Italy Pedemontana Lombarda Lot 1 Motorways, roads and bridges Pedelombarda S.c.p.a Kazakhstan Almaty-Khorgos* Motorways, roads and bridges Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Malaysia Ulu Jelai Hydroelectric project* Dams, hydroelectric plants TM Salini Consortium Namibia Neckartal Dam* Dams, hydroelectric plants Salini Impregilo S.p.A. Nigeria Adyan Waterworks Phase II* Dams, hydroelectric plants Salini Nigeria Ltd. Nigeria District 1* Motorways, roads and bridges Salini Nigeria Ltd. Nigeria Gurara Dam* Dams, hydroelectric plants Salini Nigeria Ltd. Nigeria Idu Industrial Area* Motorways, roads and bridges Salini Nigeria Ltd. Nigeria Inner Southern Expressway (ISEX)* Motorways, roads and bridges Salini Nigeria Ltd. Civil and industrial buildings, Nigeria Millennium Tower Cultural Centre* Salini Nigeria Ltd. airports Nigeria Ogoni-Anoni-Opobo Road* Motorways, roads and bridges Rivigo J.V. (Nigeria) Ltd Nigeria Suleja-Minna* Motorways, roads and bridges Salini Nigeria Ltd. Extension of the Panama Canal (third sets of Panama Dams, hydroelectric plants Grupo Unidos Por El Canal S.A. locks)* Qatar Abu Hamour hydraulic project* Dams, hydroelectric plants Salini Impregilo S.p.A. Qatar Red Line North – Doha* Railways and metros ISG J.V. 66 Sustainability Report 2015 Country Project name Area of expertise Company Romania Orastie-Sibiu motorways* Motorways, roads and bridges Salini Impregilo S.p.A. Romania Lugoi Deva motorways* Motorways, roads and bridges Salini Impregilo S.p.A. Saudi Arabia Metro Ryiadh* Railways and metros Civil Works J.V. Salini Impregilo Duha Joint Slovakia Lietavska Lucka-Visnove-Dubna Skala Motorways, roads and bridges Venture Tunisia Oued Zarga-Boussalem* Motorways, roads and bridges Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Tunisia Sfax-Gabes* Motorways, roads and bridges Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Ukraine M03 Kiev – Karkiv* Motorways, roads and bridges Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. USA Anacostia* Dams, hydroelectric plants Impregilo-Healy-Parsons JV Venezuela Chaguaramas railways* Railways and metros Salini Impregilo S.p.A. Venezuela San Juan de Los Morros railways* Railways and metros Salini Impregilo S.p.A. Puerto Cabello Contuy Ferrocarriles railways Venezuela Railways and metros Salini Impregilo S.p.A. and stations* *Projects already included in the 2014 Sustainability Report Calculation methods calculated as a rate that takes account of the total number of lost calendar days (relating to injuries with Data and information included in the Report are a predicted recovery time of more than three days) taken from the information systems used for and the total hours worked, multiplied by 200,000. the general management and reporting of the Both the IR and LDR rates relate to the Group’s operations, along with data from a specific total workforce, comprising both direct and sustainability reporting system established in subcontractors’ employees. accordance with GRI requirements. Some data and information is drawn from public sources. Although injuries incurred while commuting are not Reported data is calculated with due accuracy included in the calculation of the safety indicators, and, where specified, by means of estimates. The any accidents occurring to independent contractors methodologies applied to determine the main (e.g. consultants) are included in injury rates. Injuries indicators are shown below. sustained at operating sites by service providers’ personnel (e.g. at the canteen), or at the company Safety indicators headquarters and other offices are not considered as material, as they do not relate to construction Safety indicators are calculated in accordance activities. For this reason, any such injuries are not with the “ILO Code of Practice on Recording and included in the safety indicators. Notification of Occupational Accidents and Diseases” provided in the GRI Guidelines. Rates reported are expressed as the number of HSE expenses injuries (IR) and the related lost days (LDR) for every 100 employees. The Health, Safety and the Environment expenses In particular, the IR is calculated as a rate that reported refer to: takes account of the total number of injuries within • Health and Safety protection expenses the period with a predicted recovery time of more include personal protective equipment, safety than three days (including fatalities) and the total installations (e.g. fire-fighting equipment, hours worked, multiplied by 200,000. The LDR is grounding), emergency response equipment and 67 Sustainability Report 2015 services (e.g. rescue team, rescue equipment, Greenhouse gas emissions ambulances, first aid, etc.), H&S monitoring activities (e.g. laboratories, instruments, Calculation of the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions measurements, etc.) and healthcare expenses is based on: (e.g. running of clinics, medical staff, medicines); • Environmental protection expenses include • The emission factors provided by the environmental plants (e.g. wastewater treatment Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change plants), environmental emergency equipment (2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse (e.g. spills kit, absorbent materials, anti-spill-over Gas Inventories) for the consumption of direct systems, etc.) and services (e.g. those provided energy; by third parties through framework agreements), • The emission factors provided by the International waste management, environmental restoration Energy Agency (CO2 Emissions from Fuel and remediation, monitoring activities (e.g. Combustion, 2013 edition, 2011 data) for the laboratories, instruments, measurements, etc.); consumption of indirect energy; • H&S and Environmental management costs • The emission factors provided by IPCC (Fourth include internal personnel dedicated to running Assessment Report AR4 100yr) to convert CH4 HSE management systems, external consultancy and N2O into CO2 equivalent; and training costs. • The emission factors provided by the UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Energy consumption Affairs (2011 Guidelines to Defra/DECC’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting) for Calculations on internal and external (i.e. subthe shipment of goods. contractors’) consumption of direct energy are based on conversion factors provided by the Waste Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Data on waste production is gathered in line with the Inventories). Construction Waste Measurement Protocol issued by ENCORD (European Network of Construction Water withdrawal, discharge, and reuse Companies for Research and Development) in May 2013. Water not withdrawn from aqueducts, bought from other sources (i.e. via tanks), or measured by a meter For operations within the EU, disposal methods (including those discharged and reused), is estimated have been determined according to the classification in terms of the working hours of the draining pumps provided by law of each waste category. For those used and the capacity of these pumps. outside the EU, methods have been determined Wastewater is estimated as a percentage of total according to the specific contracts stipulated with water withdrawn, depending on the use of the water external waste contractors. (production or domestic). Rainwater, although collected and stored, is not For more information reported because it is not considered material. To discover more about our approach to sustainability The Group does not use wastewater from other or to suggest how we can improve our sustainability organisations. reporting, please email: sustainability@salini-impregilo.com. 69 Sustainability Report 2015 GRI Content Index General Page Number (or Link) Omissions External Standard Page numbers refer to the paragraph that includes information required Assurance Disclosure, by the indicator page 81 DMA and Indicators General Standard Disclosures Strategy and Analysis G4-1 p. 2 Not applicable ✓ G4-2 p. 58 Not applicable ✓ Organizational Profile G4-3 Salini Impregilo S.p.A. Not applicable ✓ G4-4 p. 6 Not applicable ✓ G4-5 Milan, Italy Not applicable ✓ p. 7 (countries where the organisation operates), p. 66 (list of significant operations G4-6 Not applicable ✓ covered in the report) Salini Impregilo S.p.A. is a joint-stock company, with shares listed on the Italian Stock G4-7 Not applicable ✓ Exchange, subject to direction and coordination of Salini Costruttori S.p.A.. p. 6 (geographic breakdown and sectors served). Salini Impregilo works with a diverse G4-8 range of clients: mainly public bodies, local administrations and large public service Not applicable ✓ companies, as well as major private companies and industrial organisations. p. 5, 7. For net revenues and total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and G4-9 equity please refer to the 2015 Consolidated Income Statements, p. 96 (http://www. Not applicable ✓ salini-impregilo.com/en/investor-relations/results/financial-reports.html) p. 60. With respect to the employment contracts, 81% of personnel had permanent contracts, while the remaining 19% had temporary ones. With respect to employment G4-10 Not applicable ✓ types, part-time contracts are not material within the Company as almost all personnel have full-time contracts. All personnel have contractual recourse to a form of collective agreement. 79% of direct G4-11 Not applicable ✓ workforce is covered by site-specific collective agreements. G4-12 p. 35 Not applicable ✓ For these information please refer to the 2015 Corporate Governance Report (http:// G4-13 Not applicable ✓ www.salini-impregilo.com/en/governance/corporate-governance-report.html) G4-14 p. 50 Not applicable ✓ G4-15 p. 11 (UN Global Compact) Not applicable ✓ The Group participates to the following associations: Assonime, IGI-Istituto Grandi G4-16 Not applicable ✓ Infrastrutture, Assafrica e Mediterraneo, ITCOLD, Unindustria. Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries For the list of entities included in the 2015 Consolidated Income Statements please refer G4-17 to that document, p. 240 (http://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/investor-relations/results/ Not applicable ✓ financial-reports.html). For the entities covered by this report please refer to p. 66 G4-18 p. 57 (process for defining the report content), p. 64 (aspect boundaries) Not applicable ✓ G4-19 p. 64 (Salini Impregilo material topics and related GRI G4 material issues) Not applicable ✓ G4-20 p. 64 Not applicable ✓ G4-21 p. 64 Not applicable ✓ G4-22 p. 63 (restated data) Not applicable ✓ 70 Sustainability Report 2015 General Page Number (or Link) Omissions External Standard Page numbers refer to the paragraph that includes information required Assurance Disclosure, by the indicator page 81 DMA and Indicators G4-23 p. 65 Not applicable ✓ Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 p. 10 Not applicable ✓ G4-25 p. 10 Not applicable ✓ G4-26 p. 10 Not applicable ✓ G4-27 p. 10, 41, 43 Not applicable ✓ Report Profile G4-28 2015 calendar year Not applicable ✓ G4-29 July 2015 Not applicable ✓ G4-30 Annual Not applicable ✓ G4-31 sustainability@salini-impregilo.com Not applicable ✓ Salini Impregilo has chosen the “Comprehensive” option for this report. p. 70 (GRI G4-32 Not applicable ✓ Content Index). p. 81 (external assurance report) G4-33 p. 63 Not applicable ✓ Governance G4-34 p. 37 Not applicable ✓ G4-35 p. 11 (Our policies and guidelines) ✓ For HSE, compliance and anti-corruption issues executive positions have been G4-36 ✓ appointed. They periodically report to the Board of Directors and/or its committees. The Integrity Board collects information through the surveillance activities carried out by the Compliance department, as well as recommendations and grievances directly G4-37 ✓ received by internal and external stakeholders, periodically informing the Board of Directors. p. 37. For more information please refer to our website (http://www.salini-impregilo.com/ G4-38 ✓ en/governance/board-committees/board-of-directors.html) G4-39 The Chair of the Board of Directors is not executive. ✓ G4-40 p. 37. For more information please refer to the 2015 Corporate Governance Report, p. 18-22 (http://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/governance/corporate-governance-report. G4-41 html) Mission statements, strategies, policies and goals are approved by the Board of G4-42 Directors, usually based on proposals of the Top management. G4-43 p. 38 Refer to the Report on Remuneration Policy (http://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/ G4-44 ✓ governance/corporate-governance-report.html) G4-45 Risks management activities are supervised by the Control and Risk Committee, which periodically reports to the Board of Directors. For more information, refer to the 2015 G4-46 Corporate Governance Report, p. 30 (http://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/governance/ G4-47 corporate-governance-report.html) The sustainability report is reviewed and approved by the CEO, and presented to the G4-48 Board of Directors. Material Aspect coverage is checked by the senior management, as ✓ explained at p. 57. G4-49 See G4-37 and G4-50. ✓ 71 Sustainability Report 2015 General Page Number (or Link) Omissions External Standard Page numbers refer to the paragraph that includes information required Assurance Disclosure, by the indicator page 81 DMA and Indicators Potential critical concerns are periodically communicated to the Board of Directors by the Integrity Board. Significant ones are reported in the 2015 Consolidated Income G4-50 ✓ Statements, p. 50 (http://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/investor-relations/results/ financial-reports.html). G4-51 ✓ Refer to the Report on Remuneration Policy (http://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/ G4-52 ✓ governance/corporate-governance-report.html) G4-53 ✓ In 2015 the ratio of the remunerations of the highest-paid employees to the median G4-54 ones in the significant countries of operation were the following: 2.9 times in Denmark, ✓ 5.1 in Ethiopia, 12.1 in Italy, 2.9 in Qatar, 2.7 in Saudi Arabia and 3.1 in Venezuela. In 2015 the ratio of percentage increase or decrease in salaries of the highest paid employees compared to median employees in major countries of operation were: +13% G4-55 ✓ in Denmark, +46% in Ethiopia, -3% in Italy, +16% in Qatar, 29% in Saudi Arabia, +4% in Venezuela. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 p. 38 Not applicable ✓ G4-57 p. 38 ✓ G4-58 p. 38 ✓ SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Material Aspect: Economic Performance p. 57 (materiality analysis). Refer to the 2015 Consolidated Income Statements (http:// G4-DMA www.salini-impregilo.com/en/investor-relations/results/financial-reports.html). G4-EC1 p. 59 ✓ G4-EC2 p. 58 ✓ G4-EC3 Refer to the 2015 Consolidated Income Statements, p. 189, p. 165 (http://www.saliniG4-EC4 impregilo.com/en/investor-relations/results/financial-reports.html). Material Aspect: Market Presence G4-DMA p. 21, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ On average the entry level wages compared to local minimum ones are equal to +7% G4-EC5 at the Group level, +6% at Central and South American operations, +5% at European ✓ operations and +11% at Middle East and Asian operations. p. 21. On average, the management hired from the local community is equal to 85% in G4-EC6 Europe, 33% in North America, while in Central and South America, Africa, Middle East ✓ and Asia is 0%. Material Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA p. 22, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ G4-EC7 p. 22 ✓ G4-EC8 p. 21 (local economies support and job creation), p. 22 (community support) ✓ Material Aspect: Procurement Practices G4-DMA p. 21, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ G4-EC9 p. 59 ✓ CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL 72 Sustainability Report 2015 General Page Number (or Link) Omissions External Standard Page numbers refer to the paragraph that includes information required Assurance Disclosure, by the indicator page 81 DMA and Indicators Material Aspect: Materials G4-DMA p. 15, 20 (challenges), p. 50 (environmental management), p. 63 (materiality analysis) ✓ G4-EN1 p. 62 ✓ G4-EN2 p. 50 ✓ Material Aspect: Energy G4-DMA p. 52, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ G4-EN3 p. 62. Methodologies and conversion factors used are reported at the Methodological ✓ G4-EN4 Note, p. 69 ✓ Building energy intensity is not reported, because this Standard Disclosure is not applicable to Salini Impregilo CRE1 as it operates only in the construction sector, while the indicator refers to real estate activities (i.e. management and occupation of buildings) p. 62. The energy intensity ratio is calculated considering the total energy consumed G4-EN5 both inside and outside the Group (numerator) and the operating revenues ✓ (denominator). p. 52. The energy source reduced is mainly diesel, while the total reduction was equal to G4-EN6 ✓ 72,425 GJ. G4-EN7 p. 52 ✓ Material Aspect: Water G4-DMA p. 52, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ G4-EN8 p. 62 ✓ Five water sources were significantly affected by the Group’s withdrawal in the period, G4-EN9 all of which were ground waters. None of them are located in protected areas, used by ✓ local communities nor interested by endemic or protected species. G4-EN10 p. 52 ✓ Building water intensity is not reported because this Standard Disclosure is not applicable to Salini Impregilo, CRE2 as it operates only in the construction sector, while the indicator refers to real estate activities (i.e. management and occupation of buildings) Material Aspect: Biodiversity G4-DMA p. 53, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ In 2015 the projects’ areas managed were equal to 606.7 million m2, 0.1% of whom is G4-EN11 located inside protected areas, 1.1% is adjacent to protected areas and the remaining ✓ 98.8% is not interested by protected areas. G4-EN12 p. 53 ✓ G4-EN13 p. 53 ✓ 33% of the sites included in the report are interested by the presence of endemic and protected species. In managing our operations at these sites, we take care of G4-EN14 ✓ 30 species included into the IUCN red list and 6 species included in other national or international conservation lists. Material Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA p. 52, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ G4-EN15 ✓ p. 62. Methodologies and emission factors used are reported at the Methodological G4-EN16 ✓ Note, p. 69. G4-EN17 ✓ 73 Sustainability Report 2015 General Page Number (or Link) Omissions External Standard Page numbers refer to the paragraph that includes information required Assurance Disclosure, by the indicator page 81 DMA and Indicators Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from buildings is not reported because this Standard Disclosure is not CRE3 applicable to Salini Impregilo, as it operates only in the construction sector, while the indicator refers to real estate activities (i.e. management and occupation of buildings) CRE4 p. 62. GHG emission intensity ratio is calculated considering the total GHG emission ✓ deriving from fuels, electricity and subcontractors’ activities (Scope 1, 2 and part of 3 G4-EN18 numerator) and the operating revenues (denominator). ✓ G4-EN19 p. 52 ✓ Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) are not reported because this Standard Disclosure is not G4-EN20 applicable to Salini Impregilo, as it does not use ODS in its main processes, but only for ancillary services (not ✓ material) such as some cooling systems at offices and accommodation. p. 62. Air emissions are calculated based on the diesel consumptions for electricity G4-EN21 ✓ generation and the specific emission factors of the generators mainly used at our sites. Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-DMA p. 52, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ In 2015 were discharged 27.7 million m3 of wastewater, 70% of which were sent to G4-EN22 ✓ rivers, 18% to lakes, 9% to soil/subsoil and 3% in sewage systems. G4-EN23 p. 62 ✓ G4-EN24 In 2015 we had no spills. ✓ 3 tonnes of hazardous waste were shipped internationally in 2015, all of them departed G4-EN25 from Greece. ✓ Four water sources were significantly affected by the Group’s discharges in the period, three of which were a river and one was sea. Three of them are located in protected G4-EN26 areas, none is used by local communities and three of them are interested by endemic ✓ or protected species. In 2015 we remediated 6,700 m3 of land, assessed for remediation 455 m3 (not yet CRE5 remediated) and identified 72 m3 of land potentially contaminated (not yet assessed). ✓ Material Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA p. 51, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ In 2014 we received 7 non-monetary sanctions for environmental matters and 17,000 € G4-EN29 ✓ of fines. Material Aspect: Transport G4-DMA p. 51, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ p. 53. GHG emissions from transport were equal to 446,580 tonnes of CO2 eq., of G4-EN30 which 324,207 tonnes were from direct fleets (Scope 1) and 122,373 tonnes from sub✓ contractors’ fleets, business travel and goods shipping (Scope 3). MATERIAL ASPECT: OVERALL G4-DMA p. 51, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ G4-EN31 p. 63 ✓ Material Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA p. 51, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ G4-EN32 16% of the new suppliers were screened against environmental criteria. ✓ In the period 32% of subcontractors monitored for environmental issues received non-conformities and related improvement programmes, while 1% of contracts were G4-EN33 terminated. Apart from impacts deriving from sub-contractors, other less significant ✓ environmental impacts result from the production of the cement we purchase. We do not have any opportunities to intervene, due to its manufacturing process. 74 Sustainability Report 2015 General Page Number (or Link) Omissions External Standard Page numbers refer to the paragraph that includes information required Assurance Disclosure, by the indicator page 81 DMA and Indicators Material Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA p. 51, p. 57 (materiality analysis) 57 environmental grievances were addressed in the period, 48 of which were resolved in G4-EN34 ✓ the year. In addition, 10 grievances received in previous years were resolved in 2015. CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Material Aspect: Employment G4-DMA p. 30, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ In 2015 9,729 new employees were hired (32% of total employees), of which 4,921 were under 30 years old, 4,210 between 30 and 50 years old and 598 over 50 years old (801 women and 8,928 men) distributed as follows by region: 40% in Africa, 35% in Middle East & Asia, 17% in Europe and 1% in Oceania. In the period, 11,983 employees left the company (39% of total employees). Nevertheless this data has not been considered material as at operating sites people G4-LA1 ✓ vary during the year according to the projects’ stages. A most balanced view is given by the people that left the company for resignations. In 2015 they were 2,009 (7% of the total employees), of which 895 were under 30 years old, 955 between 30 and 50 years old and 159 over 50 years old (144 women and 1,865 men). They were distributed as follows by region: 39% in Africa, 25% in Central & South America, 18% in Middle East & Asia, 17% in Europe and 2% in Oceania. At Salini Impregilo part-time and temporary employees are present only at headquarters; G4-LA2 ✓ they receive the same benefits as full-time and permanent employees. Since personnel at operating sites are almost exclusively men, parental leave is material only at headquarters. All personnel at headquarters are entitled to parental leave (584 G4-LA3 employees, of which 207 are women and 377 men). Of these, eleven women took ✓ parental leave in 2015, seven women returned to work after parental leave ended and four women were still employed twelve months after their return to work. Material Aspect: Labour/Management Relations G4-DMA p. 47, p. 57 (materiality analysis) The minimum notice period for communicating significant changes in Salini Impregilo’s activities is a legally fixed period, recognised in the collective contracts and local laws G4-LA4 ✓ of reference. It varies from two to 32 weeks for managers, from one to 12 for staff and workers. Material Aspect: Occupational Health And Safety G4-DMA p. 45, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ 64% of direct employees are represented in formal joint management-worker health and G4-LA5 ✓ safety or HSE committees. p. 47, 61. In 2015 the main types of injuries occurred were wounds, contusions, and fractures. The main body parts affected were hands, head and trunk. The main agents that caused injuries were materials and other substances, working environment and G4-LA6 equipment. Despite rigorous risk analyses and management procedures, in the period ✓ five casualties occurred. The absentee rate was equal to 0.9% (1.3% in Africa, 0.6% in South America, 0% in North America, 1.6% in Europe and 0.3% in Middle East and Asia). The Occupational disease rate was equal to 0.12. The organisation operates an internally and externally verified health and safety CRE6 ✓ management system compliant with OHSAS 18001 standard. Activities carried out by Salini Impregilo expose personnel to the common health risks G4-LA7 present in the construction industry, namely back pain and musculoskeletal disorders, ✓ deafness and diseases related to breathing apparatus. 75 Sustainability Report 2015 General Page Number (or Link) Omissions External Standard Page numbers refer to the paragraph that includes information required Assurance Disclosure, by the indicator page 81 DMA and Indicators The International Framework Agreement with the Italian and International Construction Unions signed in 2014 cover also health and safety for the entire workforce worldwide. In addition, 30% of direct workforce is also covered by site-specific H&S agreements G4-LA8 with local unions. They cover issues such as personal protective equipment and training ✓ (100% of them), the right to refuse unsafe work (100% of them), training and education and periodic inspection (78% of them), complaint mechanisms (56% of them), KPIs (44% of them). Material Aspect: Training and Education G4-DMA p. 30, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ p. 60. Since personnel at operating sites are almost exclusively men, the breakdown of G4-LA9 ✓ training hours by gender is not material. G4-LA10 p. 30, 47 ✓ In the period the personnel operating at the headquarters did not received a performance evaluation. Nevertheless, in 2015, Salini Impregilo launched a Performance G4-LA11 ✓ Management pilot programme for approximately 120 key people that will receive a performance evaluation during 2016. Material Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA p. 47, p. 57 (materiality analysis) p. 37 (composition of Governance bodies). For further information please refer to the G4-LA12 2015 Corporate Governance Report, section 4.2 (http://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/ ✓ governance/corporate-governance-report.html). p. 60 (breakdown of employees) Material Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-DMA p. 47, p. 57 (materiality analysis) In 2015 at headquarters the ratio of remunerations of women to men were equal to 81% G4-LA13 ✓ for managers and 83% for staff. No workers were employed at headquarters. Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-DMA p. 35, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ 31% of new suppliers were screened against labour practices and human rights criteria G4-LA14 ✓ (health and safety mainly). In the period, 12% of subcontractors monitored for labour practices and human rights G4-LA15 issues received non-conformities and related improvement programmes, while 0.04% of ✓ contracts were terminated. Material Aspect: Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA p. 47, p. 57 (materiality analysis) 6,278 labour practice (including health and safety and human rights, if any) grievances were addressed in the period, 6,216 of which were resolved in the year. The great majority of G4-LA16 them were received by the consortium involved in the realization of new Panama Canal from ✓ workers for a problem occurred to the payroll system, successfully resolved in the period. In addition, 74 grievances received in previous years were resolved in 2015. SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS Material Aspect: Investment G4-DMA p. 35, 47, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ At Salini Impregilo, significant contracts with sub-contractors include human rights G4-HR1 clauses. We require our sub-contractors to respect the same standards we apply to our ✓ direct workforce, through special clauses included in their contracts. The entire workforce receives induction training on ethics at hiring, including human G4-HR2 rights. In 2015, about 7,900 training hours were provided to the workforce on these ✓ issues. 76 Sustainability Report 2015 General Page Number (or Link) Omissions External Standard Page numbers refer to the paragraph that includes information required Assurance Disclosure, by the indicator page 81 DMA and Indicators Material Aspect: Non-Discrimination G4-DMA p. 47, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ G4-HR3 In 2015, no cases of harassment were reported. ✓ Material Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-DMA p. 47, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ There are two countries of operation (Qatar and Saudi Arabia) where freedom of association and collective bargaining rights are restricted by local laws and no alternative G4-HR4 legal means to consult and engage personnel exist. In these circumstances, we adopt an approach aimed at allowing employees to feel free to contact HR representatives for any problem, query or questions. Material Aspect: Child Labour G4-DMA p. 47, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ We do not have any risk factors regarding child labour because, worldwide – and G4-HR5 regardless of local rules on minimum working age – we only hire personnel over the age ✓ of eighteen years. Material Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labour G4-DMA p. 47, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ We do not use forced or compulsory labour in our operations and require all our subG4-HR6 ✓ contractors to apply the same rule. Material Aspect: Security Practices G4-DMA p. 47, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ p. 47. All our internal security personnel receive induction training on ethics (including human rights) at hiring, while training for security personnel provided by local authorities G4-HR7 and external providers is the responsibility of their employers. However, our security managers strictly collaborate with them to arrange procedures and practices to be applied on site. Material Aspect: Indigenous Rights G4-DMA p. 22, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ No incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples were reported in the G4-HR8 ✓ period. Material Aspect: Assessment G4-DMA p. 47, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ All the operating sites covered by this report carried out a human rights impact G4-HR9 ✓ assessment in the period. Material Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-DMA p. 35, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ 31% of new suppliers were screened against labour practices and human rights criteria G4-HR10 ✓ (health and safety mainly). In the period, 12% of subcontractors monitored for labour practices and human rights G4-HR11 issues received non-conformities and related improvement programmes, while 0.04% of ✓ contracts were terminated. Material Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA p. 47, p. 57 (materiality analysis) For grievances received by workers and clients please refer to G4-LA16, while for those G4-HR12 ✓ received by communities please refer to G4-SO11. SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY 77 Sustainability Report 2015 General Page Number (or Link) Omissions External Standard Page numbers refer to the paragraph that includes information required Assurance Disclosure, by the indicator page 81 DMA and Indicators Material Aspect: Local Communities G4-DMA p. 22, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ In carrying out our operations, we take care of our local communities, being committed to minimizing any adverse impacts on them. For 24% of our projects social impact assessments is part of contractual requirements while for the remaining ones it is a client’s responsibility. Moreover, 31% of our projects have formal local community grievance systems in place, 24% of them have formal community consultation processes in place, 14% G4-SO1 ✓ have formalised stakeholder engagement plans and 12% have community development programmes in place. However, all our projects have systems in place (in the form of public relations offices, dedicated phone lines, e-mail addresses and mail boxes managed by the Group, by its clients or jointly) to receive and deal with grievances and concerns raised from external stakeholders. Our main impacts on local communities are related to noise, dust and traffic, use of G4-SO2 natural resources potentially used also by communities (e.g. water) and land degradation ✓ during the work activities. At two of our operating sites, there were displacement plans in place and at none of CRE7 them Salini Impregilo was involved in the activities. For this reason, the Company does ✓ not know the total number of people displaced and/or resettled. Material Aspect: Anti-Corruption G4-DMA p. 38, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ G4-SO3 p. 38 ✓ G4-SO4 p. 38 ✓ G4-SO5 No confirmed incidents of corruption occurred in the reporting period. ✓ Material Aspect: Public Policy p. 57 (materiality analysis). As stated in our Code of Ethics, the Group makes no direct G4-DMA or indirect contributions to political parties, movements, committees, trade union or ✓ political organisations, or to their representatives. The Code of Ethics approved by the Board of Directors on 14 May 2014 provides for G4-SO6 the prohibition of any contributions towards political parties and union organisations, ✓ both direct and indirect. Material Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behaviour G4-DMA p. 38, p. 57 (materiality analysis) Refer to the 2015 Consolidated Income Statements, p. 50 (http://www.salini-impregilo. G4-SO7 ✓ com/en/investor-relations/results/financial-reports.html) Material Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA p. 38, p. 57 (materiality analysis) In the period the Group received fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations for G4-SO8 ✓ a total amount of 73,004 euro. Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-DMA p. 38, p. 57 (materiality analysis) ✓ All our sites screen new suppliers with reference to their reputation and business solidity. G4-SO9 In addition, according to the risk analyses performed, 28% of new suppliers were also ✓ specifically screened about potential presence in black lists. All suppliers are subject to assessments for impacts on society during the qualification process. Our main potential impacts in the supply chain derive from our subcontractors. For this reason, they are subject to the same rules applied worldwide to G4-SO10 ✓ our direct workforce and activities. In the period, no suppliers were identified as not meeting social compliance requirements; so, no improvements have been agreed nor terminations of agreements occurred. 78 Sustainability Report 2015 General Page Number (or Link) Omissions External Standard Page numbers refer to the paragraph that includes information required Assurance Disclosure, by the indicator page 81 DMA and Indicators Material Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-DMA p. 38, p. 57 (materiality analysis) 278 grievances about potential impacts on society were addressed in the period, 146 of which were resolved in the year. In addition, 178 grievances received in previous years were resolved in 2015. The great majority of these grievance were related to complaints G4-SO11 received by our client in Colombia (Ruta del Sol project) from local inhabitants for ✓ disturbances linked to the realization of the motorway (e.g. access restrictions, presence of construction materials, damages to private property). Within 3 days from the complaint, we have met the complainant and agreed due remediation activities. SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Material Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA p. 27, p. 57 (materiality analysis) In the period the Group did not receive any significant fines for non-compliance with G4-PR9 ✓ laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 79 Sustainability Report 2015 Assurance report 81 Sustainability Report 2015 82 Sustainability Report 2015 83 Salini Impregilo S.p.A. Via dei Missaglia, 97 20142 Milan Italy T: +39 02 44422111 F: +39 02 44422293 Via della Dataria 22 00187 Rome Italy T: +39 06 67761 F: +39 06 677626288 info@salini-impregilo.com sustainability@salini-impregilo.com
