KSB Group Annual Report 2015 Cover: Amarex N – Submersible motor pump for handling waste water GRO U P FINANC IAL HIGHL I G HTS BU S I N E S S D E V E L O P MENT A ND EA R NINGS 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Order intake €m 2,261.2 2,321.2 2,241.2 2,257.4 2,132.3 Sales revenue €m 2,334.8 2,181.7 2,247.3 2,268.2 2,091.0 Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT ) €m 105.2 89.2* 136.2 150.4** 133.4 Earnings before income taxes (EBT ) €m 93.4 72.8* 119.4 132.8** 120.5 Earnings after income taxes €m 52.2 46.3* 79.9 90.3** 83.3 Cash flow €m 137.5 124.4* 142.3 156.9** 137.0 BA L A N C E S H E E T 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Balance sheet total €m 2,291.1 2,277.9* 2,151.5 2,188.0** 1,974.1 Fixed assets €m 633.1 622.6 591.2 602.0 560.5 Capital expenditure €m 82.8 85.1 57.1 91.4 93.5 Depreciation and amortisation expense €m 72.8 66.2 60.2 58.6 51.0 Current assets €m 1,573.6 1,568.5 1,520.6 1,546.2 1,389.2 Equity (incl. non-controlling interests) €m 870.2 819.7* 844.5 832.2** 869.1 Equity ratio (incl. non-controlling interests) % 38.0 36.0* 39.3 38.0** 44.0 PR O F I TA B I L I T Y 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Return on sales % 4.0 3.3 5.3 5.9** 5.8 Return on equity % 11.1 8.8* 14.2 15.6** 14.2 Return on capital employed % 4.9 4.3 6.6 7.5** 7.4 E MP L OY E E S 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Number of employees at 31 Dec. 16,196 16,309 16,546 16,207 15,674 Staff costs €m 819.3 784.8* 787.6 758.3** 698.0 SHARES 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Market capitalisation at 31 Dec. €m 659.2 735.7 804.3 769.4 741.0 Earnings per ordinary share (EPS ) € 22.30 21.97* 37.38 42.48** 40.95 Earnings per preference share ( EPS ) € 22.56 22.23* 37.64 42.74** 41.21 Dividend per ordinary share € 5.50 8.50 12.00 12.00 12.00 Dividend per preference share € 5.76 8.76 12.26 12.26 12.26 * Adjustment under IAS 8 ** Adjustment to reflect the retroactive amendment to IAS 19 PRO D U CTS AND SERVIC ES KSB pumps and valves are primarily used to transport or shut off all kinds of fluids. Their efficient and reli­ able operation is taken care of by specialists in 170 service centres offering inspection, servicing, maintenance, repairs and consultancy services. The most important fields of application for our products are: K E Y I N D I C ATO R S / P R O D U C T S A N D S E RV I C E S INDUSTRY BUILDING SERVICES WATER ENGINEERING WASTE WATER ENGINEERING ENERGY SUPPLY MINING OUTLOOK 2018 KSB’s high-efficiency pumps and reliable valves are used worldwide in applications where fluids need to be transported or shut off. Combined with KSB’s rapid service, they guarantee our customers’ technical and commercial success. By gearing its activities towards five focus markets, KSB has opened up new prospects for success in 2015. Complementary strategic measures will steer us along a path towards long-term profitable growth by 2018. 2 1 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2015 4 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 Board of Management 74 Balance Sheet 5 To Our Shareholders 75 Statement of Comprehensive Income 7 Report of the Supervisory Board 76 Statement of Changes in Equity 14 A Look Back at 2015 78 Statement of Cash Flows 16 Employees 79 Notes 19 Corporate Social Responsibility 163 List of Shareholdings 167 Supervisory Board 168 Board of Management 169 Proposal on the Appropriation of the 2 OUTLOOK 2018 Net Retained Earnings of KSB AG 24 26 Outlook 2018 Focus Marktes 5 GENERAL INFORMATION 172 Responsibility Statement 173 Auditor’s Report 3 175 176 Glossary Contacts GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT 38 Basic Principles of the Group 38 Group Business Model COVER 39 Control System 40 Research and Development Group Financial Highlights 42 Economic Review Products and Services 42 Macroeconomic Environment and Sector View Global Presence 44 Business Development and Results of Operations Financial Calendar 48 Financial Position and Net Assets 52 Events after the Reporting Period LEGEND 52 Dependent Company Report 53 Report on Expected Developments Glossary 56 Opportunities and Risks Report 68 Acquisition-related Disclosures 69 Corporate Governance Statement (Section 289a of the HGB) 70 Remuneration of the Board of Management M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP MANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 3 M A N AG E M E N T A N D I S S U E S 2 0 1 5 1 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2015 4 Board of Management 5 To Our Shareholders 7 Report of the Supervisory Board 14 A Look Back at 2015 16 Employees 19 Corporate Social Responsibility 4 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2015 B OAR D OF MAN AG E ME N T D i p l. K f m . We r n e r S teg mül l er Dr.-In g. Peter Bu th man n joined the Board of Management on 1 January 2014. His responsibilities include has been on the Board of Management since 1 January 2007. He is responsible for Finance and Accounting, Controlling, Communications, Investor Relations, IT, Technology, Production, Sales, Purchasing and Human Resources, as well as Pumps Legal & Compliance, Patents & Trademarks, Internal Audits and the Service segment. and Valves. He is also Human Resources Director. The two members of the Board of Management are jointly responsible for strategy and the Regions. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 5 B oa rd o f Man ag em en t To O ur Sh ar eh o l d er s Dear Shareholders and Business Partners, The sales revenue and earnings figures for 2015 show an upward trend. Last year we worked intensively on improving our economic situation. We increased consolidated sales revenue by 7.0 % to € 2,334.8 million, while earnings before taxes rose 28.2 % to € 93.4 million, albeit with exchange rate changes also playing a part. But let us not be deceived by rising figures. Looking to the immediate future, we see some hurdles ahead: The markets in our sector have undergone profound changes and competition has become tougher. Furthermore, several of our customer segments are in a weak state, which resulted in a slight decline in our order intake by 2.6 % to € 2,261.2 million in 2015. The effects will be felt in our sales revenue in the current year. This means that it is even more important that we improve our competitiveness and profitability. To this end, we adapt our development, production, sales and administration structures to new market conditions without delay and increase our presence in growth markets. We also need to create a cost base that will give us greater leeway in decision-making, something that is of the utmost importance in economically challenging phases. We will focus our attention on resolving these issues this year and next. In this context, we have already engaged in conceptual and structural preparatory work: 1. WE HAVE UPDAPTED OUR GROUP STRATEGY AND IDENTIFIED FOCUS MARKETS As part of our strategy review, we defined three global and two regional focus markets in 2015. In the coming years we will align our resources in development, production and sales with the needs of these markets wherever possible. On a global level, we will serve industry, the water and waste water management sector and the energy industry. The regional focuses of our business are construction/building services in Europe and the Middle East and mining in the Americas. Our focus takes full account of the current difficulties in the energy and mining sectors: We are therefore gradually relocating our power plant pump activities to China and India, where the market is still highly dynamic. In Europe we are concentrating on projects to modernise and increase the efficiency of power plants. To counter the current decline in demand for mining, we entered into a German-Finnish partnership in 2015. The agreement links us with a global provider of mining machinery and ­systems, which already offers our slurry pumps via its industry-specific sales network. This significantly increases the sales opportunities for our slurry pumps. 6 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2015 2. WE ARE REDUCING THE COMPLEXITY OF THE PRODUCT PORTFOLIO AND THE NUMBER OF COMPANIES Compared with a simple structure, complexity entails extra costs. This is true both for a product portfolio with a very wide range of products and for a Group structure that currently encompasses over 90 companies.  As previously announced, we further reduced the complexity of our product programme in 2015 and will continue the process of streamlining our type series over the current year. This will enable us to better target our activities in research, development and product management on high-volume, high-margin products. We have also begun to reduce the number of companies. This includes the merger of KSB companies in Finland, Norway and Spain, and the sale of two operating companies in Greece. Further measures of this kind are planned, both within and outside of Europe, which will ­allow us to save on management capacities and cut costs. 3. WE HAVE INITIATED A PACKAGE OF MEASURES THAT IMPROVE OUR COST STRUCTURES In Germany in particular, we took wide-ranging steps in 2015 to cut costs. Measures included the closure of the plant in Homburg and the realignment of our Pegnitz foundry to produce high-quality components. In 2016 and 2017 we will extend our efforts to achieve greater competitiveness to a global level. To this end, we have initiated a programme to enhance efficiency, with the aim of reducing our material costs, our staff costs and our overheads by 10 %. The positive effects of this programme will be felt in full in our 2018 earnings. In addition, we also have many things planned for this year and next in order to successfully realign KSB. In doing so, we will be very responsible in our use of the capital that you, as a shareholder of the company, have entrusted us with. Following the rather disappointing development of our shares on the stock exchange in 2015, we are confident that our efforts will soon be reflected in rising share prices. Our aim is to be an attractive company not only for our customers and employees, but also for investors. We thank you for the trust you have placed in us and look forward to being able to inform you soon of further progress and successes. Dr. Peter Buthmann Werner Stegmüller M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 7 To O ur Sh ar eh o l d er s R e port o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Bo ard REPORT OF THE S UP E RVI S O RY BOARD Throughout the last financial year, the Supervisory Board continued to perform its tasks with great care in accordance with the law, the Articles of Association and the Rules of Procedure. We regularly advised the Board of Management on corporate management issues and monitored its work. The Supervisory Board was consulted directly and at an early stage with regard to decisions of fundamental importance. The Board of Management informed us in a comprehensive and timely manner about the position of the company, in particular its business, financial and staffing situation, planned investments, as well as relevant corporate planning and strategic and organisational development issues via written and oral reports prepared regularly and on an ad hoc basis. We continued to meet on a regular basis to ­discuss selected issues, both with and in the absence of the Board of Management. We discussed all business transactions significant for the company in detail on the basis of the Board of Management’s reports. Any departures in business developments from the plans and targets were reviewed and commented on in detail by the Board of Management. We adopted our resolutions on the reports and proposals by the Board of Management after thorough examination and discussion. Beyond the intensive work in the plenary sessions and in the committees, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board in particular and other Supervisory Board members were in frequent contact with the Board of Management outside the meetings to discuss the current business development and significant transactions as well as questions of strategy, planning, risk assessment, risk management and compliance. In the reporting period, no conflicts of interest arose involving members of the Board of Management or the Supervisory Board that would have been subject to disclosure in the Report of the Supervisory Board. MAIN FOCUS OF WORK IN THE SUPERVISORY BOARD PLENARY SESSIONS AND IN THE COMMITTEES Core topics of our discussions with the Board of Management were the revision of strategic objectives, and the continued development of the corporate organisation and international production concept. The analysis of business development in the segments and Regions represented an additional focus, as did major investment projects at various sites. We dealt on an ongoing basis with the company’s economic position and the prospects facing selected markets. Based on a recommendation contained in the German Corporate Governance Code, we also looked at the efficiency of our own activity. Four regular Supervisory Board meetings were held in financial year 2015. The performance of KSB Aktiengesellschaft and the Group was the subject of regular discussions in the plenary sessions, primarily with regard to order intake, sales revenue, earnings, assets and employment levels as well as the current economic situation, strategy, and investment, divestment and 8 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2015 a­ cquisition projects. We examined in detail global service activities and their continued expansion. In a few cases of obvious structural difficulties, we decided to approve the Board of Management’s proposals to sell off the units concerned. The Board of Management regularly explained to us in detail the ways in which KSB can achieve the planned growth for the coming years, including the underlying methodological and strategic considerations. Required investments were subjected to critical analysis before being approved and their implementation was subsequently monitored by us. In this context, the Supervisory Board approved significant financial resources to maintain the high technical level of the plants on a Group-wide basis. For the purposes of enabling production as close to customers as possible, we approved the Board of Management’s proposal that we expand our Indian production capacities. On several occasions, we reviewed the status of our expansion work at our US subsidiary GIW Industries, Inc., which is progressing well. Following the completion of initial steps in the modernisation of our foundry in Pegnitz, Germany, the new systems came on line, on schedule, in autumn of last year. In order to obtain a major Chinese order for the supply of pumps, we had to expand our local manufacturing facilities, as already reported. Since the completion of this work, we have been receiving ongoing updates from the Board of Management on the progress made with the contract. We expect the successful implementation of this demanding project to strengthen KSB’s market position over the long term. In a number of countries, the start or expansion of business activities led to property ­acquisitions. In each case we discussed the long-term impact of such measures. Given the ongoing changes in the energy sector, we continued to look at the impact these radical market movements are having on our business operations. The main focus was on the optimi­ sation of manufacturing capacities within our international production network. The deliberations presented by the Board of Management were critically reviewed, with regard to both conceptual aspects and the initial implementation stages. Repeatedly on the agenda was the development of the corporate organisation. We devoted particular attention to the topics of cutting internal administrative expenses, by creating central services units, for example, and reducing the number of Group companies. These activities were rounded off with an exchange on the work that has now been completed to ensure the highly automated generation of key performance indicators in Controlling and Finance. ­Another central focus of our work was the progress made towards strengthening our value-­ based corporate culture, with the Board of Management providing regular updates. Based on an initial trial, the staff evaluation and employee development system presented by the Board of Management last year has proven to be a suitable tool for the continuous improvement of performance, at both employee and company level. During the September meeting, the Supervisory Board dealt in detail with solutions, in terms of production technology, logistics and sales, for boosting the company’s sales outside Europe. Digital solutions in the context of Industry 4.0 were presented using specific examples. We expect these solutions, which are geared towards the latest market developments and narrowly M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 9 R e port o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Bo ard ­focused on customer benefits, to provide significant impetus for the achievement of our strategic objectives. By visiting the state-of-the-art technical facilities at our Frankenthal site, we were able to gain a picture of how the approaches that had been presented to us are being implemented in practice. We also set our target with regard to the proportion of women on our Board of Management between now and 20 June 2017. This will remain at zero percent, as we do not see any realistic way of making female appointments during this period. We also informed ourselves about selected products and functions of the Group. At the December meeting, a major focus was the programme presented by the Board of Management to increase efficiency in all of the Group’s corporate units. The aim of this demanding project is to make tangible improvements to processes and cost structures over the next two years, in parallel to the customer-­ oriented strategic activities. We also looked at business performance during the financial year and planning for 2016. In order to perform its duties efficiently, the Supervisory Board worked with five committees in 2015. These prepare the Supervisory Board’s resolutions and the special topics to be discussed in the plenary sessions. In addition, they also make their own decisions – to the extent that this is legally permissible – within the scope of their areas of responsibility. This allocation has proved worthwhile in practice. The Chairs of the committees regularly and comprehensively ­report in the plenary sessions on the content and results of the work carried out in the committees. In the run-up to the election of Supervisory Board members at the Annual General Meeting, on 6 May 2015, the Nomination Committee prepared the Supervisory Board’s nominations, convening once during the reporting year for this purpose. In looking for and evaluating suit­ able candidates with the requisite expertise and experience of the industry, long-term succession planning is a key factor. The Corporate Development Committee deals with the company’s strategic development, as well as with annual planning and finance, and technology issues. At four meetings in the year under review, it discussed in particular the areas of strategy controlling, production management and innovation, and looked at a number of major investments, including in France and India. The development of particular product areas also figured on the agenda, as did tie-in measures during acquisitions and selected projects. The strategic expansion of valves business, for example, took up a great deal of discussion time. Despite unmistakeable successes over the last few years, the Committee still sees considerable potential to be exploited. The heads of the relevant specialist departments took part in the committee meetings, along with the responsible members of the Board of Management. The Personnel Committee held four meetings in the year under review. It primarily addresses topics relating to the Board of Management’s remuneration, including the terms of the individual service contracts, as well as other Board of Management issues. Decisions on the Board of Management’s remuneration are made in plenary session with the committee acting in a 10 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2015 CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT NOMINATION COMMITTEE PERSONNEL COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Klaus Kühborth Dr. Thomas Seeberg, Chairman Dr. Martin Auer, Chairman Dr. Thomas Seeberg No. of meetings: 4 No. of meetings: 4 No. of meetings: 1 CO M M I T T E E S O F T H E SUPE RV I S O RY B OA R D and their chairs, as well as number of meetings AUDIT COMMITTEE MEDIATION COMMITTEE in the year under review Dr. Jörg Matthias Großmann, Dr. Thomas Seeberg, Chairman Chairman No. of meetings: 0 No. of meetings: 4 preparatory capacity. In the year under review, the Committee also discussed staff development issues with the aim of ensuring that any need for action in terms of filling Board of Management positions and positions at the management level directly below the Board is identified at an early stage and followed up. As proposed by the Committee, on 27 October 2015 the ­Supervisory Board extended the appointment of the long-standing member of the Board of Management and Human Resources Director, Dr. Peter Buthmann, by a further year, taking his term of office until 30 June 2017. The Supervisory Board approved that the age limit applicable to members of the Board of Management will be exceeded by a few months. The ­Committee also submitted proposals for the resolution on the new legal requirements regarding the inclusion of women in managerial positions. In 2015, the Committee members again ­participated in events with staff from various management levels in an effort to foster a direct exchange of ideas. The four meetings of the Audit Committee were always attended by a Member of the Board of Management and, on several occasions, by the auditors and the heads of the relevant ­departments. The Committee primarily discussed the 2014 annual and consolidated financial statements, as well as the corresponding audit reports prepared by the auditors. The Audit Committee also prepared the independent examination by the Supervisory Board of the financial statements, the management reports and the proposal on the appropriation of the net ­retained earnings. It also defined key audit areas for the external auditing of the 2015 financial statements. In addition, the 2015 half-year financial report was discussed with the Board of Management. During the auditor selection process, the Committee reviewed the offers submitted and made its recommendation to the Supervisory Board for the election of the auditors at last year’s Annual General Meeting. It then commissioned the auditors to carry out the audit of the annual and consolidated financial statements for the 2015 financial year. The declaration of independence by the auditors was obtained in accordance with the recommendations M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 11 R e port o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Bo ard of the German Corporate Governance Code (section 7.2.1) and the auditors’ continued independence was monitored. The Committee was also involved in the monitoring of the accounting process, the risk management system – taking account of relevant reports by Internal Audits – and the effectiveness of the internal control and auditing system, including compliance. There was no requirement during the financial year under review to convene the Mediation Committee required by section 27(3) MitbestG [Mitbestimmungsgesetz – German Co-Deter­ mination Act]. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The Supervisory Board continuously monitored developments in corporate governance standards throughout the financial year. The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board ­report on corporate governance at KSB in accordance with section 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code as part of the Corporate Governance Statement pursuant to section 289a HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code]. On 2 December 2015 they issued a joint updated statement of compliance in accordance with section 161 of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act] and made it permanently available to shareholders on the company’s web site. KSB Aktiengesellschaft complies with the Code’s recommendations subject to a few exceptions. AUDIT OF THE 2015 ANNUAL AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The accounting documentation, in addition to the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of net retained earnings and the audit reports submitted by the auditors, was provided in good time to all members of the Supervisory Board. The documents were examined in detail by the Audit Committee on 17 March 2016 as well as by the Supervisory Board ­plenary session on 23 March 2016 and explained in depth in both cases by the Board of Management. The auditors attended the meetings of both bodies, reported on the findings of the audit and were available to provide additional information. The Supervisory Board examined the annual financial statements and the management report of KSB Aktiengesellschaft for the year ended 31 December 2015, which were prepared in ­accordance with the provisions of the Handelsgesetzbuch [HGB – German Commercial Code], as well as the consolidated financial statements and the group management report for the year ended 31 December 2015, which were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), and the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of net retained earnings. 12 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2015 The Mannheim office of PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Frankfurt, audited the annual financial statements and the management report of KSB Aktiengesellschaft for the year ended 31 December 2015, as well as the consolidated ­financial statements and the Group management report for the year ended 31 December 2015, and issued an unqualified opinion. The key audit areas defined for the auditors by the Audit Committee for the year under review were the validity of the measurement assumptions for selected goodwill, the completeness of the disclosures in the notes (particularly in relation to pensions, financial instruments and related party disclosures), as well as the proper preparation of the dependent company report. The auditors reported on their findings on these key audit areas both orally and in writing. The Supervisory Board concurs with the auditors’ findings. Based on its own final examination results, the Supervisory Board plenary session did not raise any objections to the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements, management report and Group management report. In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Supervisory Board approved the financial statements prepared by the Board of Management; the annual financial statements are thus adopted. After its own examination, the Supervisory Board deems the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of net retained earnings of KSB Aktiengesellschaft, and in particular the reduced dividend following the significantly lower net profit for the year, to be appropriate and concurs with it. DEPENDENT COMPANY REPORT The auditors also audited the dependent company report for the 2015 financial year prepared by the Board of Management in accordance with section 312 AktG and issued the following unqualified audit opinion on this report: “On completion of our audit and assessment in accordance with professional standards, we confirm that 1. the actual amounts and disclosures in the report are correct; 2. the consideration paid by the company for the transactions listed in the report was not ­inappropriately high.” The reports by the Board of Management and the auditors were provided in good time to all members of the Supervisory Board and were also discussed by the Audit Committee and at plenary sessions. The auditors attended the meetings of both bodies, reported on the material findings of the audit and were available to provide additional information. The Supervisory Board concurs with the auditors’ findings. Both the recommendation by the Audit Committee and the final results of the Supervisory Board plenary session’s examination did not give rise to any objections to the dependent company report prepared by the Board of Management and to the statement by the Board of Management at the end of the dependent company report. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 13 R e port o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Bo ard CHANGES ON THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BOARD The renewed extension of the appointment of Dr. Peter Buthmann as member of the Board of Management and Human Resources Director has already been referred to above. Prof. Dr. ­Michael Hoffmann-Becking resigned from the Supervisory Board with effect from the close of last year’s General Meeting. The Meeting elected Prof. Dr. Dieter H. Hellmann as his successor, and also reappointed Dr. Martin Auer to the Supervisory Board. Prof. Dr. Hellmann and Dr. Jost Wiechmann resigned from the Supervisory Board with effect from the end of August and the end of December 2015 respectively. They were replaced by Günther Koch and ­Gabriele Sommer, both of whom were appointed to the Supervisory Board by means of an order of the Local Court of Ludwigshafen am Rhein, with effect from 8 September 2015 and 1 January 2016 respectively. Klaus Kühborth resigned as Chairman of the Supervisory Board, while remaining as a member, as of 10 September 2015. Dr. Thomas Seeberg was appointed to succeed him as Chairman. The Supervisory Board would like to thank the members who have left the Board for their many years of close cooperation. It also thanks Mr Kühborth for his prudent leadership over the past few years. The Supervisory Board would once again like to thank the Board of Management, the employees and employee representatives of all Group companies for their constructive and committed work during the past financial year. Frankenthal, 23 March 2016 The Supervisory Board 14 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2015 A L O O K BAC K AT 2015 Q1 FRANCE TURKEY A three-year contract is conStaff and management celecluded between KSB and a brate the start of construcmajor French company opertion of the new mechatronics ating in the water industry. competence centre in Ankara. The contract covers the supThe centre will unite the proply of pumps and mixers, as duction of circulators and MILESTONE well as an agreement bestate-of-the-art electrical and A WORLD FIRST The Etanorm pump range is tween the customer and the automation equipment. ProBy using ultrasonic sensors, awarded an innovation prize 29 KSB Service workshops in duction of pumps from the the new BOA-Control IMS in the “Pumps and Valves” France. Smedegaard product range offer shut-off, balancing and category by the MM Maschiwill commence in 2016 at measuring functions in a nenmarkt trade journal. KSB the Turkish factory. ­single valve. A mobile or perhas set standards internamanently installed computer tionally with this “mother of LUXEMBOURG can be used for storing and all standardised pumps”. The last boxes for a major transmitting the recorded valve order leave the factory values. LOGISTICS of SISTO Armaturen S.A. in The new central warehouse Echternach, Luxembourg. INNOVATION for standard products in AWARD The valves are destined for ACHEMA 2015 in Frankfurt Worms starts operations. It KSB receives an environment use in the Taishan nuclear sees KSB showcase the KSB serves as a facility for hanprize awarded by the Pump power station in China. The Sonolyzer for the first time. dling and storing products Industry Awards and the customer had placed an Sonolyzer is a smartphone that come from several EuroBritish Pump Manufacturers’ ­order for a total of almost and tablet app used for anapean KSB factories and helps Association in 2015 for its 5,800 globe and butterfly lysing the energy efficiency minimising delivery times “Pump as Turbine in Place of valves which were supplied of pumps on the go. In under and logistics costs. Pressure-Reducing Valve” by SISTO within five years. 20 seconds, the application solution. Pumps running in filters the motor’s exact reverse can use hydropower speed from the noise specto generate electricity while trum, determines the torque, Q2 pressures are reduced. and analyses whether the pump is operated under lowflow conditions and thus running inefficiently. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP MANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 15 A L ook Back Q3 KSB SHARES MINING BALLAST WATER SYSTEM 2015 marks the 120th anniGIW Industries, Inc. enters After successful completion versary of the listing of into a sales and service partof the tests on land KSB’s KSB AG shares on the nership with the Finnish ­innovative ballast water Frankfurt Stock Exchange. company Outotec Oyj. As a management system is inTo celebrate the occasion, cooperation partner, Outotec stalled on a container ship. KSB’s two Board of Managewill be globally selling and This marks the start of the ment members, Dr. Peter ANNIVERSARY servicing KSB pumps for prescribed tests to be conButhmann and Werner StegKAGEMA Industrieausrüs­ hardrock mining in the ducted at sea. müller, ring the bell on tungen GmbH celebrates its ­future. 30 July to signal the start of 25th anniversary. 70 members COOPERATION trading. of staff manufacture pumps INAUGURATION KSB AG and China-based with diesel engines and elecThe new foundry of GIW Shanghai Electric Group Co., tric motors as well as fire-­ ­Industries, Inc. is officially Ltd. sign an agreement for fighting and control systems opened. White cast iron will strategic collaboration in the at the company’s Pattensen primarily be produced by conventional energy market. location. foundry staff in the new The two companies intend to 4,650-square-metre building. cooperate in international SERVICE The new foundry is part of a projects and to set up a new The KSB Service subsidiary modernisation project at the business model focussing on ENERGY PUMPS Standard Alloys Inc. opens a Grovetown location into the retrofitting of power KSB wins a multi-million new 1,400-square-metre facwhich KSB invests a total of stations. euro order for the supply of tory in Deer Park, in the 66 million euros. boiler feed and booster pumps south-east of Texas. It is the TRIODIS for the new Tanda coal-fired company’s fourth repair cenThe first butterfly valves power station located in the tre and one of eleven service from the TRIODIS range Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. centres set up from scratch leave the newly constructed These pumps will be manuby KSB in 2015. production site located in La factured by staff at our Indian Roche-Chalais, France. They factory in Pune. MAJOR ORDER have been designed to cope Q4 KSB books an order for a towith high pressures and extal of 200 pumps worth an tremely low temperatures. eight-figure sum. The pumps to be manufactured at KSB’s Bremen, Frankenthal, Pegnitz and Pune factories will be installed in three new combined cycle power stations in Egypt. 16 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2015 E MPL OYEES Corporate economic success is, to a large extent, based on the It is also important for a mechanical engineering company to abilities of employees. Their commitment, efficiency, knowltrain young skilled workers and industrial business manageedge and skills form the basis of all commercial processes. At ment assistants, with a focus on practical learning. In the year KSB around 16,000 employees are committed to providing under review, we imparted expertise to 189 young people in i­nnovative products and outstanding services to customers 18 vocational professions at the Frankenthal, Halle and Pegnitz from across the globe. To ensure that we always attract, locations and helped them to successfully qualify. ­nurture and retain the best people, we aim to be an attractive employer that supports a climate of learning, innovation and The success of this is borne out by the performances of the change. young employees before the CCI boards of examiners and in the distinctions awarded to KSB as an exemplary training company. IDENTIFYING TALENT As an employer, when selecting new employees we ensure that Just as important as professional expertise are personal developtheir professional and social skills fit in with our corporate ment and a clear sense of responsibility. Our trainees again culture centred on the values of trust, responsibility, professionprovided evidence of the latter in the social sphere in 2015 alism, appreciation and honesty. through their involvement at animal sanctuaries, in sponsored runs and by assisting refugees. In addition to the classic communication channels, we use the job pages of the social media channels LinkedIn and Xing. In the year under review, we spent € 7.24 million on vocaThis enables us to establish contact with job candidates, build tional training in Germany, including the equipping of three networks and fill vacant positions quickly. mechanical engineering training workshops. FOSTERING YOUNG TALENT DEVELOPING COMPETENCIES Forward-looking companies understand the importance of We invest in the development of our employees in order to attracting promising young people at an early stage. We initimaintain and increase their knowledge, skills and innovative ated two new programmes in the year under review to ensure drive in the long run. We conducted seminars around the that we are able to attract young talent: The first is aimed at world to enhance our employees’ expertise and promote their university graduates from all over the world, who gain inter­ personal development. Many such measures are followed by national professional experience as trainees at different locaan individual action plan that aims to implement the knowltions within the Group over a period of 18 months. In addiedge imparted more quickly. tion they complete individual training and attend seminars in order to prepare themselves for their later target positions We put particular emphasis on the further education of our within the company. The trainees are helped to achieve this sales staff in 2015, focusing on training programmes devoted by senior management. The second programme is aimed at to the requirements of a new sales channel aimed at the users young professionals who already have some experience as of our products. In Russia we also trained experts in special project managers, managers or experts. They take on chalapplications for our products, such as power plants and the lenging tasks in a cross-functional or cross-border project at petrochemical industries. The participants were then able to KSB. use their new knowledge to train their colleagues at their ­respective workplaces. In addition, 45 young people completed a dual work / degree programme to obtain a Bachelor of Arts (business administration) or Bachelor of Engineering (mechanical engineering). M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 17 E m pl oy ees Life-long learning: Our wide range of training courses increases our employees’ knowledge and enables them to tackle new tasks. 18 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2015 Our managers also continuously examine their roles and the SCORING WITH PROFESSIONALISM performance of their employees. We support this through ­individual development measures and topic-specific training Everything we do is designed to offer customers attractive programmes that enable them to reflect on and change their products and services, in addition to expert advice. Managers management style. In our biggest US company, GIW Industries, and employees strive to achieve that objective each and every Inc., around 70 managers completed such a training proday. Thanks to them, we promote customer loyalty and attract gramme in 2015. new customers to our company. Leadership always involves a duty of care to the employees. The Board of Management thanks the staff for this achieveTo reduce the physical harm caused by stress, we introduced ment and their commitment during the implementation of the a new e-learning programme in German and English in the new initiatives that strengthen our competitiveness. ­Special year under review. The programme provides users with inforthanks are also due to the Works Council members, executives’ mation on how they can support the mental health of their representatives and youth representatives for their critical employees as well as their own. and constructive collaboration. IMPROVING PERFORMANCE Inspiring clients requires outstanding performance. The assumption underpinning this is that all employees know what is ­expected of them, which necessitates a clear communication and feedback culture. Under the motto “Courage to talk means a chance to improve”, around 1,200 staff members around the world had taken part in a competence-based performance evaluation by the end of June 2015. The objective was to give the employees structured, open feedback about performance and conduct as well as to agree development objectives and measures together. Due to the positive experiences and outcomes of the evaluation, we will include further groups of employees in the process in 2016. STAFF NUMBERS DOWN At the end of 2015, 16,196 people were employed in the Group, 113 fewer than at the same time the previous year. The number of employees at our German companies declined by 169 as a result of measures introduced above all by KSB AG to adapt to new market conditions. Meanwhile, the size of the French workforce increased by 126 employees, mainly due to the integration of a service unit. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 19 E m pl oy ees C orpor at e So ci al Resp o n si b i l ity C ORPO RATE SOCIAL RESPON S I BI L I TY Companies that want to be successful in the long term need EDUCATION FOR A BETTER FUTURE to act responsibly towards future generations. At KSB, we a­ lways abide by this principle in our business activities. As a We aim to contribute to positive social development through manufacturing company, we attach particular importance to our philanthropic involvement. A key focus of our social protecting people and the environment. We are also committed ­activities is education. to social issues. To remain competitive, innovative companies need highly In our business activities, we are guided not just by economic qualified specialist staff both now and in the future. That is but also by ecological and social criteria. In 2010, for instance, why we are particularly keen to promote the scientific and we signed the United Nations Global Compact , committing tech­nological education of young people. For example, KSB is ourselves to align our business practices with ten universal involved in an educational initiative as a founding member of principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environ“Wissensfabrik – Unternehmen für Deutschland e.V.” [Knowl­ ment and combating corruption. edge Factory – Companies for Germany]. Since 2005, we have agreed 22 educational partnerships with kindergartens More than 13,000 companies and organisations have now and schools. The aim is to enthuse children for science and joined this UN initiative, including many of our customers technology at an early age. We provide learning materials for and business partners. We expect our suppliers to commit to experiments and practical work, and train teachers in how the ten principles of the Global Compact and comply with to use them. Moreover, we support a story-telling project to its rules, just as we do. foster early language development. In our business relationships, we consider proper conduct on KSB also has intensive contact to universities. Young scientists the part of our employees to be very important. We regularly visit our site to gain an insight into what it is like to work hold trainings to support them in performing their duties in in a mechanical engineering company. Students can do their compliance with regulations and the law. In 2015, we comfinal-year theses at our company or work as interns or stuplemented our guidelines and directives with a business partner dent trainees. risk analysis valid throughout the Group. It applies to any services provided by a third party for or on behalf of KSB, such For the third time, KSB organised the regional section of the as sales representatives, consultants, suppliers and subcon“Schüler experimentieren – Jugend forscht” [Pupils do tractors. The analysis allows identifying certain risks before ­experiments – young people do research] contest, the largest business relationships are initiated. European event of this kind, at the Group headquarters in Frankenthal. In the region of Upper Franconia, we once again KSB has traditionally linked economic success with working backed this competition as a cooperation partner. for the common good, which also encompasses providing ­financial assistance to socially motivated organisations. In order In India, we have equipped a school with a science labora­tory. to bundle our activities and achieve high transparency, we We are also supporting a further education project for overhauled our Donations Directive in the year under review. ­women from rural areas, so that they are better equipped to This directive sets out binding rules on the purposes and earn a living. conditions of our financial and non-financial commitments. The arrival of around a million migrants in 2015 has created great challenges for Germany. These people can only be integrated if they learn the language of their host country quickly. Good German skills help even the youngest of migrants to settle into their new environment. This key topic was thus at 20 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2015 the focus of our Christmas charity campaign. At our three safety in the office. More than 1,700 participants learned about largest production sites, we donated € 40,000 to various organthe potential risks and what to do in an emergency. They isations and projects that aid refugee children. The donations were also informed about protective and preventive measures, support language courses and sports sponsorship, so that young for example, to prevent fires. people can quickly fit into German society. To guarantee the safety of our industrial employees, we reguWe are particularly proud of our trainees’ contribution. At our larly hold training courses. Our aim is to prevent accidents site in Halle, KSB’s youngest generation put together welcome related to work processes. In manufacturing companies, potenparcels to meet the basic needs of refugees on their arrival in tially hazardous chemicals are used from time to time. In such the country. cases, our goal is to avoid any accidents before they happen. In Brazil, we put together a team of experts to reduce the dangers of dealing with flammable products and materials in STRENGTHENING SOCIETY’S FABRIC the manufacturing process. In India, we are supporting ten projects close to our sites. We donated vehicles to a charity that offers medical care, education KSB attaches great importance to effective health management, and rehabilitation to maltreated women and their children. as only physically and mentally fit staff can do their best for These will facilitate transport to hospitals, for example. We our customers. In addition to measures for the prevention of equipped a centre for handicapped children with a classroom occupational injuries and diseases, we organised information that meets their needs. In a rural village, we built toilet facilities events again in 2015 as part of our company health manageto improve the hygiene conditions. Every year, we pay for the ment, for example on early detection of diabetes, as well as upkeep of children in several welfare institutions. preventive check-ups in Germany. Employees over the age of 50 had the option of a thorough medical examination. For Our employees are involved in social welfare projects worldi­nstance, the physician assessed their risk of developing cardiowide. For example, staff in Malaysia collected clothes, games, vascular diseases and advised them on how to reduce this toys and books for needy inhabitants of a remote village. KSB risk. To detect skin cancer in good time, a specialist carried employees in Singapore were joined by a number of disabled out 240 dermatological checks at three sites. We aim to rechildren to spend a public holiday together. In the UK , KSB peat this skin screening programme in 2016 due to the high donated the proceeds from the recycling of IT equipment and demand. Additionally, some 400 employees took advantage mobile telephones to a children’s charity. of the offer of flu immunisation. Around 150 KSB computer users are taking part in a computer-based health programme Our staff in Australia are involved in a very special project. for office workplaces. Participants briefly interrupt their work They regularly prepare free meals on a voluntary basis for the several times a day to do various exercises for their backs “brekkie van” to deliver to homeless and socially underpriviand eyes. leged people. Several local companies contribute to this charitable project. In Austria, staff are regularly surveyed. The standardised questionnaires used make it possible to detect risks to physical and mental health. Measures are then adopted to prevent HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK long-term illnesses such as burnout syndrome. As a socially responsible company, we attach importance to our staff’s health and safety. Hence, we take measures to preOne of our US companies carried out an ergonomic analysis vent accidents and health problems. To minimise risks, we of all workplaces in 2015. The aim was to identify and presystematically focus on prevention. In 2015, we introduced an vent injuries due to poor posture. e-learning course in Germany about occupational health and M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 21 C orpor at e So ci al Resp o n si b i l ity Manufacturing companies create waste. In order to minimise ENERGY SAVINGS POTENTIAL ASSESSED the resulting impact on the environment, we try to keep our All our production processes are designed to be as environuse of hazardous substances as low as possible. More­over, we mentally friendly as possible. Thus, we are continually cutting are working towards recycling all materials we use and proback on our use of raw materials and energy. In the year under ducing little or even no waste at all. In Spain, we started a review, we carried out energy audits at all larger European sites project in 2015 to reduce the use of solvents by 15 percent in order to identify energy savings potential even better than per year by 2018. before. The findings of these analyses showed how our energy consumption could be reduced by means of appropriate modWhen modernising plants, we ensure that we use state-of-theernisation measures and a change in user behaviour. art environmental technologies. The same applies when we replace machinery and equipment: we opt for more energy-­ At our site in Pegnitz, we modernised the heating station in efficient substitutes. 2015 and, at the same time, installed a combined heat and power unit. As a result, we can save some of the energy previously used for heating and produce some of the electricity needed in our plant ourselves. We can thus reduce our electricity purchases by around 2.4 million kilowatt hours every year. To lower the energy consumed by our sites worldwide we are relying on high-efficiency lighting. For example, in the year under review, we replaced conventional lights in Argentina, India, South Korea and the United States with more energy-­ efficient models. Additionally, we installed sensor-­controlled lighting. Our employees work together closely across the company and therefore frequently have to discuss matters in meetings. Wherever possible, we avoid business trips and use our ­international video conferencing network instead. We are continually developing this network so that we can communicate in an environmentally friendly manner. In 2015, we set up seven new video conferencing rooms, which means that we now have 67 facilities of this kind in 23 countries. In addition, 140 employees use an individual video system on their computers. Around 15,000 on-screen conferences were held at KSB in the reporting year. Globally, we are counting on binding certification to create uniform environmental standards. In 2015, we obtained ­accreditation in accordance with the internationally recognised ISO 14001 standard at our sites in Germany, Spain and the United Arab Emirates. AMALINE Submersible motor propeller pump for waste water treatment M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP MANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 23 2 OUTLOOK 2018 OUTLOOK 2018 24 Outlook 2018 26 Focus Markets 24 OUTLOOK KSB’s aim is to generate long-term profitable growth. Based on this goal, we have realigned our Group strategy, defining our focus markets and measures that will promote dynamic growth. We want to secure a leading position (Top 3) for KSB as a pumps supplier in five selected markets now or by 2018. At the same time, we are continuing to expand our valves and service business. KSB has focused its business activities on three global markets (industry, energy supply, water and waste water), and on two regional markets (mining and construction / building services). M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP MANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RMAT I O N 25 Outlook 2018 Within this target corridor for return on sales at KSB, we will achieve long-term profitable growth. High performance from every angle. As a fluid handling partner, we support our customers with products and services across all phases of planning, building, operating and servicing a plant. Our 360-degree expertise is based on a holistic approach to everything we do. In order to improve our return on sales, we are cutting our material costs, our staff costs and our overheads by 10 % worldwide. This will reduce our spending by € 200 million by 2018. This is the share of aftermarket business in our total order intake and sales revenue volume that we are targeting by 2018. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP MANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON Focus Marke ts The transformation of the ENERGY SUPPLY sector has brought with it new challenges. As well as equipping power plants in Asia, KSB’s business in this market is largely focused on modernisation work and providing services across the globe. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP MANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RMAT I O N Focus Marke ts The world’s population is growing. The effective functioning of WATER SUPPLY networks and WASTE WATER TREATMENT is becoming an increasingly urgent issue. KSB is targeting growth in the Regions Asia, Americas and the Middle East / Africa. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP MANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON Focus Marke ts INDUSTRY remains KSB’s most important global market. Here, customers require products which deliver consistently high levels of performance and are energy-efficient. Integration in automated processes extending all the way to Industry 4.0 models is likewise expected. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP MANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON Focus Marke ts In MINING, robust slurry pumps and prompt service are in high demand. Customers’ number one wish is trouble-free operation. The most important market for KSB are the Americas. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP MANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RMAT I O N Focus Marke ts In BUILDING SERVICES, intelligent products from KSB find use most of all in Europe and in the Middle East. Our range of automated pumps and valves for construction facilitates the development of networked systems. AKG-S High-pressure shut-off valve for non-aggressive fluids M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP MANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 37 3 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT G R O U P M A N AG E M E N T R E P O RT 38 Basic Principles of the Group 38 Group Business Model 39 Control System 40 Research and Development 42 Economic Review 42 Macroeconomic Environment and Sector View 44 Business Development and Results of Operations 48 Financial Position and Net Assets 52 Events after the Reporting Period 52 Dependent Company Report 53 Report on Expected Developments 56 Opportunities and Risks Report 68 Acquisition-related Disclosures 69 Corporate Governance Statement (Section 289a of the HGB) 70 Remuneration of the Board of Management 38 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT BA SI C PRINC IPLES OF THE G RO UP instructions of the Board of Management within an organisaGROUP BUSINESS MODEL tion that is structured according to responsibilities for product The KSB Group’s mission is to supply customers around the groups, corporate functions and regions. world with top-quality pumps and valves as well as related systems. We also provide a wide range of service offerings to All organisational units act with the aim of ensuring sustain­ users of these products. able, profitable growth that will secure both KSB’s financial independence and its mediumand long-term future. ManageKSB AG, Frankenthal / Pfalz, Germany, as the parent company, ment is monitored by a Supervisory Board consisting of directly or indirectly holds the shares in the companies betwelve members. The Annual General Meeting of shareholders longing to the Group. Besides it, 9 domestic and 80 foreign appoints six members of the Supervisory Board, with the companies are fully consolidated; 6 other companies are ­remaining six being delegated by the employees under the terms ­accounted for under the equity method. An extension of the of the Mitbestimmungsgesetz [German Co-determination group of consolidated companies is currently not planned for Act]. the current financial year. KSB is represented in over 40 countries with its own subsidiaries. The KSB Group organises its business activities in three segments based on product groups: Pumps, Valves and Service. Besides KSB AG itself, the companies in the KSB Group with The Pumps segment covers singleand multistage pumps, and the highest sales revenue are associated control and drive systems. Applications are industry (manufacturing, chemical / petrochemical, transport), energy KSB S.A.S., Gennevilliers (Paris), France supply, water transport and waste water treatment, construcGIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia, USA tion / building services and the hydraulic transport of solids in KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China mining. The Valves segment covers butterfly, globe, gate, conKSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India trol, diaphragm and ball valves, as well as associated actuators KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal, Germany and control systems. The applications for these products are KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista, Brazil essentially identical to those for pumps. The Service segment covers the installation, commissioning, start-up, inspection, Our basic business model has not changed during the year servicing, maintenance and repair of pumps, related systems under review. External economic and political changes, howand valves for all these applications, as well as modular serever, have had a partial effect on our business. These are – vice concepts and system analyses for complete systems. where relevant and material to KSB – described in the following sections. MARKETS AND LOCATIONS Within the KSB Group, centrifugal pumps account for around OR G A N I S AT I O N, M A NAGEM ENT AND C ONTR OL two thirds of sales revenue. These pumps, as well as valves, KSB AG ’s Board of Management manages and controls the are sold to engineering contractors, OEMs and end users or, KSB Group. This body formed of two persons is assisted in in some cases, distributed via dealers. The same applies to operational decisions by a management team of senior execucontrol and monitoring systems, and to package units with tives. Managers and employees implement the strategy and pumps and valves. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 39 Ba sic Principles o f th e Gro u p Group Busine ss Mo de l Control S yste m The best developed sales market for these products is Europe, CONTROL SYSTEM where KSB operates its main manufacturing facilities in ­Germany and France. KSB AG’s main plant in Frankenthal is Based upon our matrix organisation, we determine our key its largest in Europe, ahead of the production sites in Pegnitz ­financial performance indicators as follows: (Bavaria) and Halle (Saxony-Anhalt) in Germany, and La Roche-­ Chalais in France. Management decisions are taken primarily on the basis of the key indicators that are determined for the Pumps, Valves and The second-largest market for KSB products is the Region Asia, Service segments: order intake, sales revenue and the operating followed by the Region Americas / Oceania and the Region result (i.e. earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) excluding Middle East / Africa. Outside Europe, KSB’s biggest manufacthe effects from measuring construction contracts in accordturing plants are in Brazil, China, India and the USA. ance with IAS 11). For further information on these key i­ndicators see the Notes to the Consolidated Financial StateKSB manufactures products and components in a total of ments, section VIII. Segment Reporting. 16 countries; they are sold through the Group’s own companies or agencies in more than 100 countries. With their prodIn addition, we take the earnings before income taxes (EBT), ucts, the Group companies serve customers in industry includpre-tax return on sales and net financial position into con­ ing the chemical and petrochemical industries, customers in sideration for controlling the Group as a whole. The pre-tax the energy and construction / building services sectors, transreturn on sales describes the ratio between the earnings beport equipment manufacturers and operators (e. g. ships, rail fore income taxes (EBT) and the sales revenue; net financial ­vehicles), water and waste water utilities, and mining compaposition is the balance of financial liabilities and interest-­ nies. Once again in 2015, the top-selling markets for our bearing financial assets (current and non-current financial inproducts were the industrial and energy supply sectors. struments, interest-bearing loans, cash, and receivables from cash deposits). When specifying and evaluating these key indiIn order to be able to offer our products at favourable prices, cators, we are guided on the one hand by developments in we combine the Group’s purchasing requirements and source the market, and on the other by the performance of our key affordable suppliers around the world who meet our quality competitors. standards. The focus is currently upon Asian companies. We are able to maintain our market position as one of the leading We do not consult any non-financial performance indicators pump and valve manufacturers through our good and longfor controlling the Group and for making decisions regarding term relationships with our customers and suppliers. Our highly management issues. Further information on the subject areas trained and motivated employees as well as the high quality of employees, environmental protection and corporate social of our products have also helped cement our reputation. responsibility can be found in the Management and Issues 2015 section. 40 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Aiming to position ourselves as a full-range supplier for circuRESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT lators, we expanded our Calio series in 2015. This involved The goals of our research and development activities focus on ­developing additional hydraulic sizes, designing a twin pump making fluid transport more efficient, more reliable and more variant and extending the performance range by means of a cost-effective. Across the globe, our development specialists new motor concept. We also integrated the technology acquired work in international teams often supported by renowned univia our subsidiary Smedegaard into KSB’s existing platforms. versities and institutes. Our expenses in this area totalled Calio’s success in 2015 suggests that this work will pay off in € 58 million for the year under review (previous year: € 49 milthe short and medium term. lion). This equates to an unchanged 2 % of our sales revenue. At 600 (previous year: 588), the number of staff working in research and development has remained almost constant. €58 million Research and development expenses in 2015 One focus of our work was on exploring the potential that a future-oriented field such as Industry 4.0 offers for our business. The development of our KSB Sonolyzer app re­ presents the first step towards utilising the possibilities of cyber-­ physical systems for industrial centrifugal pumps. The ­application is suitable for smartphones or tablets and helps operators boost the productivity of their systems. The app ­enables a user to determine the efficiency of a fixed-speed pump in just 20 seconds. This product won KSB the Process Inno­ vation Award in the Pumps and Compressors category at Achema 2015. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 41 Ba sic Principles o f th e Gro u p Re se a rch and De v e l o pm e n t (Top) Full-range supplier for circulators: The twin pump variant of the Calio series extends our building services product portfolio. (Left) Pump used as turbine: With the KSB PowerHouse, we offer our customers turnkey power generation systems. (Right) Industry 4.0: The KSB Sonolyzer mobile app allows users to analyse the efficiency of fixed-speed pumps in just 20 seconds. 42 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT E C O N O MI C REVIEW MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND While sales of machinery and systems in the EU and in China SECTOR VIEW grew slightly by 2 %, other markets experienced a decline, particularly in South America, where sales figures fell by as Our planning for the 2015 financial year was based on slightly much as 12 % compared with the previous year. From a stronger economic growth than in 2014. However, this ­global perspective, mechanical and plant engineering sales only increase in growth, as forecast by the International Monetary rose by 1 % as a result, a lower level of growth than in 2014. Fund (IMF) and other institutions failed to materialise. Rather, as the economy became less dynamic over the course SALES MARKETS RECORD MIXED PERFORMANCES of the year, several corrections to our forecast values were The main sales markets for pumps and valves developed required. Ultimately, the increase in the global gross domestic ­unevenly again in 2015 across the different sectors. The trend product, at 3.1 %, was down on the previous year. in manufacturing as well as in the chemical industry was ­positive, which boosted sales of standard pumps. Chemical A key factor in this regard was the economic situation in sev­ companies focused on major projects in the Middle East and eral of the major emerging markets. Growth in China dipped the USA in particular, looking to exploit the cost benefits during slightly in the financial year, which also dampened demand production. Meanwhile, in the water and waste water sectors, for industrial goods on one of KSB’s key sales markets. The demand for pumps for wells and water pipelines, as well as economies of Brazil and Russia actually experienced a decline for waste water pumping stations and sewage treatment proin their gross domestic product. As well as other factors, the cesses increased. This is a sector that needs to adapt to supplysituation on the oil and commodities markets played a key ing a growing population in many countries while also comrole. The collapse in prices for industrial raw materials and plying with stricter environmental protection regulations. The fuels also impacted on other countries that export these goods, market for shut-off valves used in the water industry was also detracting from their economic strength and reducing the healthy. The construction sector developed positively in some willingness to invest, among both private and government regions, primarily the Middle East and Asia. investors. In contrast, a dramatic slump in demand was recorded in the Indirectly, these developments also had an effect on the indusoil and gas industry, as well as in petrochemicals. Hardest hit trialised nations, although the economic recovery was mainby the falling levels of demand were the producers of pumps tained overall in the industrialised world. Export-oriented to API standards. They responded to the changing market countries in the euro zone, primarily Germany, benefited by restructuring and introducing cost-cutting measures, dependfrom the weakness of their common currency. Nevertheless, ing on their main commercial focus. the economy of the euro zone states lagged a long way behind the US economy. Mining companies, which as in the previous year suffered from lower demand for raw materials and low prices for their WE A K G R OW T H I N M EC HANI C AL ENGI NEER I NG products, were reluctant to invest. Instead, they focused on Businesses like KSB that operate in the mechanical engineering improving plant efficiency and cutting operating costs. This is sector had limited opportunities for expansion, given the reflected in a lower number of new purchase orders, coupled weak state of the economy. The extent of these constraints with an increase in service orders. The lack of investment was varied, however, according to production segment and refelt particularly strongly by manufacturers of slurry pumps, gional market focuses. among them KSB subsidiary GIW Industries, Inc. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 43 E conomic Re vi e w Macroe conomi c En v i ro n m e n t an d S e c to r Vi e w WORL D M A R K E T O F C E N T R IFU GA L PU MPS A ND VA LVES of industrial valves declined by 2 % in real terms, whereas ­initially 2 % growth had been forecast Middle East /Africa 12.1% COMPETITORS MAKE ADJUSTMENTS Asia 35.8% It has mainly been Anglo-Saxon pump and valve companies Europe 24.6% that have benefited from the boom in the oil and gas sector and in the petrochemical industry over the past few years. In 2015, these companies attempted to compensate for the spe­ Americas /Oceania 27.5% cific fall in orders by introducing commercial initiatives in other sectors, or by looking to after-sales business. This resulted in greater price pressure, particularly in relation to industrial Source: KSB estimate, European Industrial Forecasting (February 2016) plant and power station projects. Several pump and valve producers launched cost-cutting In the shipping sector, too, the lower level of demand for goods, programmes in response to the changes on the market. The including industrial commodities, was tangible. Particularly measures introduced included long-term capacity reduction companies that transport oil and gas by sea slashed their investalso involving the closure of some plants. Sites were closed ment levels, limiting the number of contracts that shipyards down in the Americas, Africa and Australia, as well as in placed with the supply industry. From KSB’s perspective, the Europe. marine sector is most relevant as a sales market for cryogenic valves. These are ordered by equipment suppliers and operaAt the same time, some pump and valve manufacturers tors of liquefied gas tankers. turned to acquisitions, mergers and cooperation projects to strengthen their market position. One of the more significant Demand from the energy industry for pumps and valves was mergers involved two US companies from the oil and gas secalso down on the previous year, not least due to structural retor. Current KSB business with its low level of activities in focussing in the electricity supply market, with the clear trend this branch of industry is, however, barely affected by this towards renewable energies. Fossil-fuelled and nuclear power transaction. station projects have only accounted for a handful of projects in Europe for many years now. In several emerging markets, The different fields of application for pumps require specific however, contracts for fossil-fuelled plants were awarded in technical expertise on the part of the manufacturers, as well 2015. Opportunities also arose in connection with the building as a perfectly tailored product and service range. In areas where of new power stations with combined gas and steam turbines this has been lacking, or where operations have not develin the USA. oped profitably, some pump suppliers began withdrawing from certain fields of application again in 2015. This improved Against this wider economic background, sales by German the sales prospects for their competitors who chose to remain manufacturers of liquid pumps fell by 4 % in real terms year in the market. on year, according to the German Engineering Federation (VDMA ) figures. The VDMA had anticipated a stagnating market at the beginning of 2015. Sales by German producers 44 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT up the difference. Consequently, the planned “significant inBUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND crease” in order intake did not materialise. In addition to RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ­projects being postponed by customers, the intense price competition was a contributory factor in this regard. The latter We focused our business activities on three global and two made some contracts, which were only awarded by potential ­regional focus markets in 2015. We consider the industrial customers after protracted negotiations with several providsector, the water and waste water industry and energy supply ers, unattractive to KSB from a profitability perspective. to be the key global sales markets. Our regional focus markets are mining in the Americas and construction / building Clear regional differences emerged in relation to new orders services in Europe. in 2015. Companies in Asia (+ 9.6 %) and the Middle East / Africa (+ 22.3 %) recorded increases in purchase order levels. To serve these markets quickly and cost-effectively, we have Alongside a strong increase in orders from the water and embarked on the task of making our global production strucwaste water sectors, orders placed by the petrochemical industures more efficient. This involves closing some of the smaller try in the Middle East and the Asian energy sector contributed plants in Europe. At the same time, however, we have investto this improvement. ed in a mechatronics centre in Turkey. By setting up a new central spare parts warehouse for standard products in Europe, In contrast, order intake of our companies in Europe decreased and by creating eleven additional service centres, we have (– 7.0 %), with a major factor being the poor business situaalso extended our logistics base, enabling us to support our tion of energy utility companies. One of the companies hit customers across the world even more effectively as they by the fall in demand was KSB AG, whose order intake fell make long-term use of our products and service. With this in by 8.0 % to € 780.6 million. New orders also dipped in the mind, we contact users of our pumps and valves via our Americas and Oceania (– 5.8 %), with a reluctance to invest Installed Base sales channel. in the mining sector proving particularly crucial. At the same time, we used new sales activities and logistics Pumps structures to boost sales of our standard products. In this way A 4.7 % decline in orders received for pumps, totalling we were able to offset some of the decline in orders resulting € 1,452.4 million, can be attributed to the lull experienced in from the fierce competition in the project business against the the mining sector, the demand situation in the petrochemicals background of the market situation described above. sector and the change in the basic parameters of European energy supply. We had expected to see a significant increase It should be borne in mind in the following explanations that in order intake. the prior-year figures presented include the effects resulting from the adjustment under IAS 8. For more information, see In light of the situation on the commodity markets, mine operthe Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ators frequently backed away from ordering new plant com­ ponents, a reticence that was also felt by GIW Industries, Inc., OR DE R I N TA K E which predominantly produces and sells pumps for transOrders received by the KSB Group totalled € 2,261.2 million, porting solids. In both Asia and South America, reduced dewhich was € 60.0 million or 2.6 % down on the previous mand for pumps for use in petrochemical plants had an year. Large orders from Asia expected during the final months ­adverse effect on order levels. In Brazil, the lower volume of of 2015 were delayed, and a pump order placed for three incoming orders was attributable to the difficulties faced Egyptian power stations in November was not able to make by the country’s major oil company, among other factors. The M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 45 Economic Re vi e w Busine ss D e vel o pm e n t an d R e su l ts o f Ope rati o n s decrease in orders for power plant pumps can be explained We recorded considerable increases across nearly all markets. by the situation on the European market, with some energy Customers from industry and the energy sector in particular utilities withdrawing from the fossil-fuelled power plant busimade greater use of our service offering than in 2014, with ness. considerably more orders also being received for work on transport equipment and on water and waste water systems. We recorded strong order intake growth for our pumps in the Not least the setting-up of new service centres in ten counwater and waste water sector. The companies in the Regions tries was a contributory factor. Asia and Middle East / Africa in particular expanded their business substantially. Based on orders received to date, they Our sales channel used to target existing customers, which was are set to be involved in both new projects and infrastructure expanded further in 2015, also had a positive impact on the modernisation measures. Business with industrial customers sale of services and the related spare parts in many areas. Service also progressed well, with not least the KSB companies in orders rose strongly in all four Regions – Europe, Middle Europe benefiting from this positive development. East / Africa, Asia and Americas / Oceania. Our efficiency analysis service also played a key role in this regard, enabling us Valves to show customers ways of making savings in their plants, as The order intake for valves was € 368.0 million, down 9.7 % well as offering possible ways of cutting electricity costs. on the previous year. In the report on expected developments we had assumed that there would be significant growth in SALES REVENUE orders. The lack of growth is mainly due to the reduced reConsolidated sales revenue rose as expected during the reportquirements of energy suppliers in Europe and also to the fact ing year, up by € 153.1 million to € 2,334.8 million, which that suppliers of equipment for transport ships in East Asia equates to an increase of 7.0 %. This positive divergence from needed fewer butterfly valves than in earlier years. As with the development in order intake can be attributed to largepumps, business with valves used in the petrochemicals scale orders placed in earlier years that we completed on sched­sector was adversely affected by our large Brazilian customer ule in 2015. This resulted in sales revenue growth in the halting any investment. Pumps and Valves segments, just as the orders received during the year under review had a similar effect in the Service Good success was achieved selling valves to industry in general, ­segment. particularly in Europe and the United Arab Emirates. This and other increases in order intake in individual sales markets Sales revenue growth was strongest in the Regions Asia were too low overall, however, to completely offset the de(+ 16.9 %) and Middle East / Africa (+ 12.0 %), but the comcline recorded in relation to power plant and ship valves. panies in Americas / Oceania (+ 8.7 %) and Europe (+ 3.4 %) also improved. Performance in our home market of Europe Service was slightly impeded by the 0.7 % fall in sales revenue Our Service segment enjoyed very strong growth in 2015. ­recorded by KSB AG (in accordance with the HGB German ­Orders worth € 440.8 million, a year-on-year increase of Commercial Code), down to € 809.5 million. 13.1 %, came in for our range of services, including retrofit measures. This improvement exceeded our expectation of Pumps just moderate growth in this segment. Service orders were In our strongest segment, Pumps, sales revenue grew in line placed for pumps and other rotating equipment, as well as with our forecast, increasing by 5.3 % to € 1,514.0 million. for valves, and we also accepted orders for products from It was mainly performance outside of our home market of other manufacturers. Europe that contributed to this growth. Our companies in East and South-East Asia in particular boosted pump sales. 46 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT 7.0% This similarly applies to the companies in North America, with GIW Industries, Inc. fulfilling major contracts placed by customers in Canada for the supply of slurry pumps. Valves In the Valves segment, we improved sales revenue by 1.5 % to € 384.6 million. This moderate growth was driven by the ­development of sales in Asia, where above all our companies Growth in sales revenue in 2015 in China, India and South Korea invoiced valve orders on a large scale. In the Regions Europe, Americas / Oceania and Middle East / Africa, the sales revenue volume was, however, EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST AND TAXES (EBIT) lower than in 2014. Overall, in our forecast, we predicted that The KSB Group achieved earnings before interest and taxes this product group would see a significant increase in sales (EBIT), excluding the effects from measuring construction revenue. contracts in accordance with IAS 11, of € 101.9 million (previous year: € 102.0 million). The Pumps segment contributed Service an EBIT figure of € 55.4 million (previous year: € 56.3 milOur strongest sales revenue growth in percentage terms came lion). We were therefore unable to realise our forecast in the from the Service segment, in which we initially only antici­ previous year’s report (considerable increase) and instead had pated a moderate rise. In fact, we were able to boost sales reveto accept a slight decline. EBIT fell strongly in the Valves segnue by 10.6 % to € 413.6 million. Above all, the expansion ment, reaching € 10.3 million (previous year: € 16.9 million). of our service business in Europe had a very positive impact on We therefore did not achieve the marked increase that was volume. However, it was our companies in Asia and the forecast. EBIT for the Service segment rose considerably, as Americas that recorded the strongest growth rates in percentplanned, reaching € 36.2 million (previous year: € 28.8 milage terms. The companies in North America in particular lion). The reconciliation effect from the measurement of conwere able to record far more service contracts than in the prestruction contracts under IAS 11 to EBIT changed by + € 16.1 vious year. million year on year. TOTAL OUTPUT OF OPERATIONS S AL E S R E V E N U E B Y S EGMENT The above-mentioned increase in sales revenue is also reflected in a higher total output of operations, totalling € 2,350.3 ­million compared with € 2,197.7 million in the previous year. Service 18% Work in progress and inventories of finished goods increased by € 10.7 million, and was thus € 1.3 million lower than in Pumps 66 % the previous year. In contrast, other work performed and Valves 16% capitalised rose slightly. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 47 Economic Re vi e w Busine ss D e vel o pm e n t an d R e su l ts o f Ope rati o n s INC O M E A N D E X P E N SES EARNINGS Other income grew from € 36.3 million to € 50.0 million, The KSB Group generated earnings before income taxes (EBT) partly due to higher income from the reversal of provisions no of € 93.4 million, compared with € 72.8 million in 2014. This longer required and also from the reversal of impairment meant that we lived up to our prior-year forecast, according losses on receivables. to which we were targeting a significant improvement in EBT and a value approaching the three-digit million mark. CorreThe cost of materials rose by 10.4 % and thus at a higher rate spondingly, the return on sales before tax increased from than total output of operations. In percentage terms, the cost 3.3 % in the previous year to 4.0 % and is therefore at the of materials (€ 979.5 million) increased from 40.4 % in the lower end of the forecast range. The income tax rate rose, previous year to 41.7 % in the year under review. As a result ­primarily due to prior-period taxes, but also due to more freof the continued pressure on prices in our pumps and valves quent non-tax-effective impairments on goodwill. The rate business, we were not able to pass on material price effects was 44.1 %, compared with 36.4 % in 2014. As a result, earnto our customers in full. ings after income taxes, which totalled € 52.2 million (pre­ vious year: € 46.3 million) and thus grew by 12.7 %, rose less Staff costs increased by 4.4 % to € 819.3 million. In relation markedly than earnings before income taxes (EBT) (28.2 %). to total output of operations, however, this represented a €93.4 ­decrease of 0.8 percentage points. Key factors were the collectively agreed salary increases on the one hand and a lower number of employees on the other. Compared with 2014, the number of employees fell by 113, taking the total figure at the end of the reporting year to 16,196. The German companies KSB AG and KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal, recorded a million ­significant decrease in staff numbers, down by 172 as a result of measures that we have introduced to adapt to new market Consolidated earnings (EBT) in 2015 conditions. In contrast, the size of the French workforce increased, mainly due to the integration of a service unit (126 employees). Consequently, the KSB Group employed on averEarnings attributable to non-controlling interests were up age 138 fewer people than in the previous year. Based on the from € 7.6 million to € 12.9 million. This can be attributed to higher total output of operations and simultaneous decrease improved contributions to earnings from our Asian compain the number of employees, the average output per employee nies. Relative to earnings after income taxes, there was thereimproved from € 134 thousand in the previous financial year fore a change from 16.4 % to 24.7 %. to € 144 thousand. The earnings attributable to shareholders of KSB AG (€ 39.3 The ratio of other expenses to total output of operations fell million) were € 0.6 million higher than in the previous year from 17.9 % to 17.5 %. In absolute terms, they rose from (€ 38.7 million). € 393.0 million to € 411.5 million, however. Higher sales expenses and more third-party services accounted for this Earnings per ordinary share were € 22.30, compared with change. € 21.97 in the previous year, and € 22.56 per preference share, compared with € 22.23 in 2014. The financial income / expense increased by € 6.3 million. This is above all attributable to higher income from investments which we accounted for using the equity method (+ € 2.8 million), and to a reduction of € 2.3 million in financial expenses. 48 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Our obligations for current pensioners and vested benefits of FINANCIAL POSITION AND NET ASSETS employees who have left the company account for nearly half F IN A N C I A L P O S I T I ON of the amount recognised in the balance sheet. The rest relates The financial position of KSB Group improved, as expressed to defined benefit obligations for our current employees. in an increase in the equity ratio of 2 percentage points. Other provisions for employee benefits, which are predomiEquity nantly current, also only changed slightly and total € 88.8 The KSB Group’s equity amounts to € 870.2 million (previous million (previous year: € 90.3 million). year: € 819.7 million). This includes KSB AG’s subscribed capi38.0% tal of € 44.8 million as in the previous year. The capital reserve remains unchanged at € 66.7 million. Revenue reserves total € 609.1 million (previous year: € 578.5 million), including the proportion of earnings after taxes attributable to shareholders of KSB AG of € 39.3 million (previous year: € 38.7 million). € 149.6 million (previous year: € 129.7 million) is ­attributable to non-controlling interests. Due to the significant increase in equity, which coincided with only a slight rise in total equity and liabilities (+ € 13.1 million or 0.6 %), the Equity ratio in 2015 equity ratio has also increased (38.0 %; previous year: 36.0 %). The non-controlling interests mainly relate to the following The picture with regard to other provisions, which we created companies: KSB Pumps Limited, India; GIW Industries, Inc., almost exclusively for current uncertain liabilities, is more USA ; KSB America Corporation, USA and KSB Shanghai or less stable (€ 99.5 million compared with € 96.7 million in Pump Co. Ltd., China. 2014). An increase in warranty obligations and contractual penalties following the growth in sales revenue volume partly Liabilities offset the decline in miscellaneous other provisions. The largest item under liabilities continues to be provisions for employee benefits, including, also as the largest item, penNon-current financial liabilities fell significantly, totalling sion provisions, which were up by € 1.4 million to € 526.0 € 133.5 million compared with € 159.4 million at the end of million as at the reporting date. A large number of the pension 2014. They include liabilities of € 122 million (previous year: plans currently in place in the KSB Group are defined benefit € 140 million) from a loan against borrower’s note placed in models. We will be reducing the associated risks, such as demo2012. It is divided into repayment tranches of 3 to 10 years. graphic changes, inflation and salary increases, for example The change can be explained by the early repayment of one by increasingly introducing defined contribution plans for new of these tranches. Furthermore, bank loans and overdrafts staff. ­decreased by more than € 8 million. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 49 Economic Re vi e w Fina ncia l Posi ti o n an d Ne t Asse ts We reduced current liabilities overall by € 15.5 million (€ 558.6 Net financial position million compared with € 574.1 million at year end 2014). The net financial position, at € 211.3 million compared with Current financial liabilities fell by as much as € 49.2 million. € 185.5 million in the previous year, developed more favour­ In addition to the scheduled repayment of a tranche of the ably than forecast twelve months earlier (€ 180 to 190 million) loan against borrower’s note in the amount of € 35 million, due to the slightly better earnings and increase in advances we also reduced bank loans and overdrafts by around € 14 received. million year on year. In contrast, trade payables rose by € 27.1 €211.3 million and current income tax liabilities by € 6.8 million. The increase in other non-financial liabilities of € 14.2 million, following a rise in advances received from customers, was offset by the decrease in other financial liabilities (– € 14.5 million primarily due to lower miscellaneous other financial ­obligations). Taking into account the increase in total equity million and liabilities, the share of current liabilities in total equity is 24.2 % (previous year: 25.1 %). Net financial position in 2015 Investments The additions to intangible assets amounting to € 8.3 million Liquidity (previous year: € 7.4 million) primarily concerned advance Cash flows from operating activities amounted to € 116.6 milpayments and own work capitalised for a new software to be lion, a year-on-year increase of € 28.1 million. The key condeployed in Sales, as in the previous year. tributory factors, in addition to the improvement in earnings and more write-downs, were an increase in advances received Investments in property, plant and equipment in the reporting from customers and a higher amount of funds tied down in year amounted to € 74.5 million, slightly down on the figure liabilities. This contrasted with a rise in receivables. of € 77.7 million for the previous year. The highest additions at € 27.7 million (previous year: € 32.2 million) relate to Our investing activities generated virtually unchanged cash ­advance payments and assets under construction, as in the preflows compared with 2014. The change in term deposits did, vious year. They are associated with the construction of a however, increase cash flows whereas in the previous year it foundry at our US mining company GIW Industries, Inc. A furhad resulted in a reduction. Accordingly, cash flows from ther € 19.9 million are attributable to technical equipment ­investing activities declined significantly to € – 34.5 million and machinery (previous year: € 19.2 million). As in 2014, the (previous year, adjusted: € – 97.9 million). focus of our investment activities was Europe, predominantly Germany and France. Outside Europe, the highest additions Cash flows from financing activities changed significantly, priwere again recorded at our plants in the USA as well as Brazil, marily due to the repayment of tranches of our loan against China and India. We maintained our policies for measuring borrower’s note, but also as a result of our bank loans and depreciation and amortisation in the year under review. overdrafts being reduced, from € – 36.9 million (adjusted) to € – 87.4 million. 50 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Cash and cash equivalents from all cash flows declined from There are no other extraordinary obligations and commitments € 278.6 million to € 273.1 million. Exchange rate effects beyond the reporting date. Other financial obligations arise amounting to € – 0.1 million (previous year: € + 10.8 million) only within the normal scope from long-term rental, lease and played a role in this. service agreements (in particular IT and telecommunications) necessary for business operations and from purchase commitWe assume that, in future, we will continue to be able to meet ments amounting to € 20.0 million (previous year: € 17.8 our outgoing payments largely from operating cash flow. million). From the current perspective our financial management is meeting the goal of ensuring our liquidity at all times essentially NET ASSETS without any additional external financing measures. For more Our total assets increased slightly, rising by 0.6 % to € 2,291.1 information on liquidity management (such as credit lines) million. Considerable increases were recorded for both non-­ see the section on Risk Reporting on the Utilisation of Financial current assets (particularly property, plant and equipment) and Instruments elsewhere in this group management report. trade receivables and PoC. This contrasted with lower other ­financial assets. Contingencies and commitments The KSB Group’s off-balance sheet contingent liabilities totalled Just under 28 % is attributable to fixed assets (compared with € 13.4 million as at the reporting date (previous year: € 8.0 a good 27 % in 2014). Intangible assets and property, plant million). These arise mainly from collateral and performance and equipment with a historical cost of € 1,336.4 million (preguarantees. vious year: € 1,270.4 million) have carrying amounts of € 595.9 million (previous year: € 587.2 million). The goodwill E X PE N S E S I N S TATE M E NT OF C OMPR EH ENSIVE INC OME (in %) 2015 18.0 3.2 35.9 42.9 2014* 18.5 3.1 36.8 41.6 Other expenses Depreciation and amortisation expense Staff costs Cost of materials BAL A N C E S H E E T S T RU C T U R E Assets (in %) 2015 4.5 21.5 1.6 3.7 19.8 37.0 11.9 2014* 4.9 20.9 1.5 3.8 19.7 36.9 12.2 0.1 Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Non-current financial assets Deferred tax assets Inventories Receivables and other current assets Cash and cash equivalents Assets held for sale Equity and liabilities (in %) 2015 38.0 30.1 31.9 2014* 36.0 31.3 32.7 Equity Non-current liabilities Current liabilities * Adjustment under IAS 8 M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 51 E conomic Re vi e w Financia l Posi ti o n an d Ne t Asse ts impairments recognised in the reporting year resulted in a SUMMARY OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT change of – € 9.4 million with regard to intangible assets. With The forecasts made in the previous year’s report have not been investments in property, plant and equipment (€ 74.5 million) fully realised due to the circumstances outlined. The un­ once again exceeding write-downs (€ 58.2 million), this balance expectedly weak state of the economy had a major impact on sheet item increased by € 18.0 million. The carrying amount our core markets in some areas, and thus also on the achieveof financial assets and investments accounted for using the ment of our order intake targets. equity method increased by a total of € 1.9 million to € 37.2 million. The investments accounted for using the equity method Weak demand across the world in several important sectors accounted for € 1.2 million. held back the growth in our business. At the same time, for various products our price flexibility was insufficient for achievInventories totalled € 454.4 million, up € 4.6 million on the ing satisfactory margins in a tougher competitive situation. 2014 year end. We recorded a rise in work in progress in parThe resulting impact differed across the various segments. ticular, while advance payments were down on the previous year. Inventories continued to tie up around 20 % of our reOverall, we achieved the expected significant sales revenue sources. growth in the Group and, consequently, also the considerable improvement in our relevant performance indicators for As a result of an increased delivery volume, trade receivables the Group. Earnings before taxes, at just under € 94 million, and PoC were € 49.5 million up on the 2014 year-end figure. approached the three-digit million mark again, and our Overall, taking into account the change in total assets, this ­return on sales, at 4.0 %, was within the lower range of our balance sheet item accounts for approximately 29 % (pre­ expectations. Order intake, however, dipped by 2.6 %. We vious year: 27 %) of total assets. had forecast a significant increase. Other financial assets were down from € 190.2 million to Although the Pumps segment lived up to the sales revenue € 156.2 million as term deposits with a maturity of more than forecast (significant increase), the operating result recorded 3 months and up to 12 months decreased by around € 44 was slightly down on the 2014 figure due to the basic ecomillion. nomic environment parameters, particularly in the power plant sector, and not considerably higher, as had been anticipated. As in the previous year, cash and cash equivalents account for Order intake was expected to rise significantly, but actually fell around 12 % of assets, totalling € 273.1 million (previous by 4.7 %. year: € 278.6 million). In the Valves segment too, the difficult market situation clearly Inflation and exchange rate effects affected our energy customers. While we were still able to There were no consolidated companies within the Group whose moderately grow sales revenue by 1.5 %, the planned signififinancial statements were required to be adjusted for the cant increase was not achieved. One reason for this is the ­effects of inflation. considerable decline in order intake by almost 10 %. A year ago we were still expecting marked improvements. Our The translation of financial statements of consolidated compa­operating result was also down on the prior-year figure, as we nies that are not prepared in euro gave rise to a difference did not achieve the marked improvement that we had been of € + 1.2 million (previous year: € + 38.8 million). This was targeting. taken directly to equity. 52 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT In our Service segment, we posted substantial increases in both E VE N TS AFTE R THE order intake and sales revenue, exceeding our target of ­moderate growth. In terms of the operating result, we recorded RE P O RTI N G P E RI O D considerable increases, as planned. No significant events occurred after the balance sheet date that would have a material effect on the company’s net assets, The net financial position, at € 211.3 million compared with financial position and results of operations. € 185.5 million in the previous year, developed more favourably than forecast twelve months earlier (€ 180 to 190 million). D E P E N D E N T CO MPAN Y Overall, therefore, business developed somewhat less favourably than expected in the reporting year due to order intake levels. RE P O RT The Board of Management has submitted the dependent comOn this basis, in 2015 we continued to work on improving the pany report to the Supervisory Board. This concludes with conditions for a return to prosperous business operations. the following declaration: “In accordance with section 312(3) This involves driving forward with the programme underway of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act], to redistribute tasks within our global manufacturing netwe declare that our company – on the basis of the circumstances work and introducing measures to cut our costs even further. known to us at the time when the transactions were made – These measures include a gradual reduction in the headreceived adequate compensation for all transactions listed in count. We are also reducing the number of KSB companies the dependent company report. No measures required to be worldwide and streamlining our product range. ­reported were taken or not taken at the instigation or in the interest of the controlling enterprise or a company affiliated KSB continues to have a healthy financial basis for the future. to it.” The measures introduced back in 2014 to make lasting improvements to our cost structures, which we are working to intensify further, will strengthen this basis over the long term. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 53 E conomic Re vi e w Financia l Posi ti o n an d Ne t Asse ts E ve nts a fte r the R e po rti n g Pe ri o d D e pe nde nt Co m pan y R e po rt Re port on Expe c te d De v e l o pm e n ts R EPO RT O N EXPEC TED DEVE L O P ME N TS The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is forecasting that the modernised high-pressure and standardised chemical pumps, global economy will expand by 3.4 % in real terms during and for our updated range of pumps for use in heating and the current year. The predicted increase in the industrialised air-conditioning systems nations is 2.1 %, with weaker growth of only 1.7 % expected in the euro zone. Economic development in Germany will be We do not expect the market environment for the project crucial, accompanied by continued recovery in France, Italy business to start improving until 2017. However, the energy and Spain. In the emerging markets, the IMF expects real ecosector might prove to be a source of growth momentum nomic growth of 4.3 %, which will also improve KSB’s sales during the current year. This particularly applies to China and prospects in these countries. India, where various contracts are about to be awarded. This could have a key impact on our order intake. However, the VDMA expects the mechanical engineering and plant engineering sector to struggle to benefit from this Against this background, we expect the segment to experience growth, forecasting that the industry will grow by a mere significant order growth, while sales revenue from pumps 1 % in real terms. Sales in pumps and systems, and in industrial will be significantly down based on weaker order intake in valves, are actually expected to dip by 1 % in real terms in 2015. 2016. Valves S IGN I F I C A N T O R DE R GR OWTH WI TH SI GNI FI C ANTLY We are forecasting significantly lower growth in orders for WE AK E R S A L E S R E V ENUE our industrial valves. In countries such as Brazil and China, In this environment, which remains difficult, we expect the the market environment will be more difficult than in 2015. Group’s order intake in 2016 to be significantly higher than Specifically, demand from the petrochemicals industry and during the reporting year, buoyed by several large-scale conthe oil and gas sector is likely to slow down further, with a tracts. corresponding impact on our order levels. In terms of consolidated sales revenue, however, we expect to In contrast, we expect to see sales in large-scale butterfly valves see a significant decrease compared with 2015, based on the pick up, these being the type of valve used in water pipelines lower value of the project contracts in place and scheduled for for example. There are also signs of tangible growth in valves delivery in 2016. used in power plants, provided that our customers go ahead as planned with their announced large-scale projects, particuPumps larly in China and India. Any recovery on the market for In light of the strong price competition in the project business, liquefied gas transport is likely to be slow in 2016. However, combined with a decline in the number of contracts being our triple-­offset butterfly valves for tankers are growing awarded compared with previous years, we will be focusing in popularity, pointing to the possibility of business growth. during the current business period on promoting sales of In addition, construction projects in the Middle East and our standard pumps. The main areas of growth appear to be Eastern Europe could result in moderate order growth for our industrial standardised and close-coupled pumps, among valves used in building services. others. We offer these in combination with our energy-efficient synchronous reluctance motors and our improved variable speed systems , which help our customers to realise energy-­ saving potential. We also see good sales prospects for our 54 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT GRO S S D O M E S T I C P R ODU C T GR OW T H However, a further considerable decline in the energy sector is World* to be expected in Germany and other European countries, as 2016 3.4 % (Forecast) capacity in nuclear and fossil-fuelled power stations continues 2015 3.1 % to be reduced. In mining, a second important pillar of our European Union** service business, there are not yet any signs of activity picking 2016 1.9 % (Forecast) up again this year. 2015 1.9 % Latin America* With regard to order intake, we expect the volume of new 2016 – 0.3 % (Forecast) service orders in 2015 to moderately exceed the previous 2015 – 0.3 % year’s figure. Based on the current situation, sales revenue is Asia (excl. Japan)* expected to grow just slightly. 2016 6.3 % (Forecast) 2015 6.6 % BOARD OF MANAGEMENT’ S SUMMARY OF EXPECTE D Emerging markets* DEVELOPMENT 2016 4.3 % (Forecast) For the current business period we anticipate, as detailed above, 2015 4.0 % a significant improvement in order intake, driven primarily by major power plant projects in China and India. In contrast * Source: International Monetary Fund (January 2016) to the positive contributions from the Pumps and Service seg** S ource: European Commission (February 2016); ments, orders received for valves will remain at prior-year levels. additional information: euro zone + 1.6 % (2015), + 1.7 % (2016) Sales revenue will, from today’s perspective, be significantly down on the previous year, as we expect the declines for pumps and valves referred to above and a slight improvement in Overall, therefore, we expect order intake for our valve busithe Service segment. ness to be stable compared with 2015, while anticipating a substantial decline in sales revenue. We will be significantly stepping up our measures for long-term improvements in our profit situation. These aim to reduce Service material, staff and other costs. This will also include continuFrom today’s perspective, demand for our service business ing with our programme to redistribute tasks within our will remain stable or expand slightly. To achieve our growth global manufacturing network. We are also creating the frametargets we will be making greater use of our sales channel work within which we can increasingly run our power plant aimed specifically at existing customers to offer our service engineering business in Asia, using mostly locally manufacrange and related spare parts. As part of this process, we tured products. In addition, we are reducing the number of can also base our operations on the additional eleven service KSB companies and streamlining our product range. This means centres set up in ten countries in 2015, as well as on the new that one-off costs will considerably impact on our perforcentral spare parts warehouse in Europe. mance indicators. The precise amount of these one-off costs is difficult to forecast from today’s perspective as some To grow our business we will be continuing the planned expanmeasures are still in the evaluation or discussion phase. The sion of our service centres, particularly in East and Southoperating result, in other words earnings before interest East Asia as well as in Eastern Europe. and taxes (EBIT) excluding the effects from measuring conM A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 55 Re port on Expe c te d De v e l o pm e n ts GROS S D O M E S TI C P R O DU C T GR OW T H IN T H E B R IC C OU NT R IE S FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Brazil This report contains forward-looking statements and informa2016 – 3.5 % (Forecast) tion that are based upon the assumptions of Management. 2015 – 3.8 % They express our current forecasts and expectations with regard Russia to future events. As a result, these forward-looking state2016 – 1.0 % (Forecast) ments and information are exposed to risks and uncertainties 2015 – 3.7 % that lie outside the Management’s sphere of influence. We India wish to point out that actual events or results may differ mate2016 7.5 % (Forecast) rially from the forward-looking statements and information 2015 7.3 % mentioned, if one or more of the following opportunities or China risks, or other opportunities, risks and uncertainties should 2016 6.3 % (Forecast) materialise, or if the assumptions underlying the statements 2015 6.9 % prove to be inaccurate. Source: International Monetary Fund (January 2016) struction contracts under IAS 11 will be substantially down on the previous year depending on the level of one-off costs for efficiency enhancement measures. This applies to both the Pumps and Valves segments, while we are expecting to see but a moderate decline in the Service segment. Consequently, earnings before taxes (EBT) will be substantially down on the 2015 figure. This also means that our return on sales will be substantially lower. With regard to the net financial position, we anticipate only a slight decrease compared with the € 211 million achieved in 2015. This is based on the expectation that the adverse impact on liquidity of the one-off costs to be borne in 2016 will not be felt until 2017 onwards. The forecast period for the above figures and information, which we have drawn up taking into account the opportunities and risks presented below, covers the 2016 financial year. Material special factors beyond this period may result from our measures geared towards the long-term improvement of our profit situation, which will involve a reduction of material, staff and other costs. 56 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT OPPO RTU NITIES AND R ISK S RE P O RT As an organisation that operates throughout the world, the functions and Group companies, including Group companies KSB Group is exposed to macroeconomic, sector-typical, that are not consolidated, are included in the risk management ­financial and company-specific risks. Our risk policy is designed system. The responsible managers are required to supply to enable us to grow sustainably and profitably. We aim to their relevant key business and financial indicators each month. ­reduce the risks associated with our business and where possible As well as creating quarterly forecasts on business trends, avoid them completely. At the same time our global alignthey also twice a year report the recognised risks for the next ment and our extensive product range offer a wealth of oppor24 months from the reporting date for the categories of tunities. This includes in particular any opportunities that market and competitive risks, technological risks, projectand arise on the basis of our research and development activities, product-related risks, financial risks and procurement risks. as well as any that are linked to the quality and cost effecOther business risks (environmental, human resources, etc.) are tiveness of our products. Our competitive position is also being also reported in this cycle to the Risk Managers at the Group strengthened by optimising our global sales and production headquarters. We classify risks as qualitative and quantitative network. We always review opportunities to expand our global risks: presence and are able to achieve this through start-ups and acquisition projects. Qualitative risks are long-term developments that could have a negative impact on the KSB Group and which cannot or We see opportunities and risks as possible future developments cannot yet be thoroughly quantified due to a lack of precise or events that may lead to forecast or target deviation. The information. In order to still be able to evaluate them, how­ deviation can be both positive and negative. In order to manage ever, we make estimates of the probability of occurrence and the varied opportunities and risks professionally and effiscope. With respect to probability of occurrence, the extent ciently, we align our actions accordingly and focus upon the to which the information indicating the potential risk is derespective situation when selecting the persons responsible. tailed must be determined. The scope describes the potential In doing so, Controlling, Finance and Accounting as well as ­influence of the individual risk on the earnings before interest Internal Audits perform important monitoring tasks. and taxes (EBIT) of the KSB Group or the respective Group company. RISK M A N AG E M E NT SYSTEM KSB has implemented a Group-wide risk management system Quantitative risks are those risks with possible monetary imfor identifying and assessing relevant risks and reporting pact on the earnings of the KSB Group or the respective these to Group headquarters. The risk management process Group company. They are evaluated taking into account the of the KSB Group consists of the successive phases of iden­ probability of occurrence in combination with the potential tification, assessment, management, control, documentation amount of loss. and communication of risks. The six phases form a contin­ uous and IT-based closed-loop system. This is documented in In order to assess whether qualitative and quantitative individour risk management manual as well as the management ual risks are significant for us, we classify them as acceptable, ­responsibility and the description of all relevant tasks. neutral or significant risks. We consider as material for the KSB Group all individual risks categorised as neutral or signifiManagers are encouraged to take timely action to define and cant that are detailed in the “Individually assessed opportunities implement measures to limit or avoid damage that may result and risks” section. The relevant classification can be deterfrom the occurrence of risk events. All corporate and central mined from the matrices below: M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 57 Opportunitie s an d R i sk s R e po rt Q UA L I TATI V E R ISKS QUANTITATIV E RISK S Probability of occurrence Probability of occurrence High High Significant Significant >70 % Neutral Medium Neutral Medium 30 –70 % Low Low Acceptable Acceptable < 30 % Low Medium High Low Medium High Scope Amount of loss Evaluation of the amount of loss is based on just three possible classifications: low, medium and high. The following applies: Amount of loss in € thousands Magnitude Sales revenue Low Medium High Small companies Up to € 20 million 50 – 125 125 – 250 > 250 Medium-sized companies € 20 to € 80 million 75 – 250 250 – 500 > 500 Large companies, holding companies, organisational units From € 80 million 100 – 500 500 – 1,000 > 1,000 This approach gives us the necessary transparency to identify two risk reports per financial year. These reports include all the risks in their entirety and to manage them effectively, profesrisks that are categorised as significant or neutral that exceed sionally and in an economically responsible manner. pre-defined threshold values individually or collectively, not considering any action that has been taken. Particularly The bodies to which specific responsibilities and competencies ­critical topics are reported on an ad-hoc basis by the managers have been assigned in KSB’s risk management system are in charge. In contrast, opportunities are not taken into shown and explained in the figure below (page 58). ­account in this system, but are examined separately in consultation with segment managers and regional managers. The overall responsibility for risk management lies with the Board of Management of KSB AG. It reports to the Supervisory With regard to financial risks we also make use of additional Board during regular Audit Committee meetings and is monirisk identification, assessment, management and communi­ tored by the latter. The Board of Management is supported by cation. The central Finance department is responsible for this the Chief Compliance Officer and the Group Finance and task which is described in further detail later in this section. ­Accounting department. The latter coordinates the risk management process at Group level and investigates all reported Compliance risks are dealt with by the Chief Compliance risks to determine whether they are relevant for the financial ­Officer, who is assigned to the Legal & Compliance, Patents statements. This ensures that there is a systematic link with & Trademarks staff function. The Chief Compliance Officer the Group accounting process. The Board of Management and is supported by the members of the Compliance Committee the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee receive at least and the Compliance Managers of the individual companies. 58 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT R I S K M A N AG EMENT AT KSB Supervisory Board Board of Management Auditors Risk Managers Internal Audits • A  udit of the annual financial • C ontrolling the risk management • M  onitoring of proper functioning statements ­process and effectiveness • Recommendations for improvement • Analysing the risk reports • Reporting to the Board of Management Risk Owners • Risk identification • Risk evaluation • Risk control and monitoring (incl. implementation of measures) • Risk recording • Risk communication / Ad hoc reporting The Internal Audits department is integrated into the risk manINTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM AND RISK MANAGEME N T agement system as part of our internal control system. When SYSTEM WITH REGARD TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTIN G planning audits, it prioritises areas according to potential risks PROCESS and is provided with all the necessary information. The interThe accounting-related internal control system (ICS) connal auditors ensure that all audited units adhere to the applitributes towards ensuring proper financial reporting. The aim cable guidelines, actively participate in the risk management is to ensure that the consolidated financial statements and system, and control or avoid their risks. Information obtained group management report comply with all relevant regulations. by Internal Audits on both the recognised risks and the counKey elements of the ICS are – as well as the risk management termeasures introduced in response forms an integral part of system described above – guidelines and regulations, which the reporting to the Board of Management and the Audit include standard accounting and measurement policies. They Committee of the Supervisory Board. must be applied to the full extent by all our Group companies. Functional separation and the principle of dual control are Our risk management system is regularly reviewed and observed; this is ensured by the audits carried out by our Interpromptly updated where necessary, for example, in the event nal Audits department. of relevant legal or organisational changes. In addition, our ­auditors examine within the scope of the annual audit the early In addition, the Accounting department regularly and analytirisk detection system, establishing that it is present and cally validates the plausibility of time series and actual / checking that it is fit for purpose. budget variance analyses. This enables us to identify significant M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 59 Opportunitie s an d R i sk s R e po rt changes early on, which we then examine for ­accounting and To enable a seamless and accurate accounting process, we only measurement discrepancies. The resulting findings are then assign employees to this task who have the appropriate discussed at management level. ­specialist know-how. These employees are trained on a regular basis to make sure that their expert knowledge remains up The responsibility for Group accounting lies with the employto date. ees in the central Accounting KSB Group department. We ­employ the services of qualified external reviewers for certain We have defined access authorisations for the accounting-­ calculations as part of financial reporting (such as the calcularelated IT system. This protects the data against unauthorised tion of complex pension obligations using actuarial assumpaccess as well as improper usage and modification. The data tions). is checked at many stages, helping to ensure the processing quality. Alongside regular system reviews by the auditors, Binding schedules and guidelines apply to accounting within these checks contribute to limiting operational risks. the KSB Group and to accounting at each individual subsidiary. The accounting methods that must be applied to compile the INDIVIDUALLY ASSESSED OPPORTUNITIES AND RISK S consolidated financial statements are defined in writing in a The categories presented below – unless stipulated otherwise – manual that we update and revise on a continual basis. This include the qualitative and quantitative gross risks classified also includes the guidelines for posting intra-group transacas significant or neutral and the main opportunities for our tions. We continually analyse new accounting principles and business development. The main influencing factor remains other official announcements with regard to their relevance and the economic development. All other opportunities and risks impact on the consolidated financial statements. We adapt are assessed as secondary. our guidelines and manual where necessary and communicate any changes immediately to our companies. Accounting KSB Markets / Competition Group monitors compliance with these regulations. This enables us to reduce the risk of compiling inappropriate financial Risks statements or failing to publish them by the defined deadlines. Our business and the opportunities available to us are affected by changes in the economic and political environments. One We automatically process the financial statement information of the influencing factors during the current year, from an ecofor all Group companies using certified and tested standard nomic perspective, is the low price of oil. This has a negative consolidation software. Systematic checks are implemented impact on the financial strength of the oil-producing countries, to help us validate the data. Employees in Accounting KSB limiting their ability to invest. We counter this risk, which is Group verify any warning signals that arise before using the classed as “significant” by intensifying our contacts with comdata. The sequence of the processing steps is strictly specified panies and institutions that are making purchases within the through the use of the consolidation monitor within our IT means available to them. In this way we aim to limit the negasystem. This ensures the correct processing of data. tive impact on our business. There is the risk of falling demand in the petrochemical industry in China, which would negatively impact on order intake for our pumps and valves. We are responding to this risk by monitoring our orders on hand and by offering the available products for other fields of application. 60 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Import duties in Malaysia are pushing up the sale price of Asia remains our most important sales market for power plant products from the Eta type series. We are offsetting this risk equipment, including pumps and valves. Competition in by optimising our procurement costs there. China has, however, continued to intensify, creating greater price pressure for the KSB Group and representing a “signi­ The political situation in the Middle East and in North Africa ficant” risk. In order to tap into the Asian market more widely, remains critical. The destabilisation of Syria, Libya, Yemen we have agreed a strategic alliance with our long-term partand Iraq following internal and external conflicts is also affectner, the Chinese SEC Group, in late 2015. This aims at closer ing these countries’ neighbours. Both private companies and cooperation so that KSB can achieve success in Asian power government institutions are understandably reticent with regard plant projects outside of China. A first contract, awarded at the to investment in new plant. It is possible that the conflicts end of 2015 to fit out an Indian power plant, will serve as a could spread further, which would place additional constraints test case for further joint projects in the future. on our business opportunities in this region. Opportunities Given the political differences between Russia and the USA, Specific opportunities will arise in relation to our valves if and between Russia and most European countries, we have large-scale projects for the supply of water are realised in the seen a clear deterioration in East / West relations. This is also Middle East, Africa and Asia. These generally relate to the evident in economic life, with Russian companies increas­ construction or renewal of pipelines that are fitted with butteringly ordering products that have been made in Russia or infly valves with very large diameters. volve a high proportion of local value added. Our KSB company in Moscow has reacted to this development, setting up a With regard to sales of slurry pumps to the mining sector, we local assembly site in leased premises for industrial and water still see opportunities to acquire market share despite the engineering pumps. Additionally, we are also planning to estab­current difficulties in the sector. Our partnership with a global lish our own production site. provider of machinery and systems for the mining industry, agreed during the reporting year, will be beneficial in this area. In South Africa, political tensions in conjunction with ecoFurthermore, following the commissioning of a new specialnomic shortcomings are hampering progress. This is affecting ist foundry in the USA, we can now supply large high-quality the business prospects of our local production and sales pumps more quickly than in the past. company. Consequently, it is intensifying its sales activities in other countries in southern Africa, primarily Angola and The trend towards a greater focus on energy efficiency can Zambia. ­result in customers increasingly requesting services for the analysis of existing systems and retrofit measures. We manage the risk of fluctuations in the economy and in ­demand by remaining active in several market sectors and inThe lifting of the embargo on Iran opens up new sales prosdustries with different economic cycles. Furthermore we are pects. Until the political decision to exclude Iran as a trading monitoring the development of the economic environment for partner, we primarily supplied customers in the petrochemical our market sectors. If necessary, we adjust capacities, relocate and other industrial sectors with pumps and valves, and we production facilities and implement cost-cutting measures. were also well represented with our products in water supply M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 61 Opportunitie s an d R i sk s R e po rt facilities. Currently, opportunities are emerging as we increase ­reduce our margins. For this reason, we specially train our the size of our team at our Tehran office, and from contacts employees in project management. This enables them to idenwith Iranian companies that are turning to German products tify the risks associated with longer-term orders at an early again after their experience with some Chinese producers. stage. Our project managers are provided with appropriate management tools. Decisions are made in conjunction with Unexpected sales opportunities may also arise if India accelerclearly structured authorisation processes. ates the expansion of its water and waste water infrastructure as a result of improved financing options. There are also technical and financial risks to orders with newly designed products. We limit technical risks to the extent Projects / Products that we define intermediate steps for development work and subject partial solutions to assessments. This also applies to Risks pumps that we provide within the framework of a major The markets’ requirements for our products are constantly contract running over a number of years for the construction changing. We will only succeed if we meet our delivery deadof a new type of power plant in China. We minimise finanlines and offer technically advanced products in good quality cial risks by using appropriate contractual clauses, and ensure at affordable prices. To minimise the risk of delivery delays, that advances cover the costs incurred. which can lead to an adverse effect on our reputation with customers and also result in financial penalties, we constantly We set aside suitable provisions for warranty obligations and monitor our sales and manufacturing operations. If we contractual penalty risks. These amounted to € 52 million in ­discover that machinery needs to be renewed or capacities the consolidated financial statements for 2015 compared with expanded, we examine these investment projects as part of € 45 million in the previous year; beyond this there is no a step-by-step approval process. By doing this, we counter the other major residual risk (net risk). risk of schedule and cost overruns. Opportunities Regular market analysis and monitoring minimise the risk In mid-June 2015 we began work on the construction of a new that our products will become technically obsolete or that we competence centre for mechatronics in Ankara, where we offer them at prices not acceptable in the market. At the will in future be manufacturing all variable speed glandless same time, we are exposed to the risk posed by cheap products pumps used in building services and also system components. from Eastern Europe and Asia that compete with KSB’s The manufacturing programme will include the Calio series, ­portfolio. This calls for continuous quality management, which which is still being produced in Switzerland at present. The we have introduced across the Group. cost benefits that this relocation will generate can help to improve our competitive position on the heating and air-con­ In our business, there are special requirements when it comes ditioning market from as early as the second half of 2016. In to the processing of large-scale projects with long terms. There addition, the expansion of the Calio series, as detailed in the are also always associated risks. There may be cost overruns, Research and Development section, extends our opportunities tighter import regulations, staff shortages, technical difficulties for providing customers with state-of-the-art products from or quality problems – including possible penalties – that our own production. 62 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT We also believe that our high-pressure pumps offer additional Risks regarding margins and liquidity are typical of the project market opportunities. We now offer these in an extended business. As well as the continued pressure on our selling range of sizes. In 2015 many customers were already ordering prices, which is reducing our profit margins, these include unthis pump set, which offers greater value for money than its favourable contract conditions such as reduced advances predecessors, for use in water engineering or industrial plants. and tougher contractual penalties. As we comply exactly with our approval processes in the quotation phase and constantly The world’s first measurement and balancing valve using ultramonitor our net financial position, we minimise this risk. At the sound technology, which we launched in 2015, is also gensame time, this enables us to recognise and avoid liquidity erating keen interest. It simplifies the task of measuring flow, shortages. Where necessary, we secure sufficient liquidity by especially in heating and air-conditioning systems. agreeing appropriate credit lines early on. The KSB Sonolyzer app, introduced in 2015, is also opening Persistent recessions or newly emerging crisis may adversely up new opportunities to win contracts. The app helps cusaffect the financial situation of our customers. Delayed paytomers to review the efficiency of their pump system quickly ments and credit losses as a result of this can place a burden and easily. If a plant frequently operates under low-flow upon our results of operations. The same effect might occur conditions, and thus uneconomically, the link to KSB contact if the foreign exchange regulations become stricter for indipersons provides analysis, consultancy and system optimisavidual countries. We counter this by means of a strict receiv­ tion options. ables management system and intensive customer contacts. Our Italian company, whose product range includes high-­ Finance / Liquidity efficiency motors, experienced a deterioration in its financial situation during the reporting year. Some service companies Risks in France also suffered as a result of the persistently difficult As a group with global operations, we are exposed to a wide economic situation in the country, with an impact on business variety of currency risks. We counter these with foreign development and thus on economic and financial solvency, as ­exchange hedges. However, our global manufacturing netwell as medium-term business prospects. We are therefore work also offers us the opportunity to benefit from currency ­reviewing the strategic direction and organisational structures e­ ffects and to use these where appropriate in competition with of our service activities there. other manufacturers. In addition to uncertainties regarding exchange rates, interest rate developments on the capital marChanging market circumstances mean that our existing busikets play a role for us. We use bank loans subject to variable ness models need to be fundamentally reviewed. During the interest rates to counter the interest rate risk by hedging our past financial year we therefore carried out a reassessment of future interest payment flows accordingly. the prospects for canned motor pumps and re-assessed our activities. Our findings were that the current market opportuAlongside the euro, the most important currencies for the KSB nities are poor, with the result that we will be adjusting our Group are the US dollar, the Indian rupee, the Brazilian real product range accordingly. and the Chinese yuan. If the exchange rate deviates from our assumptions, this would have positive or negative effects As regards tax matters, the global orientation of our activities upon our business volumes and our earnings. A strict receiv­ must be taken into consideration. Based on our operative ables management system and the use of trade credit insurance ­activities in numerous countries with varying tax laws and helps us avoid situations where receivables cannot be collected administrative interpretation, differentiated assessment is from customers. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 63 Opportunitie s an d R i sk s R e po rt r­ equired for measuring our tax obligations. Uncertainty may Opportunities arise due to different interpretations by taxable entities on the To reduce procurement costs, we continue to look for quality one hand and local finance authorities on the other. These suppliers in Eastern Europe and Asia as part of a targeted may come to light during audits. By cooperating closely with process. Where we are able to source products more favour­ external local tax specialists, we counteract the risk of having ably than in the past, this helps to strengthen our competitive to pay back taxes. As we continually monitor unclear issues, position in sales markets exposed to high levels of price preswe can generally classify the probability of occurrence. Should sure. In cross-functional teams, we look for ways of cutting a need for subsequent payment arise, we create the correspondour material costs, also pursuing technical approaches. ing provisions in good time. In the 2015 consolidated financial statements, we set aside € 1.3 million for circumstances Since 2015 we have been using a supplier portal, which was that are classified as a significant or neutral risk. tried and tested in Germany, to simplify the order process ­between KSB and its suppliers in Brazil, China, France, South Opportunities Africa and the USA. We will also be integrating our Indian Every time the US dollar gains in value over our Group suppliers into this portal during the current year. By succes­currency, the euro, our imported European products become sively expanding our use of this platform, we can reduce cheaper for our customers in the USA. At the same time, the activities in our Group that do not create any value added. there is the possibility that contracts that we post in US dollars, ­after conversion to our Group currency, result in higher Technology / Research and Development amounts than if exchange rates had remained unchanged. Risks Procurement It is essential to our future success that we have a product and service range that is suited to the market in terms of techRisks nology, price and delivery time. The changing needs of our Commodity prices and procurement times are subject to strong customers and new standards and regulations – especially in market-related fluctuations. This may adversely affect our promising markets such as China – require that we continuearnings situation if we do not manage to make up for cost ously develop and improve our products and services. Research increases or pass them onto our customers. Delays or bottleand development required for adjustments consumes signifinecks in our supply chain for raw materials and components cant financial and human resources, with no guarantee of sucmay negatively impact our business operations. If we do not cess in either the medium or the long term. benefit promptly from declining procurement prices, the persistent pressure on the selling price of our products would To avoid any negative impact on earnings, it is important to have a negative effect on our earnings. recognise the market-related or technical risks early on. To this end, we are constantly updating our development process, Our suppliers are also further developing their product ranges. which incorporates various control levels. As sales employIn some cases, this results in changes to the specifications for ees are regularly included in this process, risks arising from the materials that we require. We consistently monitor any changes in markets or applications can be taken into account potential impact on the quality of our products. Should risks in good time in the evaluation. This close integration also enemerge, we reserve higher volumes based on the original mateables us to respond to new market trends more quickly than rial structure, where possible, and assess alternative procureour competitors. ment sources. 64 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Opportunities clean-up work. In the 2015 consolidated financial statements, By permanently observing the market and technology, and these amounted to just under € 1 million for significant keenly exchanging ideas and information in our international or neutral risks, which was unchanged on the previous year. network with technology partners, customers and suppliers, we identify principles and approaches that enable us to offer As part of acquisition projects, we examine properties for new or extended services. In this way, KSB is able to ensure possible contamination before purchase. We take account of that its products are distinctive in a positive way and to imcritical issues by way of corresponding contractual regulaprove market prospects. tions with the seller and implement appropriate measure in consultation it. In a continuation of our drive system and motor campaign, we are developing appropriate technologies for different individ­ In markets where environmental regulations are becoming ual cases. These can take the form of elementary components more stringent, there is a risk that our products and own or that improve the energy efficiency of our customers’ systems purchased services may cause infringements that lead to us and lead to us being awarded new contracts. losing our market authorisation and which damage our reputation. A change in rules on liability in environmental proWe are also working on Industry 4.0 projects with our tection can also increase the risks for our business success. As ­customers and partners. These provide a foundation on which a member of national and international professional associanew business models can be developed. By harnessing modern tions we become aware of imminent changes in environmental production technologies, and making use of the digital value law early on. We also continually update the legal framecreation chain in particular, it will be easier for us to provide works that are in place in our Operational Units, enabling us our customers with the right product at the right time. With to ensure that our employees always abide by the applicable this in mind, we are working to devise new logistics concepts law. This is also monitored by external auditors as part of the and production technologies. management certifications. Other business-specific risks – Environment Opportunities Based on a global environmental management system, we Risks ­recognise in good time the hazards for humans and nature Our business activities, primarily in the area of production, are that may arise from our activities, and where necessary take subject to numerous environmental protection laws and protective measures. It gives us great opportunities to prevent ­regulations. Environmental damage of any kind (for example, damage and the financial consequences thereof. By having groundwater contamination, renovation needed due to outour production and service plants checked by auditors and dated construction materials or unpleasant odours arising from certified according to international standards, we and our the use of chemicals) may result in losses not covered by an customers are both assured that KSB companies respect the insurance policy. Therefore, at all company sites officers moni­ environment. This is an important prerequisite for many tor compliance with laws and regulations as well as with business relations. It offers KSB the opportunity to present ­internal KSB rules, which in some cases exceed the prescribed itself to the market as an environmentally sound company. environmental standards. If we discover any contamination, Our commitment to the UN Global Compact , too, allows us we set aside provisions to meet the liabilities for the necessary to meet the expectations of our customers and thus improve our sales prospects. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 65 Opportunitie s an d R i sk s R e po rt In 2015 we conducted energy audits at all of our major sites Changing market conditions can have a negative impact on the in Europe, complying with the implementation, at national funded status of our pension obligations. Strong fluctuations level, of an EU regulation. Ultimately, this analysis revealed new in the evaluation of capital market interest rates to be paid may potential for additional energy savings by renovating our have a considerable impact on the Group’s earnings and the ­production halls, through smart management of our production equity carried on the balance sheet. To limit this risk, we valifacilities and through instructions to the operators of the date alternative models. ­machine tools. Other potential risks associated with the activities of our emThe newly revised ISO 14001 international environmental ployees include dishonest conduct or violations of laws, that management standard has been in force since November 2015 could damage the image of KSB . We counter these risks and subject to a three-year transitional period. As we have already safeguard our reputation among our customers by organising started early in 2016 to have our production facilities certified regular compliance training and through individual initiatives in line with the new requirements, we have the opportunity in critical regions. to take account of new environmental protection aspects from an early stage and to present us to the public as a company Legal disputes cannot always be avoided within the framework that takes its responsibility for the environment and for society of our business activities. These are usually disputes arising very seriously. from operations, generally involving unclear warranty issues. If as a result of these issues we expect negative effects on the The trend towards greater environmental protection and success of our business, we set aside corresponding provisions, higher energy efficiency will continue to have a positive influwhich cover not only the anticipated amount of loss, but also ence on demand for our products and services. Customers the costs of proceedings. To rule out a net risk, the 2015 concan use our FluidFuture concept to reduce their electricity solidated financial statements include about € 4 million for consumption. A system analysis is used to ensure that pumps those cases classified as significant or neutral risks. We have and valves are properly designed and to provide information also created provisions for litigation with authorities and on the benefits of using high-efficiency pumps, valves and for staff matters. These total a further € 1 million to cover any drives. cases we classify as significant or neutral within our risk ­assessment methodology. Other business-specific risks – Human resources and legal aspects The manipulation and loss of electronic data can lead to serious commercial disadvantages. We limit this risk by means of Risks ­adequate security systems and access procedures. An increased To achieve our growth and profitability business objectives, centralisation of the IT systems of our various operating we need qualified employees at all our locations, including units assists us in this. In this way, we implement high security technical specialists. Due to the demographic change in some standards and thus reduce the risk of data loss or corruption. countries, the competition for these and other highly skilled professionals is increasing, and will intensify if economic recovery sets in. We counter this risk with demand-oriented measures, systematic human resources planning and international recruitment processes. 66 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Opportunities positive signs of this and thus better opportunities for our Since 2014, we have made more use of online social media project business, despite possible currency uncertainties. Furas a means of initiating contact with potential employees. thermore, the political crises and future development of the These communication channels will increase our chances of oil price mean both opportunities and risks for all segments. finding a suitable selection of candidates and recruiting pro­ Our customers are also often affected by recessions and fessionals internationally. At the same time, using these media more intense competition, which can decrease their ability to we can target young people who are interested in appren­ pay in individual cases. ticeships, dual work / degree programmes or executive trainee programmes. We give them an insight via online media into Negative currency changes in growth countries could threaten the company’s activities including social activities at KSB. This our exports, in particular those from our European plants. can increase the attractiveness of our company as an emBut this would also enable our production facilities in the counployer for key target groups, and improve our chances in the tries affected to benefit from such developments and to inbattle for the “best brains”. crease their export volumes. In 2015, we continued to renew our central infrastructure, as RISK REPORT ON THE UTILISATION OF well as further standardising and automating our IT services. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS This will allow us to provide employees with the required serCentral financial management in the KSB Group performs its vices more cheaply and quickly. duties within the framework of the guidelines laid down by the Board of Management. We base the nature and scope of IMP O RTA N T O P P O RTUNI TI ES AND R I SKS B Y SEGM ENT all financial transactions exclusively on the requirements of As in the previous year, the opportunities and risks for the our business and do not lend ourselves to business of a specuPumps, Valves and Service segments are most influenced by lative nature. The aim is to ensure liquidity at all times and economic development. The future development of China, to finance our activities under optimal conditions. With respect for example, is important to KSB. Uncertainty regarding politito our export business, we hedge foreign exchange and credit cal risk is of great significance to the Pumps and Valves segrisks to the greatest extent possible. We continuously improve ments, and to a lesser degree to ­Service. The lack of certainty our receivables management methods with the goal of settling surrounding future oil prices and worsening payment moour outstanding amounts by their due dates. rale harbour risk potential for f­ uture business transactions. A quicker-than-expected return to political stability, combined We are exposed to the following financial risks as a consequence with a calming of the currency turmoil, would probably have of our business activities: positive repercussions. We would always expect benefits from an unexpectedly early recovery of the oil price. ConverseOn the one hand, we are exposed to credit risk. We define ly, a continuation of the political uncertainty, combined with credit risk as potential default or delays in the receipt of conpersistent depreciation tendencies among some currencies or a tractually agreed payments. We are also exposed to liquidity permanently low oil price, would have a sustained negative risk, which is the risk that an entity will be unable to meet its impact on our business. As regards our main influencing factor, financial obligations, or will be unable to meet them in full. the economic situation, we estimate the risk to be slightly Finally, we are exposed to market risk. The risk of exchange higher compared with the previous year. We nonetheless hope rate or interest rate changes may adversely affect the eco­ that our measures, intended to foster growth, will provide nomic position of the Group. Risks from fluctuations in the us with considerable support in achieving our goals. We see prices of financial instruments are not material for us. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 67 Opportunitie s an d R i sk s R e po rt We use foreign exchange hedges to reduce the risks from transThe overall risk situation has not changed materially in comactions involving different currencies. These are generally parison with the previous year, but there has been a change in c­ urrency forwards, which we use both for transactions that the assessment of various individual risks as a result of our have already been recognised and for future cash flows from measures and, in part, of other internal and external aspects. orders still to be processed. At year end, the notional volume Overall, we assume there will be moderate economic recovery of currency forwards used to hedge exchange rate risks was over the next year. Our structural measures will afford us addi€ 254.0 million (previous year: € 235.0 million). Foreign curtional support in achieving our objectives. However, an ecorency items denominated in USD account for the major nomic slowdown in the growth markets as well as negative ­volume hedged by forwards. By strengthening our production developments that could stem from the regions in Eastern sites worldwide, we can realise “natural” currency hedging ­Europe, the Middle East or parts of Africa experiencing politiin currency markets that continue to be volatile. cal unrest present risks. This similarly applies to future changes in the price of oil, as well as to volatile currencies. Such To minimise interest rate risks, we concluded interest rate circumstances would have a negative effect on our business swaps to hedge cash flows from underlyings amounting to volumes as well as our planned earnings. € 39.5 million (previous year: € 60.6 million). Underlyings and hedge transactions share the same variable interest rates In this environment, the KSB Group continues to rely on its and maturities (1 to 3 years). ability to match capacities and resources to the changing market conditions. For us, a solid financial position and an We limit all these risks through an appropriate risk manageefficient cost structure are vital in order to maintain our ment system, defining how these risks are addressed through long-term competitiveness. We are convinced that we can guidelines and work instructions. In addition, we monitor the continue to successfully overcome the risks arising from the current risk characteristics and continuously provide the inabove-mentioned challenges. formation obtained in this way to the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board in the form of standardised reports The risk management system in place as well as the related and individual analyses. organisational measures allow the Board of Management to identify risks in a timely manner and to take adequate For more information on the three risk areas and the impact measures. In view of the somewhat uncertain situation, the on the balance sheet, see the Notes, section VI. Additional focus of activities in 2016 will continue to be on the manageDisclosures on Financial Instruments. ment of market risks. The Board of Management states that, based on the risk management system established by the OVE R A L L A S S E S S M E N T OF OP P ORTUNI TI ES AND R I SKS BY KSB Group, at present there are no risks that could lead to T HE B OA R D O F M A N AGEM ENT a lasting and significant impact on the net assets, financial The opportunities and risks for the KSB Group are mainly ­position and results of the KSB Group. derived from macroeconomic influencing factors and their ­effects on the global mechanical engineering markets and the competition. 68 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT ACQ U I SI T IONRELATED DIS CL O S URE S A summary of the acquisition-related disclosures required by the shares are sold for cash and at a price that is not materially section 315(4) of the HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German lower than the market price for company shares of the same Commercial Code] is given below and explanatory information type and with the same features at the time of the sale. This is provided pursuant to sections 175(2) and 176(1) of the authorisation is limited to the sale of shares that overall repAktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act]. Informaresent no more than 10 % of the existing share capital on the tion is disclosed only to the extent that it applies to KSB AG. date on which such authorisation becomes effective or, if the amount is lower, the date this authorisation is exercised. The KSB AG ’s share capital amounts to € 44.8 million, of which 10 % limit shall be reduced by the proportional amount of € 22.7 million is represented by 886,615 no-par-value ordishare capital for shares (i) issued within the scope of a capital nary shares and € 22.1 million by 864,712 no-par-value preferincrease during the term of the authorisation excluding subence shares. Each no-par-value share represents an equal noscription rights pursuant to section 186(3) sentence 4 of the tional amount of the share capital. All shares are bearer shares. AktG or (ii) to be issued at maximum for the purpose of serThey are listed for trading on the regulated market and are vicing warrants and convertible bonds, provided that the traded in the General Standard segment of the Frankfurt Stock bonds were issued during the term of the authorisation excludExchange. ing subscription rights pursuant to section 186(3) sentence 4 of the AktG; (3) Sell the shares with the consent of the SuperEach ordinary share entitles the holder to one vote at KSB AG’s visory Board, excluding shareholders’ subscription rights, Annual General Meeting. Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal, to third parties for the purpose of acquiring companies, parts holds approximately 80 % of the ordinary shares; the KSB thereof and / or financial interests in companies as well Stiftung [KSB Foundation], Stuttgart, holds the majority of as within the scope of corporate mergers or (4) Redeem the the shares of Klein Pumpen GmbH. The preference shares carry ­acquired shares without any further resolution of the Annual separate cumulative preferred dividend rights and progressive General Meeting in full or in part, including in several partial additional dividend rights. Detailed information on the share steps. The redemption may also take place without a capital capital and shareholders holding an interest of more than reduction by adjusting the proportional amount of the other 10 % is provided in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial no-par-value shares in the company’s share capital. In such Statements. Holders of preference shares are entitled to voting cases, the Board of Management shall be authorised by the rights only in the cases prescribed by law. The issue of additional Articles of Association to adjust the number of no-par-value ordinary shares does not require the consent of the preference shares. KSB AG has not yet made use of this authorisation to shareholders. Similarly, the issue of additional preference shares purchase treasury shares. does not require the consent of the preference shareholders provided that the subscription rights do not exclude newly There are no resolutions ­authorising the company’s Board of issued senior or pari passu preference shares. Management to increase the share capital (authorised capital). The company is authorised by a resolution passed at the Annual In accordance with its Articles of Association, KSB AG is General Meeting on 6 May 2015 to purchase, until 5 May managed by two Board of Management members. The Super2020, company shares of any type totalling up to 10 % of the visory Board decides on the appointment and termination current share capital or, if lower, of the share capital at the of the mandate of members of the Board of Management in time of this authorisation being exercised. The Board of Manaccordance with the statutory provisions. agement shall be entitled to: (1) Sell company shares purchased on the basis of this authorisation either on the stock Amendments to the company’s Articles of Association are exchange or by another means that safeguards the rule of ­resolved by the Annual General Meeting. If the amendments equal treatment of all shareholders, for example by means of only affect the wording of the Articles of Association, they an offer to all of the company’s shareholders; (2) Sell the can be made by the Supervisory Board, which operates and is ­acquired shares of the company with the consent of the Superformed in accordance with the regulations of the German visory Board, excluding shareholders’ subscription rights, if Co-determination Act. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 69 A cquisition-re l ate d Di sc l o su re s Corpora te Gove rn an c e S tate m e n t C ORPO RATE GOVER NANC E S TATE ME N T (S ECT IO N 289A OF THE HGB) The Corporate Governance Statement pursuant to section in the two management levels below it, with these also to be 289a of the HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial achieved by 30 June 2017. Based on these targets, at least the Code] dated 30 March 2015 is accessible to the public at current proportions are to be retained, i.e. zero percent with www.ksb.com > I­ nvestor Relations > Corporate Governance / regard to the top level and 10.4 % in the management level Corporate Governance Statement. The updated Statement below that. will be made accessible to the public in the same way from 30 March 2016. In order to improve the situation in the interests of promoting women, and to make it easier for employees to reconcile In addition to the Corporate Governance Report (including the working and family life, KSB has developed various offers. For Statement of Compliance in accordance with section 161 of many years now, KSB AG has provided support in relation the German Public Companies Act), the Corporate Governance to child care for different ages of children. Advisory services Statement includes relevant information on corporate govare also provided with regard to looking after relatives who ernance practices applied at KSB AG that go beyond statutory are in need of care. Both of these offers are complemented by requirements. Also described are the working methods of the flexible working time models for men and women. Board of Management and Supervisory Board, and the composition and working methods of the committees of the As part of measures to secure the supply of young talent for ­Supervisory Board. For the first time, the updated Statement executive positions, we make a targeted effort to fill attractive will also include the following information on the gender-­ vacancies with women. As a result of these measures, just specific staffing of executive positions: under 30 % of the new junior managers appointed were women. Like their male colleagues, they receive targeted mentoring The aim of the Act for the Equal Participation of Women and from managers immediately below the Board of Management Men in Executive Positions in Private Industry and Public level. Global human resources controlling is used to monitor Service, which entered into force in 2015, is to create more the development of the proportion of women employed in the equal opportunities in the world of work and to significantly different countries. improve the proportion of women in management positions. For KSB AG, in its capacity as a listed company pursuant to section 3(2) of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act] and a company that has co-determination based on parity in accordance with the Mitbestimmungsgesetz [German Co-determination Act], fixed gender quotas of 30 % in each case apply to the inclusion of women and men in the Supervisory Board pursuant to section 96(2) AktG. To date, two women are on our Super­visory Board, one as a shareholder representative and one representing the employees. This means that the proportion of women on the Super­ visory Board is just below 17 % and therefore not yet in line with the quota. At its meeting on 11 September 2015, the Supervisory Board set its target quota of women for the Board of Management at zero percent by 30 June 2017, which corresponds to the current situation. On 22 September 2015, the Board of Management stipulated the targets for the proportion of women 70 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT R E MU N ERATION OF THE BOARD O F MAN AG E ME N T (REMU N ERATION R EPORT) The Remuneration Report summarises the principles applied were granted to members of the Board of Management in the when determining the remuneration arrangements for the year under review. Board of Management of KSB AG. It is prepared in accordance with the recommendations of the German Corporate Gov­ To ensure the sustainability of the nature of the remuneration, ernance Code (item 4.2.5) and explains the remuneration systhe variable remuneration component consists mainly of tem in place for Board of Management members. This system components determined on the basis of a multi-year assessment. is geared towards sustainable corporate development. It is They are partly based (60 %) on the degree of implementaadopted by the Supervisory Board plenary session based on tion of the corporate strategy and its actual market success, the recommendation of the Personnel Committee and reviewed and partly (20 %) on the return on investment measured at regular intervals. The same applies to individual Board of ­according to the economic value added method based on a past Management compensation amounts. average value over a medium-term horizon. The short-term share (20 %) is based on the development of the net financial The remuneration arrangements for the Board of Management position in the respective financial year as compared with are structured as clearly and transparently as possible. The the planned development. The total amount of the variable t­ otal amount of remuneration for the individual Board of Manremuneration components is limited in order to take extra­ agement members is determined based on various parameters. ordinary, unforeseen developments into account. Criteria for assessing the appropriateness of the remuneration include the responsibilities of the individual Board of ManThe weighting factors above do not reflect the additional possiagement members, their personal performance, the economic bility of a bonus, to be paid out in individual cases at the situation, the company’s success and prospects as well as ­discretion of the Supervisory Board, of no more than three ­customary remuneration amounts when taking peer companies monthly salary payments per financial year in recognition of and the remuneration structure used elsewhere within the any special performance of individual members of the Board company into consideration. of Management. Such decisions are only made on an irregular basis, meaning that they do not necessarily have to be made The remuneration of the Board of Management consists of annually. fixed and variable components. Fixed components are granted regardless of performance and consist of a fixed sum plus Furthermore, when Board of Management contracts are conbenefits, as well as pension commitments (retirement, disability, cluded it is agreed that payments made to a Board of Manwidow’s or orphan’s pension). The fixed sum makes up 60 % agement member in the event of his or her Board of Manageof the maximum annual salary and is paid out as a monthly ment tenure being terminated prematurely without good basic remuneration. All Board of Management members are reason shall not exceed the value of two years’ remuneration equally entitled to the accompanying fringe benefits which inincluding fringe benefits (settlement cap in accordance with clude the private use of a company car, payment of insurance item 4.2.3 of the German Corporate Governance Code). No premiums and any payments associated with a post-contracother payments have been promised to any Board of Managetual non-competition clause. No loans or advance payments ment members in the event of termination of service; similarly M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 71 Re mune ra tion o f th e B o ard o f Man age m e n t no compensation will be paid in the event of a takeover offer. If the contract of service of a Board of Management member is terminated for cause, the company shall not make any severance payments. On 6 May 2015 – using a legally permissible option – the ­Annual General Meeting again resolved not to disclose the details of the compensation for individual members of the Board of Management for a period of five years. In total, the short-term benefits (total remuneration) paid to the members of the Board of Management for their activities in the 2015 financial year amounted to € 1,289 thousand (previous year: € 1,427 thousand), and the payments for benefits after termination of work € 1,429 thousand (previous year: € 2,011 thousand). € 4,518 thousand (previous year: € 4,386 thousand) has been provided for pension obligations to current members of the Board of Management, and € 39,387 (previous year: € 41,861 thousand) to former members of the Board of Management and their surviving dependants; total benefits paid to these persons amounted to € 2,246 thousand in the year under review (previous year: € 2,232 thousand). No stock options or other share-based payment arrangements are granted to members of the Board of Management. The short-term benefits (total remuneration) paid to members of the Supervisory Board amounted to € 833 thousand for the 2015 financial year (previous year: € 944 thousand). Information on the structure of the remuneration arrangements for the Supervisory Board is provided in the Corporate Governance Statement pursuant to section 289a of the HGB. Frankenthal, 17 March 2016 The Board of Management 72 MEGA-CPK Volute casing pump in back pull-out design for handling aggressive fluids M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP MANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 73 4 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C O N S O L I DAT E D F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S 74 Balance Sheet 75 Statement of Comprehensive Income 76 Statement of Changes in Equity 78 Statement of Cash Flows 79 Notes 163 List of Shareholdings 167 Supervisory Board 168 Board of Management 169 Proposal on the Appropriation of the Net Retained Earnings of KSB AG 74 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS BA LA N CE SHEET AS SE TS (€ thousands) Notes 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014* 1 Jan. 2014* Non-current assets Intangible assets 1 102,075 111,441 111,302 Property, plant and equipment 2 493,831 475,808 442,861 Non-current financial assets 3 7,961 7,320 10,432 Investments accounted for using the equity method 4 29,235 28,001 26,617 Deferred tax assets 17 84,360 86,853* 39,633 717,462 709,423* 630,845 Current assets Inventories 5 454,411 449,826 423,848 Trade receivables and PoC 6 663,740 614,201 577,349 Other financial assets 6 156,169 190,160* 173,847* Other non-financial assets 6 25,200 33,509 31,194 Cash and cash equivalents 7 273,136 278,552* 313,192* Assets held for sale 2 934 2,234 1,185 1,573,590 1,568,482 1,520,615 2,291,052 2,277,905* 2,151,460 E QU I TY A N D L I A B I L I T IES (€ thousands) Notes 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014* 1 Jan. 2014* Equity 8 Subscribed capital 44,772 44,772 44,772 Capital reserve 66,663 66,663 66,663 Revenue reserves 609,159 578,518* 614,383* Equity attributable to shareholders of KSB AG 720,594 689,953* 725,818* Non-controlling interests 149,623 129,751* 111,187* 870,217 819,704* 837,005* Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 17 13,039 12,024* 13,287* Provisions for employee benefits 9 541,256 539,438* 419,746* Other provisions 9 1,379 1,133* 1,012* Financial liabilities 10 133,504 159,427 204,982 689,178 712,022* 639,027* Current liabilities Provisions for employee benefits 9 73,613 75,391* 86,018* Other provisions 9 99,450 96,663* 81,048* Financial liabilities 10 44,316 93,524 61,773 Trade payables 10 238,848 211,723 204,766 Other financial liabilities 10 85,911 100,429* 87,743* Other non-financial liabilities 10 179,139 164,936* 150,728* Income tax liabilities 10 10,082 3,304* 3,352* Liabilities held for sale 2 298 209 – 731,657 746,179* 675,428* 2,291,052 2,277,905* 2,151,460* * Adjustment under IAS 8 Also see the relevant information in the Notes. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 75 B al an c e S h e e t S tate m e n t o f C o m pre h e n si v e I n c o m e S TATEMEN T OF C OM PREHE N S I VE I N CO ME I NCOM E S TATE M E N T (€ thousands) Notes 2015 2014* Sales revenue 11 2,334,831 2,181,739 Changes in inventories 10,714 12,012 Work performed and capitalised 4,790 3,964 Total output of operations 2,350,335 2,197,715 Other income 12 49,952 36,260 Cost of materials 13 – 979,531 – 887,378 Staff costs 14 – 819,250 – 784,842* Depreciation and amortisation expense 1, 2 – 72,845 – 66,204 Other expenses 15 – 411,467 – 392,964 Other taxes – 13,497 – 13,162 103,697 89,425* Financial income 16 7,682 6,497 Financial expense 16 – 22,360 – 24,668* Income / expense from investments accounted for using the equity method 16 4,373 1,582 – 10,305 – 16,589* Earnings before income taxes 93,392 72,836* Taxes on income 17 – 41,222 – 26,527* Earnings after income taxes 52,170 46,309* Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 18 12,885 7,604* Shareholders of KSB AG 39,285 38,705* Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share (€) 19 22.30 21.97* Diluted and basic earnings per preference share (€) 19 22.56 22.23* S TAT E M E N T O F I N C O M E A ND EXPENSE R EC OGNISED IN EQU ITY (€ thousands) Notes 2015 2014* Earnings after income taxes 52,170 46,309* Remeasurement of defined benefit plans 9 18,087 – 101,841* Taxes on income – 5,454 31,003* Expense and income recognised directly in equity and not reclassified to profit or loss in ­subsequent periods 12,633 – 70,838* Currency translation differences 1,158 38,834 Attributable to: Expense and income recognised directly in equity attributable to investments accounted for using the equity method 2,208 2,529 Changes in the fair value of financial instruments 3,077 – 11,534 Taxes on income – 529 3,854 Expense and income recognised directly in equity and reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods 3,706 31,154 Other comprehensive income 16,339 – 39,684* Total comprehensive income 68,509 6,625* Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 22,318 19,637* Shareholders of KSB AG 46,191 – 13,012* * Adjustment under IAS 8 Also see the relevant information in the Notes. 76 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS S TAT EMENT OF C HANGES I N E Q UI TY Subscribed capital Capital reserve (€ thousands) of KSB AG of KSB AG 1 Jan. 2014 (published) 44,772 66,663 Prior-year correction with retrospective adjustment of equity – – 1 Jan. 2014 (adjusted) 44,772 66,663 Other comprehensive income – – Earnings after income taxes – – Total comprehensive income – – Dividends paid (Notes No. 8) – – Capital increases / decreases (Notes No. 8) – – Change in consolidated Group / Step acquisitions – – Other – – 31 Dec. 2014 (adjusted) 44,772 66,663 Subscribed capital Capital reserve (€ thousands) of KSB AG of KSB AG 1 Jan. 2015 44,772 66,663 Other comprehensive income – – Earnings after income taxes – – Total comprehensive income – – Dividends paid (Notes No. 8) – – Capital increases / decreases (Notes No. 8) – – Change in consolidated Group / Step acquisitions – – Other – – 31 Dec. 2015 44,772 66,663 Equity attributable to shareholders of Non-controlling Total Accumulated currency translation differences (€ thousands) KSB AG interests equity Balance at 1 Jan. 2014 – 79,220 – 30,766 – 109,986 Change in 2014 26,074 12,760 38,834 Balance at 31 Dec. 2014 / 1 Jan. 2015 (adjusted) – 53,146 – 18,006 – 71,152 Change in 2015 – 8,352 9,510 1,158 Balance at 31 Dec. 2015 – 61,498 – 8,496 – 69,994 M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 77 S tate m e n t o f C h an ge s i n Equ i ty Revenue reserves Other comprehensive income Changes in Equity Other Currency the fair value Remeasurement attributable to revenue translation of financial of defined shareholders Non-controlling Total reserves differences instruments benefit plans of KSB AG interests equity 771,825 – 79,197 3,461 – 77,270 730,254 114,240 844,494 – 862 – 23 – – 3,551 – 4,436 – 3,053 – 7,489 770,963 – 79,220 3,461 – 80,821 725,818 111,187 837,005 – 26,074 – 7,454 – 70,337 – 51,717 12,033 – 39,684 38,705 – – – 38,705 7,604 46,309 38,705 26,074 – 7,454 – 70,337 – 13,012 19,637 6,625 – 21,240 – – – – 21,240 – 1,604 – 22,844 – – – – – – – – 1,218 – – – – 1,218 – – 1,218 646 – – – 1,041 – 395 531 136 787,856 – 53,146 – 3,993 – 152,199 689,953 129,751 819,704 Revenue reserves Other comprehensive income Changes in Equity Other Currency the fair value Remeasurement attributable to revenue translation of financial of defined shareholders Non-controlling Total reserves differences instruments benefit plans of KSB AG interests equity 787,856 – 53,146 – 3,993 – 152,199 689,953 129,751 819,704 – – 8,292 2,444 12,754 6,906 9,433 16,339 39,285 – – – 39,285 12,885 52,170 39,285 – 8,292 2,444 12,754 46,191 22,318 68,509 – 15,111 – – – – 15,111 – 2,349 – 17,460 – – – – – – – – 42 – 60 – – 70 – 172 – 97 – 269 1,783 – – 1,793 – 257 – 267 – – 267 813,771 – 61,498 – 3,342 – 139,772 720,594 149,623 870,217 Also see the relevant information in the Notes. 78 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS S TAT EMENT OF C ASH F LOW S (€ thousands) 2015 2014 Earnings after income taxes 52,170 46,309 1 Depreciation and amortisation expense / Write-ups 75,547 68,357 Increase in non-current provisions 11,027 12,040 1 Gain / loss on disposal of fixed assets 489 – 3,068 Other non-cash expenses / income – 1,728 746 Cash flow 137,505 124,384 1 Increase in inventories – 4,192 – 11,334 Increase in trade receivables and other assets – 60,271 – 28,996 1 Increase in current provisions 3,503 2,092 1 Increase / decrease in advances received from customers 20,237 – 2,915 Increase in liabilities (excluding financial liabilities) 21,115 5,351 1 Other non-cash expenses (operating) – 1,260 – – 20,868 – 35,802 1 Cash flows from operating activities 116,637 88,582 Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 772 25 Payments to acquire intangible assets – 6,755 – 9,553 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 4,533 5,877 Payments to acquire property, plant and equipment – 75,833 – 76,494 Proceeds from disposal of non-current financial assets 257 30 Payments to acquire non-current financial assets – 1,213 – 1,518 Proceeds from the sale of consolidated companies and other business operations (less acquired cash and cash equivalents) 700 –2 Payments to acquire consolidated companies and other business operations (less acquired cash and cash equivalents) – 352 178 2 Payments for investments in Group companies that are not fully consolidated – 730 – 576 2 Proceeds from term deposits (maturity of more than 3 and up to 12 months) 154,121 138,246 1, 2 Payments for term deposits (maturity of more than 3 and up to 12 months) – 110,027 – 154,121 1, 2 Cash flows from investing activities – 34,527 – 97,906 1, 2 Dividends paid for prior year – Shareholders of KSB AG (Notes No. 8) – 15,111 – 21,240 2 Dividends paid for prior year – Non-controlling interests (Notes No. 8) – 2,349 – 1,604 1, 2 Proceeds from / payments for financial liabilities – 68,740 – 14,062 1 Payments to acquire non-controlling interests – 1,200 – Cash flows from financing activities – 87,400 – 36,906 2 Changes in cash and cash equivalents – 5,290 – 46,230 1 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents – 50 10,787 Effects of changes in consolidated Group – 76 803 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 278,552 313,192 1 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 273,136 278,552 1 1 Adjustment under IAS 8 2 Change in presentation or separate presentation of prior-year items Cash flows from operating activities include cash flows from interest received amounting to € 7,635 thousand (previous year: € 6,434 thousand) and cash flows from (income) taxes totalling € –36,760 thousand (previous year: € –39,423 thousand). Cash flows from investing activities for the year 2015 do not include any cash flows from dividends received (previous year: € 14 thousand). Cash flows from financing activities include cash flows from interest expense of € – 7,340 thousand (previous year: € – 8,180 thousand). See also Section VII. Statement of Cash Flows in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 79 S tate m e n t o f C ash F l o ws No te s NOTES I . GENER AL I NFOR M ATION ON THE GROUP KSB Aktiengesellschaft, Frankenthal / Pfalz, Germany (hereinafter referred to as KSB AG), is a capital market-oriented public limited company [Aktiengesellschaft] under the law of the Federal Republic of Germany. The company is registered with the Handelsregister [Commercial Register] of the Amtsgericht [Local Court] Ludwigshafen am Rhein, registration No. HRB 21016, and has its registered office in Frankenthal / Pfalz, Germany. In the previous year, KSB AG and its subsidiaries were included in the consolidated financial statements of Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal. Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal, is the parent company which prepares the consolidated financial statements for the largest group of companies. The consolidated financial statements are published in the Bundesanzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. The KSB Group is a global supplier of high-quality pumps, valves and related systems and also provides a wide range of services to users of these products. The Group’s operations are divided into three segments: Pumps, Valves and Service. Basis of preparation of the consolidated financial statements The accompanying consolidated financial statements of KSB AG were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union (EU) and the additional requirements of German commercial law under section 315a(1) of the HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code]. We applied the Framework, and all Standards applicable at the reporting date and adopted by the European Commission for use in the EU that are of relevance to the KSB Group, as well as the Interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee. For the purposes of this document, the term IFRSs includes applicable International Accounting Standards (IASs). The consolidated financial statements of KSB AG therefore meet the requirements of IFRS as applicable in the EU. The consolidated financial statements were prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with IAS 1.25. They were prepared using the historical cost convention, with the exception of measurement at market value for available-for-sale financial assets and measurement at fair value through profit and loss for financial assets and liabilities (including derivatives). Our investments in joint ventures and associates are measured using the equity method. The financial year of the companies consolidated is the calendar year. The income statement as part of the statement of comprehensive income has been prepared using the nature of expense method. 80 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS All material items of the balance sheet and the income statement are presented separately and explained in these Notes. The main accounting policies used to prepare the consolidated financial statements are presented below. The policies described were applied consistently for the reporting periods presented unless stated otherwise. The consolidated financial statements and the group management report, as well as the annual financial statements and management report of the Group’s parent company, are submitted to and published in the Bundesanzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. The present consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Management on 17 March 2016 and are expected to be approved by the Supervisory Board on 23 March 2016. New accounting principles a) A ccounting principles applied for the first time in financial year 2015 The following new and revised Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the new Interpretation issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee ­(IFRIC) were required to be applied for the first time in financial year 2015: Publication in First-time EU Official application IFRS announcement Adoption Journal in the EU IFRIC 21 Levies 13 June 2014 14 June 2014 17 June 2014 Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards (2011 to 2013) 18 Dec. 2014 19 Dec. 2014 1 Jan. 2015  I FRIC 21 Levies provides guidance on the accounting treatment of levies, clarifying in particular when to recognise a liability or provision for such payment obligations. There was no impact on the consolidated financial statements from the application of this Interpretation and the annual improvements to IFRS (2011 to 2013). M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 81 No te s b) A ccounting principles that have been published but that are not yet mandatory The following Standards and revised Standards were not yet mandatory and were not ­applied in the 2015 financial year: Publication in First-time EU Official application IFRS announcement Adoption Journal in the EU IAS 19 Employee Benefits 17 Dec. 2014 9 Jan. 2015 1 Feb. 2015 Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards (2010 to 2012) 17 Dec. 2014 9 Jan. 2015 1 Feb. 2015 Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards (2012 to 2014) 15 Dec. 2015 16 Dec. 2015 1 Jan. 2016 IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements 18 Dec. 2014 19 Dec. 2015 1 Jan. 2016 IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures and IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 11 Sept. 2014 Open Open IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 12 ­D isclosure of Interests in Other Entities and IAS 28 ­I nvestments in Associates and Joint Ventures 18 Dec. 2014 exp. in Q2 / 2016 1 Jan. 2016 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 24 Nov. 2015 25 Nov. 2015 1 Jan. 2016 IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 30 Jan. 2014 Open 1 Jan. 2016 IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, and IAS 38 Intangible Assets 2 Dec. 2015 3 Dec. 2015 1 Jan. 2016 IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 18 Dec. 2015 23 Dec. 2015 1 Jan. 2016 IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, and IAS 41 Agriculture 23 Nov. 2015 24 Nov. 2015 1 Jan. 2016 IAS 12 Income Taxes 19 Jan. 2016 exp. in Q4 / 2016 1 Jan. 2017 IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows 29 Jan. 2016 exp. in Q4 / 2016 1 Jan. 2017 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 11 Sept. 2015 exp. in Q2 / 2016 1 Jan. 2018 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 24 July 2014 exp. in H2 / 2016 1 Jan. 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 13 Jan. 2016 Open 1 Jan. 2019 The adjustments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits introduce a new option into the standard in relation to the accounting method used for defined benefit pension commitments to which employees (or third parties) contribute via compulsory contributions. The aim of the amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements is to remove immaterial information from the IFRS financial statements, thereby emphasising the concept of materiality. 82 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The amendments to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures and IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements remove an inconsistency between the rules laid down in the standards for dealing with assets being sold to an associate or joint venture and/or the contribution of assets in an associate or joint venture. In future, any gain or loss arising from the loss of control over a subsidiary that is being incorporated into a joint venture or associate must be recognised in the full amount by the investor if the transaction relates to a business as defined in IFRS 3 Business Combinations. If, in contrast, the assets do not form a business, the gain/loss may only be recognised pro rata. The Investment Entities – Applying the Consolidation Exception standard amending IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and IAS 28 Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures clarifies the fact that exemption from the obligation to prepare consolidated financial statements also applies to parent companies that are themselves a subsidiary of an investment entity. The amendment to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements clarifies that the acquisition of interests and of additional interests in joint operations that represent a business as defined in IFRS 3 are to be accounted for in accordance with the principles for the reporting of business combinations in accordance with IFRS 3 and other applicable IFRS, provided that this does not contradict the provisions of IFRS 11. The provisions of IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts will enable entities that are preparing IFRS financial statements for the first time to retain deferred amounts relating to price-regulated activities in their IFRS financial statements. The aim of the amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and to IAS 38 Intan­ gible Assets is to provide further guidelines for defining an acceptable method for the depre­ ciation of property, plant and equipment. Under the standards, revenue-based depreciation methods are not permitted for property, plant and equipment at all and for intangible assets only in certain exceptional cases. As a result of the amendments to IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements, investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates may be accounted for using the equity method in future separate financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS. The amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 41 Agriculture change the reporting for what are referred to as bearer plants. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 83 No te s The amendment to IAS 12 Income Taxes clarifies that write-downs to a lower market value of debt instruments measured at fair value arising from a change in market interest rates can give rise to deductible temporary differences. For clarification, rules and examples were added to indicate how future taxable income needs to be calculated in order to capitalise deferred tax assets. The goal of the amendment to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows is to improve the information on the changes in the entity’s debt. The aim of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is to define principles on the basis of which companies should report on the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. Revenue is no longer realised upon the transfer of the material opportunities and risks but, in future, is realised once the customer has acquired control over the agreed goods and services and can derive benefits from these. The rules and definitions of IFRS 15 will in future replace the content of IAS 18 Revenue and of IAS 11 Construction Contracts. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments contains revised guidelines on classifying and measuring financial instruments. Depending on their cash flow characteristics and the business model used to manage them, financial assets are measured either at amortised cost, or at fair value directly in equity or at fair value through profit or loss. When recognising impairments, IFRS 9 considers expected losses, and not, as under the previous rules, incurred losses, in order to ensure adequate risk provisioning. There are also new rules on the presentation of capitalised hedges to improve the presentation of an entity’s risk management activities.  IFRS 16 Leases sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases in the financial statements of IFRS reporters. As a matter of principle, we have not voluntarily applied the above-mentioned new or revised Standards prior to their effective dates. The effects of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases on the net assets, financial position and results of operations, as well as on the disclosures in the Notes, are currently being reviewed within the KSB Group. 84 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS Adjustment under IAS 8 Adjustments (recognised directly in equity) As a result of written put options, shareholders of KSB Mörck AB, Gothenburg (Sweden) have the right to tender their non-controlling interests to KSB AG, i.e. KSB AG is under the contractual obligation to buy own equity instruments for cash in the event of this right being exercised. Pursuant to IAS 32.23, a financial (synthetic) liability must be recognised. This has not been reported in the balance sheet previously. At the time of the put option being written, and also currently, the IFRSs do not clearly stipulate which part of equity capital is to be taken into consideration at the time the liability from written put options is recognised. Irrespective of the specific arrangement of the options, one approach is to present them under the assumption of a completed (fictitious) acquisition of the non-controlling interests by the holder of the controlling interest (anticipated acquisition method). No non-controlling interests are reported for the equity components covered by the option. KSB AG uses the anticipated acquisition method. In the course of financial year 2015 the KSB Group carried out a review of the provisions for employee benefits, which led to material adjustments for two companies. The first-time application of the revised IAS 19 in financial year 2013 led to a retroactive recognition of actuarial gains / losses directly in equity. In accordance with local legislation, our Indian company KSB Pumps Limited continued to recognise these in the income statement without an adjustment under IAS 19 (revised). This led to a retroactive reclassification in equity between “Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans” and “Other revenue reserves”, as well as a correction of the income statement. The detailed audit of the pension plan of our French company KSB S.A.S. revealed that it is to be categorised as a defined benefit plan under IAS 19. The accounting option applicable in France for provisions for employee benefits is not permissible under the revised IAS 19. While the calculation parameters selected under local law resulted in a congruence between plan assets and obligations, a recalculation with the parameters pursuant to the revised IAS 19 revealed excess liability. This was recognised retroactively in the provisions for pensions and similar obligations and, in addition, a reclassification was made in equity, for the first-time recognition of the cumulated actuarial gains / losses under “Remeasurement of defined benefit plans”. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 85 No te s Reclassifications In this context, we have voluntarily implemented some reclassifications in the presentation of the balance sheet, primarily to improve the transparency of our financial statements. They are discussed in detail below. The previous years’ figures have been adjusted accordingly to ensure comparability. In these consolidated financial statements, the “Receivables and other current assets” balance sheet item and the associated disclosures in the Notes were classified for the first time into trade receivables and PoC, other financial assets and other non-financial assets. In addition, the liabilities shown in the balance sheet and the associated disclosures in the Notes were classified for the first time into financial liabilities, trade payables, other financial liabilities, other non-financial liabilities and income tax liabilities. These adjustments did not impact the balance sheet total. In the overview of the composition of provisions (Notes No. 9), the following adjustments were made as at 31 December 2014: Warranty obligations and contractual penalties totalling € 15,121 thousand, previously reported as non-current provisions, were reclassified as current provisions. Accumulated compensated absence and holiday pay entitlements of € 23,201 thousand were reclassified from current “Other employee benefits” to current “Social security and liabilities to employees” (Other non-financial liabilities). Due to the first-time separate presentation of income tax liabilities, current income tax provisions were reclassified to current income tax liabilities in the amount of € 3,304 thousand. The other tax provisions of € 854 thousand were incorporated under other provisions. Some of the cash and cash equivalents previously reported under “Cash and cash equivalents” exceeded a maturity of three months. They (€ 154,121 thousand) were reclassified as “Other financial assets”. 86 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The following table shows all the adjustments described above. Furthermore, they are identified by footnotes in the remainder of the text: Published Purchase Adjusted AS S E TS 1 Jan. 2014 Pensions price liability Reclassifications 1 Jan. 2014 Non-current assets 630,845 – – – 630,845 Intangible assets 111,302 – – – 111,302 Property, plant and equipment 442,861 – – – 442,861 Non-current financial assets 10,432 – – – 10,432 Investments accounted for using the equity method 26,617 – – – 26,617 Deferred tax assets 39,633 – – – 39,633 Current assets 1,520,615 – – – 1,520,615 Inventories 423,848 – – – 423,848 Trade receivables and PoC 577,349 – – – 577,349 Other financial assets 35,601 – – 138,246 173,847 Other non-financial assets 31,194 – – – 31,194 Cash and cash equivalents 451,438 – – – 138,246 313,192 Assets held for sale 1,185 – – – 1,185 Published Purchase Adjusted E Q U I TY A N D L I A B I L I T IES 1 Jan. 2014 Pensions price liability Reclassifications 1 Jan. 2014 Equity 844,494 – 4,232 – 3,257 – 837,005 Equity attributable to shareholders of KSB AG 730,254 – 3,647 – 789 – 725,818 Non-controlling interests 114,240 – 585 – 2,468 – 111,187 Non-current liabilities 648,753 4,664 – – 14,390 639,027 Deferred tax liabilities 15,499 – 2,212 – – 13,287 Provisions for employee benefits 412,870 6,876 – – 419,746 Other provisions 15,402 – – – 14,390 1,012 Financial liabilities 204,982 – – – 204,982 Current liabilities 658,213 – 432 3,257 14,390 675,428 Provisions for employee benefits 109,285 – 392 – – 22,875 86,018 Other provisions 70,010 – – 11,038 81,048 Financial liabilities 61,773 – – – 61,773 Trade payables 204,766 – – – 204,766 Other financial liabilities 84,526 – 40 3,257 – 87,743 Other non-financial liabilities 127,853 – – 22,875 150,728 Income tax liabilities – – – 3,352 3,352 Liabilities held for sale – – – – – M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 87 No te s Published Purchase Adjusted AS SE T S 31 Dec. 2014 Pensions price liability Reclassifications 31 Dec. 2014 Non-current assets 709,229 194 – – 709,423 Intangible assets 111,441 – – – 111,441 Property, plant and equipment 475,808 – – – 475,808 Non-current financial assets 7,320 – – – 7,320 Investments accounted for using the equity method 28,001 – – – 28,001 Deferred tax assets 86,659 194 – – 86,853 Current assets 1,568,482 – – – 1,568,482 Inventories 449,826 – – – 449,826 Trade receivables and PoC 614,201 – – – 614,201 Other financial assets 36,039 – – 154,121 190,160 Other non-financial assets 33,509 – – – 33,509 Cash and cash equivalents 432,673 – – – 154,121 278,552 Assets held for sale 2,234 – – – 2,234 Published Purchase Adjusted E QU I T Y A N D L I A B I L I T IES 31 Dec. 2014 Pensions price liability Reclassifications 31 Dec. 2014 Equity 829,208 – 6,176 – 3,328 – 819,704 Equity attributable to shareholders of KSB AG 696,489 – 5,412 – 1,124 – 689,953 Non-controlling interests 132,719 – 764 – 2,204 – 129,751 Non-current liabilities 720,265 6,878 – – 15,121 712,022 Deferred tax liabilities 15,058 – 3,034 – – 12,024 Provisions for employee benefits 529,526 9,912 – – 539,438 Other provisions 16,254 – – – 15,121 1,133 Financial liabilities 159,427 – – – 159,427 Current liabilities 728,238 – 508 3,328 15,121 746,179 Provisions for employee benefits 99,060 – 468 – – 23,201 75,391 Other provisions 84,846 – – 11,817 96,663 Financial liabilities 93,524 – – – 93,524 Trade payables 211,723 – – – 211,723 Other financial liabilities 97,141 – 40 3,328 – 100,429 Other non-financial liabilities 141,735 – – 23,201 164,936 Income tax liabilities – – – 3,304 3,304 Liabilities held for sale 209 – – – 209 88 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS As at 1 January 2014, adjustments were recognised in other comprehensive income in equity, amounting to € – 3,551 thousand in relation to the remeasurement of defined benefit plans and € – 23 thousand in relation to currency translation differences. Other revenue reserves accounted for € – 862 thousand. The change in other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests as at 1 January 2014 amounted to € – 3,053 thousand. As at 31 December 2014, the effects of these adjustments on earnings after taxes totalled € + 131 thousand (of which staff costs € + 629 thousand, financial expenses € – 387 thousand, and income taxes € – 111 thousand). The effect on earnings after taxes attributable to non-controlling interests totalled € – 270 thousand, with an effect of € + 401 thousand attributable to KSB AG shareholders. Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share were adjusted to € 21.97 (published figure: € 21.74), and the diluted and basic earnings per preference share to € 22.23 (published figure: € 22.00). Within the statement of comprehensive income, retroactive adjustments were made for 2014 in other comprehensive income. These amounted to € – 3,273 thousand in relation to the remeasurement of defined benefit plans and to € 1,127 thousand in relation to the corresponding income taxes. The resulting effect on comprehensive income is € – 2,015 thousand. The effect on comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests totalled € – 310 thousand, with an effect of € – 1,705 thousand attributable to KSB AG shareholders. I I . BASI S OF C ONSO LIDATION Consolidated Group In addition to KSB AG, 9 German and 80 foreign companies (previous year: 10 German and 86 foreign companies) were fully consolidated. We hold a majority interest, either directly or indirectly, in the voting power of these subsidiaries which the KSB Group has the option to control under IFRS 10. The Thai company KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., Bangkok, and the Indian company KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune), are included in the group of fully consolidated affiliates despite the fact that we hold less than 50 % of the voting rights. We do, however, have the power to determine their business and financial policies and thus the level of variable returns. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 89 No te s Companies that were not consolidated due to there being no material impact are reported under financial assets – other investments. The following table shows the subsidiaries with non-controlling interests that are material subsidiaries of the KSB Group. “Seat” refers to the country in which the main activity is performed. MAT ER IA L SU B SIDIA R IES WITH NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Non-­ controlling Earnings after income interest in taxes attributable to Accumulated Name and seat capital non-controlling interests non-controlling interests (€ thousands) 2015 / 2014 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014* 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014* GIW Industries, Inc., USA 49.0 % 2,780 1,427 23,738 17,982 KSB Pumps Limited, India 59.5 % 4,939 4,707* 49,856 43,337* KSB America Corporation, USA 49.0 % 175 42 22,348 19,705 KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., China 20.0 % – 347 – 2,218 12,085 11,645 Individually immaterial fully consolidated subsidiaries with non-controlling interests 5,338 3,646* 41,596 37,082* Total amount of non-controlling interests 12,885 7,604* 149,623 129,751* * Adjustment under IAS 8 The summarised financial information regarding the KSB Group’s material subsidiaries with non-controlling interests is provided below. This information corresponds to the amounts given in the subsidiaries’ financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS prior to intercompany eliminations. 90 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS SU MMA R ISED BA LA NCE SHEET GIW Industries, Inc. KSB Pumps Limited KSB America Corporation KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd. (€ thousands) / 31 Dec. 2015 2014 2015 2014* 2015 2014 2015 2014 Non-current assets 55,351 38,888 33,981 29,778* 35,652 33,205 33,719 30,467 Current assets 79,303 54,899 93,248 84,859 55,279 42,578 133,166 134,177 Non-current liabilities – 6,812 – 4,769 – 2,473 – 2,417* – – – – 518 Current liabilities – 60,001 – 32,928 – 42,092 – 40,635* – 32,378 – 25,997 – 108,966 – 108,488 Net assets 67,841 56,090 82,664 71,585* 58,553 49,786 57,919 55,638 * Adjustment under IAS 8 SU MMA R ISED STAT EMENT OF COMP REHENSIV E INCOME GIW Industries, Inc. KSB Pumps Limited KSB America Corporation KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd. (€ thousands) 2015 2014 2015 2014* 2015 2014 2015 2014 Sales revenue 139,127 117,425 113,399 97,271 – – 134,734 115,588 Earnings after income taxes 5,673 2,912 9,391 8,668* 2,975 2,511 – 1,399 – 10,754 Other comprehensive income 6,079 6,203 4,377 6,074* 5,792 5,865 3,680 5,466 Comprehensive income 11,752 9,115 13,768 14,742* 8,767 8,376 2,281 – 5,288 Other comprehensive income attribut­ able to non-controlling interests 2,979 3,039 2,603 3,612* 2,838 2,874 736 1,093 Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 5,758 4,466 8,186 8,766* 4,296 4,104 456 – 1,058 Dividends paid to non-controlling ­i nterests – – – 1,599 – 1,149 – – – – * Adjustment under IAS 8 C ONDENSED STAT EMENT OF CASH FLOWS GIW Industries, Inc. KSB Pumps Limited KSB America Corporation KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd. (€ thousands) 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Cash flows from operating activities – 3,562 10,522 15,749 4,341 3,534 2,789 5,005 – 1,709 Cash flows from investing activities – 14,594 – 18,131 – 2,082 – 2,114 – – – 3,375 – 1,391 Cash flows from financing activities 18,020 7,525 – 6,698 78 – 12,556 – 9,895 – 8,619 2,019 Changes in cash and cash equivalents – 136 – 84 6,969 2,305 – 9,022 – 7,106 – 6,989 – 1,081 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 1,173 1,114 23,299 18,750 28,832 32,231 11,430 11,377 Effects of exchange rate changes 132 143 1,439 2,244 3,146 3,707 860 1,134 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 1,169 1,173 31,707 23,299 22,956 28,832 5,301 11,430 M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 91 No te s As at 1 January 2015 Mäntän Pumppauspalvelu Oy, Mänttä-Vilppula, was merged with KSB Finland Oy, Kerava. Both Finnish companies were already fully consolidated. As at 1 January 2015 a merger also took place in Norway between WM Teknikk AS, Ski, and KSB Norge AS, Ski. The Belgian company KSB SERVICE VRS SA, Feluy, and the Dutch company Nederlandse Pompservice (N.P.S.) B.V., Velsen-Noord, were deconsolidated due to operations being closed down. The resulting impact on these consolidated financial statements was not material. Also on 1 January 2015, KSB increased its share in T. Smedegaard A/S, Glostrup (Denmark), from 80 % to 100 % at a purchase price of a good € 1 million. The corresponding purchase price liability was offset accordingly. The KSB Group relinquished control of B & C Pumpenvertrieb Köln GmbH, Cologne, in Feb­ ruary 2015 through the sale of shares. The resulting effects are shown in the changes to “Assets held for sale” and “Liabilities held for sale” in the balance sheet. The impact on the results of operations, expenses and earnings is not material. With effect from 1 January 2015, formerly fully consolidated KSB AMVI, S.A., Madrid, and KSB Service Suciba, S.L.U., Loiu-Bizkaia, were merged with KSB ITUR Spain S.A., which has its head office in Zarautz, Spain, and is also fully consolidated. Our French subsidiary KSB SERVICE COTUMER, which has its head office in Déville lès Rouen, acquired a business in the Service segment in February 2015. The assets and liabilities acquired have been included in the consolidated balance sheet at the following fair values: Fair value at the date of (€ thousands) acquisition Non-current assets 751 Intangible assets 539 Property, plant and equipment 212 Current assets 250 Inventories 250 1,001 Current liabilities 1,001 Trade payables 502 Other non-financial liabilities 499 1,001 92 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The purchase price amounts to € 0.4 million. The fair value of the intangible assets includes € 40 thousand for concessions and licences. The fair value of property, plant and equipment ­includes € 134 thousand for land and buildings and € 78 thousand for plant and machinery. The goodwill arising from the transaction amounts to € 499 thousand. From the date of acquisition, KSB SERVICE COTUMER contributed about € 12 million of sales revenue to the Group’s consolidated sales revenue. For the full financial year it would have reported some € 13 million of sales revenue. The contribution to consolidated earnings for the period of consolidation was € – 0.4 million; for the full financial year it would also have been some € – 0.4 million. Business combination costs incurred by the KSB Group amounted to less than € 0.1 million (primarily relating to fees for legal advice). They are reported in the income statement under “Other expenses – Administrative expenses”. A full list of the shareholdings held by the KSB Group is provided at the end of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Consolidation methods For the purposes of consolidation, the effects of any intercompany transactions are elimi­ nated in full. Any receivables and liabilities between the consolidated companies are offset against each other, and any unrealised gains and losses recognised in fixed assets and inventories are eliminated. Any revenues from intercompany sales are offset against the corresponding expenses. Capital consolidation uses the purchase method of accounting pursuant to IFRS 3. This means that the acquisition cost of the parent’s shares in the subsidiaries is eliminated against the remeasured equity attributable to the parent at the date of acquisition. Any goodwill created from the application of the purchase method denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the KSB Group is measured at the relevant current closing rate. Goodwill is reported under intangible assets and tested for impairment at least once a year. If an impairment is identified, an impairment loss is recognised. Any excess of our interest in the fair values of net assets acquired over cost remaining after reassessment is recognised in profit or loss in the year it occurred. Those shares of subsidiaries’ equity not attributable to KSB AG are reported as non-controlling interests. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 93 No te s Currency translation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in euros (€). Amounts in this report are presented in thousands of euros (€ thousands) using standard commercial rounding rules. Currency translation is effected on the basis of the functional currency of the consolidated companies. As in the previous year, the functional currency is exclusively the local currency of the company consolidated, as it operates as a financially, economically and organisationally independent entity. Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the individual companies at the rate prevailing when the transaction is initially recognised. Monetary assets and liabilities are subsequently measured at the closing rate. Measurement effects are recognised in the income statement. When translating financial statements of consolidated companies that are not prepared in euro, assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate; the income statement accounts are translated at average exchange rates (modified closing rate method). Gains and losses from the translation of items of assets and liabilities compared with their translation in the previous year are taken directly to equity in other comprehensive income and reported under currency translation differences. They amount to € – 69,994 thousand (previous year: € – 71,152 thousand). The effect of currency translation adjustments taken directly to equity on intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, and financial assets was a gain of € 4,935 thousand (previous year: gain of € 19,639 thousand). The exchange rates of our most important currencies to one euro are: Closing rate Average rate 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 2015 2014 US dollar 1.0887 1.2141 1.1099 1.3289 Brazilian real 4.3117 3.2207 3.6934 3.1235 Indian rupee 72.0215 76.7190 71.1886 81.0825 Chinese yuan 7.0608 7.5358 6.9748 8.1890 94 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS I I I . AC C OUNTI NG P OLICIES Acquisition and production costs In addition to the purchase price, acquisition cost includes attributable incidental costs (except for costs associated with the acquisition of a company) and subsequent expenditure. Purchase price reductions are deducted from cost. In addition to direct material and labour costs, production cost includes production-related administrative expenses. General administrative expenses and selling expenses are not capitalised. Borrowing costs as defined in IAS 23 that can be directly allocated to the acquisition or production of qualifying assets are capitalised from 2009. As in the previous year no such borrowing costs were incurred. Fair value Fair value is the price that independent market participants would, under standard market conditions, receive when selling an asset or pay when transferring a liability at the measurement date. This applies irrespectively of whether the price is directly observable or has been estimated using a measurement method. The KSB Group defined a monitoring framework concept for determining fair value. This includes a measurement team with general responsibility for monitoring all key measurements at fair value and notifying management and, if necessary, the Audit Committee of any major ­issues. For the purposes of calculating fair value, we make use wherever possible of estimates from market participants or estimates derived from these. In a first step we regularly review the extent to which there are current prices on active markets for identical transactions. If no quoted market prices are available, our preference is to use the market-based approach (deriving the fair value from the market or transaction prices of comparable assets, for example multipliers) or the income-based approach (calculation of fair value as a future value by discounting future cash surpluses). M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 95 No te s Based upon the input factors used in the measurement methods, fair values are assigned to different levels of the fair value hierarchy. Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) on active markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2: Measurement parameters that are not the quoted prices taken into account for ­level 1, but that are observable for the asset or the liability either directly as a price or indirectly derived from prices. Level 3: Measurement parameters for assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data. If input factors categorised into different levels are included in the fair value measurement, the measurement must be categorised in its entirety in the level of the lowest level input factor that is material for the entire measurement. We record reclassifications between different levels in the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting period during which the change has occurred. There were no reclassifications carried out in the year under review. Financial instruments A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to both a financial asset of one enterprise and a financial liability or equity instrument of another enterprise. Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at the time when KSB becomes a party to a financial instrument. When the contractual right to payments from financial assets expires, these are derecognised. Financial liabilities are derecognised at the time when the contractual obligations are settled or cancelled or have expired. Regular way purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognised at their value at the settlement date; only derivatives are recognised at their value at the trade date. This applies to primary ­financial instruments such as trade receivables and monetary receivables, as well as to trade payables and financial liabilities (from or to third parties as well as affiliates and equity in­ vestments). 96 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS a) Primary financial instruments Within the KBS Group, primary financial instruments are allocated to the following categories as financial assets or liabilities: Loans and receivables (LaR) Loans and financial assets not quoted in an active market Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (FLAC) Liabilities that are not quoted in an active market, such as trade payables Available-for-sale (AfS) financial assets Non-derivative financial instruments that are not allocated to any other measurement category, such as investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries or securities None of our financial instruments are classified as “held-to-maturity investments”. Financial instruments are carried at fair value on initial recognition, while LaR and FLAC take into account the transaction costs. Subsequent measurement is based on fair value for category AfS and on amortised cost for categories LaR and FLAC . Subsequent measurement of loans and receivables is based on amortised cost using the effective interest method. We do not currently make use of the fair value option. The fair values of the current and non-current financial instruments are based on prices quoted in active markets on the reporting date. Primary financial instruments classified as “available-for-sale financial instruments” are recognised directly in equity in other comprehensive income and reported under “Changes in the fair ­value of financial instruments”. They are recognised in profit or loss when the assets are sold or deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. If an asset is derecognised, the accumulated other comprehensive income is reclassified to the income statement. As in the previous year, we did not make any reclassifications between the individual measurement categories. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 97 No te s b) Derivative financial instruments We only use derivatives for hedging purposes. We hedge both future cash flows and existing recognised underlyings against foreign currency and interest rate risks (cash flow hedges). The hedging instruments used are exclusively currency forwards, currency options and interest rate derivatives entered into with prime-rated banks. We hedge currency risks primarily for transactions in US dollars (USD). Interest rate risks are minimised for long-term borrowings at floating rates of interest. Group guidelines govern the use of these instruments. These transactions are also subject to continuous risk monitoring. In the case of cash flow hedges, changes in the fair value of the effective portions of the currency derivatives are recognised under other comprehensive income and reported under “Changes in the fair value of financial instruments” in equity for as long as the underlying transaction is not recognised in the income statement. Changes in the market value of interest rate derivatives used to hedge against interest rate risks in liabilities are recognised under other comprehensive income and reported under “Changes in the fair value of financial instruments” in equity. The carrying amounts equal fair value and are determined on the basis of input factors observable either directly (as a price) or indirectly (derived from prices). Fair values may be positive or negative. Fair value is the amount that we would receive or have to pay at the reporting date to settle the financial instrument. This amount is determined using the relevant exchange rates, interest rates and counterparty credit ratings at the reporting date. All our information is obtained from recognised external sources. Currency forwards and interest rate swaps are reported under other receivables and other current assets, and under miscellaneous other liabilities. The maturities of the currency derivatives used are, as in the previous year, mostly between one and two years, and those of interest rate derivatives are two years. The maturities of the hedging instruments are matched to the period in which the forecast transactions are expected to occur. In the year under review, almost all hedged forecast transactions occurred as expected. 98 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS Intangible assets Intangible assets are carried at (acquisition or production) cost and reduced by straight-line amortisation. Depreciation / amortisation is reported under “Depreciation and amortisation expense” in the income statement. The underlying useful lives of intangible assets (excluding goodwill) is between two and five years. If the reasons for an impairment loss in a previous period no longer apply, it is reversed (write-up) up to a maximum of amortised cost. We test goodwill for impairment once a year. This relates to cash-generating units (CGU), which at KSB are generally the legal entities. Occasionally a group of cash-generating units may also serve as the basis, provided these units reflect the lowest level on which we monitor goodwill. The goodwill (and, if necessary, other assets) is reduced by the difference in value if the recoverable amount – the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use – is lower than the carrying amount of the CGU. Reversal of an impairment loss from an earlier period is not possible. In addition, a review of impairment is always carried out when events or circumstances (“trigger events”) suggest that the value could be impaired. We apply the discounted cash flow model to determine the recoverable amount (value in use). The future earnings (EBIT in accordance with IFRS) applied were taken from a multi-year financial plan (generally covering a maximum of five years), the basis of which was adopted in December taking into account the medium-term strategy approved by management for the respective cash-generating unit. We carried out this planning based on certain assumptions which were drawn from both forecasts from external sources, e.g. current German Engineering Federation (VDMA) publications, and our own experience-based knowledge of markets and competitors. In our calculations we consistently extrapolated the result of the last plan year as a constant, considering that level to be achievable in the long term. We derived growth rates taking account of the rate of inflation and estimates with regard to regional and segment-­ specific circumstances. If the recoverable amount is calculated as the fair value less costs to sell, the costs to sell are, based on past experience, set at a maximum of 2 % of the fair value. For the purposes of calculating value, we make use wherever possible of estimates from market participants (Level 1) or estimates derived from these (Level 2). In the absence of any market estimates, we make use of experience-based assumptions of the management (Level 3). In a first step we review the extent to which there are current prices on active markets for identical transactions. If no M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 99 No te s quoted market prices are available, our preference is to use the market-based approach (deriving the fair value from the market or transaction prices of comparable assets, for example multipliers) or the income-based approach (calculation of fair value as a future value by discounting future cash surpluses). When acquiring companies we apply purchase price allocations and determine the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired. In addition to the assets and liabilities already recognised by the selling party, we also assess marketing-related aspects (primarily brands or trademarks and competitive restrictions), customer-related aspects (primarily customer lists, customer relations and orders on hand), contract-related aspects (mainly particularly advantageous service, work, purchasing and employment contracts) as well as technology-related aspects (primarily patents, know-how and databases). To determine values we primarily apply the residual value method, the excess earnings method and cost-oriented procedures. Development costs are capitalised as internally generated intangible assets at cost where the criteria described in IAS 38 are met and reduced by straight-line amortisation at the time of their capitalisation. Research costs are expensed as incurred. Where research and development costs cannot be reliably distinguished within a project, no costs are capitalised. Property, plant and equipment In accordance with IAS 16, property, plant and equipment is carried at cost and reduced by straight-line depreciation over its useful life. If an asset’s recoverable amount is lower than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised. If the reasons for an impairment loss recognised in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (write-up) up to a maximum of amortised cost. Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are transferred to an adjustment item on the liabilities side. This adjustment item is reversed over a defined utilisation period. As far as government grants recognised which are to be held for specific periods of time are concerned, we expect that these periods will be complied with. Maintenance expenses are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred, unless they lead to the expansion or material improvement of the asset concerned. 100 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The following useful lives are applied: U SEFU L LIVES OF PR OPERTY, P LANT AND EQUIP MENT Buildings 10 to 50 years Plant and machinery 5 to 25 years Other equipment, operating and office equipment 3 to 25 years Leases IAS 17 defines a lease as an arrangement under which a lessor provides a lessee with the right to use an asset for an agreed period of time in exchange for a payment. A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incident to ownership to the lessee. Otherwise, such transactions are classified as operating leases. Lease payments that are payable under operating leases are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. In the case of finance leases, the leased asset is recognised at the time of inception of the lease at the lower of fair value and the present value of future minimum lease payments. A liability is recognised in the same amount for the future lease payment. The asset’s carrying amount is reduced by depreciation over its useful life or the shorter lease term. Non-current financial assets Equity investments are carried at fair value. Interest-bearing loans and investments in nonconsolidated subsidiaries are measured at amortised cost. Financial instruments are carried at their fair values at the reporting date. Investments accounted for using the equity method Investments accounted for using the equity method are companies in which the parties exercise joint control (joint venture) or have the power to exercise significant influence over the companies’ operating and financial policies (associate); this is usually the case where an entity holds between 20 % and 50 % of the voting power. These assets are recognised at cost at the time of acquisition. If the costs of acquisition exceed the share of the net assets, adjustments are made on the basis of the fair value (pro rata hidden reserves and liabilities). The remaining amount is recorded as goodwill. It forms part of the carrying amount of the joint venture or associate and is not amortised. For subsequent measurement, the carrying amounts are increased / reduced annually by the pro-rata earnings, distributed dividends or other changes in equity of the joint venture or the associate. If local accounting principles differ from the accounting M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 101 No te s methods used in the Group, we make the necessary adjustments. The share of earnings is reported in the consolidated income statement in a separate line (earnings from investments accounted for using the equity method), and changes such as currency translation effects are taken directly to Group equity. If the losses attributable to the KSB Group correspond to the carrying amount of the company or exceed this, they are not recognised unless KSB has entered into obligations or has made payments for the company. Intercompany gains and losses from transactions between Group companies and investments accounted for using the equity method are offset against the carrying amount in profit or loss. At each reporting date we review whether there are any objective indications of impairment, and calculate the amount of such impairment if required. If the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount of an investment, it is written down to the recoverable amount. Any impairments or reversals of impairments are reported in the consolidated income statement under financial income / expense. Inventories Pursuant to IAS 2, inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value as at the reporting date. Cost is measured using the weighted average method. Write-downs to the net realisable value take account of the inventory risks resulting from slow-moving goods or impaired marketability. This also applies if the selling price is lower than production cost plus costs still to be incurred. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (write-up). Advance payments made on inventories are also presented here because of the correlation and expected realisation of these advances (through conversion into inventories) within the normal business cycle. Advances received from customers are recognised as current liabilities. Construction contracts under IAS 11 In the case of construction contracts covered by IAS 11, we apply the percentage of completion (PoC) method. According to this method, a production order is a contract for the customerspecific production of individual items or a number of items that, in terms of their design, technology and function or with regard to their use, are linked to one another or dependent on each other. If the earnings from a production order can be reliably estimated, we recognise the revenue based on the percentage of completion method. The percentage of completion of contracts is determined on the basis of the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed up to the reporting date bear to the estimated total contract costs at the reporting date. Contract revenue consists of all contractually agreed revenues, as well as additional claims and incentive payments that are likely to result in revenue and are capable of being reliably measured. Contract revenue may vary from one period to the next, for instance because of cost escalation clauses, variations or penalties. It is measured at the fair value received or 102 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS receivable. If the earnings from a production order cannot be reliably estimated, revenue will only be recognised in the amount of the contract costs incurred that are likely to be covered and the contract costs recognised as an expense for the period in which they are incurred. The percentage contract revenue less the related advances received from customers is reported – depending on the balance – in trade receivables and PoC or within other financial liabilities. Effects in the period are recognised in the income statement as part of sales revenue. Trade receivables and other current assets Trade receivables and other current assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost. Lowinterest or non-interest-bearing receivables are discounted. In addition, we take account of identifiable risks by charging specific write-downs using allowance accounts. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (write-up). We hedge part of the credit risk exposure of our receivables (for further explanations, refer to the Financial Risks – Credit Risk section). The prepaid expenses reported relate to accrued expenditure prior to the reporting date that will only be classified as an expense after the reporting date. Cash and cash equivalents Cash (cash and sight deposits) and cash equivalents (short-term, highly liquid financial investments that are readily convertible to defined amounts of cash, and that are subject to only immaterial fluctuations in terms of their value) are recognised at amortised cost. Assets held for sale Pursuant to IFRS 5, non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale if it is highly likely that the carrying amount will be realised primarily by a sales transaction and not through continued use of that asset. It must be assumed that the sale will be completed within one year. If the Group is committed to a sale that involves loss of control of a subsidiary, all assets and liabilities of that subsidiary will be classified as held for sale, provided the above conditions are met. The intangible assets and property, plant and equipment of the held-for-sale M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 103 No te s assets are no longer amortised/depreciated, but instead are recognised at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Deferred taxes We account for deferred taxes in accordance with IAS 12 using the balance sheet liability method on the basis of the enacted or substantively enacted local tax rates. This means that deferred tax assets and liabilities generally arise when the tax base of assets and liabilities differs from their carrying amount in the IFRS financial statements, and this leads to future tax expense or income. We also recognise deferred tax assets from tax loss carryforwards in those cases where it is more likely than not that there will be sufficient taxable profit available in the near future against which these tax loss carryforwards can be utilised. Deferred taxes are also recognised for consolidation adjustments. Deferred taxes are not discounted. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are always offset where they relate to the same tax authority. Changes to deferred taxes in the consolidated balance sheet generally result in deferred tax expense or income. If, however, a direct entry is made in other comprehensive income in equity, the change in deferred taxes is also taken directly to equity. Provisions a) Provisions for pensions and similar obligations Provisions for pensions and similar obligations pursuant to IAS 19 are calculated on the basis of actuarial reports. They are based on defined benefit pension plans. They are measured using the projected unit credit method. Actuarial gains and losses are taken directly to other comprehensive income and reported in equity under “Remeasurement of defined benefit plans”. The actuarial demographic assumptions and the setting of the discount rate (based on senior, fixed-income corporate bonds) and other measurement parameters (for example income and pension trends) are based on best estimates. Net interest is calculated by multiplying the discount rate with the net liability (pension obligation minus plan assets) or the net asset value that results if the plan assets exceed the pension obligation. 104 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The defined benefit costs include the service cost, which is included in staff costs under pension costs, and the net interest income or expense on the net liability or net realisable value, which is recognised in financial income / expense under interest and similar expenses or under interest and similar income. KSB companies that use a defined contribution pension plan do not recognise provisions. The premium payments are recognised directly in the income statement as pension costs in the staff costs. Other than an obligation to pay premiums, these companies have no further obligations. Consequently, the insurance risk remains with the insured parties. b) Other provisions Provisions are recognised if a past event results in a present legal or constructive external obligation that the company has no realistic alternative to settling, where settlement of this obligation is expected to result in an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits, and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably. The amount of the provision corresponds to the best estimate of the settlement amount of the current obligation on the reporting date. Any more or less secure recourse or reimbursement claims are recognised as separate assets. Provisions for restructurings are recognised only if the criteria set out in IAS 37 are met. Non-current provisions are discounted if the effects are material. Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are recognised with their amortised costs using the effective interest rate method. Contingent liabilities (contingencies and commitments) Contingent liabilities, which are not recognised, are possible obligations that arise from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future events. Contingent liabilities may also be present obligations that arise from past events where it is possible but not probable that there will be an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits. Contingent liabilities correspond to the extent of liability at the reporting date. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 105 No te s Income and expenses Sales revenue consists of charges for deliveries and services billed to customers. This relates to revenue from the sale of goods and goods purchased and held for resale from the production, sale and trade of machinery, systems and other industrial products, particularly pumps and valves. In addition, sales revenue from services and licence income is reported under sales revenue for the period concerned in accordance with the economic content of the underlying contract. Sales revenue is recognised pursuant to IAS 18 when the deliveries have been effected or the services have been rendered and the significant risks and rewards associated with ownership have thus been transferred to the customer. At the time of revenue recognition, receipt of the consideration must be probable and the amount of sales revenue must be reliably measurable. A reliable estimation of the associated costs and potential return of the goods must also be possible. We essentially recognise sales revenue from the delivery of standard products upon handover to the carrier. For some international deliveries, the contractual risk transfer takes place when the goods are loaded onto a cargo ship in the port or delivered to the customer in the destination country. In these cases, sales revenue is recognised on the basis of the contractually agreed INCOTERMS. For certain deliveries and services, a declaration of acceptance by the customer is required for the recognition of sales revenue. In individual cases and under strict conditions, sales revenue is recognised prior to delivery of the goods (so-called bill and hold arrangements). Sales revenue for customer-specific construction contracts is reported using the percentage of completion method. We use the so-called cost-to-cost method, according to which the proceeds determined at the beginning of the sales order are compared with the estimated costs, and the sales revenue of a period is determined according to the percentage of completion measured on the basis of the costs incurred; see the explanations on “Construction contracts under IAS 11”. Sales allowances reduce sales revenue. Interest income and expense are recognised in the period in which they occur. Dividend income from investments is collected when the legal entitlement to payment is created. 106 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS Operating expenses are recognised when they are incurred or when the services are utilised. Income taxes are calculated in accordance with the statutory tax rules in the countries in which the Group operates. Deferred taxes are accounted for on the basis of the enacted or substantively enacted income tax rates. Estimates and assumptions The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting policies to be applied. When implementing such accounting policies, estimates and assumptions affect the assets, liabilities, income and expenses recognised in the consolidated financial statements, and their presentation. These estimates and assumptions are based on past experience and a variety of other factors deemed appropriate under the circumstances. Actual amounts may differ from these estimates and assumptions. We continuously review the estimates and assumptions that we apply. If more recent information and additional knowledge are available, recognised amounts are adjusted to reflect the new circumstances. Any changes in estimates and assumptions that result in material differences are explained separately. Impairment tests for goodwill, which are conducted at least once per year, require an estimate of the recoverable amounts for each cash-generating unit (CGU). These correspond to the higher amount from the fair value less costs to sell and value in use. The earnings forecast on the basis of these estimates are affected by various factors, which may include exchange rate fluctuations, progress in Group integration or the expectations for the economic development of these units. Although management believes that the assumptions used to calculate the recoverable amount are appropriate, any unforeseen changes in these assumptions could lead to an impairment loss. Estimates and assumptions must also be made to review the value of assets. For each asset it must be verified to what extent there are indications of an impairment. When determining the recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment, the estimation of the relevant useful life is subject to uncertainty. The measurement of doubtful receivables is based on forecasts about the creditworthiness of customers. A material change in the assumptions or circumstances can lead in future to additional impairment losses or reversals. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 107 No te s For construction contracts with clients in the project business we recognise sales revenue according to the percentage of completion method. This requires estimates regarding the total contract costs and revenue, contract risks as well as other relevant factors. These estimates are reviewed regularly by those with operative responsibility and adjusted where necessary. Provisions for employee benefits, especially pensions and similar obligations, are determined according to actuarial principles which are based on statistical and other factors so as to anticipate future events. Material factors are the reported market discount rates and life expectancy. The actuarial assumptions made may differ from actual developments as a result of changing market and economic conditions, and this can have material effects on the amount of provisions and thus on the company’s overall net assets, financial position and results of operations. Other provisions are reported based on the best possible estimate of the probability of future outflows. The later, actual outflow can, however, differ from the estimate as a result of changed economic, political or legal conditions. This will be reflected in additional expenses or income from reversals. The global scope of our activities must be taken into account in relation to taxes on income. Based on our operative activities in numerous countries with varying tax laws and administrative interpretation, differentiated assessment is required for determining our tax obligations. Uncertainty may arise due to different interpretations by taxable entities on the one hand and local finance authorities on the other. Uncertain tax assets and liabilities are recognised if their probability of occurrence exceeds 50 %. For the reporting, the best estimate is based on the expected tax payment. Although we believe we have made a reasonable estimate regarding any tax uncertainties, it is possible that the actual tax obligation will differ from our original estimate. With regard to future tax benefits, we assess their realisability as of every reporting date. For this reason, we only recognise deferred tax assets if sufficient taxable income is available in future. In assessing this future taxable income within a planning horizon of normally five years it must be taken into account that expected future business developments are subject to uncertainties and are in some cases excluded from control by company management (for example changes to applicable tax legislation). If we come to the conclusion that previously reported deferred tax assets cannot be realised because of changed assumptions, then the assets will be written down by the appropriate amount. 108 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS Maturities Maturities of up to one year are classified as current. Assets that can only be realised after more than 12 months, as well as liabilities that only become due after more than 12 months, are also classified as current if they are attributable to the operating cycle defined in IAS 1. An operating cycle of more than 12 months typically applies to made-to-order production (construction contracts). Assets and liabilities not classified as current are non-current. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 109 No te s I V. BALANC E SHEET DISCLOSURES 1 Intangible assets STAT EMENT OF C H A NGES IN INTANGIBLE ASSETS Concessions, industrial property and similar rights and assets, as well as licences in Intangible assets (€ thousands) such rights and assets Goodwill Advance payments Total Historical cost 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Balance at 1 January 58,279 56,046 103,019 99,785 8,543 2,733 169,841 158,564 Changes in consolidated Group – 2 – 122 524 – – – 122 526 Currency translation adjustments – 717 1,047 525 2,710 – – – 192 3,757 Other – 15 – 15 – 11 – – – – 26 – 15 Additions 2,785 1,583 – – 5,527 5,812 8,312 7,395 Addition from business combination 40 22 499 – – – 539 22 Disposals 584 248 – – 3,600 2 4,184 250 Reclassifications 1,920 7 – – – 1,920 – – 7 Reclassification to assets held for sale – – 165 – – – – – – 165 Balance at 31 December 61,708 58,279 103,910 103,019 8,550 8,543 174,168 169,841 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Balance at 1 January 48,161 43,789 10,239 3,473 – – 58,400 47,262 Currency translation adjustments – 438 580 – 14 12 – – – 452 592 Other –8 – 15 – 10 – – – – 18 – 15 Additions 3,838 4,197 10,846 6,754 – – 14,684 10,951 Disposals 521 225 – – – – 521 225 Reclassifications – – – – – – – – Reclassification to assets held for sale – – 165 – – – – – – 165 Balance at 31 December 51,032 48,161 21,061 10,239 – – 72,093 58,400 Carrying amount at 31 December 10,676 10,118 82,849 92,780 8,550 8,543 102,075 111,441 110 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS As in the previous year, we did not capitalise any development costs in the year under review because not all of the comprehensive recognition criteria defined in IAS 38 were met. The “Concessions, industrial property and similar rights and assets, as well as licences in such rights and assets” item includes € 9.3 million (previous year: € 8.6 million) of software including software licences valid for a limited period. There are no restrictions on ownership or use. The carrying amounts of the cash-generating units in connection with the impairment testing of goodwill do not contain any items relating to taxes or financing activities. To determine the discount rate, the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) method is applied in conjunction with the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), taking into account a peer group. Under this method, first the cost of equity is determined using CAPM and the borrowing costs are defined, and then the individual capital components are weighted in accordance with the capital structure taking account of the peer group. The interest rate for risk-free 30-year Bunds was used as a base rate. This rate was 1.5 % in the year under review (previous year: 2.1 %). The market risk premium was set at 5.75 %, which was unchanged on the previous year, with a beta factor of 1.03 (previous year: 1.06). In addition, country-specific tax rates and country risk premiums are taken into account individually for each cash-generating unit (CGU). We applied growth rates of between 0.75 % and 1.25 % (previous year: between 0.50 % and 1.25 %). D ISC OU NT R AT ES Before taxes in % (value in use) 2015 2014 Companies in Germany 9.6 – 9.8 10.7 – 11.0 Companies in the Netherlands 9.3 10.2 Companies in Italy 13.7 – 14.3 14.8 – 15.7 Companies in the USA 10.4 11.8 Companies in South Africa 13.8 14.2 Companies in the rest of Europe 8.9 – 15.4 9.8 – 15.2 After taxes in % (fair value less costs to sell) 2015 2014 Companies in South Korea 8.3 9.1 M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 111 No te s GOODW ILL Name of CGU / (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 KSB Seil Co., Ltd., South Korea 27,188 26,285 DP industries B.V., the Netherlands 18,285 18,285 Société de travaux et Ingénierie Industrielle ( ST II ), France 5,689 5,689 REEL s.r.l., Italy 5,526 9,681 KSB SERVICE MEDIATEC S.A.S. , France – 3,179 Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH, Germany 3,150 3,150 Uder Elektromechanik GmbH, Germany 2,980 2,980 KSB Service Centre-Est S.A.S. , France – 2,609 KSB Finland Oy, Finland 2,468 1,764 KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., South Africa 1,755 2,120 KSB SERVICE ETC S.A.S. , France 1,412 1,412 68,453 77,154 Other 17 (previous year: 21) companies 14,396 15,626 Total 82,849 92,780 The impairment test performed annually resulted in goodwill impairments for the cashgenerating units listed below: IMPA IR MENT LOSS ON GOODWILL Recoverable amount Impairment loss Name of CGU Segment Discount factor (€ thousands) (€ thousands) REEL s.r.l., Italy Pumps 13.9 % 8,367 4,155 KSB SERVICE MEDIATEC S.A.S. , France Service 13.4 % 1,058 3,179 KSB Service Centre-Est S.A.S. , France Service 11.7 % 1,425 2,609 KSB Service Est S.A.S. , France Service 12.1 % 2,546 903 Total 31 Dec. 2015 10,846 KSB Service Est S.A.S. , France Service 13.2 % 4,410 647 KSB Italia S.p.A., Italy Pumps 15.7 % 23,452 3,710 KSB Service EITB SITELEC S.A.S. , France Service 10.5 % 2,566 1,944 Metis Levage S.A.S. , France Service 13.3 % 488 453 Total 31 Dec. 2014 6,754 The recognised impairments were due to continuing economic difficulties and were reported in the income statement under the “Impairment losses on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment” item. 112 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS D ETA ILED INFOR MAT IO N ON K EY GOODWILL ITEMS Carrying amount of Percentage Method for assessing Cash-generating goodwill of total Growth Underlying assumptions, the value of the unit Method (€ million) goodwill Discount rate rate corporate planning ­u nderlying assumption KSB Seil Co., Ltd. Fair value less 27.2 33 % 8.3 % 1.00 Improved business Consideration of macro-­ costs to sell after taxes cycle expectations in economic key data and (costs to sell shipbuilding (liquefied external market research of € 250 thougas tankers) resulting sand) in improved market growth rates Little change in exchange rates DP industries B.V. Value in Use 18.3 22 % 9.3 % 1.25 Greater customer focus Consideration of macrobefore Moderate to significant economic key data and taxes market growth rates internal estimates of the relevant purchasing and sales departments REEL s.r.l. Value in Use 5.5 7% 13.9 % 0.75 Greater customer focus Consideration of external before Improved energy market data and macro-­ taxes ­e fficiency, resulting in economic environment more attractive market growth rates For the annual impairment test, the following assumptions on order intake figures, sales revenue and operating result are made for goodwill considered material: Cash-generating unit Order intake Sales revenue EBIT Planning time horizon KSB Seil Co., Ltd. Strong growth, Strong growth, Strong growth, 7 years on average on average on average, as a result of sales revenue and cost planning DP industries B.V. Significant growth, Significant growth, Moderate growth, 5 years on average on average on average, as a result of sales revenue and cost planning REEL s.r.l. Strong growth, Strong growth, Strong growth, 5 years on average on average on average, as a result of sales revenue and cost planning M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 113 No te s The business performance of KSB Seil Co., Ltd. is closely linked to the economic development of the long-cycle shipbuilding industry. This is also documented in the market development studies from external sources we used, which contain forecasts for the next seven years. Correspondingly, we have selected a monitoring period of seven years instead of our commonly used five-year period for impairment testing of this cash-generating unit. For the purposes of calculating the fair value less costs to sell of the South Korean KSB Seil Co., Ltd., the input factors used for the discounted cash flow method are largely based on observ­ able market data (base interest rate) or freely accessible information (for example sovereign risk classification, tax rates, procurement prices, sales prices, market studies). As well as impairment testing, sensitivity analyses are conducted for each cash-generating unit. A 5 % increase in the relevant discount rate or a 0.25 percentage point lower growth rate would require further write-downs of € 0.5 million or € 0.1 million respectively at REEL s.r.l. (Italy). Moreover, the sensitivity analysis regarding the impact of a 10 % fall in sales revenue, with a corresponding reduction in EBIT, would have shown the need for a further write-down of € 3.8 million at REEL s.r.l., Italy. As in the previous year, we did not recognise any impairment losses on other intangible assets in the reporting year. 114 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS 2 Property, plant and equipment STAT EMENT OF C H A NG ES IN P ROP ERTY, P LANT AND EQUIP MENT Other equipment, Advance payments Property, plant Plant and operating and and assets under and equipment (€ thousands) Land and buildings machinery office equipment construction Total Historical cost 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Balance at 1 January 332,531 313,360 528,014 494,511 205,681 193,236 34,359 8,992 1,100,585 1,010,099 Changes in consolidated Group – 104 – – 70 67 – 35 146 – 2 – 209 215 Currency translation adjustments 815 8,384 3,601 13,582 – 163 4,645 2,523 1,620 6,776 28,231 Other – – 826 60 –6 – 20 149 – – 33 40 – 716 Additions 7,717 9,436 19,939 19,196 19,170 16,880 27,669 32,157 74,495 77,669 Addition from business c­ ombination 134 – 78 – – 48 – – 212 48 Disposals 12 348 5,242 3,943 13,519 9,515 41 1,079 18,814 14,885 Reclassifications 3,514 2,525 5,496 4,607 1,709 161 – 10,719 – 7,300 – –7 Reclassification to assets held for sale – 122 – – 668 – – 73 – 69 – – – 863 – 69 Balance at 31 December 344,473 332,531 551,208 528,014 212,750 205,681 53,791 34,359 1,162,222 1,100,585 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Balance at 1 January 136,542 125,694 345,201 311,939 143,034 129,605 – – 624,777 567,238 Currency translation adjustments 1,571 3,112 2,876 8,064 – 454 3,116 – – 3,993 14,292 Other – – 18 20 – 81 – 13 202 – – 7 103 Additions 8,542 7,797 30,298 28,389 19,321 19,067 – – 58,161 55,253 Disposals – 43 4,831 3,430 13,035 8,603 – – 17,866 12,076 Reclassifications – – – 479 320 479 – 320 – – – – Reclassification to assets held for sale – 89 – – 531 – – 61 – 33 – – – 681 – 33 Balance at 31 December 146,566 136,542 372,554 345,201 149,271 143,034 – – 668,391 624,777 Carrying amount at 31 December 197,907 195,989 178,654 182,813 63,479 62,647 53,791 34,359 493,831 475,808 Assets resulting from finance leases are recognised as fixed assets in accordance with IAS 17, and corresponding financial liabilities are recognised. The carrying amount of these capitalised assets amounts to € 2,277 thousand (previous year: € 2,644 thousand), of which € 1,260 thousand (previous year: € 1,347 thousand) relate to land and buildings, € 113 thousand (previous year: € 133 thousand) to plant and machinery and € 904 thousand (previous year: € 1,164 thousand) to other equipment, operating and office equipment. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 115 No te s In 2013 it was decided to close down a relatively small production site forming part of the Valves segment in Germany. The real estate there was planned to be sold off in 2014 and, for this reason, it was reported pursuant to IFRS 5 in a separate balance sheet item within current assets (assets held for sale). Due to insufficient market liquidity, a sale was not possible until September 2015 despite various sales activities. The carrying amount was € 1,185 thousand. The KSB Group gave up control of a German subsidiary (Service segment) in February 2015 through the sale of shares. Accordingly, the assets and liabilities of this subsidiary were presented as a disposal group held for sale as at 31 December 2014. No write-down needed to be carried out on the disposal group as the fair value less costs to sell was not below the carrying amount. Also, no accumulated income and expenses arising in connection with the disposal group were included in other comprehensive income. Within the scope of our “Streamlining the Group structure” project, we identified a subsidiary in the Service segment whose business operations we sold in February 2016. In accordance with IFRS 5, we therefore treat the relevant assets and liabilities as a disposal group held for sale as at 31 December 2015. No write-down needed to be carried out on the disposal group as the fair value less costs to sell was not below the carrying amount. Also, no accumulated income and expenses arising in connection with the disposal group are included in other comprehensive income. The held-for-sale assets and liabilities are classified as follows: (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 Property, plant and equipment 182 36 Inventories 199 429 Receivables and other current assets 423 420 Cash and cash equivalents 130 164 Assets held for sale 934 1,049 (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 Provisions 105 63 Liabilities 193 146 Liabilities held for sale 298 209 116 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS As in the previous year, no property, plant and equipment have been pledged as security for bank loans and other liabilities on the basis of standard terms and conditions. Information on the purchase obligation is provided in Section IX. Other Disclosures of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Disposals of intangible assets and items of property, plant and equipment resulted in book gains of € 2,769 thousand (previous year: € 3,646 thousand) and book losses of € 3,258 thousand (previous year: € 578 thousand). The book gains and losses are reported in the income statement under other income and other expenses. As in the previous year, we did not recognise any impairment losses on property, plant and equipment. 3 Non-current financial assets (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 Other investments 5,074 3,941 Non-current financial instruments 668 661 Loans 2,219 2,718 7,961 7,320 Other investments are investments in non-consolidated affiliates that were not consolidated due to there being no material impact. As in the previous year, none of the loans are loans to equity investments. 4 Investments accounted for using the equity method The following table lists the KSB Group’s material joint ventures. “Seat” refers to the country in which the main activity is performed. All joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method and can also be found in the list of shareholdings in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The share of capital corresponds to the share of voting rights. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 117 No te s MAT ER IA L JOINT VENT URES Name and seat Capital share Nature of the entity’s relationship KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., 50.00 % KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, offers a wide range of Saudi Arabia services and activities for the energy market as well as in water, waste water and building services applications. The portfolio includes business development and marketing, supply chain management, production of pressure booster systems and pump sets, sale of pumps, valves and systems and technical service activities. KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. is important for the growth of the Group in the Saudi Arabian market. Shanghai Electric-KSB 45.00 % Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. in ShangNuclear Pumps and Valves hai, China, produces suitable auxiliary pumps for the secondary coolCo., Ltd., China ant circuits and modern reactor coolant pumps for the primary cooling circuits of nuclear power stations. Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. is a strategic partnership on the part of the Group, through which KSB is participating in the expansion of energy capacity in China and other Asian markets. Neither of the above two joint ventures is listed on a stock market and there is therefore no available active market value. Summarised financial information on these material joint ventures of the KSB Group is provided below. SU MMA R ISED BA LA NC E SHEET Shanghai ElectricKSB Nuclear KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 Non-current assets 3,687 2,824 96,312 92,273 Current assets 38,835 31,805 74,975 50,354 of which cash and cash equivalents 1,149 353 6,771 3,065 Non-current liabilities – 1,976 – 736 – 11,451 – 45,013 of which non-current financial ­liabilities (excluding trade payables and ­p rovisions) – 942 – – – 40,693 Current liabilities – 20,185 – 20,278 – 121,574 – 60,583 of which current financial liabilities (excluding trade payables and ­p rovisions) – 4,439 – 5,905 – 18,867 – 7,914 Net assets 20,361 13,615 38,262 37,031 118 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS SU MMA R ISED STAT EMENT OF COMP REHENSIV E INCOME Shanghai ElectricKSB Nuclear KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. (€ thousands) 2015 2014 2015 2014 Sales revenue 45,896 39,460 51,856 33,998 Depreciation / amortisation 299 127 3,145 9,519 Interest income 1 3 15 12 Interest expense – 159 – 80 – 3,084 – 1,722 Earnings from continuing operations 7,967 4,378 238 186 Taxes on income – 575 – 1,998 – 1,513 – 70 Earnings after taxes from ­c ontinuing operations 7,392 2,380 – 1,276 116 Earnings after taxes from discontinued operations – – – – Other comprehensive income 1,760 1,611 2,507 3,605 Comprehensive income 9,152 3,991 1,231 3,721 Dividends received from joint ­v entures 1,203 257 – – R EC ONC ILIAT ION TO CARRYING AMOUNT OF GROUP SHARE IN JOINT V ENTURES Shanghai ElectricKSB Nuclear KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. (€ thousands) 2015 2014 2015 2014 Net carrying amount at 1 January 13,615 10,137 37,031 33,310 Earnings after income taxes 7,392 2,380 – 1,276 116 Distribution of dividends – 2,406 – 513 – – Other comprehensive income 1,760 1,611 2,507 3,605 Net carrying amount at 31 December 20,361 13,615 38,262 37,031 Investment in joint venture (50 % / 45 %) 10,181 6,807 17,218 16,664 Elimination of intercompany profit and loss – – – 2,420 – 1,891 Goodwill – – – – Carrying amount at 31 December 10,181 6,807 14,798 14,773 M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 119 No te s SU MMA R ISED INFOR MATION ON JOINT V ENTURES THAT ARE IMMATERIAL INDIV IDUALLY Joint ventures Associates Total Joint ventures Associates Total (€ thousands) 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 Group share of earnings from continuing operations 679 525 1,204 132 547 679 Group share of other comprehensive income 305 – 305 290 – 290 Group share of comprehensive income 984 525 1,509 422 547 969 Total carrying amounts of Group shares in these companies 3,148 1,108 4,256 5,087 1,334 6,421 On 8 September 2014 the KSB Group acquired 66 % of the shares and voting rights in the Norwegian company WM Teknikk AS, Ski. This meant that the Group’s share of equity rose from 34 % to 100 %, as a result of which the Group gained control of the company. As of this date, WM Teknikk AS has been a fully consolidated subsidiary. Correspondingly, the above table only shows the figures for the period from 1 January to 7 September 2014. As in the previous year, there are no pro rata losses that have not been recognised from the consolidation at equity. 5 Inventories (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 Raw materials, consumables and supplies 163,123 161,789 Work in progress 163,716 149,056 Finished goods and goods purchased and held for resale 115,027 115,961 Advance payments 12,545 23,020 454,411 449,826 € 61,508 thousand (previous year: € 67,990 thousand) of the inventories is carried at net realisable value. The impairment losses recognised as an expense in the reporting period amount to € 7,125 thousand (previous year: € 2,601 thousand). Due to new estimates, we reversed write-downs totalling € 1,905 thousand (previous year: € 4,295 thousand) where the current net realisable value was higher than the prior-period value. Inventories amounting to € 968,817 thousand (previous year: € 875,366 thousand) were recognised as an expense in the reporting period. 120 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS 6 Trade receivables and PoC as well as other financial and non-financial assets (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014* Trade receivables and PoC 663,740 614,201 Trade receivables 524,610 496,018 Trade receivables from other investments, associates and joint ventures 36,193 30,459 thereof from other investments 8,316 6,820 thereof from associates 330 272 thereof from joint ventures 27,547 23,367 Receivables recognised by PoC 102,937 87,724 Receivables recognised by PoC (excl. advances received from customers PoC) 185,605 166,527 Advances received from customers (PoC) – 82,668 – 78,803 Other financial assets 156,169 190,160* Receivables from loans to other investments, associates and joint ventures 3,189 2,542 Currency forwards 1,978 2,369 Other receivables and other current assets 151,002 185,249* Other non-financial assets 25,200 33,509 Other tax assets 18,210 27,013 Deferred income 6,990 6,496 * A djustment due to the reclassification of cash and cash equivalents with a maturity of more than three months to other financial assets in the amount of € 154,121 thousand Impairment losses on trade receivables amount to € 35,560 thousand (previous year: € 35,905 thousand) and on trade receivables from other investments to € 3,644 thousand (previous year: € 3,181 thousand). No impairment losses were recognised on receivables from joint ventures, like in the previous year, and on receivables from associates (previous year: € 341 thousand). Construction contracts under IAS 11 include recognised earnings of € 44,920 thousand (previous year: € 38,253 thousand) and costs of € 140,685 thousand (previous year: € 128,274 thousand). Sales revenue in accordance with IAS 11 amounts to € 498,435 thousand (previous year: € 561,940 thousand). Other receivables and other current assets include hedges of credit balances prescribed by law for partial retirement arrangements and long-term working time accounts of the German Group companies in the amount of € 15,501 thousand (previous year: € 15,268 thousand). € 31,950 thousand (previous year: € 38,592 thousand) of all receivables and other assets is due after more than one year. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 121 No te s 7 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are term deposits with short maturities and call deposits, and also current account balances. With regard to the adjustment of the previous year’s figures, reference is made to the previous explanations on “Adjustments under IAS 8”. 8 Equity There was no change in the share capital of KSB AG as against the previous year. In accordance with the Articles of Association, it totals € 44,771,963.82 and, as in the previous year, is composed of 886,615 ordinary shares and 864,712 preference shares. Each no-par-value share represents an equal notional amount of the share capital. The preference shares carry separate cumulative preferred dividend rights and progressive additional dividend rights. All shares are no-par-value bearer shares. The individual shares have no par value. The capital reserve results from the appropriation of premiums from capital increases in previous years. In addition to revenue reserves from previous years, the revenue reserves include currency translation adjustments, consolidation effects, remeasurements of defined benefit plans under IAS 19 and changes in the market value of interest rate derivatives taken directly to equity. These effects resulted in deferred tax assets in the amount of € 61,762 thousand (previous year, adjusted: € 68,238 thousand) and no deferred tax liabilities (previous year: € 448 thousand). A total of € 15,111 thousand (dividend of € 8.50 per ordinary share and € 8.76 per preference share) was paid from equity by resolution of the Annual General Meeting of the Group’s parent company KSB AG, Frankenthal, on 6 May 2015. Non-controlling interests relate primarily to the interests held by PAB GmbH, Frankenthal, as well as to our companies in India and China. KSB AG holds a 51 % interest in PAB GmbH, while Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal, holds a 49 % interest. Details of the changes in equity accounts and non-controlling interests are presented in the Statement of Changes in Equity. The proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings of KSB AG calculated in accordance with HGB is shown at the end of these Notes. Capital disclosures Sufficient financial independence is a key requirement for safeguarding KSB’s continued existence in the long term. Obtaining the necessary funds for ongoing business operations is also extremely important for us. A key management parameter for us is the net financial position, which is the balance of financial liabilities and interest-bearing financial assets (current and non-current financial instruments, interest-bearing loans, cash and cash equivalents, and receiv­ ables from cash deposits). Our long-term objective is to avoid net debt. We regularly monitor 122 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS the development of this key performance indicator and manage it through active working capital management and by constantly optimising our financial structure, among other things. In the ­financial year we exceeded our original target of € 180 – 190 million and achieved € 211.3 million, based on successes in working capital management and a focused investment policy. In the pre­ vious year, owing to the fall in earnings accompanied by a sharp increase in investment volume, the development of the net financial position, at € 185.5 million, was somewhat weaker than planned twelve months earlier (€ 200 million). 9 Provisions The provisions disclosed in the balance sheet under current and non-current liabilities can be broken down as follows: 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 Changes (€ thousands) Total Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Employee benefits 614,869 541,256 73,613 614,829 1, 2 539,438 1 75,391 2 Pensions and similar obligations 526,033 526,033 – 524,569 1 524,569 1 – Other employee benefits 88,836 15,223 73,613 90,260 2 14,869 75,391 2 Other provisions 100,829 1,379 99,450 97,796 3 1,133 4 96,663 3, 4 Warranty obligations and contractual ­p enalties 52,234 – 52,234 45,360 –4 45,360 4 Provisions for restructuring 3,372 – 3,372 7,893 – 7,893 Miscellaneous other provisions 45,223 1,379 43,844 44,543 3 1,133 43,410 3 715,698 542,635 173,063 712,625 1, 2, 3 540,571 1, 4 172,054 2, 3, 4 1 C orrection under IAS 8: Measurement of the pension obligations in France and India in the amount of € 9,912 thousand 2 A djustment due to the reclassification of accumulated compensated absence and holiday pay entitlements of € 23,201 thousand to other non-financial liabilities (liabilities relating to social security and liabilities to employees) and correction of the measurement of the pension obligations in India in the amount of € 468 thousand 3 A djustment due to the reclassification of income tax liabilities to current income tax liabilities in the amount of € 3,304 thousand and the reclassification of other tax liabilities to miscellaneous other provisions in the amount of € 854 thousand 4 A djustment due to the reclassification of warranty obligations and contractual penalties from non-current to current provisions in the amount of € 15,121 thousand M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 123 No te s Individual categories of provisions developed as follows in the 2015 financial year: Changes in c­ onsolidated Group / CTA* / Utilisation / Changes (€ thousands) 1 Jan. 2015 Other Prepayments Reversal Additions 31 Dec. 2015 Employee benefits 614,829 1, 2 545 – 81,992 – 22,560 104,047 614,869 Pensions and similar obligations 524,569 1 3,540 – 17,036 – 20,073 35,033 526,033 Other employee benefits 90,260 2 – 2,995 – 64,956 – 2,487 69,014 88,836 Other provisions 97,796 3 381 – 53,719 – 10,283 66,654 100,829 Warranty obligations and contractual ­p enalties 45,360 666 – 24,946 – 3,692 34,846 52,234 Provisions for restructuring 7,893 125 – 1,415 – 3,311 80 3,372 Miscellaneous other provisions 44,543 3 – 410 – 27,358 – 3,280 31,728 45,223 712,625 1, 2, 3 926 – 135,711 – 32,843 170,701 715,698 1 C orrection under IAS 8: Measurement of the pension obligations in France and India in the amount of € 9,912 thousand 2 A djustment due to the reclassification of accumulated compensated absence and holiday pay entitlements of € 23,201 thousand to other non-financial liabilities (liabilities relating to social security and liabilities to employees) and correction of the measurement of the pension obligations in India in the amount of € 468 thousand 3 A djustment due to the reclassification of income tax liabilities to current income tax liabilities in the amount of € 3,304 thousand and the reclassification of other tax liabilities to miscellaneous other provisions in the amount of € 854 thousand 4 A djustment due to the reclassification of warranty obligations and contractual penalties from non-current to current provisions in the amount of € 15,121 thousand * CTA = Currency translation adjustments Provisions for pensions and similar obligations The pension obligations in the KSB Group include defined contribution and defined benefit plans and contain both obligations from current pensions and future pension benefit entitlements. For employees of Group companies in Germany there is a defined contribution plan under the German statutory pension insurance scheme into which the employer must pay the currently valid pension contribution rate. Contributions to state pension insurance funds recognised in the income statement totalled € 25,866 thousand (previous year: € 26,383 thousand). € 8,546 thousand (previous year: € 7,512 thousand) was spent on defined contribution schemes for employees in other countries in the year under review. The obligations for defined benefit pension plans for employees of the Group are mainly due to pension obligations in Germany, as well as in France, India, Austria, the United States and Switzerland. More than 90 % of the defined benefit pension plans are attributable to the German Group companies. These relate to direct commitments by the companies to their employees. The commitments are based on salary and length of service. Contributions from employees themselves 124 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS are also considered. This pension provision can be broken down into purely company-financed basic provision and the top-up provision from the employer. The latter is based on the amount of own contributions and the generated return on sales before taxes on income. Both components take account of the general pension contribution (the amount of which partially depends on company performance), personal income (the relationship between pensionable income and maximum income threshold) and the annuity conversion factor (based on age). Pension ­benefits are paid in annual instalments of one tenth of the amount. However, under certain conditions it is also possible to make a capital payment or pay a monthly pension instead. Pension schemes in France are governed by the provisions of the respective collective agreements. The obligations are basically covered by assets that have been paid in to an external fund. At the beginning of the final quarter of each year, an actuarial report is prepared to calculate the current obligation. If there is a shortfall, a compensation payment is made to the fund. Differences in the calculation parameters under local and international law ultimately result in a surplus of obligations in the Group. Upon retirement, the employees concerned receive a one-off payment from the fund. The defined benefit plans in the Indian companies of the KSB Group encompass benefits for pensions and for severance payments. The obligations from pension plans are limited to heads of department and higher-level employees. A further prerequisite for participation in the scheme is that employees must have been with the company for at least ten years. A stipulated monthly payment is made during retirement based on the level of seniority reached and the number of years served with the company. The severance payment plans are statutory in character and cover all employees. Entitlement to payment is based on employees having been with the company for at least five years. Upon leaving the company, employees receive a oneoff payment comprising a certain number of days’ salary per year of employment, depending on the level of seniority and length of service. In Austria pension commitments to employees are paid on the basis of statutory regulations. The benefits granted are paid on a monthly basis. The defined benefit pension plans in the United States are closed to new entrants. The pension benefit amount is derived from the average salary and years of service before closure of the plan. The retirement age is 65 years; from this point a monthly payment is made to the beneficiaries. The pension benefits are financed by external funds. Pension obligations in Switzerland are predominantly based on statutory obligations. This also includes details on a minimum pension which all employees with uninterrupted contributions are entitled to by law. The employer is therefore required to pay in contributions which are M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 125 No te s high enough for the respective pension fund or insurance company to pay out these minimum amounts. As well as pension benefits, the plans encompass other benefits such as disability or survivors’ benefits. Both employer and employee contributions are paid to the pension fund, with the company having to make contributions that at least match the employee contributions specified in the terms and conditions of the plan. The retirement benefits are paid out in monthly instalments, but all employees have the option to receive a (partial) capital payment. In addition, employees in other countries are also entitled to a limited extent to retirement and partly to medical care benefits, depending mainly on the length of service and salary. These defined benefit plans impose actuarial risks on the Group, such as the longevity risk and interest rate risk. The payments linked to pension obligations are paid largely from our liquid assets. Plan assets are also partially available for financing these obligations. The actuarial valuations of the plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation (and the related current service cost and the past service cost) are measured and calculated ­annually on the basis of actuarial reports using the projected unit credit method (IAS 19). The 2014 figures presented in this section have been adjusted in line with the correction to the obligations in France and India, where relevant. The amounts disclosed in the balance sheet for defined benefit plans are as follows: Defined benefit Net liability Defined benefit Net liability obligations Fair value of from defined obligations Fair value of from defined (DBOs) plan assets benefit plans (DBOs) plan assets benefit plans (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2014 Germany 502,739 – 502,739 503,349 – 503,349 France 13,098 6,918 6,180 13,986 6,527 7,459 India 7,979 5,411 2,568 7,063 4,306 2,757 Austria 2,834 – 2,834 3,057 – 3,057 USA 15,168 11,293 3,875 13,633 10,582 3,051 Switzerland 17,439 15,740 1,699 14,776 12,792 1,984 Other countries 30,120 23,982 6,138 26,631 23,719 2,912 Balance sheet values 589,377 63,344 526,033 582,495 57,926 524,569 126 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: (€ thousands) 2015 2014 Opening balance of the defined benefit obligation ( DBO ) – 1 Jan. 582,495 457,817 Current service cost 16,504 13,524 Interest cost 13,874 16,383 Employee contributions 6,574 5,421 Remeasurements – / + Gain / loss from the change in demographic assumptions 587 405 – / + Gain / loss from the change in financial assumptions – 16,260 109,434 – / + Experience-based gain / loss – 2,804 – 6,934 Benefit payments – 18,231 – 17,179 Past service cost (incl. effects of settlements and curtailments) – 1,343 – 42 Transfer of assets 397 – Currency translation adjustments 3,754 3,684 Changes in consolidated Group / Other 3,830 – 18 Closing balance of the defined benefit obligation ( DBO ) – 31 Dec. 589,377 582,495 The current and past service cost is recognised in staff costs under pension costs, and the interest cost is recognised in financial income / expense under interest and similar expenses. The expected contributions in the following year are anticipated to amount to € 19,820 thousand (previous year: € 18,386 thousand). The changes in the fair values of the plan assets are as follows: (€ thousands) 2015 2014 Opening balance of the plan assets measured at fair value – 1 Jan. 57,926 52,885 Interest income 2,297 2,375 Remeasurements + / – Gain / loss from plan assets excluding amounts already recognised in interest income – 390 1,075 Contributions by the employer 2,485 2,362 Contributions by the beneficiary employees 871 405 Currency translation adjustments 2,945 2,945 Changes in consolidated Group – – Paid benefits – 3,259 – 3,623 Other 469 – 498 Closing balance of the plan assets measured at fair value – 31 Dec. 63,344 57,926 M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 127 No te s Interest income is recognised in financial income net of the DBO interest expense under interest and similar expenses. The changes in the net liability from defined benefit plans are as follows: (€ thousands) 2015 2014 Opening balance of the net liability from defined benefit plans – 1 Jan. 524,569 404,932 Current service cost 16,504 13,524 Interest income – 2,297 – 2,375 Interest cost 13,874 16,383 Employee contributions 5,703 5,016 Contributions by the employer – 2,485 – 2,362 Contributions by the beneficiary employees – 871 – 405 Remeasurements – / + Gain / loss from plan assets excluding amounts already recognised in interest income 390 – 1,075 – / + Gain / loss from the change in demographic assumptions 587 405 – / + Gain / loss from the change in financial assumptions – 16,260 109,434 – / + Experience-based gain / loss – 2,804 – 6,934 Benefit payments – 14,972 – 13,556 Past service cost (incl. effects of settlements and curtailments) – 1,343 – 42 Transfer of assets 397 – Currency translation adjustments 809 739 Changes in consolidated Group / Other 3,361 480 Closing balance of the net liability from defined benefit plans – 31 Dec. 526,033 524,569 Composition of plan assets: No quoted No quoted Quoted market ­m arket price Quoted market ­m arket price price in an in an active price in an in an active active market market Total active market market Total (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2014 Equity instruments (shares) 20,769 – 20,769 17,043 – 17,043 Debt instruments (loans) 21,825 – 21,825 16,080 – 16,080 Government bonds 8,338 – 8,338 6,259 – 6,259 Corporate bonds 13,487 – 13,487 9,821 – 9,821 Money market investments 338 – 338 7,526 – 7,526 Real estate 843 – 843 670 – 670 Insurance contracts – 16,409 16,409 – 13,405 13,405 Bank credit balances 2,253 – 2,253 2,731 – 2,731 Other investments 551 356 907 150 321 471 Total 46,579 16,765 63,344 44,200 13,726 57,926 128 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS We allocate to the pension funds the amount of money needed to meet statutory minimum ­requirements. The actual income from plan assets amounted to € 1,907 thousand (previous year: € 3,450 thousand). To calculate the pension obligation and the related plan assets, the following key actuarial ­assumptions were made: Discount rate Assumed rate of salary increase Assumed rate of pension increase in % 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 Germany 2.3 2.2 2.7 2.7 1.9 2.0 France 2.0 1.5 3.0 3.0 – – India 8.0 8.0 7.5 7.5 1.0 1.0 Austria 2.0 2.0 2.5 2.5 1.0 1.0 USA 4.1 3.6 2.3 2.3 2.3 2.3 Switzerland 0.7 0.9 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 Other countries 0.9 – 9.7 1.3 – 9.0 1.0 – 11.0 1.0 – 8.0 1.0 – 3.0 1.0 – 3.0 A mean fluctuation rate (2.0 %) continues to be applied to staff turnover for the German plans. The biometric assumptions continue to be based on the 2005G mortality tables published by Prof. Klaus Heubeck, and the retirement age used for the calculations is based on the Rentenversicherungs-Altersgrenzenanpassungsgesetz 2007 [RVAGAnpG – German Act Adapting the Standard Retirement Age for the Statutory Pension Insurance System]. Other measurement parameters (e. g. cost trends in the medical care area) are not material. The discount rate and future mortality were identified as key actuarial assumptions. As in the previous year the basis for the calculation of the sensitivities is the same method which was used for the calculation of the provisions for pensions and similar obligations. Were the discount factor to increase by 100 basis points, the DBO would fall by € 95 million (previous year: € 97 million). A 100 basis point reduction in the discount factor would increase the DBO by € 126 million (previous year: € 130 million). It should be noted that a change to the discount factor due to particular financial effects (such as compound interest) does not ­affect the development of the DBO on a straight-line basis. Were life expectancy to increase by 1 year, the DBO would increase by € 22 million (previous year: € 24 million). Additionally, the individual actuarial assumptions are mutually dependent, but these interdependencies are not taken into account in the sensitivity analysis. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 129 No te s On 31 December 2015 the weighted average term of the DBO was 22 years (previous year: 20 years). The following table shows the pension benefit payments expected over the coming years. € millions at 31 Dec. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Expected payments 20,417 22,284 21,314 21,105 21,151 € millions at 31 Dec. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Expected payments 14,442 15,516 16,546 17,836 18,765 Other employee benefits Provisions for other employee benefits relate primarily to profit-sharing, jubilee payments, partial retirement obligations and severance payments. Other provisions The provisions for warranty obligations and contractual penalties cover the statutory and contractual obligations to customers and are based on estimates prepared using historical data for similar products and services. The provisions for restructuring recognised in the previous year relate to measures designed to improve earnings in Germany. They include costs for the closure of a production site in Saarland and the reduction of our foundry activities at the Pegnitz site. The miscellaneous other provisions include provisions for anticipated losses from uncompleted transactions and onerous contracts (€ 1,298 thousand for 2015 and € 1,179 thousand for 2014), customer bonuses and environmental protection measures. They also cover risks of litigation and legal proceedings if the recognition criteria for a provision are met (€ 11.1 million; previous year: € 6.7 million). These are usually risks arising from legal disputes in relation to operations or, in rare cases, disputes with government agencies or personnel matters. In order to determine the amount of the provisions, the facts related to each case, the size of the claim, the results of comparable proceedings and independent legal opinions are considered in individual cases along with assumptions regarding the probability of occurrence and the range of potential claims. In addition, there are contingent liabilities resulting from legal disputes in relation to operations in the amount of € 73.6 million (previous year: € 42.9 million). Appropriate insurance policies in the amount of € 11.0 million (previous year: € 13.4 million) are in place to cover claims. € 18,790 thousand (previous year: € 16,253 thousand) of the other provisions are expected to become cash-effective after more than one year. 130 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS 10 Liabilities NON-C U R R ENT LIA B ILITIES (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 Financial liabilities 133,504 159,427 Loan against borrower’s note 122,371 139,766 Bank loans and overdrafts 10,069 18,203 Finance lease liabilities 954 1,185 Other 110 273 C U R R ENT LIA B ILIT IES (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 Financial liabilities 44,316 93,524 Loan against borrower’s note – 35,000 Bank loans and overdrafts 42,739 56,774 Finance lease liabilities 436 525 Liabilities to other investments, associates and joint ventures 1,131 1,215 Other 10 10 Trade payables 238,848 211,723 Trade payables to third parties 236,879 209,808 Liabilities to other investments, associates and joint ventures 1,969 1,915 Other financial liabilities 85,911 100,429 1, 2 Advances received from customers (PoC) 49,418 46,980 Currency forwards 6,843 11,488 Interest rate swaps 745 888 Miscellaneous other financial liabilities 28,905 41,073 1, 2 Other non-financial liabilities 179,139 164,936 3 Advances received from customers 87,173 73,902 Social security and liabilities to employees 54,080 51,907 3 Tax liabilities (excluding income taxes) 19,884 20,837 Prepaid expenses 12,744 12,732 Investment grants and subsidies 5,258 5,558 Income tax liabilities 10,082 3,304 4 1 C orrection under IAS 8: Measurement of the pension obligations in India in the amount of € 40 thousand 2 C orrection under IAS 8: Purchase price liability of € 3,328 thousand in Sweden 3 A djustment due to the reclassification of accumulated compensated absence and holiday pay entitlements of € 23,201 thousand to other non-financial liabilities (liabilities relating to social security and liabilities to employees) 4 A djustment due to the reclassification of income tax liabilities to current income tax liabilities in the amount of € 3,304 thousand M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 131 No te s In 2012, to safeguard liquidity in the medium term, KSB AG took the precaution of placing a loan against borrower’s note with a total volume of € 175 million. This loan is divided into repayment tranches of 3, 5, 7 and 10 years. As the different repayment tranches have different terms, different rates of interest apply, some of which are fixed and some variable. In the ­reporting year € 35.0 million was repaid upon maturity and € 17.5 million before maturity. € 102 million (previous year: € 155 million) of the liabilities arising from the loan against borrower’s note are classified as bank loans and overdrafts, and € 20 million as other financial liabilities (unchanged). Assets amounting to € 3,778 thousand (previous year: € 7,804 thousand) have been pledged as security in the KSB Group for bank loans and other liabilities on the basis of standard terms and conditions. Of these, none (as in the previous year) relate to property, plant and equipment, € 180 thousand (previous year: € 3,178 thousand) to inventories, none (as in the previous year) to receivables and € 3,598 thousand (previous year: € 4,626 thousand) to other securities. € 93 thousand (previous year: € 2,117 thousand) of the liabilities were secured by land charges or similar rights in the reporting year under review. The reported investment grants and subsidies largely comprise funding from the European Union and German entities for new buildings and development aid projects. The weighted average interest rate on bank loans and overdrafts as well as on an open-market credit (loan against borrower’s note) was 3.03 % (previous year: 2.84 %). Interest rate risk exists for the major portion of the loan against borrower’s note mentioned above. There were no covenant agreements for loans in the year under review, as was the case in the previous year too. 132 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS V. I NC OM E STATEMENT DISCLOSURES 11 Sales revenue (€ thousands) 2015 2014 Revenue from the sale of goods and goods purchased and held for resale 2,086,660 1,957,445 Services sales revenue 248,171 224,294 2,334,831 2,181,739 The impact of the percentage of completion method pursuant to IAS 11 and the breakdown of sales revenue by segment (Pumps, Valves and Service) is presented in the segment reporting. 12 Other income (€ thousands) 2015 2014 Income from disposal of assets 2,769 3,646 Reversal of impairment losses on receivables 10,032 4,327 Currency translation gains 2,450 2,354 Income from the reversal of provisions 14,222 9,095 Miscellaneous other income 20,479 16,838 49,952 36,260 Miscellaneous other income relates primarily to commission income, rental and lease income, insurance compensation, grants and subsidies. Income from government grants for individual projects (for example, for research activities) amounted to € 2,846 thousand (previous year: € 3,675 thousand). M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 133 No te s 13 Cost of materials (€ thousands) 2015 2014 Cost of raw materials, production supplies and of goods purchased and held for resale 888,152 816,936 Cost of purchased services 91,379 70,442 979,531 887,378 14 Staff costs (€ thousands) 2015 2014* Wages and salaries 661,374 634,145* Social security contributions and employee assistance costs 126,876 122,695 Pension costs 31,000 28,002 819,250 784,842* * Correction under IAS 8: Measurement of the pension obligations in France and India in the amount of € – 629 thousand Pension costs are reduced by the interest component of provisions for pensions and similar obligations, which is reported as an interest cost in financial income / expense. EMPLOY EES Average for the year At reporting date 2015 2014 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 Wage earners 7,512 7,634 7,351 7,536 Salaried employees 8,364 8,329 8,415 8,284 15,876 15,963 15,766 15,820 Apprentices 438 489 430 489 16,314 16,452 16,196 16,309 The acquisition of service operations by KSB SERVICE COTUMER led to an increase of 134 in the average number of employees over the year and of 126 in the total number at the reporting date. 134 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS 15 Other expenses (€ thousands) 2015 2014 Losses from asset disposals 3,258 578 Losses from current assets (primarily impairment losses on receivables) 12,798 10,784 Currency translation losses 2,778 4,292 Other staff costs 28,253 36,584 Repairs, maintenance, third-party services 95,546 85,451 Selling expenses 90,658 84,840 Administrative expenses 94,038 94,048 Rents and leases 28,923 27,858 Miscellaneous other expenses 55,215 48,529 411,467 392,964 Miscellaneous other expenses relate primarily to warranties, contractual penalties and additions to provisions. 16 Financial income / expense (€ thousands) 2015 2014 Financial income 7,682 6,497 Income from equity investments – 14 thereof from other investments (–) (14) Interest and similar income 7,635 6,434 thereof from other investments (76) (60) thereof from investments accounted for using the equity method (12) (15) Other financial income 47 49 Financial expense – 22,360 – 24,668 1, 2 Interest and similar expenses – 19,414 – 22,795 1 thereof to other investments (–) (–) Write-downs on other investments –2 – 1,758 Write-downs on investments accounted for using the equity method – 2,700 – Expenses from the remeasurement of financial instruments – 178 – 71 2 Other financial expense – 66 – 44 Income / expense from / to investments accounted for using the equity method 4,373 1,582 Financial income / expense – 10,305 – 16,589 1, 2 1 Correction under IAS 8: Measurement of the pension obligations in France and India in the amount of € – 316 thousand 2 Correction under IAS 8: Purchase price liability of € – 71 thousand in Sweden M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 135 No te s Interest and similar expenses include interest cost on pension provisions amounting to € 11,577 thousand (previous year, adjusted: € 14,008 thousand). The change in the financial income / expense is mainly due to higher income from investments accounted for using the equity m ­ ethod. Write-downs on investments accounted for using the equity method were attributable to a German joint venture that faced ongoing economic difficulties. 17 Taxes on income All income-related taxes of the consolidated companies and deferred taxes are reported in this item. Other taxes are reported in the income statement after other expenses. 2014 after 2014 before adjustment adjustment (€ thousands) 2015 under IAS 8 under IAS 8 Effective taxes 43,538 39,279 39,279 Deferred taxes – 2,316 – 12,752 – 12,863 41,222 26,527 26,416 € 85 thousand (previous year: € 1,556 thousand) of the effective taxes in the year under review related to prior-period tax refunds and € 2,912 thousand (previous year: € 2,104 thousand) to tax arrears. R EC ONC ILIAT ION OF DEFERRED TAX ES 2014 after 2014 before adjustment adjustment (€ thousands) 2015 under IAS 8 under IAS 8 Change in deferred tax assets 2,493 – 47,220 – 47,026 Change in deferred tax liabilities 1,015 – 1,263 – 441 Change in deferred taxes recognised in balance sheet 3,508 – 48,483 – 47,467 Change in deferred taxes taken directly to equity – 5,983 34,857 33,730 Changes in consolidated Group / CTA * / Other 159 874 874 Deferred taxes recognised in income statement – 2,316 – 12,752 – 12,863 * CTA = Currency translation adjustments 136 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS A LLOC AT ION OF DEFERRED TAX ES Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities 2014 after 2014 before 2014 after 2014 before adjustment adjustment adjustment adjustment (€ thousands) 2015 under IAS 8 under IAS 8 2015 under IAS 8 under IAS 8 Non-current assets 1,619 2,913 2,913 33,543 34,532 34,532 Intangible assets 1,019 1,977 1,977 484 725 725 Property, plant and equipment 479 845 845 32,932 32,948 32,948 Non-current financial assets 121 91 91 127 859 859 Current assets 59,132 54,330 54,330 54,236 50,848 50,848 Inventories 52,413 47,840 47,840 94 1,144 1,144 Receivables and other current assets 6,719 6,490 6,490 54,142 49,349 49,349 Assets held for sale – – – – 355 355 Non-current liabilities 82,244 86,592 83,623 222 182 182 Provisions 82,055 86,259 83,290 183 112 112 Other liabilities 189 333 333 39 70 70 Current liabilities 17,789 20,596 20,337 8,765 8,623 8,623 Provisions 7,929 9,287 11,112 719 782 782 Other liabilities 9,860 11,309 9,225 8,046 7,841 7,841 Tax loss carryforwards 7,303 4,583 4,583 – – – Gross deferred taxes – before offsetting 168,087 169,014 165,786 96,766 94,185 94,185 Offset under IAS 12.74 – 83,727 – 82,161 – 79,127 – 83,727 – 82,161 – 79,127 Net deferred taxes – after offsetting 84,360 86,853 86,659 13,039 12,024 15,058 As at the reporting date, deferred tax assets (after offsetting) of € 66,867 thousand (previous year: € 11,281 thousand) were recognised, arising from companies posting a loss in the financial year or previous year, whose realisation exclusively depends on the creation of future profit. Based on the planning figures available, we expect realisation to take place. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 137 No te s The taxes included under equity can be broken down as follows: INC OME TA XES INC LU DED UNDER EQUITY 2014 after 2014 before adjustment adjustment (€ thousands) 2015 under IAS 8 under IAS 8 Remeasurement of defined benefit plans 18,087 – 101,841 – 98,568 Taxes on income – 5,454 31,003 29,876 Currency translation differences 1,158 38,834 38,834 Taxes on income – – – Changes in the fair value of financial instruments 3,077 – 11,534 – 11,534 Taxes on income – 529 3,854 3,854 Other comprehensive income 16,339 – 39,684 – 37,538 As in the previous year, the introduction of new local taxes had no effects in the year under review. Changes in foreign tax rates led to a reduction in the total tax expense of € 591 thousand; they had no material impact on the total tax expense in the previous year. As far as net income from affiliates and other equity investments is concerned, withholding taxes incurred in connection with distributions and German taxes incurred are recognised as deferred taxes if these gains are expected to be subject to corresponding taxation, or there is no intention of reinvesting them in the long term. No deferred tax liabilities were recognised for temporary differences of € 7,205 thousand (previous year: € 7,370 thousand) in relation to affiliates and associates as it is unlikely that these temporary differences will be reversed in the foreseeable future. We did not recognise deferred tax assets from loss carryforwards amounting to € 49,641 thousand (previous year: € 43,452 thousand) because it is unlikely that there will be sufficient taxable profit available in the near future against which these deferred tax assets can be utilised. They are largely available for an indefinite period. Deductible temporary differences for which no deferred tax assets had to be set up amounted to € 9,736 thousand (previous year: none). 138 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS R EC ONC ILIAT ION OF IN COME TAX ES 2014 after 2014 before adjustment adjustment (€ thousands) 2015 under IAS 8 under IAS 8 Earnings before income taxes (EBT ) 93,392 72,836 72,594 Calculated income taxes on the basis of the applicable tax rate (30 % as in the previous year) 28,018 21,851 21,778 Differences in tax rates – 331 2,284 2,267 Change in write-downs on deferred taxes on loss carryforwards and unused tax loss carryforwards 2,357 882 882 Tax-exempt income – 4,071 – 4,930 – 4,930 Non-deductible expenses 2,211 2,025 2,025 Impairment loss on goodwill 3,535 2,026 2,026 Prior-period taxes 2,827 548 548 Non-deductible foreign income tax 2,851 2,438 2,438 Investments accounted for using the equity method – 306 371 371 Deferred taxes not recognised 2,181 – – Other 1,950 – 968 – 989 Current taxes on income 41,222 26,527 26,416 Current tax rate 44 % 36 % 36 % The unchanged applicable tax rate of 30 % is a composite rate resulting from the current ­German corporation tax, solidarity surcharge and trade tax rates. 18 Earnings after income taxes – Non-controlling interests The net profit attributable to non-controlling interests amounts to € 13,259 thousand (pre­ vious year, adjusted: € 10,322 thousand) and the net loss attributable to non-controlling interests amounts to € 374 thousand (previous year: € 2,718 thousand). They relate primarily to PAB GmbH, Frankenthal, Germany, and the interests it holds, as well as to our companies in India. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 139 No te s 18 19 Earnings per share 2015 2014* Earnings after income taxes attributable to KSB AG shareholders € thousands 39,285 38,705* Additional dividend attributable to preference shareholders (€ 0.26 per preference share) € thousands – 225 – 225 € thousands 39,060 38,480* Number of ordinary shares 886,615 886,615 Number of preference shares 864,712 864,712 Total number of shares 1,751,327 1,751,327 Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share € 22.30 21.97* Diluted and basic earnings per preference share € 22.56 22.23* * Adjustment under IAS 8 140 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS VI . AD D I TI ONAL D I SCLOSURES ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial instruments – Carrying amounts and fair values by measurement category: A SSET S MeasureCarrying Carrying Balance sheet item / Class ment Initial / subsequent amount Fair value amount Fair value (€ thousands) category measurement 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2014 Non-current assets Other investments n/a Amortised cost 5,074 – 3,941 – Non-current financial instruments AfS Fair value 668 668 661 661 Fair value / Loans LaR Amortised cost 2,219 2,219 2,718 2,718 Current assets Fair value / Trade receivables LaR Amortised cost 524,610 524,610 496,018 496,018 Trade receivables from other investments, Fair value / associates and joint ventures LaR Amortised cost 36,193 36,193 30,459 30,459 Receivables from loans to other investFair value / ments, associates and joint ventures LaR Amortised cost 3,189 3,189 2,542 2,542 Fair value / Receivables recognised by PoC, net LaR Amortised cost 102,937 102,937 87,724 87,724 Currency forwards used as hedges n/a Fair value 1,978 1,978 2,369 2,369 Fair value / Other receivables and other current assets LaR Amortised cost 151,002 151,002 185,249* 185,249* Fair value / Cash and cash equivalents LaR Amortised cost 273,136 273,136 278,552* 278,552* * A djustment due to the reclassification of cash and cash equivalents with a maturity of more than three months to other financial assets in the amount of € 154,121 thousand M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 141 No te s EQU IT Y A ND LIA B ILIT IES MeasureCarrying Carrying Balance sheet item / Class ment Initial / subsequent amount Fair value amount Fair value (€ thousands) category measurement 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 31 Dec. 2014 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding finance Fair value / lease liabilities FLAC Amortised cost 132,550 130,942 158,242 152,460 Finance lease liabilities n/a In accordance with IAS 17 954 982 1,185 1,201 Current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding finance Fair value / lease liabilities FLAC Amortised cost 43,880 43,880 92,999 92,999 Finance lease liabilities n.a. In accordance with IAS 17 436 446 525 538 Fair value / Trade payables FLAC Amortised cost 238,848 238,848 211,723 211,723 Fair value / Advances received from customers (PoC) FLAC Amortised cost 49,418 49,418 46,980 46,980 Interest rate swaps used as hedges n/a Fair value 745 745 888 888 Currency forwards used as hedges n/a Fair value 6,843 6,843 11,488 11,488 Miscellaneous other financial liabilities Fair value / (purchase price liability) FLAC Amortised cost 3,506 3,506 3,328 1 3,328 1 Fair value / Miscellaneous other financial liabilities FLAC Amortised cost 25,399 25,399 37,745 2 37,745 2 Thereof aggregated by category in accordance with IAS 39 Fair value / Loans and receivables LaR Amortised cost 1,093,286 1,093,286 1,083,262 1,083,262 Available-for-sale financial instruments AfS Fair value 668 668 661 661 Financial liabilities Fair value / measured at amortised cost FLAC Amortised cost 493,601 491,993 551,017 1, 2 545,235 1, 2 1 Correction under IAS 8: Purchase price liability of € 3,328 thousand in Sweden 2 Correction under IAS 8: Measurement of the pension obligations in India in the amount of € – 40 thousand The fair value of the “Loans and receivables” measurement category changed by € 10,024 thousand in the reporting period (previous year: € 18,259 thousand), with the “Financial ­liabilities” category at amortised cost changing by € – 53,242 thousand (previous year, adjusted: € 3,809 thousand). 142 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The carrying amount of financial assets measured at amortised cost, with the exception of non-current loans, approximates fair value. This is also the case for all financial liabilities shown on the balance sheet, with the exception of non-current financial liabilities. This is mainly due to the short maturities of these financial instruments. The fair values of non-current financial liabilities are determined as the present value of the cash flows associated with the liabilities. We apply an appropriate yield curve to arrive at this present value. The fair values of the current and non-current financial instruments presented in the table above are based on prices quoted in active markets (level 1). The fair values of currency forwards and interest rate swaps are determined on the basis of input factors observable indirectly (i.e. derived from prices, level 2). Level 3 includes financial instruments whose fair value is determined on the basis of inputs not based on observable market data. Foreign exchange derivatives are measured using forward exchange rates. For interest rate swaps the fair value is determined through the discount rate of future expected cash flows based on the market interest rates and yield curves that apply to the remaining term of the contracts. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 143 No te s The following table shows the financial assets and liabilities, as well as loans and receivables, measured at fair value on a recurring basis, broken down into measurement categories and the previously described hierarchy levels. There were no reclassifications carried out during the year under review. PR ESENTAT ION OF H IER ARCHY LEV ELS 2015 (€ thousands) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets recognised at fair value Current financial instruments 668 – – 668 Currency forwards – 1,978 – 1,978 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Currency forwards – 6,843 – 6,843 Interest rate swaps – 745 – 745 Loans and receivables measured at amortised cost Loans – 2,219 – 2,219 Trade receivables – 524,610 – 524,610 Receivables from other investments, associates and joint ventures – 39,382 – 39,382 Receivables recognised by PoC (inc. advances received from customers PoC) – 102,937 – 102,937 Other receivables and other current assets – 151,002 – 151,002 Cash and cash equivalents – 273,136 – 273,136 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Financial liabilities excluding finance lease ­l iabilities – 174,822 – 174,822 Trade payables – 238,848 – 238,848 Advances received from customers (PoC) – 49,418 – 49,418 Miscellaneous other financial liabilities – 25,399 3,506 28,905 144 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS PR ESENTAT ION OF H IERARCHY LEV ELS 2014 (€ thousands) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets recognised at fair value Current financial instruments 661 – – 661 Currency forwards – 2,369 – 2,369 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Currency forwards – 11,488 – 11,488 Interest rate swaps – 888 – 888 Loans and receivables measured at amortised cost Loans – 2,718 – 2,718 Trade receivables – 496,018 – 496,018 Receivables from other investments, associates and joint ventures – 33,001 – 33,001 Receivables recognised by PoC (inc. advances received from customers PoC) – 87,724 – 87,724 Other receivables and other current assets – 185,249 1 – 185,249 1 Cash and cash equivalents – 278,552 1 – 278,552 1 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Financial liabilities excluding finance lease ­l iabilities – 245,459 – 245,459 Trade payables – 211,723 – 211,723 Advances received from customers (PoC) – 46,980 – 46,980 Miscellaneous other financial liabilities – 37,745 3 3,328 2 41,073 2, 3 Adjustment due to the reclassification of cash and cash equivalents with a maturity of more than three months to other financial assets in the 1  amount of € 154,121 thousand Correction under IAS 8: Purchase price liability of € 3,328 thousand in Sweden 2  Correction under IAS 8: Measurement of the pension obligations in India in the amount of € – 40 thousand 3  M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 145 No te s Fair values within level 1 are determined from the capital market quotations. Fair values within level 2 are determined based on a discounted cash flow method. Future cash flows from currency forwards are estimated on the basis of forward exchange rates (observable rates on the reporting date) and the contracted forward exchange rates, and are discounted with an adequate interest rate. Future cash flows from interest rate swaps are estimated on the basis of forward interest rates (observable interest structure curves on the reporting date) and the contracted interest rates, and are discounted with an adequate interest rate. Specific contractual regulations formed the basis for calculating the Level 3 fair values of other financial liabilities measured at amortised cost. 146 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The net gains and losses from financial instruments, after taking into account the relevant tax effect, are presented in the following table: NET R ESU LT S B Y MEA S UREMENT CATEGORY IN 2015 From subsequent measurement From interest Currency Impairment From (€ thousands) and dividends At fair value translation losses disposal Net results LaR 7,635 – – 231 – 1,658 – 107 5,639 AfS 18 – – –2 – 16 FLAC – 7,314 – – 2,842 – – – 10,156 339 – – 3,073 – 1,660 – 107 – 4,501 NET R ESU LT S B Y MEA SUREMENT CATEGORY IN 2014 From subsequent measurement From interest Currency Impairment From (€ thousands) and dividends At fair value translation losses disposal Net results LaR 6,434 – 2,334 – 4,901 – 3,867 AfS 33 15 – – 1,758 – – 1,710 FLAC – 8,150 – – 161 – – – 8,311 – 1,683 15 2,173 – 6,659 – – 6,154 The interest presented is a component of financial income / expense. The effect from the application of the effective interest rate method is immaterial here as the interest expenses are ­virtually offset by the resulting interest income. The other gains and losses are partly reported in other income and other expenses. The AfS measurement category resulted in a remeasurement value of € 0 thousand (previous year: gain of € 15 thousand), which was recognised directly in other comprehensive income and reported under “Change in the fair value of financial instruments” in equity. In the year under review, € 0 thousand (previous year: € 0 thousand) was withdrawn from equity or ­realised. The amount of financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting agreements is not material. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 147 No te s Financial risks We are exposed to certain financial risks as a consequence of our business activities. These risks can be classified into three areas: On the one hand, we are exposed to credit risk. We define credit risk as potential default or delays in the receipt of contractually agreed payments. We are also exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk that an entity will be unable to meet its financial obligations, or will be unable to meet them in full. Finally, we are exposed to market risk. The risk of exchange rate or interest rate changes may adversely affect the economic position of the Group. Risks from fluctuations in the prices of financial instruments are not material for us. We limit all of these risks through an appropriate risk management system, and define how these risks are addressed through guidelines and work instructions. In addition, we monitor the current risk characteristics continuously and regularly provide the information obtained in this way to the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board in the form of standardised reports and individual analyses. The three risk areas are described in detail in the following. Additional information is also provided in the group management report, in particular in the Economic Review, Report on Expected Developments, Opportunities and Risks Report sections. Credit risk The primary credit risk is that there is a delay in settling a receivable, or that it is not settled either in full or in part. We minimise this risk using a variety of measures. As a matter of principle, we run credit checks on potential and existing counterparties. We only enter into business relationships if the results of this check are positive. Additionally, our European companies in particular take out trade credit insurance policies. As in the previous year, these policies account for around 10 % of the Group’s trade receivables in total. In exceptional cases we ­accept other securities (collateral) such as guarantees. The insurance policies primarily cover the risk of loss of receivables. Moreover, we also take out cover against political and commercial risks in the case of certain customers in selected countries. For both types of insurance, we have agreed deductibles, which represent significantly less than 50 % of the insured volume. As part of our receivables management system, we continuously monitor outstanding items, perform maturity analyses and establish contact with customers at an early stage if delays in payment occur. In the case of major projects, our terms and conditions provide for prepayments, guarantees and – for export transactions – letters of credit. These also mitigate risk. Impairment losses are recognised for the residual risk remaining in trade receivables. We ex148 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS amine regularly the extent to which individual receivables need to be written down for impairment. Indications of this are significant financial difficulties of the debtor, such as insolvency or bankruptcy. We also cover the credit risk of receivables that are past due by providing for the risk involved on the basis of historical loss experience. Receivables are derecognised if it is reasonably certain that receipt of payment cannot be expected (for example, after completion of insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings). Impairment losses on trade receivables are the only material impairment losses in the KSB Group. They changed as follows: (€ thousands) 2015 2014 Opening balance at 1 January 35,905 30,337 Additions 10,310 8,560 Utilised – 2,197 – 1,821 Reversals – 8,990 – 3,512 Changes in consolidated Group / CTA * / Other 532 2,341 Closing balance at 31 December 35,560 35,905 * CTA = Currency translation adjustments The maturity structure of trade receivables is as follows: (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 Receivables that are neither past due nor individually impaired 398,135 384,417 Receivables that are past due but not individually impaired 1 to 30 days 44,810 48,025 31 to 90 days 32,146 32,596 91 to 180 days 10,289 11,297 > 180 days 11,622 11,438 Total 98,867 103,356 Receivables individually determined to be impaired 27,608 8,245 Receivables individually determined to be impaired at their principal amount 63,168 44,150 Specific write-downs 35,560 35,905 Carrying amount (net) 524,610 496,018 M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 149 No te s With regard to the trade receivables that are neither past due nor individually impaired, there are no indications at the reporting date that our debtors will not meet their payment obligations. The same applies to all other financial instruments. The maximum default risk, excluding collateral received, corresponds to the carrying amount of the financial assets. There is no concentration of risk because the diversity of our business means that we supply a considerable number of customers in different sectors. Liquidity risk Our liquidity management ensures that we minimise this risk in the Group and that our solvency is ensured at all times. There are no concentrations of risk because we work together with a number of credit institutions, on which we impose strict creditworthiness requirements. We generate our financial resources primarily from our operating business. We use them to finance investments in non-current assets. We also use them to cover our working capital ­requirements. To keep these as low as possible, we monitor changes in our receivables, inventories and liabilities regularly using a standardised Group reporting system. The reporting system additionally ensures, with the help of monthly rolling cash flow planning, that the Group’s centralised financial management is continuously informed about liquidity surpluses and requirements. This enables us to optimally meet the needs of the Group as a whole and of the individual companies. For selected companies we use a cash pooling system to ensure that available cash is deployed optimally within the Group. We also apply a worldwide receivables netting procedure within the KSB Group so as to minimise both the volume of cash flows and the associated fees. In order to be able to provide the necessary collateral in the project business, corresponding guarantee volumes are made available. Adequate proportions are confirmed for a period of more than one year. In addition, we always ensure that credit facilities are sufficient; we identify the need for these on the basis of regular liquidity plans. In this way we can react to fluctuating liquidity requirements at all times. Our approved cash loans and credit lines total approximately € 940 million (previous year: approx. € 958 million), of which € 627.7 million has not yet been utilised (previous year: € 627.8 million). 150 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The following tables show the contractually agreed non-discounted future cash flows of the financial liabilities (primary financial instruments) and derivative financial instruments. Interest payments on fixed-rate liabilities are determined on the basis of the fixed rate. Floating-rate interest payments are based on the last floating interest rates fixed before 31 December. Projections for future new liabilities are not included in the presentation. Based on our current state of knowledge, it is neither expected that the cash flows will take place significantly earlier, nor that the amounts will differ significantly. C A SH FLOW S OF FINA NCIAL LIABILITIES 2015 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 191,227 48,386 118,138 24,703 Trade payables 238,848 238,848 – – Miscellaneous other financial liabilities 28,905 26,610 2,295 – Derivative financial instruments Outgoing payments – 1,877 – 1,683 – 194 – Derivative financial instruments Incoming payments 7,487 5,542 1,881 64 464,590 317,703 122,120 24,767 C A SH FLOW S OF FINA NCIAL LIABILITIES 2014 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 272,124 99,497 146,580 26,047 Trade payables 211,723 211,559 164 – Miscellaneous other financial liabilities 41,073* 40,457* 616 – Derivative financial instruments Outgoing payments – 2,622 – 2,303 – 319 – Derivative financial instruments Incoming payments 12,687 10,925 1,716 46 534,985* 360,135* 148,757 26,093 *C  orrection under IAS 8: Measurement of the pension obligations in India in the amount of € – 40 thousand and purchase price liability of € 3,328 thousand in Sweden M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 151 No te s Market price risk Our global business activities expose us primarily to currency and interest rate risk. Any changes in market prices can affect fair values and future cash flows. We use sensitivity analyses to determine the hypothetical impact of such market price fluctuations on profit and equity. In doing so, we assume that the portfolio at the reporting date is representative for the full year. We reduce the risks resulting from changes in prices on the procurement side for orders with extended delivery dates by agreeing cost escalation clauses or, in the case of fixed-price contracts, by including the expected rate of cost increases in our sales price. Currency risk mainly affects our cash flows from operating activities. It arises when Group companies settle transactions in currencies that are not their functional currency. We minimise this risk using currency forwards and, on rare occasions, options. You will find further information on this in the “Derivative financial instruments” section of the Notes. We use micro hedges with regard to both transactions already recognised and cash flows that are expected in the future with a high degree of probability. The hedging instruments used share the essential terms and conditions with the underlying transactions, i.e. with regard to amount, term and quality. Internal guidelines govern the use of financial instruments. Such transactions are also subject to ongoing risk control measures. The hedging instruments used are exclusively currency forwards entered into with prime-rated banks. In order to measure the effectiveness of our hedges, the market values of the underlying and the hedge transactions are compared. Changes in the market values of the derivatives are offset by changes in the fair values of the cash flows from the underlyings (hypothetical derivative method). As a rule, we do not hedge currency risks from the translation of foreign operations into the Group currency (€). 152 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS At the reporting date, the notional volume of all currency forwards was € 253,980 thousand (previous year: € 234,998 thousand), and the notional volume of all interest rate derivatives was € 39,500 thousand (previous year: € 60,579 thousand). The contractual maturities of payments for currency forwards and interest rate derivatives are as follows: NOT IONA L VOLU MES 2015 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Currency forwards 253,980 236,311 17,448 221 Interest rate derivatives 39,500 – 39,500 – 293,480 236,311 56,948 221 NOT IONA L VOLU MES 2014 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Currency forwards 234,998 214,798 19,864 336 Interest rate derivatives 60,579 21,000 39,579 – 295,577 235,798 59,443 336 Equity includes changes in the fair value of derivatives used to hedge future cash flows amounting to € – 5,026 thousand (previous year: € – 8,104 thousand). They changed as f­ ollows: (€ thousands) 2015 2014 Opening balance at 1 January – 8,104 3,446 Changes in consolidated Group / CTA * / Other – 32 –4 Disposals 5,552 – 2,079 Additions – 2,442 – 9,467 Closing balance at 31 December – 5,026 – 8,104 * CTA = Currency translation adjustments The main currencies in the KSB Group are the Chinese yuan (CNY) and US dollar (USD). For the currency sensitivity analysis, we simulate the effects based on the notional volume of our existing foreign currency derivatives and our foreign currency receivables and liabilities at the reporting date. For the analysis, we assume a 10 % increase (decrease) in the value of the euro versus the other currencies. In the reporting year, this would have amounted to approximately € 2.7 million for CNY, as in the previous year, and € 2.2 million (previous year: € 1.2 million) for USD. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 153 No te s CNY 31 Dec. 2015 CNY 31 Dec. 2014 USD 31 Dec. 2015 USD 31 Dec. 2014 Trade receivables € 73.4 million € 69.8 million € 36.1 million € 24.2 million Trade payables € 46.0 million € 43.2 million € 13.8 million € 12.2 million Balance € 27.4 million € 26.6 million € 22.3 million € 12.0 million Based on the measurement of derivatives, at the reporting date, equity and the fair value of the derivatives would have been € 8.5 million lower (higher), with € 6.4 million resulting from USD and € 2.1 million from the other currencies. At the previous year’s reporting date, equity and the fair value of the derivatives would have been € 13.2 million lower (higher), with € 10.6 million resulting from USD and € 2.6 million from the other currencies. We regularly monitor the interest rate risks associated with our financing activities. To avoid the negative effects of interest rate fluctuations on the international capital markets, we conclude interest rate hedges (interest rate swaps) where necessary, generally for long-term loans. These are used exclusively to hedge floating rate loans against rising interest rates. As part of our interest rate sensitivity analysis, we simulate a 50 basis point increase (decrease) in market interest rates and analyse the impact on the floating rate financial instruments. In 2015, the net interest balance would have been € 1.8 million (previous year: € 1.9 million) higher (lower). Changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives used to hedge floating rate l­iabilities increase (decrease) equity by € 0.3 (0.3) million (previous year: € 0.6 (0.6) million). VI I . STATEM ENT OF CASH FLOWS In the statement of cash flows, cash flows are classified by operating, investing and financing activities. Effects of changes in the consolidated Group and in exchange rates are eliminated in the relevant items. The effect of exchange rate changes (based on annual average rates) and changes in the consolidated Group on cash and cash equivalents is presented separately. Cash flows from operating activities include a “cash flow” subtotal that merely comprises the net profit for the year; depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses as well as reversals of impairment losses; changes in non-current provisions; and non-cash effects, for example, of the disposal of fixed assets. This subtotal is combined with the changes in the other operating components of assets (including current financial instruments) and liabilities to determine cash flows from operating activities. Only those changes that are recognised in the income statement are taken into account. 154 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS Cash flows from investing activities exclusively reflect cash-effective acquisitions and disposals of investments in intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, non-current financial assets, and changes in term deposits with a maturity of more than 3 months. In addition to cash flows resulting from equity items (capitalisation measures and dividend payments), cash flows from financing activities comprise also cash flows arising from changes in investments in Group companies that are not fully consolidated and in financial liabilities. If cash and cash equivalents include restricted cash, this is reported separately. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 155 No te s VI I I . SEGM ENT R EP O RTING Segment reporting is prepared in accordance with IFRS 8 based on the management approach and corresponds to our internal organisational and management structure as well as the reporting lines to the Board of Management as the chief operating decision maker. In our matrix organisation, management decisions are primarily taken on the basis of the key performance indicators – order intake, external sales revenue and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) – determined for the Pumps, Valves and Service segments, excluding the effects from measuring construction contracts under IAS 11. Reporting the relevant assets, number of employees and inter-segment sales revenue for these segments is not part of our internal reporting. The man­ agers in charge of the segments, which are geared to product groups, have profit and loss responsibility. They identify business opportunities across markets and industries and assess our options based on current and future market requirements. They also proactively encourage the development of new products and improvements to the available range of products. In this context, they work closely with our Sales organisation and Operations. The Pumps segment includes singleand multistage pumps, submersible pumps and associated control and drive systems. Applications include process engineering, building services, water and waste water transport, energy conversion and solids transport. The Valves segment covers butterfly, globe, gate, control, diaphragm and ball valves, as well as associated actuators and control systems. Applications primarily include process engineering, building services, energy conversion and solids transport. The Service segment covers the installation, commissioning, start-up, inspection, servicing, maintenance and repair of pumps, related systems and valves for all applications; as well as modular service concepts and system analyses for complete systems. Our companies can be allocated to one or more segments based on their business activities. The amounts disclosed for the individual segments have been established in compliance with the accounting policies of the underlying consolidated financial statements. Transfer prices for intercompany sales are determined on an arm’s length basis. There were no discontinued operations in the period under review, as in the comparative period of the previous year. 156 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The order intake by segment presents order intake generated with third parties and nonconsolidated Group companies. The external sales revenue by segment presents sales revenue generated with third parties and non-consolidated Group companies. The effects from measuring construction contracts in accordance with IAS 11 are presented separately as reconciliation effects. The table shows earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) and consolidated earnings before income taxes (EBT) including non-controlling interests. The effects from measuring construction contracts in accordance with IAS 11 are presented separately as reconciliation effects. Order intake External sales revenue EBIT (€ thousands) 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014* Pumps segment 1,452,431 1,524,126 1,513,977 1,437,920 55,389 56,343* Valves segment 367,965 407,394 384,570 378,839 10,340 16,947 Service segment 440,783 389,702 413,618 373,824 36,157 28,757 Reconciliation – – 22,666 – 8,844 3,285 – 12,850 Total 2,261,179 2,321,222 2,334,831 2,181,739 105,171 89,197* Financial income – Interest and similar income 7,635 6,434 Financial expense – Interest and similar expenses – 19,414 – 22,795* Earnings before income taxes (EBT ) 93,392 72,836* * Adjustment under IAS 8 The EBIT of the Pumps segment includes depreciation and amortisation expense of € 50.9 million (previous year: € 44.7 million), the EBIT of the Valves segment includes depreciation and amortisation expense of € 12.6 million (previous year: € 11.5 million) and the EBIT of the Service segment includes depreciation and amortisation expense of € 12.0 million (previous year: € 11.7 million). € 620,238 thousand (previous year: € 604,449 thousand) of the sales revenue presented was generated by the companies based in Germany, € 261,769 thousand (previous year: € 251,267 thousand) was generated by the companies based in France, € 209,959 thousand (previous year: € 164,744 thousand) by the companies based in the USA, and € 1,242,865 thousand (previous year: € 1,161,279 thousand) by the other Group companies. There were no relationships with individual customers that accounted for a material proportion of Group sales revenue. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 157 No te s At the reporting date, the total non-current assets of the KSB Group amounted to € 513,057 thousand (previous year: € 494,469 thousand), with € 177,596 thousand (previous year: € 182,151 thousand) being attributable to the companies based in Germany and € 335,461 thousand (previous year: € 312,318 thousand) being attributable to the other Group companies. They include intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and investments accounted for using the equity method; non-current financial instruments and deferred tax assets are not included. IX. OTHER D I SC LOSURES Contingent liabilities (contingencies and commitments) C ONT INGENT LIA B ILIT IES AND COLLATERAL (€ thousands) 2015 2014 Liabilities from guarantees 2,739 2,545 Liabilities from warranties 1,239 1,250 Liabilities from the granting of other security for third-party liabilities and other contingent liabilities 9,444 4,230 13,422 8,025 Other contingent liabilities include € 928 thousand for tax items (previous year: € 607 thousand). At present, there are no indications that any claims will be asserted under these obli­ gations. The Group has contingent liabilities as a result of its investment in associates and joint ventures of € 5,989 thousand (previous year: € 5,697 thousand). The reported amount is the Group’s share of contingent liabilities from joint ventures. Contingent liabilities relating to other investments total € 1,728 thousand (previous year: € 1,758 thousand). The extent to which these will result in a cash outflow depends on the future business performance of the respective company. 158 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS OPER AT ING LEA SES Minimum lease payments (€ thousands) 2015 2014 Due within 1 year 17,832 16,283 Due between 1 and 5 years 32,398 30,045 Due after more than 5 years 7,799 9,005 58,029 55,333 In the year under review, € 16,283 thousand (previous year: € 14,955 thousand) was spent. Operating leases relate primarily to vehicles and real estate. FINA NC E LEA SES Minimum lease payments Present values (€ thousands) 2015 2014 2015 2014 Due within 1 year 446 538 436 526 Due between 1 and 5 years 818 1,028 803 1,015 Due after more than 5 years 164 173 151 169 1,428 1,739 1,390 1,710 Finance leases relate almost entirely to real estate. The term of the contract covers most of the useful life of the asset concerned. The annual obligations from IT services agreements amount to € 62,276 thousand (previous year: € 22,956 thousand) over a term of one to five years. As in the previous year, there are no purchase price obligations from acquisitions of companies and no payment obligations from capitalisation measures at Group companies. The aggregate purchase obligation for investments (principally items of property, plant and equipment) amounts to € 20,029 thousand (previous year: € 17,809 thousand). Almost all of the corresponding payments are due in 2016. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 159 No te s Research and development costs Research and development costs in the year under review amounted to € 57,987 thousand (previous year: € 48,650 thousand). Some of these costs are contract costs under IAS 11. Related party disclosures Related parties as defined in IAS 24 are natural persons and companies that can be influenced by KBS AG or that can exert an influence on KSB AG. Balances and transactions between KSB AG and its subsidiaries in the form of related parties have been eliminated during the consolidation process and are not explained in further detail. Details regarding transactions between the KSB Group and other related parties are provided below. Pursuant to section 21(1) of the WpHG [Wertpapierhandelsgesetz – German Securities Trade Act], KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation], Stuttgart, as the top-level parent company, notified us on 21 May 2008 that its voting interest in KSB AG, Frankenthal / Pfalz exceeded the 75.00 % threshold on 5 May 2008 and amounted to 80.24 % (711,453 voting shares) on this date. 0.54 % of the voting rights (4,782 voting shares) were held directly by KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, and 79.70 % (706,671 voting shares) were attributable to KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, pursuant to section 22(1), sentence 1, No. 1 of the WpHG. The voting rights attributed to KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, were held by Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal. Related parties also include the non-consolidated subsidiary companies and joint ventures of Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal, and Kühborth Stiftung GmbH, Stuttgart, which holds 1 % of the shares in Klein Pumpen GmbH. 160 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The following table shows services provided and used, as well as pending receivables and ­liabilities owed from and to related parties: Sales of goods Purchases of goods and services and services Receivables Liabilities 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. (€ thousands) 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Top-level parent company KSB Stiftung [ KSB Foundation] 1 – – – – – – – Subsidiaries / associates / joint ventures of KSB Stiftung – – – – – – – – Parent company Klein Pumpen GmbH 13 11 24 24 – – – – Subsidiaries of Klein Pumpen GmbH – 3 520 2,374 – 130 – 128 Associates / joint ventures of Klein Pumpen GmbH 410 19 2,226 90 127 – 213 3 Other related parties 1 – 16 16 – – – – Further information on joint ventures and associates (related party disclosures) can be found in Section IV. Balance Sheet Disclosures – Notes No. 4 “Investments accounted for under the equity method”, 6 “Trade receivables and PoC as well as other financial and non-financial assets” and 10 “Liabilities”, and in Section IX. Other Disclosures – Contingent Liabilities. The transactions in relation to the parent company Klein Pumpen GmbH are based on a rental and services agreement between KSB AG and Klein Pumpen GmbH. Transactions with subsidiaries of Klein Pumpen GmbH comprise transactions with Palatina Versicherungsservice GmbH, which provides services in the area of insurance. A rental and services agreement is in place between Palatina Versicherungsservice GmbH and KSB AG. The transactions with associates and joint ventures of Klein Pumpen GmbH basically comprise transactions with Abacus Experten GmbH, which has entered into several contracts for work with KSB AG, and with Abacus Resale GmbH, which trades in products. KSB AG has also agreed service agreements with Abacus alpha GmbH and Abacus Resale GmbH. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 161 No te s All transactions are entered into on an arm’s length basis. Pending balances at the year end are unsecured, do not accrue interest and are settled by means of payments. No guarantees were given or received. The receivables presented here, as in the previous year, are not subject to write-downs and no provisions have been created for this purpose. Disclosures and information on affiliates and investments accounted for using the equity method provided in other section of these Notes refer to relations covering the supply of products and services on an arm’s length basis, unless stated otherwise. Pursuant to IAS 24, the remuneration of key management personnel of the Group must be disclosed. The following table contains the relevant figures for the KSB Group with regard to the remuneration paid to members of the Board of Management: (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2015 31 Dec. 2014 Short-term benefits (total remuneration) 1,289 1,427 Post-employment benefits 1,429 2,011 Other long-term benefits – – Termination benefits – – Share-based payments – – Total 2,718 3,438 Based on the relevant legal provisions, the Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2015 resolved not to disclose the remuneration of the Board of Management separately for each member and classified by components. € 4,518 thousand (previous year: € 4,386 thousand) has been provided for pension obligations to current members of the Board of Management, and € 39,387 (previous year: € 41,861 thousand) to former members of the Board of Management and their surviving dependants; total benefits paid to these persons amounted to € 2,246 thousand in the year under review (previous year: € 2,232 thousand). The short-term benefits (total remuneration) paid to members of the Supervisory Board amount to € 833 thousand for the 2015 financial year (previous year: € 944 thousand). 162 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS The members of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management are listed before the presentation of the proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings of KSB AG. Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, based in Frankfurt am Main with an office in Mannheim, were appointed as auditors and group auditors for financial year 2015 at the Annual General Meeting of KSB AG on 6 May 2015; BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft carried out this role in the previous year. The following fees (including expenses) were recognised as expenses. (€ thousands) 2015 2014 Audit fees 348 412 Other certification services 10 2 Tax advisory services – – Other services 54 36 Total fees 412 450 The audit fees include costs for the audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the statutory annual financial statements of KSB AG and the German subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements. The fees for other certification services primarily include attestation services outside of the audit of the annual financial statements. The fees for other services mainly include fees for project-specific consultancy services. Use of exemption option KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal, KSB Service GmbH, Schwedt and Uder Elektromechanik GmbH, Friedrichsthal, have made partial use of the exemption provision under section 264(3) of the HGB. Events after the reporting period There were no reportable events after the reporting date. German Corporate Governance Code The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of KSB AG issued the current statement of compliance with the recommendations of the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code in accordance with section 161 of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – ­German Public Companies Act]. The statement of compliance is published on our web site (www.ksb.com) and has thus been made permanently accessible. M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 163 No te s Li st o f S h are h o l di n gs L I ST O F SHAREHOLDINGS AF F I L I ATE S ( N AT I O N A L A ND INT ER NAT IONA L) No. Name and seat of company Country Capital share in % Held by No. National 1 Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH, Stuhr Germany 100.00 2 KAGEMA Industrieausrüstungen GmbH, Pattensen Germany 100.00 3 KSB Armaturen Verwaltungsund Beteiligungs-GmbH, Frankenthal Germany 100.00 4 KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal Germany 100.00 5 KSB Service GmbH, Schwedt Germany 100.00 6 PAB Pumpenund Armaturen-Beteiligungsges. mbH, Frankenthal Germany 51.00 7 PMS BERCHEM GmbH, Neuss Germany 100.00 8 Pumpen-Service Bentz GmbH, Reinbek Germany 100.00 9 Uder Elektromechanik GmbH, Friedrichsthal Germany 100.00 International 10 Aplicaciones Mecánicas Válvulas Industriales, S.A. ( AMVI ), Burgos Spain 100.00 27 11 Canadian Kay Pump Limited, Mississauga / Ontario Canada 100.00 12 Dalian KSB AMRI Valves Co., Ltd., Dalian China 100.00 27 13 DP industries B.V., Alphen aan den Rijn The Netherlands 100.00 26 14 FORTY FOUR ACTIVIA PARK ( PTY ) LTD , Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa 100.00 45 15 GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia USA 100.00 17 16 Hydroskepi GmbH, Amaroussion (Athens) Greece 100.00 17 KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia USA 100.00 6 10.03 52 18 KSB AMRI , Inc., Houston / Texas USA 89.97 17 19 KSB Australia Pty Ltd, Bundamba QLD Australia 100.00 27 20 KSB Belgium S.A., Bierges-lez-Wavre Belgium 100.00 27 21 KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista Brazil 100.00 27 22 KSB , Bombas e Válvulas, SA , Albarraque Portugal 95.00 23 KSB Chile S.A., Santiago Chile 100.00 95.00 27 24 KSB Compañía Sudamericana de Bombas S.A., Carapachay (Buenos Aires) Argentina 5.00 25 KSB de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., Querétaro Mexico 100.00 26 KSB Finance Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg The Netherlands 100.00 27 27 KSB FINANZ S.A., Echternach Luxembourg 100.00 28 KSB Finland Oy, Kerava Finland 100.00 29 KSB , Inc., Richmond / Virginia USA 100.00 17 30 KSB Italia S.p.A., Milan Italy 100.00 27 31 KSB ITUR Spain S.A., Zarautz Spain 100.00 27 32 KSB Korea Ltd., Seoul South Korea 100.00 33 KSB Limited, Hong Kong China 100.00 34 KSB Limited, Loughborough United Kingdom 100.00 27 164 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS No. Name and seat of company Country Capital share in % Held by No. 35 KSB Malaysia Pumps & Valves Sdn. Bhd., Petaling Jaya Malaysia 100.00 63 36 KSB Middle East FZE , Dubai U.A.E. 100.00 27 37 KSB Mörck AB , Gothenburg Sweden 55.00 38 KSB Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg The Netherlands 100.00 26 39 KSB New Zealand Limited, Albany / Auckland New Zealand 100.00 19 40 KSB Norge AS , Ski Norway 100.00 41 KSB Österreich Gesellschaft mbH, Vienna Austria 100.00 27 42 KSB -Pompa, Armatür Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S., Ankara Turkey 100.00 27 43 KSB POMPES ET ROBINETTERIES S.à.r.l. d'Associé unique, Casablanca Morocco 100.00 52 44 KSB Pompy i Armatura Sp. z o.o., Ozarow-Mazowiecki Poland 100.00 45 KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa 84.99 50 46 KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., Bangkok Thailand 40.00 47 KSB Pumps Company Limited, Lahore Pakistan 58.89 48 KSB Pumps Inc., Mississauga / Ontario Canada 100.00 27 49 KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune) India 40.54 11 50 KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa 100.00 27 51 KSB -Pumpy+Armatury s.r.o., koncern, Prague Czech Republic 100.00 52 KSB S.A.S. , Gennevilliers (Paris) France 100.00 27 53 KSB Seil Co., Ltd., Busan South Korea 100.00 54 KSB Service Belgium S.A. / N.V., Bierges-lez-Wavre Belgium 100.00 20 55 KSB Service Centre-Est S.A.S. , Villefranche sur Saône France 100.00 52 56 KSB Service EITB SITELEC S.A.S. , Montfavet France 100.00 52 57 KSB Service Est S.A.S. , Algrange France 100.00 52 58 KSB SERVICE ETC S.A.S. , Chalon-sur-Saône France 100.00 61 59 KSB Service Italia S.r.l., Scorzè Italy 100.00 30 60 KSB SERVICE MEDIATEC S.A.S. , Chalon-sur-Saône France 100.00 61 61 KSB Service Robinetterie S.A.S. , Rambervillers France 100.00 52 62 KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai China 80.00 27 63 KSB Singapore (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd, Singapore Singapore 100.00 64 KSB Szivattyú és Armatura Kft., Budapest Hungary 100.00 65 KSB Taiwan Co., Ltd., New Taipei City Taiwan 100.00 66 KSB Tech Pvt. Ltd., Pimpri (Pune) India 100.00 67 KSB Valves (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Jiangsu China 100.00 68 KSB Valves (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., Shanghai China 100.00 69 KSB Válvulas Ltda., Jundiaí Brazil 100.00 21 70 KSB VIET NAM CO ., LTD ., Long Thanh District Vietnam 100.00 63 71 KSB Zürich AG , Zurich Switzerland 100.00 72 KSB SERVICE COTUMER , Déville lès Rouen France 100.00 61 73 Metis Levage S.A.S. , Villefranche sur Saône France 100.00 52 49.00 49 74 MIL Controls Limited, Annamanada India 51.00 75 OOO “ KSB “, Moscow Russia 100.00 3 76 Precision Pump and Machine – KSB , Inc., Bakersfield / California USA 100.00 17 M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 165 No te s Li st o f S h are h o l di n gs No. Name and seat of company Country Capital share in % Held by No. 94.10 27 77 PT . KSB Indonesia, Cibitung, Jawa Barat Indonesia 5.90 78 PUMPHUSET Sverige AB , Sollentuna Sweden 100.00 37 79 REEL s.r.l., Ponte di Nanto Italy 100.00 80 Rotary Equipment Services Limited, Loughborough United Kingdom 100.00 34 81 SISTO Armaturen S.A., Echternach Luxembourg 52.85 27 82 SMEDEGAARD AG Pumpen und Motorenbau, Beinwil am See Switzerland 100.00 87 83 Smedegaard Pumps Limited, Bridgwater United Kingdom 100.00 34 84 Société de travaux et Ingénierie Industrielle (ST II ), Déville lès Rouen France 100.00 72 85 SPI Energie S.A.S. , La Ravoire France 100.00 52 86 Standard Alloys Incorporated, Port Arthur / Texas USA 100.00 17 87 T. Smedegaard A / S, Glostrup Denmark 100.00 88 VM Pumpar AB , Gothenburg Sweden 100.00 37 89 VRS Valve Reconditioning Services B.V., Vierpolders The Netherlands 100.00 38 J OI NT V E N T U R E S ( N AT I O NA L A ND INT ER NAT IONA L) Net profit / Capital share Held by Equity* loss for the year* No. Name and seat of company Country in % No. € thousands € thousands National 90 Nikkiso-KSB GmbH, Pegnitz Germany 50.00 5,400 337 International 91 KSB MOTOR TEKNOLOJİLERİ SANAYİ VE TİCARET ANONİM ŞİRKETİ, Ankara Turkey 55.00 42 189 – 92 KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., Riyadh Saudi Arabia 50.00 27 20,361 7,520 93 KSB Service LLC , Abu Dhabi U.A.E. 49.00 6,374 1,072 94 Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Shanghai China 45.00 38,262 – 1,286 AS S OC I ATE S ( N AT I O N A L A ND INT ER NAT IONA L) Net profit / Capital share Held by Equity* loss for the year* No. Name and seat of company Country in % No. € thousands € thousands International 95 Motori Sommersi Riavvolgibili S.r.l., Cedegolo Italy 25.00 4,433 2,114 * Data according to latest financial statements available 166 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS COMPA N I E S N OT C O N SOLIDAT ED B EC AU SE OF IMMAT ER IA L ITY – AFFILIATES (NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL) Net profit / Capital share Held by Equity* loss for the year* No. Name and seat of company Country in % No. € thousands € thousands National 96 gear-tec GmbH, Eggebek Germany 51.00 260 – 93 International 98.10 75 513 241 97 IOOO “ KSB BEL “, Minsk Belarus 1.90 3 98 KSB Algérie Eurl, Dar El-Beida (Algier) Algeria 100.00 27 741 229 99 KSB Čerpadlá a Armatúry, s.r.o., Bratislava Slovakia 100.00 341 72 100 KSB Pumps and valves L.t.d., Domžale Slovenia 100.00 – 69 9 101 KSB Colombia SAS , Funza (Cundinamarca) Colombia 100.00 27 12 – 405 102 KSB Ltd., Tokyo Japan 100.00 – 1,330 – 242 103 KSB Perú S.A., Lurin Peru 100.00 692 – 22 104 KSB PHILIPPINES , INC ., Makati City Philippines 100.00 63 –3 – 78 105 KSB Pumpe i Armature d.o.o. Beograd, Belgrade Serbia 100.00 100 142 170 106 KSB pumpe i armature d.o.o., Zagreb Croatia 100.00 100 – 240 – 227 107 KSB Pump & Valve Technology Service (Tianjin) Co., Ltd, Tianjin China 100.00 33 1,803 187 108 KSB Services Ltd. Co., Al-Khobar Saudi Arabia 70.00 85 – 155 * 109 NINOMIT VPH -Tekniikka Oy, Oulu Finland 100.00 28 327 169 110 Techni Pompe Service Maroc (TPSM ), Casablanca Morocco 100.00 43 – 427 – 10 111 TOO “ KSB Kazakhstan“, Almaty Kazakhstan 100.00 75 13 – 65 112 TOV “ KSB Ukraine“, Kiev Ukraine 100.00 75 50 – 51 * Data according to latest financial statements available Prior-period figures M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 167 No te s Li st o f S h are h o l di n gs S u pe rv i so ry B o ard S UPERV ISORY BOARD Dr. Wolfgang Kühborth, Dipl.-Ing., Frankenthal Prof. Dr. Dieter-Heinz Hellmann, Frankenthal 7) (Honorary Chairman of the Supervisory Board) (on the Supervisory Board from 6 May 2015 to 31 Aug. 2015) Chairman of the Board of Management of KSB Stiftung Klaus Kühborth, Dipl.-Wirtsch.-Ing., Frankenthal Managing Director of Klein Pumpen GmbH Günter Koch, Dipl.-Wirtsch.-Ing., Ludwigshafen (Chairman of the Supervisory Board until 10 Sept. 2015) Former Member of the Board of Management of Pfalzwerke AG, Ludwigshafen Dr. Thomas Seeberg, Dipl.-Kfm., Icking 1) (on the Supervisory Board since 8 Sept. 2015) Former Managing Director of OSRAM GmbH (Chairman of the Supervisory Board since 11 Sept. 2015) René Klotz, NC Programmer, Frankenthal Chairman of the General Works Council Alois Lautner, Lathe Operator, Kirchenthumbach 2) Deputy Chairman of the Pegnitz Works Council Wolfgang Kormann, Hand Moulder, Pegnitz (Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board) Member of the European Works Council, Chairman of the Group Works Council, Dr. Martin Auer, Mannheim 3) Chairman of the Pegnitz Works Council Head of Corporate Legal, Compliance, Procurement and Logistic Services MVV Energie AG Birgit Mohme, Industrial Business Management Assistant, Frankenthal 8) (on the Supervisory Board since 1 Jan. 2015) Dr.-Ing. Stephan Bross, Freinsheim 4) Trade Union Secretary of IG Metall Ludwigshafen-Frankenthal Head of Pumps Segment Volker Seidel, Electrical and Electronics Installer, Münchberg Dr. Jörg Matthias Großmann, Dipl.-Kfm., Großhesselohe 5) 1. Delegate of IG Metall Ostoberfranken Management / CFO Freudenberg Chemical Specialities SE & Co. KG Gabriele Sommer, Dipl.-Geol., Wörthsee 9) (on the Supervisory Board since 1 Jan. 2016) Prof. Dr. Michael Hoffmann-Becking, Lawyer, Düsseldorf 6) Global Head of Human Resources TÜV SÜD AG (on the Supervisory Board until 6 May 2015) Hengeler Mueller Partnerschaft von Rechtsanwälten Dr. Jost Wiechmann, Auditor, Tax Accountant, Lawyer, Hamburg 10) (on the Supervisory Board until 31 Dec. 2015) Partner at RBS RoeverBroennerSusat Mandates of KSB Supervisory Board members in the Supervisory Board / Board of Directors of other companies 1) Alte Leipziger Lebensversicherung a.G., Oberursel, Germany (until 9 May 2015) 6) Hella KGaA Hueck & Co., Lippstadt, Germany Hallesche Krankenversicherung a.G., Oberursel, Germany (until 9 May 2015) Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung GmbH, Frankfurt am Main, Germany Alte Leipziger Holding AG, Oberursel, Germany (until 9 May 2015) Rheinisch-Bergische Verlagsgesellschaft mbH, Düsseldorf, Germany Member of the Board of Trustees of WTS-Stiftung für Altersversorgung, Munich, Germany Stihl Holding AG & Co. KG, Waiblingen, Germany 2) BKK advita, Alzey, Germany 7) Ecoliance Rheinland-Pfalz e. V., Germany 3) Palatina Versicherungsservice GmbH, Frankenthal, Germany 8) Deutsche Rentenversicherung Rheinland-Pfalz, Speyer, Germany MVV Energie CZ a.s., Prague, Czech Republic Stadtwerke Ingolstadt Beteiligungs GmbH, Ingolstadt, Germany 9) TÜV SÜD Industrie Service GmbH, Munich, Germany TÜV SÜD Auto Service GmbH, Stuttgart, Germany 4) Burckhardt Compression AG, Winterthur, Switzerland 10) KVG Binnenalster AG, Hamburg, Germany 5) Klüber Lubrication München SE & Co. KG, Munich, Germany Klüber Lubrication India Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore, India FCS Holding Inc., Wilmington, USA Chem-Trend Holding LP, Wilmington, USA Externa Holding S.R.L., Milan, Italy 168 CONSOLIDAT ED FINA N CIAL STATEM ENTS B OA RD O F MANAGEMENT Board of Management jointly: Mandates of KSB AG’s Board of Management members in the Strategy and Regions Board of Directors of KSB companies 1) SISTO Armaturen S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg KSB FINANZ S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg Dr.-Ing. Peter Buthmann, Frankenthal 1) KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg), South Africa Human Resources Director KSB Pumps & Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg), South Africa Responsibilities: Technology, Production, Sales, Purchasing and 2) KSB FINANZ S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg Human Resources, as well as the Pumps and Valves segments KSB Finance Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg, the Netherlands Canadian Kay Pump Limited, Mississauga / Ontario, Canada KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia, USA Werner Stegmüller, Mannheim 2) KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China Responsibilities: Finance and Accounting, Controlling, Communications, Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China Investor Relations, IT, Patents & Trademarks, Legal & Compliance, KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista, Brazil Internal Audits and the Service segment M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 169 No te s B o ard o f Man age m e n t Pro po sal o n th e Appro pri ati o n o f th e Ne t R e tai n e d Earn i n gs PROPOSAL O N THE AP P RO P RI ATI O N O F THE NET RETAINE D E ARN I N G S O F KS B AG We will propose to the Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2016 that the net retained earnings of € 9,857,123.62 of KSB AG be appropriated as follows: Distribution of a dividend of € 5.50 per ordinary no-par-value share € 4,876,382.50 and, in accordance with the Articles of Association, € 5.76 per preference no-par-value share € 4,980,741.12 Frankenthal, 17 March 2016 The Board of Management The annual financial statements of KSB AG were prepared in accordance with German ­accounting principles. They are published in the Bundesanzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. The a­ nnual financial statements can also be downloaded from our web site at www.ksb.com, or sent in print form on request. 170 Calio High-efficiency pump for heating and air-conditioning systems M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP MANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RMAT I O N 171 5 GENERAL INFORMATION 172 Responsibility Statement 173 Auditor’s Report 175 Glossary 176 Contacts G E N E R A L I N F O R M AT I O N 172 GENER A L INFORMAT ION RESPONSI BI L I TY S TATE ME N T To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial ­position and profit or loss of the Group, and the group management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the Group. Frankenthal, 17 March 2016 The Board of Management M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 173 R e spo n si bi l i ty S tatem e nt Au di to r’s R e po rt AUDITOR ’S RE P O RT We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by KSB Aktiengesellschaft, Frankenthal / Pfalz, comprising the statement of financial position, the statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity, cash flow statement and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, together with the group management report for the business year from 1 January to 31 December 2015. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the group management report in accordance with the IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § (Article) 315a Abs. (paragraph) 1 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: German Commercial Code) is the responsibility of the parent Company’s Board of Managing Directors. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report based on our audit. We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with § 317 HGB and German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany) (IDW). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of operations in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework and in the group management report are detected with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the economic and legal environment of the Group and expectations as to possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the group management report are examined primarily on a test basis within the framework of the audit. The audit includes assessing the annual financial statements of those entities included in consolidation, the determination of the entities to be included in consolidation, the accounting and consolidation principles used and significant estimates made by the Company’s Board of Managing Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and the group management report. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 174 GENER A L INFORMAT ION Our audit has not led to any reservations. In our opinion based on the findings of our audit the consolidated financial statements comply with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § 315a Abs. 1 HGB and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group in accordance with these requirements. The group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and as a whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Frankfurt am Main, 17 March 2016 PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Dr. Ralf Worster ppa. Christina Pöpperl Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüferin M A N AGEMENT A ND ISSU ES 2015 OUTL OOK 2018 GROUP M ANAG E M E N T RE P O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM AT I ON 175 Au di to r’s R e po rt Gl o ssary GLOSSARY AB B R EVI ATI ONS KEY CORPORATE AND TECHNICAL TERMS API Cyber-physical system KSB Sonolyzer American Petroleum Institute A network of computing elements Smartphone app capable of ana(software and hardware) and lysing the efficiency of fixed speed ISO 14001 mechanical and electronic compopump systems equipped with asynInternational standard stipulating nents which communicate via a chronous motors globally recognised requirements data infrastructure, such as for for environmental management example the Internet Retrofit measures systems Modernisation of installed systems Variable speed system or components, often aimed at exIMF Electronic device which adjusts tending their service life, increasing International Monetary Fund pump speed in line with the reefficiency or complying with new quired head and flow rate legislation VDMA Verband Deutscher MaschinenTriple-offset butterfly valve Synchronous reluctance und Anlagenbau e.V. Butterfly valve design suitable for motor [German Engineering Federation] use in applications with extremely Highly energy-efficient motors high and low temperatures. The whose specially designed rotor triple-offset design ensures that the laminations guide the lines of magvalve opens and closes smoothly. netic flux. Rare earths are not required to manufacture these FluidFuture ­motors. KSB programme to increase the efficiency of pump systems UN Global Compact A global initiative for businesses Industry 4.0 and organisations launched by the A visionary project from the GerUnited Nations with the aim of man government’s future technoloshaping social and ecological gies strategy ­globalisation 176 GENER A L INFORMAT ION CONTACTS E D I TO R As a signatory to the United Nations Global KSB Aktiengesellschaft Compact , KSB is committed to endorsing the Johann-Klein-Strasse 9 ten principles of the international community 67227 Frankenthal, Germany in the areas of human rights, labour standards, Tel. +49 6233 86-0 environmental protection and anti-corruption. Fax +49 6233 86-3401 ONL I N E N E W S You will find the latest news on the KSB Group at: www.ksb.com Should you need additional information, please contact: I NVE S TO R R E L ATI O N S Ralf Pfundmaier Tel. +49 6233 86-2053 Fax +49 6233 86-3454 E-mail: investor-relations@ksb.com COMM U N I C AT I O N S Ullrich Bingenheimer Tel. +49 6233 86-2138 Fax +49 6233 86-3456 E-mail: ullrich.bingenheimer@ksb.com CON C E P T A N D D E S I G N KSB Communications, Frankenthal 3st kommunikation, Mainz PHOTO G R A P H Y Robert Kwiatek, Frankenthal Getty Images (p. 26 / 27 + 34 / 35) plainpicture (p. 28 / 29) Corbis Images (p. 30 / 31) shutterstock (p. 32 / 33) PRI N T I N G Ottweiler Druckerei und Verlag GmbH, Ottweiler GLOBAL PR ESENCE Backed up by production and assembly sites around the world, as well as a tight-knit sales and service network, KSB staff are always close at hand. KSB production / assembly sites KSB sales / service sites G L O BA L P R E S E N C E E UROP E MID D LE EA ST / AFRICA ASIA AMERICAS / OCEANIA Austria Netherlands Algeria China Argentina Belarus Norway Egypt India Australia Belgium Poland Ghana Indonesia Brazil Croatia Portugal Iran Japan Canada Czech Republic Russia Kenya Kazakhstan Chile Estonia Serbia Morocco Malaysia Columbia Finland Slovak Republic Oman Pakistan Mexico France Slovenia Qatar Philippines New Zealand Germany Spain Saudi Arabia Singapore Peru Hungary Sweden South Africa South Korea USA Italy Switzerland Turkey Taiwan Latvia Ukraine United Arab Emirates Thailand Luxembourg United Kingdom Vietnam FIN A N CIAL CALENDAR 30 MARCH 2016 Financial press conference 10:00, Frankenthal, Germany 1 APRIL 2016 Invitation to Annual General Meeting 29 APRIL 2016 Interim report January – March 2016 11 MAY 2016 Annual General Meeting 15:00, Frankenthal, Germany 12 AUGUST 2016 Half-year financial report January – June 2016 10 NOVEMBER 2016 Interim report January – September 2016 KSB Aktiengesellschaft 67225 Frankenthal (Germany) www.ksb.com
