COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by our Communication on Progress (COP) From: January 2015 To: January 2016 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that PT. Tandan Sawita Papua reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Henderi Djunaidi Director 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights · Assessment, policy and goals In line with the company’s Vision, to be a premier, green plantation company of choice with excellent socio-economic and environmental footprints, PT. Tandan Sawita Papua is committed to be a socially responsible company, nourishing the people and the communities and caring for the environment. It is clearly stated in the company’s regulation that any human rights abuses will not be tolerated and there will be law implication for any human rights issues. · Implementation · Implement Key Performance Development Review. Targets for future Years : 1. Give more opportunities to local community and other potential worker to joint with the company aligned with company’s labour needs fulfillment and their skill/knowledge, 2. Implement any new Government regulation regarding Human Rights, 3. Continuous New Trainee Assistant Program, 4. Carrying out Training program for local labour, 5. To make sure that no complicit in human right abuses within all activities. · Actions implemented in the last year/planned for next year: 1. Socialized and implement the company’s regulation regarding the Human Rights, Labour and Environmental Policies to the employee, 2. Performance Development Review has been implemented since 2010, 3. New Job position/required published on Newspaper/Job Consultant, 4. Carried out Training Program for local labour, 5. Participating in religious and custom ceremonies. · Measurement of outcome · Measurable Results or Outcomes: 1. Company’s regulation already socialized and implemented to all employees, 2. No Human Rights issues – zero complain on Human Right issues, 3. Increased number of Local Community that joint the company, 4. Evaluate New Trainee assistant program periodically, 5. Process Performance Development Review at midyear and end of year. Labour · Assessment, policy and goals · Whereby we committed to support the abolition of child labour by ensuring that there are no children on the plantation sites. · A brief description of our Processes or Systems. We have already identified: a. Total workers and their children in the surrounding working area, b. Number of School, c. Resources required (Teachers & Childcare), d. Paying attention on Regional Minimum Wage · Implementation 1. To ensure fair payment for wages based on Regional Minimum Wage. 2. To ensure that there are no children on the plantation sites which will potentially lead to child labour, some actions have been taken, including: a. Put more Sign Board/Warning Signs on the sites, b. Clearly stated in our company regulations the minimum age for workers, c. Intensively communication to local workers not to bring their children to work sites. 3. As part of our commitment to support children education, and at the same time eliminate child labour, we, in coordination with the Local Education Department conduct the followings: a. Donated books to students in the surrounding operational area, b. Continuous give teacher allowances, c. Additional Classes Program, d. Scholarship Program, e. Established Child Care Facility. · Measurement of outcome Number of local children for year 2015/16 that have an opportunity to study at Elementary School, Junior High School and Senior High School were 13 students, while there were 8 college students granted for scholarship. a. Suskun Village : 6 Students b. Yetti Village : 6 Students c. Kriku Village : 1 Students d. College Student Scholarship program : 8 students Environment · Assessment, policy and goals It is clearly stated in the company’s vision: “to be a premier, green plantation company of choice with excellent socio-economic and environmental footprints”. Plan for Next Year: 1. Continuous socialization of the company's regulation regarding Environment Policies to all employee, 2. Fulfilled the Indonesia Sustainable Palm Oil (ISPO) requirement, 3. Improve coordination with Environment Department. · Implementation 1. Socialized & implemented the company’s regulation regarding Environmental Policies to the employee, 2. Fulfilled the Indonesia Sustainable Palm Oil (ISPO) requirement regarding the environment issues, 3. Conservation Area/preservation on High Conservation Value area, Water Way Buffer Zone already identified, 4. Planting Program, 5. Implementation of plantation best practice management. · Measurement of outcome Measurable Results or Outcomes: 1. Conservation area identified, allocated as High Conservation Value area, 2. Water way buffer zone (100 meter from riverside) has been complied with, Anti-corruption · Assessment, policy and goals It is clearly stated in the company’s regulation that any corruption issues will not be tolerated and there will be law implication for any corruption activities. Implement Performance Development Review (PDR) · Budget Monitoring Procedure · Internal Audit · Implementation Actions implemented in the last year/planned for next year: Socialized and implemented the Company’s regulation regarding the corruption Policies to the employee and suppliers (third parties) Performance Development Review has been implemented. · Implement Budget monitoring procedure · Open Tender · Measurement of outcome 1. Company’s regulation has already socialized to all employees in year 2015, 2. Budget monitoring already implemented, 3. Internal Audit to process every 6 months, 4. Implemented Open Tender.
