Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 About this report Since the foundation of its Responsible Business Although the publication date of this report is June 2016, achieved by 2015; this report assesses our performance commitments in 2012, Carlson Wagonlit Travel unless otherwise indicated, all initiatives, stories, against those objectives. CWT has committed to a new accomplishments and the detailed performance disclosed set of RB objectives for 2020, which are also shared (CWT) has been continuously developing and are for the calendar year of 2015. The report includes within this report. building its Responsible Business program, helping wholly-owned CWT premises and joint ventures where to ensure that Responsible Business is firmly CWT has an active presence. This report has adopted a thematic approach engrained in the way we do business. to communicating CWT’s RB strategy, commitments, This is our fourth annual RB report and it gives a detailed performance, activities and goals. See here under.* account of our robust RB governance structure and strategic framework, along with an overview of our CWT is a signatory of the United Nations Global approach to sustainability. Furthermore, the report Compact (UNGC), and this report serves as our annual provides a comprehensive review of our RB performance Communication on Progress. The report is written and activities in 2015. In our inaugural global RB report in accordance with the GRI G4 guidelines (core level), in 2013, we set a number of objectives that were to be for which an index which can be found at the back of the document. * We think... We did... We live... Our view of the RB topic and how it fits with our strategy and objectives. Our performance against our objectives. How we demonstrate that RB is being ‘lived’ by our people. We said... We do... We will... Our past statements of commitment and our 2015 objectives. The activities and ongoing processes that ensure we strive Our commitments for future performance and accomplishments, to be a Responsible Business. driven by our new 2020 RB objectives. @ The report is available on CWT’s corporate website at www.carlsonwagonlit.com To learn more about Responsible Business at CWT, We welcome your feedback, suggestions and questions. please contact us at: responsiblebusiness@carlsonwagonlit.com Contents 01 Introduction 03 Ethics & Business 05 Environment 07 Community Behavior Involvement Message from the Chair of Carlson’s Board 03 Introduction 25 Introduction 47 Introduction 69 Message from the 2015 performance 26 2015 performance 48 2015 performance 70 President & CEO of CWT 05 Our Ethics and Compliance program 27 Measuring our carbon footprint 49 CWT’s Community Involvement: 3E 71 About CWT 06 The Responsible Supplier Code 28 Scope 1 & 2 emissions 50 2014 3E winners 72 Awards & Recognitions 08 Data privacy and information security 29 Scope 3 emissions – commuting 51 Celebrating community involvement We live... Neil’s story 30 Scope 3 emissions – business travel 52 in 2015 73 External reporting 53 A few of our Education initiatives 74 Fostering positive A few of our Emergency initiatives 75 02 Responsible environmental attitudes 54 A few of our Essential needs initiatives 76 Business Strategy & Governance 04 Human Resources Some examples of our CWT and the GTTP 77 and Human Rights environmental activities 55 We live... Renata’s story 78 Introduction 11 We live... Tony’s story 56 Introduction 33 Ongoing commitment to the Ten Principles of the UNGC 12 2015 performance 34 Responsible Business Enhancing the HR experience 35 08 Supplementary Information strategic framework 13 06 Responsible Engaging and involving our employees 36 Products & Services The United Nations Global Compact 2015 performance 14 Fostering diversity, inclusion Ten Principles in action at CWT 81 Our Responsible Business journey 16 & equal opportunity 37 Introduction 59 GRI table 82 Responsible Business approach 17 Developing our people 40 2015 performance 60 Thanks and photo credits 84 Launch of the Living Responsible A safe workplace for our people 43 Enhancing business continuity Business program 18 We live... Lydiane’s story 44 planning & management 61 The many faces of #ILiveRB 19 Responsible portfolio: Traveler care and green travel 63 We live... Julie’s story 20 We live... Janick’s story 66 We will... 2020 objectives 22 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 01 01 Introduction Message from the Introduction Chair of Carlson’s Board As Carlson Board Chair, I am proud performing companies worldwide, with and honored to introduce CWT’s particular commendation for ethics and sustainable environmental practices. annual report on Responsible Business. I salute CWT as the We have accelerated the success of our Responsible Business leader in the Responsible Business efforts by engaging business travel industry and thank our employees, educating our travelers CWT colleagues around the world and customers, measuring our progress, for their positive impact in this and partnering with experts to leverage leading edge research and knowledge to important domain. enhance our programs. We will continue to build on this momentum to further our Carlson has a long and deep commitment, ambitions and impact. spanning three generations of family leadership, to operate our businesses with We also align with other companies that respect for our employees, the worldwide seek to serve as positive global citizens. community and the natural environment. The United Nations Global Compact is an Diana L. Nelson, CWT embodies these principles and has Chair, Carlson important forum for convening like-minded truly embedded Responsible Business partners. As a signatory to the Global practices at the core of the enterprise. Compact, we are guided by its principles It is gratifying that the EcoVadis benchmark on human rights, ethics, the environment, for Responsible Business has provided “The Carlson Board, CWT Leadership Team, external validation for this commitment, combatting corruption and the fight against human trafficking. uuu and CWT employees around the globe naming CWT among the top 13% of best know that we are differentiated by our shared passion for Responsible Business and our commitment to leadership in these initiatives.” Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 03 Message from the Chair of Carlson’s Board (cont’d) Introduction uuu Ending human trafficking is an Our culture of service works hand in hand trafficking. These initiatives are area that has long been a focus for our with our Responsible Business initiatives. transformative and create shared value for company. Carlson was a founding member This is evident, for example, in the more the company and communities in which of the World Childhood Foundation which than 37,000 volunteer hours provided by we operate through unique and innovative protects at-risk children around the globe our employees worldwide in 2015. We partnerships. A new partnership is with and Carlson was also the first North have also partnered with our suppliers an organization called Orphaned Starfish, American hospitality and travel company to reduce our negative impact on the which provides survivors of abuse and to sign The Code of Conduct for the environment and worked with others in trafficking with key vocational skills and Protection of Children from Sexual our industry through International Tourism a pathway to economic independence. Exploitation. We have been encouraged Partnership (ITP) working groups to that other companies in our industries provide guidance on important social The Carlson Board, CWT Leadership Team, have followed our lead. As a recent and ethical issues facing our industry. and CWT employees around the globe Global Study on the Sexual Exploitation know that we are differentiated by our of Children in Travel and Tourism clearly Supporting our Responsible Business shared passion for Responsible Business found, there is still much work to be efforts also continues to be a major area and our commitment to leadership in done, particularly in educating business of emphasis for our Corporate Giving these initiatives. I hope that you will enjoy travelers. CWT has been leading by initiatives through the Carlson Family learning about our efforts in 2015 and example since 2012, adding travel alerts Foundation. Each year the Foundation promise that we will continue to allocate to nearly 300,000 itineraries each year makes significant grants to support job human and financial resources to drive to educate business travelers on how creation, workforce development performance, innovation and impact in to report suspected cases of child programs, educational opportunities, Responsible Business. sexual exploitation. environmental initiatives and industryleading initiatives to eliminate human Diana L. Nelson, Chair, Carlson 04 Message from the Introduction President & CEO of CWT It is evident that Responsible Our customers, suppliers and business Business has become a part of partners are all increasingly making ethics and sustainability a part of their business how CWT operates and is firmly strategy while seeking to improve their engrained in the way we think and performance, and we remain committed act. Our accomplishments have to fully supporting them as they progress. meant that we are now recognized as being the leader for Responsible CWT continues to embrace the Ten Business within the travel sector. Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), of which we are a signatory. The UNGC sets standards for Our global Responsible Business organizations on human rights, labor, governance plays an instrumental role in environment and anti-corruption, and ensuring our policies and objectives are these are incorporated in our Responsible well implemented, but it is through the Business strategy. We also report in engagement and active participation of accordance with the GRI G42 guidelines, our employees that we are truly “Living ensuring that we communicate our Kurt Ekert Responsible Business”. This is obvious in performance on material issues and follow President & CEO, CWT this year’s report, where we communicate a globally recognized reporting standard. CWT’s Responsible Business activities as experienced and told by our people. We have accomplished a lot since the “Upon joining the company in April 2016, In 2015, CWT again earned a Silver rating launch of our Responsible Business program and recognize that there is it immediately became clear that from EcoVadis1. Our strong performance and steady progress means we are now still much more to be done. With the Responsible Business is an integral part ranked in the top two percent for ethics commitment and dedication of our worldwide teams, I am confident that we of the CWT culture and the way we do and three percent for environmental practices within our industry. We strongly will achieve our objectives and continue business. I’m excited about the journey believe in extending our Responsible to be the industry-leading Responsible Business – one where Business and ahead that will see us further reinforce Business approach to our stakeholders. Responsible Business are synonymous. our position as the Responsible Business leader within the industry.” 1 EcoVadis is a consultancy that assess organizations‘ environmental, social and ethical performance. 2 Global Reporting Initiative G4 guidelines to “core“ application level. See table on pages 82 to 83. Kurt Ekert, President & CEO, CWT Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 05 About CWT Introduction Driving global commerce and providing peace of mind Gone are the days of the travel management company acting simply to fulfill travel requests. We are now in the business of people. CWT Business Meetings identifies and recognizes travelers Travel & Events as unique individuals with unique requirements. We strive to provide fast access to data and analytics that help our customers get the most value from the bespoke We are a global leader in creative programs they share with CWT while We are the global leader in business meetings and events management, providing travelers with the highest levels travel, present in over 150 countries. present in 75 countries, offering of service and security while they are We exist to get people to where they events, venue sourcing, group travel out there on the road. need to be, so you and your travelers and strategic meetings management. can fulfill your business objectives. www.cwt-meetings-events.com Every day CWT uses insights gained from www.carlsonwagonlit.com our people and our unique products to help us shape the best ways in which we can combine services and technology to better serve the needs of our clients and their travelers. Our customers know we are with them every step of the journey. We have two primary lines of business in which we operate: Business Travel and We understand and help supply We are a team of consultants that Meetings & Events. Our business travel specialized travel services for the energy, helps deliver you efficiencies in travel portfolio comprises the CWT Business resource and marine sectors. procurement through innovations in www.cwt-energy-resources-marine.com supplier sourcing, data intelligence, For more information about Travel service, the consulting arm (CWT CWT, please visit our global Solutions Group) and our specialized traveler engagement and mobility. www.cwt-solutions-group.com website at business travel services for unique sector www.carlsonwagonlit.com requirements (CWT ERM). Our other Follow us on Twitter business line is CWT Meetings & Events. @CarlsonWagonlit 06 About CWT Introduction 2015 key facts and figures 2015 was a challenging year for CWT increased its new business sales to CWT maintained its strong client the industry due to the continued US$1.7 billion. CWT’s transactions were satisfaction scores with travel manager stable at 61.4 million. Overall sales volume satisfaction of 90 percent, combined with difficult economic climate and falling reached US$24.2 billion, reflecting the an 88 percent traveler satisfaction rating oil prices. Nevertheless, thanks to significant curtailment in travel expenses and a 94 percent retention rate. the hard work and dedication of our by energy customers. Excluding the impact team members worldwide, CWT was of the energy portfolio, transactions able to deliver a solid set of results. increased by 1.3 percent. 2015 key facts and figures +150 61.4m 560,000 Global leader present in more than 150 countries ns Transac tio s Registered users includin g JV on award-winning app CWT To Go US$1.7bn New sales Business T in ravel 94% 19,000 Employees worldwide 27,500 Events organized See more about our performance in 2015 at: www.youtube.com/watch?v= 6I3JagfQzWM Client retention Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 07 Awards & Recognitions Introduction CWT’s Responsible Business program recognized as industry-leading by EcoVadis EcoVadis has recognized the This rating further confirms CWT’s EcoVadis provides an independent rating Responsible Business (RB) RB leadership position among travel of companies’ CSR activities in the four management companies, as well as areas of environment, labor practices, practices of CWT by putting it at more widely in the travel industry, fair business practices and sustainable the very top of the Silver Corporate including travel agencies, tour operators procurement. EcoVadis commended CWT is an industry leader in CSR Social Responsibility (CSR) rating and reservation services. CWT’s performance across the board for the second year in a row. and noted outstanding performance in for the second year in a row two categories in particular: fair business practices and the environment. A Leader in EcoVadis Top 2015 “Yet again, CWT has shown a strong performance and steady progress Responsible Business Silver Rating Responsible Business in their sustainability efforts. They Accomplishments are in the top 2 percent for ethics Among all Travel and 3 percent for environmental Management Reinforcement of our practices in their industry, which Companies environmental reporting is outstanding. This should worldwide demonstrate to their clients they 2 are proactively mitigating risks and Fair business Continued, robust and are well positioned to seize new systematic training on our practices TOP ethics policy sustainable business opportunities. % Over the past several years, CWT has consistently improved on the Implementation of a global responsible purchasing topics described in their EcoVadis 3 program scorecard improvement areas. If Environment CWT continues to prioritize their % improvement actions as they have Launch of our Living TOP Responsible Business program thus far, they will almost certainly continue to increase their ratings in the future.” David McClintock, Marketing Director, EcoVadis 08 Introduction Key awards and recognitions from around the globe in 2015 CWT Hong Kong recognized CWT named Best Corporate CWT wins prestigious awards CWT named “Best Travel as a “Caring Company” Travel Agency for chocolate brand incentive Management Company” The Hong Kong Council of Social Service CWT Asia Pacific was named “Best CWT Meetings & Events France has CWT UK & Ireland were winners at the awarded the Caring Company Logo to Corporate Travel Agency 2015” in the been awarded two titles at the prestigious 2015 Business Travel Awards, being given CWT Hong Kong in recognition of their Travel Trade Gazette (TTG) Travel Awards. Grands Prix KRéA 2015 – Best Incentive the title of “Best Travel Management commitments in the following areas: This is the fourth consecutive year that (public vote) and Best Incentive (jury Company” among companies with more Caring for the Community, Caring for CWT has received this prestigious title, vote). The Grand Prix KRéA is run by than £200m UK annual sales. Employees and Caring for the Environment. winning it also in 2002, 2007, 2012, magazine Meet-In, with winners chosen This is the fourth consecutive year the 2013 and 2014. through an online vote by readers of Hong Kong office has received the award. the publication and a jury of events and meeting experts. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 09 02 Responsible Business Strategy & Governance We think... Responsible Business Strategy & Governance For us, Responsible Business is a Going forward, our aim is to continue key strategic part of our organization to build on the momentum we have already established, remaining the leading and is one of the areas that strongly responsible business in our industry. differentiates us from other business In 2015, we launched the next phase travel companies. of our Responsible Business strategy, which focuses on further embedding Over the past few years, we have our Responsible Business values deeper continued to make significant progress and more widely across the Group. by bringing together best practices across Through our “Living Responsible Business” all of our Responsible Business domains. approach, we aim to help employees We have established a comprehensive better understand what being a strategic framework for Responsible Responsible Business means at CWT Business, which is supported by CWT’s and how each and every one of us can robust global governance model, including contribute, through our daily work activities continual support and involvement of the and the decisions we take. organization’s most senior management. Françoise Grumberg Vice President, Global Responsible Business It is important we ensure that our Responsible Business program focuses on the most relevant and important issues “At CWT, Responsible Business is about that face our organization, society and the environment in general. For this reason, ‘Walking the Talk’ and leading by example. we have determined the areas most For this reason, we have a clearly-defined important to CWT and its stakeholders. These inform our strategic approach strategic approach and governance model and are embedded in our Responsible that is underpinned by our long-term Business domains, key priorities, long-term commitments and 2020 objectives. commitments and 2020 objectives.” Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 11 We think... Responsible Business Strategy & Governance Ongoing commitment to the Ten Principles of the UNGC The UN Global Compact is the world’s largest Human Rights voluntary corporate responsibility initiative. By committing to this strategic policy initiative in 2012, CWT formally pledged to align its Principle 1 Principle 2 operations and strategies with ten universally Businesses should support Make sure that they are and respect the protection not complicit in human accepted principles in the areas of human of internationally rights abuses. rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. proclaimed human rights. As a UN Global Compact signatory, we continue to align our Responsible Business policies to its Ten Principles. Labor Principle 3 Principle 4 Principle 5 Principle 6 Businesses should uphold The elimination of all The effective abolition The elimination the freedom of association forms of forced and of child labor. of discrimination in and the effective compulsory labor. respect of employment recognition of the right and occupation. to collective bargaining. Environment Anti-Corruption Principle 7 Principle 8 Principle 9 Principle 10 Businesses should Undertake initiatives Encourage the Businesses should work support a precautionary to promote greater development and diffusion against corruption in all its approach to environmental environmental of environmentally friendly forms, including extortion challenges. responsibility. technologies. and bribery. WE SUPPORT 12 We think... Responsible Business Strategy & Governance Responsible Business strategic framework Our Responsible Business program is built upon a strategic framework that defines how we approach Responsible Business. This includes how it is governed, how it is delivered, what informs our areas of focus, our long-term commitments and the objectives we intend to achieve. Materiality UN Global Compact (UNGC) How we determine what Responsible The UNGC Ten Principles are an Business means to us: integral part of our strategy, culture Regulations; core values; and day-to-day activities. employees and external bodies’ feedback and trends. Stakeholders Long-term GRI Connecting with those who have commitments GRI ensures we foster a consistent most impact on our business: approach to managing RB issues, Employees; customers; impacts and performance. We use G4 suppliers; partners; RB Objectives guidelines at core application level. local communities and others. CWT RB Governance ISO 26000 A global governance network comprising: Provides guidance on how we operate RB Council; Global RB Team; RB Subject in a socially responsible way. Matter Experts; RB Ambassadors and RB Country Correspondents. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 13 We said and we did... Responsible Business Strategy & Governance CWT has a holistic approach The Responsible Business strategy is A full review of our performance against Fully achieved towards Responsible Business. divided into seven distinct but integrated each of the objectives can be found in the domains. Each domain is built upon a table that follows, and a historic timeline Almost achieved long-term commitment and specific 2015 shows some of our most significant objectives that were published in 2013. accomplishments since our Responsible Partially achieved Business program started in 2012. Status as of Domain Key Priorities 15 Long-term Commitments 15 Objectives for 2015 end of 2015 Ethics & Business 1 Business Ethics Strategically address compliance and ethics worldwide: All employees are periodically trained to our ethics and & Compliance conduct our business in line with our values, our Code compliance policies Behavior of Business Ethics and Conduct, and the UN Global Compact principles 2 Spread the word to our key stakeholders about our Our set of global policies is fully deployed and their ethics and zero tolerance approach implementation monitored and regularly tested Privacy & Data Protection 3 Maintain a secure business environment for a global data and privacy protection program Further develop a global program to ensure consistency despite different and varying local legal requirements to protect personal data Human Resources 4 Diversity Leverage diversity as one of CWT’s major assets Further expand diversity and inclusion initiatives in all regions and Human Rights Employee Engagement 5 Cultivate a highly engaged workforce Reach the level of best performing companies Human Capital Development 6 Establish workforce readiness to deliver against future business needs Ensure leading edge development planning to our talents worldwide 14 Responsible Business Strategy & Governance Status as of Domain Key Priorities 15 Long-term Commitments 15 Objectives for 2015 end of 2015 Environment 7 Energy & Develop an environmentally responsible culture Ensure full deployment of a Responsible Business training, Carbon Management including a module on Environment 8 Measure our global carbon footprint Measure the total Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions of the countries representing at least 70% of the company’s overall revenue 9 Implement a global environmental strategy Reduce by 10% the GHG emissions per employee vs 2012. Define a 2020 target in 2015 Responsible Responsible 10 Contribute to our clients’ CSR/Responsible Business Offer an innovative suite of responsible products Products Portfolio ambitions and promote sustainability and services & Services Business 11 Ensure a robust Global Business Continuity CWT to fulfill with the requirements of the best standards Continuity management system and norms in the domain such as ISO 22301 12 Establish a best-in-class crisis management approach Become the reference in terms of crisis management in the travel industry Community Corporate Community 13 Care for the communities where we live and work, Deploy CWT’s “glocal” approach and 3E* strategy worldwide Involvement Involvement and contribute to their development through our skills *Education, Emergency, Essential needs and expertise Responsible Business 14 Global Ensure progress transparency Monitor and report our progress on an annual basis Responsible as from 2013 Governance Business Governance 15 Integrate Responsible Business into our activities A network of RB Ambassadors and a Responsible Business handbook are fully deployed Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 15 We did... Responsible Business Strategy & Governance Our Responsible Business journey Publication of 2015 Publication of first Global roll out of Published Global Health Roll out of Responsible RB objectives global RB report enhanced Code & Safety Charter Supplier Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Becomes signatory Business Continuity Published Global Launch of 3E of UN Global Compact Plans implemented Environmental Charter Community and tested in all Involvement strategy Various RB initiatives Deployment of wholly-owned offices and initiatives taking place at local new global level across regions environmental tool 2012 2013 2014 2015 Responsible Business Implementation function established of HR Moving Launch of Living at global level Forward program RB program Formation of the EcoVadis Silver RB accomplishments RB Council and Rating awarded to integrated into CWT Eco-Attitude Ambassadors network CWT for first time annual CEO Awards campaign launched 16 We do... Responsible Business Strategy & Governance Responsible Business approach CWT believes that a robust Governance bodies Responsible Business governance framework is a fundamental RB Council RB Chaired by the President & CEO and mostly represented requirement for delivering its Council by Executive Team members along with representatives Responsible Business strategy. from various functions. The council has oversight on the RB strategy and lends support to the program and its initiatives. They ensure that RB is embedded into the We have established a comprehensive fabric of the company and meet approximately six times governance structure, composed of a per year. RB Subject Global Responsible Business Council, the Global Matter Experts RB Team Global Responsible Business Team Responsible Business Team, Responsible Responsible The Global Responsible Business team is at the heart of Business Subject Matter Experts, and Business the RB framework. It is responsible for determining and Ambassador and Country Correspondent at CWT coordinating the RB strategy across the organization, which includes sharing good practices, analyzing and networks that ensure the robustness of communicating performance, liaising with internal and our RB governance framework, carefully external stakeholders and developing specific programs ensuring accountability and alignment that ensure RB is “Lived” throughout the company. across the company. Our people form RB Country RB Subject Matter Experts an integral component in how we shape RB Specialists and owners of the various RB domains and our Responsible Business (RB) strategy Ambassadors Correspondents technical areas define specific objectives and develop and policies. Through their actions, action plans to ensure CWT reaches its RB objectives. commitments and feedback, we as a RB Ambassadors company “Live Responsible Business.” Our 10 Ambassadors are spread across the three CWT regions and the various business functions. They are primarily responsible for communicating the strategy within their relevant functions and regions. They also help to mobilize and support local management and the RB network and facilitate information sharing, such as best practices. Virtual meetings are held around six times per year. RB Country Correspondents Approximately 80 CWT team members act as geographically-defined point-of-contacts, interpreting and adapting RB programs and initiatives to meet local needs. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 17 We do... Responsible Business Strategy & Governance Launch of the Living Responsible Business program Living Responsible Business CWT’s Living Responsible Business program is a multi-year initiative aimed at involving all employees and further embedding Responsible Business into the fabric of the Six Ways We Can All company. Responsible Business is a part of CWT’s culture. Through the engagement, support and passion of our people, we will continue to make a difference. In 2015, Live Responsible Business we placed a significant emphasis on Living Responsible Business, engaging with all of our employees to show them how they can get involved. Paving the way and leading by example, the RB Council shared the ways that each one of them has been Living 2 Welcome all forms of diversity and Responsible Business in a video montage. practice inclusion at work To illustrate how all employees, regardless of function or location, can contribute, 1 Live by the Code of 3 Contribute to CWT we have identified the six ways in which we can all live Responsible Business. Business Ethics community and Conduct involvement Living Responsible Business Week activities in CWT’s Living Responsible Business Week served as the launch pad of the Living RB Education, Emergency, and program. During the first week of September, CWT employees all across the world Essential needs celebrated the inaugural Living RB Week that was aimed at building awareness about (3E) how we can all contribute to the Responsible Business domains and actively “Live Responsible Business.” In just five days, hundreds of conversations, photos and selfie 6 Lead by example in 4 Adopt videos were uploaded onto Yammer by employees around the world, showing the eco-attitudes words and accommitment and passion so many of them have regarding Responsible Business topics. to reduce our tions internally environmental and externally 5 Voice your ideas and footprint get involved in shaping our future © 2015 CWT Living Responsible Business Our DNA. Our Mark. 18 We do... Responsible Business Strategy & Governance The many faces of #ILiveRB Screenshots taken from employee “selfie” videos, filmed during Living Responsible Business Week in September 2015. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 19 We live... Getting people involved The APAC Rainbow Team is a crossfunctional group of CWT employees mobilizing staff around the Asia Pacific region to get involved in responsible business activities. The commitment of the APAC Rainbow Team and the individual country ambassadors is exceptional, and their passion and collaboration made it possible to exceed all of their 2015 objectives. Some of the results were: 1,436 volunteers participating in 65 employee-led RB activities across the region; the dedication of 5,700 man-hours to RB activities APAC-wide; and US$34,500 (in cash and/or kind) donated to beneficiaries across the APAC region. In recognition of their incredible commitment and passion, the APAC Rainbow team won the CEO award in February for the Responsibility Business Category. Responsible Business Strategy & Governance Julie’s story Global Program Manager Julie everything, from marketing the initiative takes real pride in the Asia Pacific to taking food to the warehouse to be distributed to charities.” Rainbow Team. Julie thinks involvement is high because “Responsible Business “We deal with the full spectrum of Responsible Business here. That’s seven colleagues communicate well. “We always get support, especially from our is part of our organization’s different domains,” she explains. “Like a management team who lead by example DNA and it helps me rainbow, we reflect happiness and diversity.” and encourage their teams. Then you have our amazing marketing team, using social connect and feel a sense How did she get involved? “I was new to media channels like Yammer to spread of belonging.” the company. Like anyone would, I wanted to find a good way to connect and belong. the word. Technology really keeps everyone in touch with what’s happening.” So I began to take part in Rainbow Team activities. It wasn’t long before I wanted “Rainbow Team offers me a way to give to play a bigger role.” something back,” says Julie. “I think others feel the same way. It’s a meaningful way Today, Julie leads the “Responsible to use your spare time. And you can’t Products and Services” domain in APAC. put a price on seeing the smiling faces “As a Program Manager, who’s in contact of everyone we support.” with clients, I’m passionate about this,” she says. “We can shape the conversation So what message does Julie have for across the industry.” This is exactly what others who want to share this feeling? the Rainbow Team has been doing, “Responsible business is part of our through initiatives that have exceeded organization’s DNA. So if you haven’t had expectations in terms of employee the chance to volunteer in any activities, engagement and volunteered hours. the time is now. Get in touch with your team. You’ll be made welcome. There are When asked about outstanding moments, so many ways to get involved and make Julie doesn’t hesitate. “Hosting a donation an impact.” drive for The Food Bank Singapore. We worked with our industry partners, Julie Cedo is Global Program Manager, Asia Pacific Sabre and The Association of Corporate and a member of the APAC Rainbow Team. She is Travel Executives. The participation was based in Singapore. overwhelming. People worked on Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 21 We will... Responsible Business Strategy & Governance Each of the RB domains have You can find more about what we are With the closing out of our 2015 objectives, RB governance bodies to give further their own key priorities, long-term doing in each of our RB domains in the we have already begun to focus on our details about what the objectives will respective chapter dedicated to it within future achievements. As an initial first entail and how we will achieve them. commitments and 2020 objectives. this report, or by visiting our CWT step, we have defined a set of high-level Below is a brief summary of the new corporate website. objectives for 2020. During 2016, a clear 2020 objectives and how they support action plan will be developed by the our long-term commitments. Domain Key Priorities Long-term Commitments 2020 Objectives Responsible Business Governance Global Responsible Business Ensure progress transparency 1 Assess our Living RB maturity and performance at global and local levels on an annual basis Governance 2 Integrate Responsible Business into our activities Deploy the Living Responsible Business program in functions and locations globally Ethics & Business 3 Business Ethics Strategically address compliance and ethics worldwide: Further engage all employees and CWT partners through a global & Compliance conduct our business in line with our values, our Code multi-year ethics training and communication program Behavior of Business Ethics and Conduct, and the UN Global Compact principles 4 Spread the word to our key stakeholders about our ethics Deploy both a robust external information campaign about our global and zero tolerance approach policies and our best practices approach to ethics and compliance, as well as our Responsible Purchasing Program Privacy & 5 Maintain a secure business environment for a global data Continue protecting employee and client data through leading-edge data Data Protection and privacy protection program privacy and information security policies and practices, while continually developing expertise throughout the organization 22 Responsible Business Strategy & Governance Domain Key Priorities Long-term Commitments 2020 Objectives Human Resources 6 Diversity Leverage diversity as one of CWT’s major assets Deployment of our global Diversity & Inclusion strategy through three regional Diversity & Inclusion committees and Human Rights 7 Non-discrimination training of all recruiters and managers Employee Cultivate a highly engaged workforce 8 Engagement Reach the level of best performing companies while developing leaders to become engagers Human Capital Establish workforce readiness to deliver against future 9 Development business needs Ensure delivery against future business needs by developing and Ensure full selecting the deployment of aright talent for Business Responsible and driving a culture the futuretraining, including of innovation a module on Environment Environment Energy & Carbon Management Develop an environmentally responsible culture 10 Educate all our employees through eco-attitude campaigns and an environment training module translated into several languages 11 Empower the global environment network to drive local performance Measure our global carbon footprint Implement a global environmental strategy 12 Reduce our global GHG emissions by 10% per employee vs 2015 Responsible Products Responsible Portfolio Contribute to our clients’ CSR/Responsible Business ambitions and promote sustainability 13 Further reinforce our Responsible Business products and services offering to our clients & Services 14 Proactively propose carbon offsetting meetings and events to clients 15 Business Ensure a robust Global Business Continuity Expand the scope of an ISO 22301-aligned Business Continuity Continuity Management system Management System to include non-Operations functions 16 Establish a best-in-class crisis management approach Become the reference in terms of crisis management in the travel industry Community Corporate Community 17 Care for the communities where we live and work, Further deploy globally and measure CWT’s impact in the Involvement Involvement and contribute to their development through our skills 3E* fields of action and expertise *Education, Emergency, Essential needs 03 Ethics & Business Behavior We think... Ethics & Business Behavior At CWT, we hold ourselves and The BCC is the highest level compliance everyone we work with to high governance body at CWT. It is chaired by CWT’s President & CEO and includes standards of ethical conduct. Integrity members of CWT’s Executive Team. is one of our core values. We have built an ethical culture by doing Also within the scope of the Ethics and business in an open and honest Business Behavior program are data way and by taking the right steps privacy and information security. Due to achieve results. This starts with to the large volume of client and traveler information that CWT handles, highly having the necessary standards and robust procedures and mechanisms are organizational structure in place. in place to help ensure that personal information is kept safe and secure. The At the foundation of the Ethics and effectiveness of our systems is regularly Business Behavior program is the CWT tested. In 2015, an annual Cyber Security Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Awareness Week was launched to educate (the Code). Every year, our employees employees and deliver training materials. Lauren Aste are required to take online training to Executive Vice President & General Counsel familiarize themselves with the Code CWT has invested heavily in its Ethics and other existing guidelines and and Business Behavior program. This is policies, which are continually reviewed 26,636 reflected in our fully achieving all 2015 and updated. 2015, for example, saw the Responsible Business objectives in that “Ethics is how you act at every launch of our Responsible Supplier Code, which clearly lays out the standards CWT domain, a year ahead of schedule. This level of competency and performance moment, even when no one employee training hours expects of its suppliers and other partners. was recognized by EcoVadis, who ranked through virtual and else is looking.” CWT among the top two percent of 95% online sessions Overseeing the implementation of companies in the fair business practices Ethics and Business Behavior standards category for our 2015 performance. and processes is a dedicated Global Compliance team, responsible for driving of all employees the employee training program and completed overseeing compliance at the operational online training level. The Global Compliance team is for the Code accountable to the Board of Directors and the Business Conduct Council (BCC). Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 25 We said and we did... Ethics & Business Behavior 2015 Objectives Completion Performance Summary All employees are periodically trained to our ethics Continuing with our efforts on both annual and newly deployed training, we and compliance policies. achieved a total in excess of 26,000 employee training hours through virtual and live online sessions in 2015. Our set of global policies is fully deployed and their In addition to promoting existing tools and policies, we also continuously updated implementation monitored and regularly tested. CWT policies to reflect best practices. In 2015, this included a supplement to the Conflicts of Interest Policy and a new Outside Board Membership Policy. Further develop a global program to ensure Aside from regular reviews and continuous alignment of CWT data and information consistency despite different and varying local security policies with regulations, CWT launched an inaugural awareness campaign legal requirements. to all employees in 2015. Fully achieved Almost achieved Partially achieved 26 We do... Ethics & Business Behavior Our Ethics and Compliance program The Ethics and Compliance function A robust governance structure is in place behaviors that CWT expects of all The Compliance and Ethics Handbook at CWT is integrated and designed to to ensure we continuously uphold high stakeholders. To help ensure that the Code – Everyone Everyday ethical standards across the company. of Business Ethics and Conduct is adhered help detect and prevent violations of to, the Global Compliance team ensures Although more formal documents the law, respond to potential issues, A dedicated Global Compliance Team that appropriate training and awareness proactively deter problematic provide compliance and ethics is responsible for the deployment and is provided to all employees and regular governance standards, in 2015, behaviors and actions, as well as updating of various policies and procedures, monitoring of performance – including CWT published a quick-reference, reduce the likelihood of unethical including the Code of Business Ethics and internal and external review – takes place. online resource known as the activity by employees, partners, Conduct. Our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, which is available in 17 languages, In addition to the Code of Business Ethics Compliance and Ethics Handbook. contractors, officers and directors. The handbook provides an stipulates the work conditions and and Conduct, employees are expected to adhere to and receive training on other overview of charters, policies and CWT policies. These include policies procedures, along with practical on Prevention of Corruption and Antido’s and don’ts for all employees. Board of Directors Competitive Practices, Conflicts of Interest, In addition to being available Gifts & Entertainment and Trade Association in English, the handbook has Membership. Policies are regularly updated been translated into eight other to ensure they are in line with industry languages: Chinese, Dutch, French, Business Conduct Council practices. In 2015, a supplement to the German, Italian, Polish, Portuguese Conflicts of Interest Policy was launched, and Spanish. along with a new Outside Board Membership General Counsel Policy. A suite of tools are in place that ensure non-compliance with the policies Your Compliance & Ethics Handbook are dealt with discreetly and fairly, including the CWT Ethics Helpline, testing exercises Global Compliance team and animated awareness vignettes. led by Vice President, Global Compliance To learn more about CWT’s global policies on ethics and compliance and the CWT AMERICAS EMEA APAC Ethics Helpline, refer to pages 33 and 34 Everyone Every Day of our 2013 Responsible Business Report. COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL – For Internal Use Only This handbook provides summary information. Formal documents govern. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 27 We do... Ethics & Business Behavior The Responsible Supplier Code Deployed in 2015 and available WebEx training sessions for both policies in six languages, CWT’s Responsible have been delivered to teams that engage with suppliers, including Sourcing, Legal, Supplier Code sets out the IT and Finance. Furthermore, a module ethical, compliance, social and of the training has been made available environmental standards for our on CWT’s online learning tool for all non-trade suppliers, and allows employees to access. CWT to help mitigate risks in our supply chain. CWT’s strong Silver Rating from EcoVadis is supported by our highly-rated responsible business practices and performance. It is The Responsible Supplier Code details anticipated that the effective deployment what CWT expects of its suppliers, in all of of our Responsible Supplier Code will their activities on behalf of CWT, to operate further strengthen our efforts in this in full compliance with international area while also helping to ensure we standards and local regulations. Beyond are continuously meeting our clients’ mere regulatory compliance, the CWT expectations regarding our supply chain. Responsible Supplier Code goes further, drawing upon internationally recognized standards that advance social and environmental responsibility. The primary objective of the CWT Responsible Supplier Code is the requirement that each nontrade supplier acknowledges compliance with CWT’s Responsible Business standards. It captures the minimum “CWT’s Responsible Supplier Code sets out the ethical, requirements CWT expects of its suppliers. In addition to the Responsible Supplier compliance, social and environmental standards for Code, 2015 saw the implementation of the our non-trade suppliers.” new Global Non-trade Procurement Policy which helps to standardize and improve CWT’s procurement processes. 28 We do... Ethics & Business Behavior Global Data Privacy and Information Security programs Global Data Privacy is chaired by CWT’s President & CEO. Global Information Security CWT’s 2015 Cyber Security At CWT, data privacy and information We continuously monitor developments Following this robust approach, CWT’s Awareness Week security are an integral part of virtually all in privacy laws and regulations globally, Information Security program ensures of our Responsible Business domains; capturing and building mitigation plans for the security and protection of travelers’ The awareness week focused from Human Resources – where annual privacy risks that might affect our business personal information throughout our on providing tips and tricks for security awareness training helps protect which, along with progress reports, are travel management process. The CWT protecting business and personal travelers’ personal information – to regularly communicated to the BCC. Information Security program embeds information at work and at home. Responsible Products and Services, where CWT takes data privacy and information information security within the culture vendor selection is a key consideration. security very seriously and we align our of our company and is reflected in the data privacy program around the seven architecture, design and support of CWT’s privacy standards are driven by the pillars of compliance and data privacy. our operations and systems. Policies Business Conduct Council (BCC)1 which are updated periodically to reflect enhancements to technologies, emerging threats, changes to data protection 1 To know more about the Business Conduct Council, please refer to programs and in ensuring ongoing page 30 of our 2013 Responsible compliance with applicable regulations. Business report. Awareness training for Information Security is provided to all staff annually, The seven pillars and, in 2015, awareness was further raised of compliance following CWT’s inaugural Cyber Security & data privacy Awareness Week in October. Governance & oversight Regulatory management Risk assessment & reporting Policies & procedures Training & awareness Monitoring & testing Issues management Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 29 We live... Ethics & Business Behavior Secure data in a changing world Data and information security are a key priority for us as employees and the trust put in us by our clients are the cornerstone of our business model. To put our information security processes to the test at CWT, Neil’s team regularly run drills to ascertain the risk and likelihood of information or data security breaches occurring at CWT. These tests also serve as a way to educate employees about the importance of information security and help them understand what they need to do to minimize risks. 30 Ethics & Business Behavior Neil’s story Ask Neil why his work matters Asked about the support he’s had, Neil and you’re left under no illusion. is clearly happy. “Senior Management really got behind this. What stood out was that we all worked together at every As CWT’s Senior Director of Information level. The want and the desire is there, Security Management, Neil is on the and it’s fantastic.” frontline against the increasing threat of cyber-attacks and data protection breaches. As a result of these drills, he sees an And he’s been taking serious action. increased awareness of security across the business. “It’s all about diligence. Our By running data security drills across the people are more receptive to anything that business, Neil and his team have learned looks suspicious – and they’re taking care a lot about the challenges we all face – to minimize the risks. From the moment not just in our industry but in the wider they report anything, we can work to world. “We did this to improve ourselves,” resolve and learn from it.” explains Neil. “Because, no matter your role, there’s always the opportunity to Neil knows there is always more work do things better.” to do, but that’s something he thrives on. “There’s never a dull moment in a role like “Collecting personal information is key this. It’s really exciting for me to see how “It’s really exciting for me to see how to what we do,” Neil continues. “It gets clients to where they need to be. But if we adapt to a constantly changing world. we adapt to a constantly changing We’re doing all we can to keep data secure, this falls into the wrong hands, you’re not and that’s definitely rewarding work.” world. We’re doing all we can just dealing with the matter of financial compensation. You’re facing a damaged to keep data secure, and that’s Neil Kelly is CWT’s Senior Director, Information reputation.” Security Management and is based in Minneapolis, US. definitely rewarding work.” So what did Neil’s drills achieve – and were they a success? “It was a positive for everybody and it felt great to see the processes we’ve put in place at work. Of course, I’m never really satisfied. I guess that’s part of my job,” he says. “But I see every drill as successful. You’re always learning.” Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 31 04 Human Resources and Human Rights We think... Human Resources and Human Rights CWT’s overall aim is to attract, In addition, managers at CWT regularly develop, engage and retain the assess the competency and development needs of each individual. In 2015, we best employees for our business introduced a new approach to performance and support them throughout management globally, aimed at supporting the employee lifecycle. managers in their role of developing and assessing their teams. We also design and One key success factor in delivering run a wide range of programs to support our ambition is enhancing the HR our employees’ development, ranging experience for our people. We are on from leadership development to traveler a transformation journey to optimize counselor onboarding. this experience by streamlining global processes, introducing a new HR service model and implementing global state-ofthe-art HR tools. Our commitment to employee engagement Jean-Luc Duchemin continues. The engagement survey allows Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources us to collect employee views and feedback in a structured way, and we have seen steady progress year-on-year. In 2015, we saw a significant increase in the “Our people are the heartbeat of our engagement survey feedback scores of company. We recognize this and are non-managers. Moving forward, we will be changing the frequency of the survey continually developing ways to better to once every two years to allow people engage, support and develop our more time to assess results and make improvements. We will also adopt a more employees while ensuring that we dynamic listening process through the attract a talented and diverse workforce introduction of more frequent pulse surveys around specific topics. for the future.” Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 33 We said and we did... Human Resources and Human Rights 2015 Objectives Completion Performance Summary Diversity – Further expand diversity and inclusion Good progress has been made to develop our diversity and inclusion programs. Our global initiatives in all regions. recruitment process is designed to prevent discrimination. We were able to establish Diversity and Inclusion Councils in two of our three regions and have plans to implement the third going forward. Cultural diversity is embedded in our refreshed CWT core values and we will continue to address diversity and inclusion as part of our 2020 objectives. Employee Engagement – Reach the level of best For the past several years, we have steadily increased our engagement score. Even though performing companies. we have not yet fully achieved the level of best performing companies, we are constantly improving our approach to measurement and action planning to ensure that we improve in key areas. Of particular note in 2015 is the significant increase in engagement among non-managers and the introduction of a best-practice sharing forum on Yammer. Human Capital Development – Ensure leading-edge We have significantly enhanced our development planning process for talents, expanding development planning to our talents worldwide. the scope from executives and senior leaders to include people managers. Our view is that success comes first from training our management team, who in turn, encourages the ongoing development of other team members. We have merged our development process with our performance review and planning procedure. This has helped to implement a more integrated performance management cycle for individuals and their managers to operate under, using the HR Connect tool to facilitate this. Fully achieved Almost achieved Partially achieved 34 We do... Human Resources and Human Rights Enhancing the HR experience CWT has embarked on a multi-year A key component of this project has been program to enhance the HR the introduction of HR Connect – a highly secure cloud-based Oracle solution experience of managers and covering all aspects of HR administration employees and ultimately improve from an employee database to the ways in which we attract, performance management, recruitment, develop, reward, retain and engage learning, timesheets and absence all employees worldwide. Through management. To date, HR Connect is this program, we are gradually available in 16 countries and has a user base of over 5,000 employees. Usage aligning global HR processes, of this one-stop-shop system is growing transitioning to one single online every day, with over 25,000 visits to the platform and reshaping the portal per month. HR function. In 2015, we went live with our new HR tool, HR Connect, and opened two of the three new CWT HR Service Centers, one in the Philippines and another in Costa Rica. At present, 15 countries are supported by our new HR services team made up of highly-skilled CWT employees and HR professionals. Through this project, we are also improving efficiency and reducing administrative complexity through the harmonization of payroll services in 24 countries and counting. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 35 We do... Human Resources and Human Rights Engaging and involving our employees Employee engagement is the Engagement social network CWT Spark! Voice of travel counselors extent to which an organization To support teams in creating robust actions plans and engagement efforts, Another significant engagement How was your work experience today? has captured the hearts and minds CWT deployed a dedicated social network of its people. It’s a tough measure initiative in 2015 was the launch forum – as part of the CWT internal social and one that is centered on helping of a new, leading-edge ideanetwork Yammer – that focuses on tips for companies understand the best engaging teams through action planning, management platform. ways to manage their people in sharing of best practices and celebrating CWT Spark! is a digital innovation tool that order to build and sustain strong successes. It was established to provide allows CWT to ask employees questions, Complementing the annual additional support and encourage dialogue Employee Engagement Survey, business performance. set challenges and capture great ideas to among team managers, not only on the help tap into growth in our business — we developed an additional way occasion of the Employee Engagement and possibly even open up new career The Employee Engagement Survey allows of evaluating employee well-being Survey but all year round as well. The aim opportunities. The initial launch was in team members worldwide to provide is to keep the forum active and to extend May 2015 and employees from anywhere through daily Pulse Surveys. feedback anonymously on their experience the reach across different teams even within CWT were encouraged to of working for CWT across a number of participate. In just three weeks, employees Each day, travel counselors in 33 further in 2016. countries are prompted upon logging different categories. In 2015, our response suggested nearly 500 innovative ideas for rate was a very healthy 78 percent and generating additional revenue. By the close into an application to express their of the first business idea challenge, around current level of workplace satisfaction by the results showed that we have made 4,000 employees have participated and selecting among four different emoticons improvements in nearly all areas, and with a click of a mouse. There have been scored particularly well in those areas over 31,000 interactions (including comments, votes, views) were generated. nearly 180,000 responses to date, over on which we had specifically focused: 85 percent of which have been “Very The CWT executive committee reviewed innovation, supervision and employee Happy Faces” or “Happy Faces”. Simple these and selected four winners, two of promise. A particular highlight this year was which went on to become active projects tools such as these help managers check the significant increase in non-manager within the organization. in on the well-being and engagement +500 engagement scores– who account for 85 of our people on a daily basis. percent of the CWT population. We aim to continue to improve our feedback scores until we reach the top quartile of best ideas collected from performing companies and are developing employees in just action plans on a team, regional and three weeks functional basis to ensure that we get there. See our CWT Spark! video at: www.youtube.com/embed/L0-RXUjruhA 36 We do... Human Resources and Human Rights Fostering diversity, inclusion & equal opportunity Diversity is a part of who we are Our commitment to diversity is reflected Spotlight on Americas’ Diversity and Inclusion Council as a company – it’s in our DNA. in our global recruitment process, which ensures that company policies regarding We believe this gives us a non-discrimination, equal opportunity competitive advantage. As the name and recruitment by competency are implies, diversity comes in many respected. We strive to always present forms: from gender to age to a diverse panel of highly-qualified national origin to sexual orientation candidates for every position. to disability…the list goes on. The Americas and APAC regions have long As a global company, CWT strives set up Diversity and Inclusion Councils to ensure that our people reflect whose purpose is to encourage diversity the demographic diversity of our and inclusion in CWT’s corporate culture. borderless business environment. In EMEA, countries and offices are encouraged to develop diversity and This starts with gender diversity. 38 percent inclusion schemes, such as La Mission In the US, the Diversity and Inclusion Council has established Employee of our global executive team members Handicap & Diversité program in France, Partner Networks (EPNs) that connect people who have particular areas are female, representing an increase of which is featured in the “We Live” part of this chapter. of focus, often from under-represented groups. Some of these include: 2 percentage points over 2014. In 2015, 43 percent of our global senior leaders LUNA (Latinos Unidos Network Association; established in 2012, 60 members in were women, up 9 percentage points US and Canada) – supporting the professional and personal development of Latino/ and steadily increasing over the past Hispanic employees. three years. Across CWT, 71 percent of employees are female. GET (Generations Excellence Team; established in 2012, 35 members) – ensuring that the knowledge and expertise of all generations, from baby boomers to millennials, is fully Over 100 nationalities are represented at leveraged and shared. CWT – as diverse as our global footprint. This cultural diversity helps broaden our LGBTA Alliance (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Allies; established in 2013, 50+ members) – work together to raise the profile and promote the development of members corporate perspective and vision. of LGBTA community, both within CWT and the wider community. AATP (African American Travel Professionals; established in 2014, 14 members) – a forum that helps to increase the visibility and promote the professional development of AfricanAmericans, both at work and in the community. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 37 We do... Human Resources and Human Rights Fostering diversity, inclusion & equal opportunity Bringing the best candidates to CWT In 2012, we launched an employer brand Attracting millennial talents in Poland Our people are our most valuable asset, initiative and campaign tagged My journey. and CWT aims to hire and retain the most My CWT., targeted to the most talented Poland is a key market for CWT in terms of recruitment as we have not talented people who embrace working in internal and external candidates. In the only a Traveler Service Center, but it is also the location of our EMEA HR a collaborative, multicultural environment. simplest of terms we asked our own Services Hub. We believe that the more diverse a people to tell candidates why they are workforce is, the more benefits it will yield. proud to work for CWT. We continuously In Poland, there is a high demand for talented candidates with international experience Our recruitment and retention efforts are share and promote our employees’ stories and foreign language skills. To assert our presence in the Polish job market and capture focused on ensuring that we have the best and have obtained a lot of success through the attention of talented candidates, our EMEA Talent Acquisition team implemented and most engaged employees, because social media campaigns, particularly on a two-pronged action plan: create talent pools for recurring needs in Poland and broaden committed employees stay longer, LinkedIn where we have consistently awareness about CWT through employer branding. Expanding on the foundations set by the perform better and serve as company ranked in the upper tier of their Talent My journey. My CWT. campaign, recruitment efforts were bolstered to include participations ambassadors to other prospective Brand Index (TBI) among a select panel in campus management and job fairs aided by brochures, job ads and other employees. Over the past three years, we of world-class companies. As of December communications collaterals. successfully rolled out a standard global 2015, our TBI was 24 percent – a growth Solid results were achieved as evidenced recruitment process, talent management of 14 percent over the same period of by an increase of 13.3 percent of LinkedIn system and career website aimed at last year. followers over a seven-month period obtaining a level of recruitment quality and a stronger presence in Poland’s that is consistent across all countries number one job board. This translated where we operate. to an increase in number of applications received as well as development of robust partnerships with schools. Visit My journey, My CWT at http://careers. carlsonwagonlit.com/jc/external/en/global/ 38 We do... Human Resources and Human Rights Focus on traveler services Travel counselors are at the core of The Travel Counselor of the Future initiative our business as they make up nearly is complemented by a specially-designed recruitment and onboarding program, called two-thirds of our workforce. JOIN! , which stands for Join Our Industry Now! It is aimed at hiring and integrating The travel counselor role is an extremely employees from outside the travel industry important one, as it involves interaction into CWT. In 2015, we ran a pilot for 30 key directly with our customers. To ensure that new talents in the US, who were given CWT’s travel counselors are of the highest comprehensive in-class and on-the-job calibre, two key initiatives have been training along with other educational implemented to help attract and integrate programs to introduce them to the travel new employees into our Traveler industry and CWT culture, values, ways Services teams: of working and key processes and tools. We intend to expand this program in the CWT’s Travel Counselor of the Future coming years across the globe. initiative has mapped out the key skill sets and experience needed for travel counselors, helping us to target and select the best possible candidates. This year, we introduced a standard assessment and interview approach to ensure fairness and consistency in our candidate selection process. In 2015, we launched a pilot in five countries and will be expanding further globally. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 39 We do... Human Resources and Human Rights Developing our people The success of CWT comes as and Conduct (for which 95 percent of all a direct result of the competency employees have completed the online training). All employees are registered and dedication of its people. on the CWT University platform, which We are committed to continuously provides training and information about Global improving the skills and capabilities CWT’s online training courses and Leadership of our people to ensure that we opportunities for enrollment to webinars Journey remain successful in the constantly and classroom courses. In 2015, the 20 participants changing travel industry. average number of training hours was 11 per employee, which is over double Lead 2020 the level of 2014. Our professional development program 72 participants ensures that the training needs of all key CWT believes that by training our leaders positions are identified and are updated and people managers, we can have a Leading Leaders as roles inevitably change. Personal strong and positive impact throughout 75 participants development is provided through the organization, ultimately benefitting a combination of on-the-job training, all employees. During 2015, we extended coaching and mentoring, online virtual our leadership training to a new level in In-depth leadership training and formal training. In addition the organization, by focusing on people development programs to the training provided for specific roles, managers. At present, our leadership all new employees undertake general development schemes have led to induction training. This training covers intensive management training courses: areas including CWT products and the Global Leadership Journey1, Leading services, IT security, business continuity Leaders1 and Lead20202. management and Code of Business Ethics 1 Refer to Annual Responsible Business Report 2013, p.50 for further information. 2 Refer to Annual Responsible Business Report June 2015, p.35 for further information. 40 We do... Human Resources and Human Rights Robust succession planning Performance management CWT’s talent review process is robust and Performance management is the way we help our employees to be aims to ensure that all senior level and business critical positions have succession successful while supporting them in their professional development. plans in place. The talent review process We aim at helping each employee takes place each year in spring and process is to deliver a more consistent maximize their performance and involves department heads, HR and the approach reviewing and managing the contribution through the alignment of Executive Team, with each department performance and development needs individual goals with the corporate presenting their final talent management of employees. A pilot group of 800 strategy. In 2015, we have taken a plans to the Executive Team. people have already been enrolled in significant step forward in the area of the new program through HR Connect, performance management, with the CWT is committed to developing and and it is expected to be rolled out, introduction of new guiding principles promoting its people to take on more step-by-step, between now and 2017, and the integration of the process into senior roles. In 2015, 69 percent of all to all employees globally. HR Connect. The goal of the new executive-level positions recruited for were filled with internal candidates; although not a formal target, we aim to further increase this percentage going forward. 800 people enrolled in the new performance management program Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 41 We do... Human Resources and Human Rights Developing our people Rewards & recognition the Global HR Leadership Conference in An important part of engagement and May. Other functions and regions also run talent development is recognition. With their own recognition initiatives. For more this in mind, CWT operates a number of information, please refer to pages 52 employee recognition schemes. This to 53 of our 2012 Responsible Business begins with recognition at the highest level report. – at the annual CEO Awards during the Global Leadership Conference, where We also encourage peer-to-peer individuals or groups are recognized for recognition, both through HR Connect and outstanding contribution in three key during a dedicated Employee Recognition areas, one of which is Responsible Week in October where employees Business3. This year almost 100 individuals publicly recognize their colleagues for and teams were nominated and 13 were contributions both big and small. presented with awards. Another example are the HR Excellence Awards, which started in 2015, to recognize HR teams or individuals that made significant contributions to the 2015 Responsible Business CEO Award winners APAC Rainbow Team3 business or had positive impacts towards delivering CWT’s global HR annual strategic priorities. Winners were selected by the 13 HR Leadership Team and announced at winners selected out of 100 nominations for the annual CEO Awards 3 To learn more about this year’s winner for the Responsible Business CEO Award, refer to Julie’s story on pages 20-21. 42 We do... Human Resources and Human Rights A safe workplace for our people Health and safety First-aid training, Paris Health and Safety in the UK Every employee is entitled to Following the terrorist attacks in There are 14 offices across the work in a safe and secure work Paris in 2015, CWT organized four UK that fall within the remit of the environment and we believe in sessions on first aid training, in Health and Safety management setting the best possible health partnership with the French Red system. This system is driven by and safety standards. Cross, for employees in the Paris a Health and Safety (H&S) policy head office. that is based on the CWT Global Our Global Health and Safety Charter Health and Safety Charter and is serves as an umbrella policy to local Participants were taught how to limit policies and procedures and overseen by a dedicated Health, risks in emergency situations, ensure complements the Code of Business the safety of themselves and others Safety and Environment Manager. Ethics and Conduct. In turn, each and check, alert and respond to various country and office are responsible for Risks are assessed and managed at potential scenarios, such as a heart attack implementing and maintaining health each office, and injury and illness data or choking situation. and safety policies and procedures that are collected on a monthly basis, with ensure compliance with local legislation details being shared with the UK and the Global Health and Safety Charter. corporate office. A key driving force behind the UK’s approach to H&S is its use of targeted and regular communications – engaging all employees and helping them to stay safe. A dedicated web-based repository helps to share information including best practices. This is complemented with the CWT social network Yammer, which has its own H&S group with over 140 members. All UK H&S activities and performance are summarized in a dashboard report that is reviewed by senior management each quarter. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 43 We live... Human Resources and Human Rights “La Mission Handicap & Diversité” program In 2011, CWT France signed an initial CWT has signed another three-year three-year commitment to support La commitment to continue to drive the Mission Handicap & Diversité (Disability scheme across the organization. One way and Diversity Mission) to help people in which CWT will increase the program with disabilities find and retain is through the creation of the “Disabled employment in France. In those three Employee Status” (Statut de Travailleur years astonishing results were achieved, Handicapé) which allows employees with and CWT now employs three times as needs to raise these issues with their many people with disabilities than in 2011. managers and be provided with the Across CWT France, there are now over necessary support to effectively do their 80 people with disabilities, all helping to job. These have included providing hearing contribute to the success of the company. aids, large screens, specialized seats, With a current disabled employee rate modified working hours or human support of 4.89 percent (up from 1.85 percent – and even an interpreter or psychological in 2011), CWT France performs far practitioner in specific cases. above the French national average. To do so, CWT has invested in multiple domains: from increasing awareness and enhancing communication through to improving recruitment processes and assisting employees both financially and psychologically. 4.89% current disabled employee rate at CWT France 44 Human Resources and Human Rights Lydiane’s story Lydiane knows what it’s like to face “Just starting the La Mission Handicap & a life-changing situation. Diagnosed Diversité process was 90 percent of the solution,” continues Lydiane. “It allowed with a rare genetic condition, working me to adapt. So where before in the company’s VIP services I felt isolated and worried that I’d have department became increasingly to leave a job I loved, I could now focus difficult for her. on a better future. It shows that you always have to be open-minded.” “It wasn’t an obvious disability and in some ways that made it harder,” After a skills assessment, Lydiane has says Lydiane. “One day I’d be at my transferred to a role in finance; not only desk. On the next, I couldn’t work staying within the business she loves because my batteries had run flat. but also continuing to make a valuable The unpredictability made things tough. contribution. That’s something she’s Especially as I was working for clients passionate about. “When you stay in a who expect special attention.” job, you stay part of society. People with disabilities are citizens like anyone else Thankfully, Lydiane spoke up about her and an important part of the economy.” “It was difficult to admit I needed help. condition and her worries for the future. With a current disabled employee rate But as soon as I talked frankly about “It was difficult to admit I needed help. But as soon as I talked frankly about of 4.89 percent, CWT France performs my disability, CWT helped me see my problems, things began to change way above the French national average. Lydiane couldn’t be happier. “Don’t stay what was possible at work rather than for the better.” in the shadows,” she says. “The help and what wasn’t.” Supported by La Mission Handicap & support is there for you.” Diversité program, Lydiane began to work with colleagues and managers to find Lydiane Lambinet works for CWT France in the Finance Department, based in Boulogne-Billancourt. a solution. “The program is fantastic. It encourages honest and open dialogue. And it helps people to see what’s possible at work, rather than what isn’t.” Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 45 05 Environment We think... Environment Scientists and governments are now With some 19,000 employees all over the broadly in agreement that climate world, CWT is a truly global organization. To ensure that local entities are actively change is occurring as a result of contributing to our environmental ambitions, human activity. This year alone has CWT has implemented a comprehensive seen a significant level of flooding reporting solution. The web-based tool in some areas while others have facilitates the exchange of performance experienced droughts and long-term data and engagement between participating water scarcity. reporting locations and corporate offices. CWT has set challenging targets for Although a business services company improving our environmental performance. with a relatively low overall environmental By providing our people with the impact, CWT is committed to operating necessary training, tools, information and in ways that minimize our impact on opportunities to actively contribute, we are the environment while continually seeking determined to meet our objectives and ways to become more efficient. Our make a real difference. Françoise Grumberg Responsible Business program aims to Vice President, Global Responsible Business engage each employee, educating and We use the GHG Protocol to measure empowering them to help us make our carbon impact and report our results to a difference and improve our the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Supply environmental footprint. “Environmental management is a key Chain program. We also report in accordance with the GRI G4 reporting principles. part of CWT’s Responsible Business strategy. The company’s environmental policies and practices ensure that CWT follows high environmental standards, 40 members of the encouraging global and local initiatives. 19 Environmental Correspondent These help improve the company’s Network environmental footprint, raise our a global reporting tool rolled out stakeholders’ awareness and enhance in 19 countries our employees’ Eco-Attitudes.” Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 47 We said and we did... Environment 2015 Objectives Completion Performance Summary Ensure full deployment of a Responsible Business In conjunction with the 2015 UN World Environment Day, an online training module training, including a module on Environment. was launched for all employees worldwide. This module includes training on global environmental trends and the approach, processes and activities of CWT. Measure the total Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions In 2015, CWT deployed a global online environmental reporting and monitoring of the countries representing at least 70 percent of the tool. This centralized solution, through which all environmental data are reported, company’s overall revenue. has been implemented in 19 countries across the three regions in which CWT operates. The 19 countries account for approximately 80 percent of CWT’s total annual revenue. Reduce GHG emissions by 10 percent per employee Progress against the 10 percent goal cannot be fully verified due to changes vs 2012. Define a 2020 target in 2015. to reporting software and calculation methodology. From 2016 onwards, annual progress will be monitored and a new target set for 2020. Fully achieved Almost achieved Partially achieved 48 We do... Environment Measuring our carbon footprint In 2015, CWT deployed its our total annual revenue. The architecture Due to the necessary lag period involved and fleet vehicles (Scope 1), indirect global online environmental of the solution – including the indicators in the environmental data collection emissions from energy supplied to offices collected and the process for data process, data included in this report is such as electricity or heating (Scope 2) and reporting and monitoring tool, management – has been developed with from 2014 – unless otherwise indicated indirect emissions from business travel and collecting performance data on Thinkstep AG and is a key component – and is collected from 15 countries1, commuting (Scope 3). We calculate our key environmental issues such of our environmental management which account for approximately 70 carbon footprint based upon emission as energy, air emissions, water framework that will help us in achieving percent of the annual net revenue. factors provided by the UK Department for consumption and waste. our commitments. An Environmental Data is collected on a yearly basis and Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and the Correspondents Network has been are analyzed and consolidated at the French Agency for Energy and Environment. The centralized software solution has been established that pulls together key corporate office. The factors used are in accordance with the rolled out in 19 countries2 across the three contacts in each country responsible for GHG Protocol and account for carbon regions in which CWT operates, which environmental reporting, all of whom have CWT uses the GHG Protocol to measure dioxide and other gases that also contribute account for approximately 80 percent of been fully trained in managing and reporting the impact of its activities, which includes to climate change3. environmental issues and performance. emissions directly emitted by our buildings 2014 emissions by Scope Emissions by source Business travel4 16,606 Total = 43,942 tCO2e Total = 43,942 tCO2e The GHG Protocol methodology defines three categories of emission sources (scopes 1, 2 and 3) Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Buildings tCO2e 19,858 Commuting 7,478 CWT tCO2e tCO2e 5,260 4,850 33,832 tCO2e tCO2e tCO2e Scope 1 – Direct emissions arising from Scope 2 – indirect energy Scope 3 – indirect emissions the combustion of fossil fuels in buildings emissions of buildings (electricity including business travel and (heating oil and gas), and a portion of and urban heating). commuting, excluding the CWT business travel (fuel for the CWT vehicle fleet). vehicle fleet and client emissions. 1 Austria, Belgium, Canada, Chile, China, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Luxembourg, Mexico, Spain, The Netherlands, United Kingdom, United States. 2 A ll countries in footnote one with the addition of Australia, Brazil, Costa Rica, and Italy. 3 Some emissions are not included in this report and include refrigeration fluid leaks, building emissions (such as heating included in rental charges), and emissions from paper consumption or waste handling. 4 Includes business travel by air, rail, employees’ cars, rented vehicles, taxis and CWT fleet cars. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 49 We do... Environment Scope 1 & 2 emissions Buildings We calculate these emissions using the Company cars upon emissions can be accurately tracked. GHG emissions are produced as a result energy consumed and local emission At CWT, we encourage environmental Emissions from company vehicles of supplying various forms of energy to factors, based on the GHG Protocol awareness among our employees and the account for 43 percent of our Scope 1 our offices, including: electricity, natural methodology. At present, we are not travel policy stipulates that all business and 2 emissions and 12 percent of our gas, fuel oil, diesel, coal and district able to collect all emissions, such as travel should balance business needs overall emissions. heating. It is the third largest contributor those occurring as a result of leaks and costs with making environmentally to our carbon footprint, accounting for in refrigeration systems or from some friendly choices. Furthermore, our 17 percent of CWT’s total emissions. offices where heating is included reporting software provides a detailed in rental charges. analysis of our performance and its effect Scope 1 & 2 emissions Building energy consumption (kWh) Fuel/diesel/coal/ district heating 8% Gas 18% Electricity 74% 50 We do... Environment Scope 3 emissions – commuting Emissions from commuting commuting behaviors of our people can performance data5. Through a short improvement, sometimes forming the Commuting between home and work help to identify ways in which we can online questionnaire, all employees are basis of local mobility plans and generally accounts for the majority of CWT’s carbon reduce our impact. As a result, CWT asked to disclose their commuting habits raising the awareness of the environmental footprint as approximately 45 percent operates an annual survey to collect anonymously. This data is then aggregated impacts of commuter travel. of all emissions result from employee commuting data from employees in the and insights are provided to countries commuting. A better understanding of the 15 countries that report environmental to help identify opportunities for 5 Austria, Belgium, Canada, Chile, China, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Luxembourg, Mexico, Spain, The Netherlands, United Kingdom, United States. Commuting to work Commuting GHG emissions Modes of transport Vehicles (carpool, car alone, moped) vs public transport By number of employees Carpool Bike/Foot Homeworkers Public transport Vehicles Vehicles Public transport 4% 5% 14% 23% 54% 87% 13% Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 51 We do... Environment Scope 3 emissions – business travel Minimizing emissions from balance business needs and costs with or the Global Leadership Conference in business travel making environmentally friendly choices. February 2016 – a gathering of CWT’s Business travel is the second largest source We also find other opportunities to reduce most senior leaders over three days in of GHG emissions at CWT, making up 38 our emissions within specific projects such Paris, where environmental impacts were percent of our carbon footprint. as the carbon-neutral client seminar in minimized and carbon credits were To help limit emissions, our travel policy Argentina in 2014 (refer to page 51 of our purchased to offset remaining emissions. stipulates that all business travel should June 2015 Responsible Business report), Emissions from business travel Air travel breakdown Share of business travel by plane (km) Emissions (tCO2e) Train Personal car Company car Plane 1% 3% 32% 64% CWT Domestic Short haul Long haul Distance (km) 44% 10% 46% 2% Personal car 5% Train 27%Company car 66% Plane 52 We do... Environment External reporting Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) EcoVadis Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Since 2012, CWT has been reporting its In 2015, CWT was awarded a Silver Medal The GRI is an international standard that environmental performance to the CDP recognition level for corporate social fosters a consistent approach to the Supply Chain program. The CDP is a responsibility management. In the disclosure of sustainability issues, impacts not-for-profit organization that provides environmental domain, 10 points were and performance. This report has been a global framework for companies to added to the score achieved in 2014, written in accordance with the GRI G4 measure, disclose, manage and share highlighting the tremendous progress that Principles and Standards, at a “core” level. key environmental information. Under has been made. The main contributors A summary of CWT’s disclosure using the scheme, CWT discloses its carbon to the improved rating were the programs GRI G4 can be found in the GRI table emissions according to the three scopes and initiatives launched during the year: on pages 82 and 83. defined in the GHG Protocol, along with the broadening and strengthening of our the various projects implemented to GHG reporting; the training and awareness reduce the carbon footprint of our supply activities taking place across the company; chain. Participation in the CDP enables us the environmental certifications gained in to demonstrate the effectiveness of our several locations, such as ISO 14001 being approach to managing and reducing our awarded in Germany, Spain and UK; the environmental impact and, in doing so, European Green Office (EGO) certification fulfill the expectations of those customers in Estonia; and the WWF Green Office who share our sustainability commitments. Certificate in Finland. The rating places CWT among the top 3 percent of companies assessed in our industry sector6 on environmental matters and confirms our leadership position in environmental management. 6 C WT is part of the industry sector of “Travel agency, tour operator, reservation service and related activities”, defined by EcoVadis. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 53 We do... Environment Fostering positive environmental attitudes Eco-Attitude campaign CWT used the 2015 Earth Day celebration to launch its first worldwide Eco-Attitude campaign. The initiative encouraged CWT employees to “Adopt an Eco-Attitude” with 20% Did you 60% the prompt “Every Little Action Counts!” of CWT's electricity of our buildings’ energy usage comes from know? consumption is from lighting heating, venting Primarily an awareness-building campaign, and cooling employees received day-to-day tips on how to be more environmentally friendly in ways such as saving paper, commuting OFF more sustainably, sorting and recycling waste and saving energy. Employees from all across the world shared their stories and activities on the CWT corporate social E-learning module media site Yammer. During the year, an environmental e-learning Living Living module was deployed, providing employees Responsible Business Our DNA. Our Mark . Responsible Business Our DNA. Our Mark . worldwide with educational materials regarding CWT’s environmental approach. As well as providing useful information about how to be more environmentally conscious, the short 15-minute e-learning module also challenged people to make a difference through their actions and Did you know? to share their experiences and activities with the wider CWT audience. The event was launched to coincide with World Environment Day, giving people an added incentive to take part. Living Living Responsible Business Responsible Business Our DNA. Our Mark . Our DNA. Our Mark . 54 We do... Environment Some examples of our environmental activities Estonia’s green activities Costa Rica’s green program France, Paris head office In November 2015, CWT Estonia The CWT office in Costa Rica decided received a certificate from the European to truly embrace sustainability by forming In partnership with recycling services company Greenwishes, the CWT Paris Green Office. To earn the certificate, a local Responsible Business Team to head office actively took on the challenge a few years ago, recycling as many the CWT office undertook several oversee the implementation of the office materials as possible. The results have been very impressive. In 2015, environmental initiatives that included strategy, drawing from the knowledge we recycled 7,034 kilograms of waste, 4 percent more than in 2014. sorting of different waste types, collecting and support of the Costa Rica Green recyclable glass and monitoring paper Team. The program resulted in a number and electricity consumption. of environmentally driven activities that included an electricity saving campaign, Employee engagement and education the replacement of plastic cups with were also an important component of coffee mugs and education sessions the award. Reminding employees about the importance of only printing essential on “how to recycle,” that even included a recycling competition. 7,034kg 551kg 52kg documents helped to reduce paper and of recyclable of plastic bottles, of ink energy use. The main CWT office is also waste in total cups and cans cartridges LEED certified to Gold level. 6,001kg 430kg of paper of cardboard boxes Thailand’s education on afforestation The CWT office in Thailand took employees to the Tub Lan National Park to highlight areas where regrowth of green vegetation is urgently needed due to a combination of drought and illegal deforestation. The CWT team wanted to understand how issues occur and can affect their lives, and how they can be a part of the solution. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 55 We live... Responsible products & Services A passion for the environment Environmental Correspondents Network The Global Responsible Business team gained further support in 2015, following the launch of the Environmental Correspondents Network. The network is made up of an estimated 40 Environmental Correspondents from 22 countries, located throughout the Americas, APAC and EMEA regions. The Environmental Correspondents Network participates in several calls each year, during which they share best practices and provide feedback on proposed and completed environmental initiatives. Highly motivated by environmental issues, employees that are part of this network are responsible for initiating and supporting initiatives that help to raise awareness about environmental issues or reduce CWT’s impact on the environment. The Environmental Correspondents are instrumental in CWT’s annual environmental reporting campaign, gathering the data that allows the company to measure its environmental footprint and set meaningful impact reduction objectives. 56 Environment Tony’s story There’s no doubt that Tony is By using communication tools such as enthusiastic about his role as Yammer, Tony is connecting to this broad audience. “All my Responsible Business CWT UK’s Environment, Health champions have dropped into Yammer and Safety Manager. groups to share brilliant ideas and articles. Senior people within the business get “I’m extremely lucky because I really involved too. It’s about giving people a taste enjoy what I do. I guess it’s the breadth of of the incredible things that are going on.” knowledge I’m gaining. But it’s also about getting knowledge out there that will make “I love it when you capture someone’s a difference to everyone – colleagues, interest,” continues Tony. “For instance, customers and the wider world.” explaining concepts like sustainability and global warming in a clear way, then “Things are changing all the time, and seeing that sudden spark of enthusiasm especially in this field,” says Tony. “Right and understanding. Those are the now you’re seeing Responsible Business great moments.” emerging as a key part of what we do. I’ve got a real passion for it, because Tony’s advice about environment, health “At the end of the day, I want to be I can see how it’s something we can and safety is clear. “People see this as able to say that I did my best for the all contribute to.” such a huge area that they don’t know where to start. They get stressed about it planet and tried to educate others It’s Tony’s mission to educate employees and that leads to inertia. But if we all just to do their best too.” from every generation, so that they can concentrate on making small changes, become Responsible Business champions. we’ll start to make a big difference.” “It’s not just about the new graduates who have grown up with an environmental “I’ve got two school-age daughters,” adds mindset,” he enthuses. “You’ve got to Tony. “At the end of the day, when I look relate and engage with everyone, including back, I want to be able to look at myself those who might not think about the in the mirror and say that I did my best issues as much.” for the planet and tried to educate others to do their best too.” Tony Panter is Facilities & Environmental Manager, Human Resources for CWT UK and Ireland. He is also a member of the Environmental Correspondents Network. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 57 06 Responsible Products & Services We think... Responsible products & Services Our Responsible Business approach Our Business Continuity Plans (BCPs) is firmly embedded in the products provide clear procedures to be followed should an adverse event occur and include and services we offer to travelers. instructions for containing the situation and establishing communication through CWT is committed to providing customers the necessary channels. Our Business with tools, advisory products and services Continuity Management process is widely that help to reduce risks associated with communicated to all employees, forming travel, stress related to travel and part of their initial and ongoing training, environmental impacts that address and drills take place regularly to test the travelers’ safety, security and well-being effectiveness of BCPs. (traveler care) and environmental protection (green travel). CWT also operates a comprehensive and robust Business Continuity Management process, ensuring that risks to business disruption and human life are identified, monitored, Carinne Saulet mitigated and, where necessary, reduced. Vice President, Global Marketing Services As recent events in Paris and Brussels have highlighted, security threats to travelers can happen at any time and anywhere. Furthermore, sudden and “CWT puts travelers at the heart of our adverse weather conditions may strike, threatening the safety of people traveling. travel programs. We aim to ensure their This demonstrates the necessity of safety, security, welfare and peace of preparing for adverse situations or events. mind. It’s about delivering more care and less risk, with the best tools available in the market.” Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 59 We said and we did... Responsible products & Services 2015 Objectives Completion Performance Summary CWT to fulfill the requirements of the best standards Completion of an ISO 22301 gap analysis led to the development of a corresponding and norms in the domain such as ISO 22301. action plan. We also continued to implement two annual drills to ensure the effectiveness and robustness of our business continuity management. A new version of the BCP Awareness Training was successfully launched to all employees, achieving a 92 percent completion rate. Become the reference in terms of crisis management In 2015, a full activation crisis drill with the Corporate Crisis team had been planned. in the travel industry. This has been pushed out to 2016 to accommodate the final structuring and hiring of a Global Crisis Organization, which will include Regional Crisis Teams being in place in EMEA by the end of 2016. Offer an innovative suite of responsible products CWT offers a holistic set of products and services to improve the safety of travelers and and services. reduce environmental impact. We intend to further enhance the innovation levels of the products and services we offer to beyond the current level. Fully achieved Almost achieved Partially achieved 60 We do... Responsible products & Services Enhancing business continuity planning & management CWT has made very significant Risk management Business continuity management progress in developing a robust A comprehensive Risk Management Our business continuity management system is implemented across all whollyprocess is our first line of defense during approach to risk, business continuity owned CWT sites globally and ensures business disruption. Our Business and crisis management. In 2015, that key risks to the business and its Continuity Plans (BCP) ensure the we performed an ISO 22301 gap stakeholders are identified, ranked, resilience of the organization, providing analysis which helped define an monitored, mitigated and, where maximum continuity of service at all times, action plan for further improvement applicable, reduced. In addition, the for both clients and employees. Every year, of our Business Continuity Corporate Audit Team perform an annual BCP owners, operations managers and risk macro-analysis. The results are then those identified as backup BCP owners Management process; one that presented to the Executive Team and the undergo training on risk and business ensures we meet the levels of the audit committee. continuity management; training can either ISO 22301 standards. be online or face-to-face. In 2015, there were 889 participants to the training program with a 97 percent passing rate in the BCP quiz. Drill campaign Drills are carried out each year to test the effectiveness and robustness of our Business Continuity Management process. Each office is required to undergo two drills: one for fire and another as chosen by the BCP Steering Committee. In 2015, a global drill was carried out to test call and email diversion plans. Over 158 offices took part in the drill, which lasted approximately 90 minutes, and the results will be used to assess the effectiveness of our plans. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 61 We do... Enhancing business continuity planning & management Responsible products & Services BCP awareness training CWT Crisis Organization In 2015, a refreshed version of the BCP In 2014, we successfully established Awareness Training module was rolled out Regional Crisis Teams (RCT) in NORAM, Corporate Crisis Team to all employees worldwide as mandatory LATAM and APAC regions. To complete the Manages crisis when impacting CWT’s global organization training via CWT University – our CWT Crisis Organization, we are aiming to centralized online training portal. The roll out a Regional Crisis Team in EMEA by training, which lasts approximately 30 the end of 2016. Once completed, the minutes, is available in seven languages CWT Crisis Organization will be as shown and aims to explain the purpose and in the diagram (right). LATAM NORAM EMEA APAC processes of Risk and Business Continuity RCT RCT RCT RCT Management, illustrates what happens when Business Continuity Plans are ISO 22301 gap analysis activated and what it might mean for them in the event of a disruption to business. In 2015, CWT performed an ISO Upon incident, each site activates its BCP and 92 percent of employees have undertaken 22301 gap analysis to assess reports to Watching and Warning Team which the training so far. how our Business Continuity assigns severity level of the incident Management process compared Crisis management with the relevant ISO standard. Our crisis management approach considers how we respond to major While the results found that CWT Watching and Warning Team is the watchtower disruptions, affecting both customers processes were in line with the standard, for CWT global network and employees that are not solved by the the exercise also helped to identify how activation of the Business Continuity Plan. we could leverage existing good practices Examples include fires, pandemics, natural from across the organization. disasters, power outages and workplace violence. All major disruptions are Furthermore, insight was gained as to how we could move to a more holistic reported to regional and, where relevant, approach for monitoring risks, business headquarters’ management, where the continuity and crisis management in relevant crisis organization is mobilized the future. within the necessary timeframe to coordinate management of the situation, maintaining the necessary dialogue with local and global representatives. 62 We do... Responsible products & Services Responsible portfolio: traveler care and green travel At CWT, our Responsible Business Responsible products and services from door-to-door and in-between program extends to our clients through the suite of responsible Trip continuum products and services we provide. Before During After These consider the safety, security and well-being of our customers while CWT Alerts, powered by International SOS minimizing the impact upon the environment. These product and service CWT To GoTM offerings help to further demonstrate how we are operating as a responsible business through our customers and travelers. Our Traveler care CWT Program Messenger collection of products and services start before any travel takes place, where our CWT Trip Disruption goal is “making planning easy.” They are further supplemented by a variety of travel CWT AnalytIQs (while travelers are on the road) and post-travel services (once travelers have CWT Online powered by KDS returned home and beyond). This comprehensive collection provides CO2 calculator on CWT Portal customers with a holistic and thorough Green travel portfolio of services that make their travel CWT To GoTM safer, easier and greener at every stage of the journey. CWT AnalytIQs Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 63 We do... Responsible products & Services Responsible portfolio: traveler care and green travel Traveler care CWT Alerts, powered CWT Program Messenger CWT AnalytIQs Many companies have taken swift action by International SOS Our automated messaging tool helps keep CWT makes it easy to reinforce their office security measures CWT has partnered with International travelers safe by reminding them of their to locate impacted while advising employees on everyday SOS to provide travelers with notifications company’s travel policy during all steps travelers when disruptions occur with our precautions and the measures to take of incidents that pose a clear, immediate of the travel continuum. With this service, business intelligence tool, CWT AnalytIQs. in the event of an incident occurring. or direct threat to their safety or security, travelers receive (by email or SMS) tailored The tool allows travel managers to view There is also a strong and necessary focus or where substantial and widespread policy messages before, during and after travelers on a map based on three on ensuring travelers’ peace of mind. disruption is having an effect on business trips, all delivered to and accessible in different perspectives — security risks, travel. Notifications of events that may a single click. medical risks or map-view only — and According to the travel managers surveyed impact travelers from a medical enables them to also view travelers’ by CWT, safety and security is by far the standpoint, such as infectious disease CWT Trip Disruption full itineraries. highest priority on their agenda for 2016, outbreaks or disasters that cause increased This service monitors subscribers’ with 80 percent of respondents expecting risk for illness, are also communicated. itineraries for disruptions such as it to have a high or very high impact on cancellations, missed connections, their travel programs. With this in mind, CWT To GoTM diversions and delays. Affected travelers CWT is continually reviewing its traveler The CWT To GoTM travel app automatically receive SMS alerts and care suite of tools and processes to ensure updates travelers’ itinerary new instructions (such as flight departure that maximum support and peace of mind information on the go and time or gate) or are contacted by can be given to travelers. sends timely alerts on flight delays, a travel counselor offering alternative cancellations and gate changes. travel solutions. Destination information can also help travelers take the right precautions and get to their destination safely. Other 80% features include, among other things, Intuitive IQ hotel bookings, mobile check-in and currency conversion. Benchmark Real time Real time IQ IQ Benchmark IQ IQ of clients expect safety and security to have a high or very high impact on their travel programs Community IQ Action IQ 64 Responsible products & Services Green travel CWT Online powered by KDS CWT to Go™ The environment is a real consideration in CWT Online powered by KDS presents CWT To Go is a managed travel business travel, driven by tighter regulation users with the greenest possible booking mobile app that provides trip and greater awareness of responsible options for their trips. Client travel policies information to travelers or business. More than a third of surveyed are integrated into the tool to ensure travel planners, including travel managers (35 percent) expect compliance while giving travelers easy details that support environmental environmental sustainability to have a high access to the most environmentally decision making. Furthermore, the app or very high impact on their programs in responsible trip option. also stores full interactive travel itinerary 2016. In addition, 20 percent of CWT details, meaning the avoidance of printing clients who have completed a program Carbon calculator on CWT Portal of paper and boarding passes helps diagnostic assessment in the last two years CWT Portal acts as the gateway to all travel reduce environmental impact. say they publish reporting data on their applications by using a single sign-on to travel footprint. To help travelers and their create a seamless experience for travelers. CWT AnalytIQs companies meet environmental objectives, It includes a link to a carbon calculator that Our CWT AnalytIQs business intelligence CWT offers solutions for every step of the provides travelers with the standard CO2 tool analyzes CO2 emissions after travel, travel process. emissions of journeys in advance, further providing travel managers with facilitating greener travel. environmental data that can then be shared with travelers to raise their awareness and drive their future behaviors. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 65 We live... Responsible products & Services Staying calm and connected in a crisis As a company that has an office in The cross-functional and international Brussels, the events that unfolded in teams followed pre-set guidelines under Zaventem airport and Maelbeek metro our Business Continuity Management and station activated our Business Continuity Crisis Management processes to react Plan. This takes account of both quickly and ensure ongoing continuity employees and clients based in or of services. Ultimately, traveler safety traveling to or from Brussels. By activating and communication lies in the hands and following our Business Continuity Plan, of our clients, but we play a crucial we were able to gather information on the role in identifying which travelers could safety of our employees and their families, be impacted by such an event and as well as our travelers. As a security communicating that to our clients swiftly measure, the Brussels office was closed and accurately. for two days following the attacks and implemented extended working hours to That day, the CWT teams worked together fully ensure the safety and well-being of to ensure that all CWT employees were all stakeholders. safe and accounted for and to quickly identify and report which travelers were When the Brussels attack occurred, scheduled to travel to and from Brussels. teams at CWT went to work to determine Janick was one of those team members the potential impact of this attack on involved. our operations. 66 Responsible products & Services Janick’s story On the morning of 22 March 2016, shared cars. Groups began to be let out three bombs exploded in Brussels, every half hour. For those waiting, we arranged for a trusted supplier to deliver Belgium: two at the airport in sandwiches.” Zaventem and one at the city’s Maalbeek metro station. Janick headed for home where, like many of her colleagues, she could better For Facilities Manager Janick – and for manage the wider situation. “While all this thousands of others across the city and was happening, the business still had to “Nobody should have to face beyond – it was the beginning of an operate. So as soon as possible, our teams a crisis. But the wonderful way unforgettable day. were in touch with clients – ensuring they were safe and finding some really creative that everyone reacted showed “We’d recently moved to a new location solutions to get them where they needed we have the team spirit needed in the center of Brussels,” says Janick. to be.” “But when I heard about the attacks, to handle just about anything.” I was in the north of the city, finalizing In the hours and days following the attack, the closure of our old office. At once, Janick saw teamwork in action. “Colleagues I knew I had to contact my colleagues.” were picking up every phone call and responding to every email coming in. It was a truly extraordinary situation recalls Everybody was just making the best Janick. “Nothing was moving except for of it and putting in all of their efforts. emergency vehicles and the mobile phone And I must say that we were overflowing systems were overloaded. It was hectic with positive feedback from customers.” and frightening. But it was essential to keep in control, so I made contact through “Nobody should have to face this kind of another company still operating in the old crisis,” adds Janick. “But the wonderful way building,” Janick explains. that everyone reacted showed we had the team spirit to deal with it. That’s something With procedures already in place, the really great.” new facilities had gone into lockdown. “As things became clearer, we worked Janick Potier is Facilities & Procurement Manager with security to manage how people both and BCP owner for CWT Belgium and Luxembourg and is based in Brussels, Belgium. inside and outside would get back home safely. This meant arranging taxis and Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 67 07 Community Involvement We think... Community Involvement Our Community Involvement Our 3E Community program enables us to put CWT’s Involvement strategy core values in action globally. Education Providing people with key Our 3E Community Involvement strategy, skills, knowledge and which was launched in 2014, unites insights that not only us all in our focus and desire to make enhance people’s lives in Education an impact where help is needed most. the short term, but also provide the In just two years, our teams across the knowledge to pass on to future Patrick Andersen Kai Chan Kelly L. Kuhn world have taken part in over 217 activities, generations through teaching, training President, President, President, demonstrating how much it means and research. Americas Asia Pacific EMEA and Global to them to be able to lend support Partners Network Emergency to local communities. Giving support and resources to help those people whose lives, health “CWT believes in investing in the or properties are either at riskEducation from or have already beenEmergencyaffected E communities in which our people by severe or uncontrollable situations. live and work. Our community Essential needs involvement program draws upon Contributing to the provision of the basic human needs the desire, talent and determination necessary for life, such as water, food and shelter. of our people to truly make a Education Emergency Essential needs difference to their local society, which, in turn, is then amplified throughout the wider society. Our strategy is based on contributing in three key areas: Education, Emergency, Essential needs. We call it 3E.” Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 69 We said and we did... Community Involvement 2015 Objectives Completion Performance Summary Deploy CWT’s “glocal” approach and 3E strategy worldwide. We have now successfully run the 3E global campaign for the past two years, collecting over 217 great examples of community projects led by our teams worldwide. As a next step, we need to be able to measure our impact, which we plan to do in the future, as we further enhance our 3E program. Fully achieved Almost achieved Partially achieved Education Emergency Essential needs 70 We do... Community Involvement CWT’s Community Involvement: Education, Emergency, Essential needs 2015 was an opportunity for us to Three winners from each region were build on what we started in 2014, chosen and the recipients of the donations were then invited to share their stories, which was all about raising the describing how they used the prize awareness of our 3E strategy across money to make a difference within the organization and capturing some their community. of the great activities taking place across the world. In 2015, we relaunched the 3E map on the occasion of the UN’s International To help with this, we published our Volunteer Day and replicated the same 3E Community Involvement Handbook, reward scheme as the previous year but which presents the corporate strategy chose a single winner to receive the cash and recommendations for local initiatives, award. In the future, we aim to report on reviews methodologies and good the impacts these donations have made practices, and supplies ethics and on those who received them. compliance criteria for projects involving donations. Furthermore, in 2015, by engaging with key stakeholders across the entire Since the launch of 3E in 2014, we have organization, we focused on turning CWT’s had hundreds of initiatives taking place 3E strategy into an operational program across the world. In acknowledgment and maximizing its impact. To learn how of the effort and innovation being shown best to do this, it was decided during 2015 by CWT offices and people and, due to to collect feedback and recommendations the large volume of activities taking place from the RB network, using an online across the world, we literally needed a survey and by carrying out a number map to show them all. Our 3E interactive of interviews with network volunteers. map was developed to track and The findings are being assessed and a showcase the various events taking place toolkit will be launched in 2016 to guide all over the world and is available to all RB network members and local managers employees on our intranet site. To mark on how they can further embed the 3E the 3E map’s release, we invited strategy within and across the organization employees to vote for their favorite – making it yet a further part of the CWT initiatives in each of the three regions to culture and identity. determine which charities would receive a US$10,000 cash donation from CWT. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 71 We do... Community Involvement How the 2014 3E winners used the donations to make a difference United States Sweden Greater Chicago Food Depository The Swedish Heart and (AMERICAS) Lung Foundation (EMEA) Field of action: Essential needs Field of action: Emergency The Greater Chicago Food Depository The Swedish Heart and Lung Foundation is a non-profit food distribution training raises funds and supports research in center providing food for hungry people fields such as heart attack, heart failure, while striving to end hunger in Chicago, vascular spasm, genetic heart defects, Illinois, US, and throughout Cook County. stroke, asthma, chronic obstructive CWT’s US$10,000 donation supported Singapore pulmonary disease (COPD) and the Greater Chicago Food Depository’s Junior Achievement Singapore (APAC) emphysema. CWT’s donation of hunger relief initiatives throughout Cook Field of action: Education US$10,000 contributed to the further County, Illinois. Through our donation, advancement of research on children we helped fund the distribution of Junior Achievement is one of the world’s with heart conditions in Sweden. 1,000 almost 10 tons1 of food. Our contribution largest non-profit organizations educating children per year are born with heart strengthened the Food Depository’s overall students in entrepreneurship, work defects in Sweden. Despite enormous response to hunger, which serves more readiness and financial literacy. CWT’s progress in research in recent years, than 812,000 men, women and children US$10,000 donation was used to help many serious challenges remain and this each year. Learn more here: roll out an educational program to 503 organization assists with early detection Greater Chicago Food Depository primary students in Singapore. The and treatment to allow cardiac-sick program, called “Junior Achievement: children to have a good quality of life, both Our Families,” is a course introducing the as children and adults. Learn more here: concepts of entrepreneurship and financial The Swedish Heart and Lung Foundation literacy to primary school children. Through this course, students learn the difference between needs and wants, are exposed to different types of jobs and learn about the importance of someone in the family working to earn money to pay for the necessities for a family. Learn more here: Junior Achievement (JA) 1 Equivalent to approximately 22,000 lbs or 10,000 kg. 72 We do... Community Involvement Celebrating our 3E Community Involvement activities around the world in 2015 Since the launch of the 3E strategy across CWT, a total of 217 activities have taken place, all of which have been logged into the 3E Community Involvement Interactive Map. In 2015, over 11,000 likes were recorded across the 83 initiatives, taking place in 35 countries. Each of the initiatives met the criteria laid out in the 3E Handbook and were in one of the three key categories: Education, Emergency and Essential needs. Employees use the interactive map to learn about the initiatives taking place and can like for their favorite. In 2015, over 11 thousand likes were recorded across the 83 initiatives. +11,000 likes in 2015 217 activities since 2014 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 73 We do... Community Involvement A few of our Education initiatives Phoenix, Arizona, US (AMERICAS) Bangkok, Thailand (APAC) Paris, France (EMEA) such as marketing, sales, finance and IT “Stuff the Bus” back to school drive Dialogue in the dark “Visa Découverte” with United Way and experienced first-hand what working in a corporate environment entails. CWT During the month of August, our office CWT Thailand staff participated in learning On 9 April 2015, CWT and United Way volunteers also provided tours of the offices, collected and delivered school supplies with the blind community to gain awareness France partnered to conduct the “Visa joined the students for a discussion-based to children at the Sojourner Center in and a greater appreciation of the hardships Découverte” initiative. A class of 20 at-risk lunch and took part in an afternoon cuisine Phoenix, Arizona, US. The Sojourner that the blind face in life. More than just to teenagers from the Michelet Middle School workshop on the theme of diversity. It was Center is a shelter for women and children educate and raise awareness, the ultimate in Paris visited CWT’s offices and spent a day centered around collaboration and affected by domestic violence. They help goal of this activity was for staff to know a day gaining an understanding of what engagement between the volunteers and thousands of families traumatized by how to provide assistance to blind people working at a large international company the pupils. To preserve the day’s moments abuse to discover hope and find the path whenever the need arises. is like. During the event, the school children and memories, still photos were taken and to a future free from violence. Children participated in workshops with employees featured in a two-week exhibition capturing that experience and witness domestic to learn more about different professions the moments and communicating the violence have to deal with the lifelong initiative’s results. effects of the emotional trauma of the violence and its aftermath. We were delighted to help these children get back to school with new supplies and hopefully introduce some normalcy back in their lives. 74 We do... A few of our Emergency initiatives Community Involvement Singapore, Singapore (APAC) Chennai, India (APAC) Pink Ribbon Walk/Flashmob Helping Hands – Aid Nepal and earthquake-affected areas October was Breast Cancer Awareness Month and 88 employees from our Nepal was severely adversely affected Singapore office signed up for the Pink following a series of high-impact Ribbon Walk and registration fees of earthquakes. The CWT team in Chennai, S$2,640 were passed to Breast Cancer India made a significant contribution to the Foundation. Unfortunately, the Walk was relief process, providing large amounts of canceled last-minute due to bad weather aid items to affected individuals including (haze), however our team still showed rice, pulses, sugar, wheat, ready-to-eat support with a Pink Ribbon Flashmob noodles, and clothing. These were in the office. essential items at a time of devastation and were provided mainly to the homeless Budapest, Hungary (EMEA) and stranded people living in camps, Blood donation event shelters and on the road. Seven CWT employees – some regular and some new donors – participated in March 2015 in a blood donation event organized by the Hungarian Red Cross. This was a direct blood donation for the therapy of a particular patient. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 75 We do... Community Involvement A few of our Essential needs initiatives Meishan, China (APAC) Loerrach, Germany (EMEA) Visit children’s welfare home Parenthood of orphans with HIV in Mbigili, Tanzania This is an ongoing charitable activity sponsored by CWT since 2013. On Some children are born HIV positive and 10 June 2015, 13 employees from many go on to lose their parents to the Meishan office visited a local children’s disease. This often leads to many children welfare home. It is the third consecutive living with grandparents, who are usually year employees from the Meishan office between 50 and 70 years old and already have visited, to extend their care and managing a very busy and full household, compassion to the orphans and who struggle to provide the basic needs handicapped children who live there. of their orphaned grandchildren. Each year, In-kind donations – articles for daily use the CWT Full Service Centers in Lörrach, with a value of CNY1,500 – were made Mannheim and Stuttgart donate money to around 50 beneficiaries. The goal to help provide support to the orphans of the initiative is to help children live of Mbigili, giving them much needed food healthier and happier lives. and the opportunity for an education. Minneapolis, Minnesota, US (AMERICAS) London, Canada (AMERICAS) Second Harvest Heartland Children’s Aid Society of London There were 11 people from the legal Employees from the London, Canada and compliance team that participated office have been contributing to the in packing food for Second Harvest Children’s Aid Society’s (CAS) Holiday Heartland. On 14 October 2015, each Giving Program for the past 20 years. person packaged 257 meals, meaning 12 people from Local and Leisure that our CWT crew packed a total of 2,827 Business, Traveler Services, Concierge meals in the short amount of time we and Leisure agents combine money raised spent with Second Harvest Heartland. individually and discuss with CAS their The food packets were then distributed greatest needs for the current year. locally to those in need. The cash raised is then used to buy gifts or gift cards and delivered to CAS to be distributed to families in need. 76 We do... Community Involvement CWT and the Global Travel & Tourism Partnership Since 2012, CWT has served on Celebrating 20 years of GTTP the Advisory Board for the Global Russia student competition GTTP key facts Travel & Tourism Partnership (GTTP). On February 16, a group of 10 CWT employees attended the GTTP’s 20th • More than 600,000 students in 2016, GTTP helps expand travel and anniversary event in Moscow, Russia. ages 15-19 tourism-related educational and • More than two million graduates Each had the opportunity to work with the career opportunities for secondary secondary school students in attendance, • Over 5,200 participating public students, often at a time when sharing their various experiences and secondary and vocational schools they are making career choices. views of working in the travel and tourism • Financial and in-kind support provided industry. On the second day of the event, by 2,500 local businesses students presented a number of project • 13 member countries in Africa, The program aims to develop awareness Asia, Latin America, North America ideas they thought positively showcased of the importance of travel and tourism and Europe the industry. Three CWT employees – the world’s fastest growing industry – to • “Passport” curriculum available in joined the jury panel and, after reading their country and global economy. GTTP seven languages: English, Spanish, through the briefs and attending various provides information and training that help Russian, Chinese, Portuguese, presentations, helped to select the the children to develop workforce-ready Hungarian and French winning entries. www.gttp.org skills, attitudes and knowledge. CWT is a member of the GTTP Board and actively supports its mission and initiatives. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 77 We live... Helping to change young people’s lives Casa do Zezinho were the winners of the US$10,000 corporate CWT donation in 2015. For the second year in a row, CWT asked employees to decide which deserving charity should be selected for the corporate donation. Using an interactive map, employees post their local volunteer activities and the one with the most employee likes receives a donation of US$10,000. A Sao Paulo local charity, called “Casa do Zezinho,” received the most likes (1,571), out of a total of 11,298. The Casa do Zezinho is a non-profit organization located south of São Paulo, Brazil. For the last 21 years, this organization has provided educational opportunities to underprivileged children and adolescents in the region. Each year, they help more than 1,700 young people, aged between six and 29 years, to adopt critical thinking, develop personal potential and expose themselves to new perspectives. This is done through multiple education activities, such as art, culture and professional training workshops. CWT’s US$10,000 donation will significantly help further their efforts. Learn more about them here: Casa do Zezinho 78 Community Involvement Renata’s story Talk to Renata about the Casa do talking passionately about why we should Zezihno initiative and you can hear fund the project to an audience of nearly one hundred business leaders.” just how much it matters to her and her colleagues. Our people Asked about the impact the charity makes, have really put their faith into Renata remembers a particular encounter. this amazing project. They totally “I visited the house. One of the girls there believe in it. told me she was so proud of the things she’d learned. She said that before, “Last year, CWT Brazil chose to build a nobody had ever told her that anything “Our people have really put their special relationship with a charity,” explains she’d done was good. Now she was being faith into this amazing community Renata. “We asked employees who they encouraged she felt like the most amazing person in the world.” wanted to support. The response was project. They totally believe in it.” incredible. In just a week, they came back with over a hundred suggestions.” “This will make a real difference, being selected for the CWT corporate donation “Ultimately, the business voted for Casa of US$10,000,” says Renata of CWT Brazil. Do Zezinho,” she continues. “This was “For example, we’re looking at supporting founded by Tia Dag, a woman who bought a project called ‘Move, Zezinho!’ which get a house in São Paulo with her husband. kids involved in sports, nutrition, yoga and They began by taking in seven vulnerable healthy things. But I know we can give boys from the streets – keeping them safe much more. CWT people are seeing that from crime, poverty, violence and drugs. they’re changing lives, and that’s inspiring Today, they have a huge house where them. When you think that this charity hundreds of young people can access started with nothing more than love, care, support and education.” passion and hope, it shows you can achieve pretty much anything if you truly So how did CWT employees contribute believe it.” to this initiative? “We’ve had great support. Renata Moreti is Director of Compliance for CWT My colleague Vanessa Silva deserves a LATAM, and is based in Sao Paulo, Brazil. special mention,” says Renata. “She really took control of our campaign and headed up the communications. This included her Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 79 08 Supplementary Information The United Nations Global Compact Supplementary Information Ten Principles in action at CWT UN Global Compact Ten Principles CWT Responsible Business Report Chapters Sections Pages Human Rights 01 Introduction Awards and Recognitions 8 Principles 1, 2 02 Responsible Business Strategy & Governance We said and we did… 14, 15 02 Responsible Business Strategy & Governance Our Responsible Business journey 16 02 Responsible Business Strategy & Governance We will… 23 04 Human Resources and Human Rights We think… 33 07 Community Involvement Various 69-79 Labor 01 Introduction Awards and Recognitions 8 Principles 3, 4, 5, 6 02 Responsible Business Strategy & Governance We said and we did… 14 02 Responsible Business Strategy & Governance Our Responsible Business journey 16 04 Human Resources and Human Rights Various 33-45 06 Responsible Products & Services Enhancing business continuity planning & management 61-62 Environment 01 Introduction Awards and Recognitions 8 Principles 7, 8, 9 02 Responsible Business Strategy & Governance We said and we did… 15 02 Responsible Business Strategy & Governance Our Responsible Business journey 16 02 Responsible Business Strategy & Governance We will… 23 05 Environment Various 47-57 06 Responsible Products & Services Green travel 63, 65 Anti-Corruption 01 Introduction Awards and Recognitions 8 Principle 10 02 Responsible Business Strategy & Governance We said and we did… 14, 15 02 Responsible Business Strategy & Governance Our Responsible Business journey 16 02 Responsible Business Strategy & Governance We will… 22 03 Ethics & Business Behavior Various 25-28 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 81 GRI table Supplementary Information This is a self-declaration assessment in accordance to the “core” option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as of June 2016. General Standard Disclosures Description Information General Standard Disclosures Description Information Strategy and Analysis Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-1 Sustainability strategy RB Report June 2016, p5, 11, G4-18 Defining content RB Report June 2016, statement 13 About this report G4-2 Description of key impacts, RB Report 2013, p15-16 G4-19 Material aspects RB Report 2013, p15-16 risks and opportunities G4-20 Aspect boundary within RB Report June 2016, Organizational Profile the organization About this report, p13 G4-3 Name Carlson Wagonlit Travel G4-21 Aspect boundary outside RB Report June 2016, G4-4 Primary brands, products, RB Report June 2016, p6 the organization About this report, p13 and/or services G4-22 Re-statements None G4-5 Location of headquarters Global Office Paris, France G4-23 Changes RB Report June 2016, G4-6 Countries of operation RB Report June 2016, p6-7 About this report, Environmental scope, p49 G4-7 Ownership Privately owned organization Stakeholder Engagement G4-8 Markets served RB Report June 2016, p6-7 G4-24 Stakeholder Groups RB Report June 2016, p13 G4-9 Scale and Size RB Report June 2016, p7 G4-25 Basis for selection RB Report 2013, p15-16 G4-10 Workforce RB Report June 2016, p7, (Materiality assessment) 37-39 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder RB Report 2013, p15-16 G4-11 Collective bargaining RB Report June 2015, p31 engagement (Materiality assessment) agreements G4-27 Key topics from stakeholders RB Report 2013, p15-16 G4-12 Supply chain RB Report June 2016, p28 (Materiality assessment) G4-13 Significant changes CEO change 2016; Report Profile RB Report June 2016, p5 G4-28 Reporting period RB Report June 2016, G4-14 Precautionary approach RB Report June 2016, p59 About this report G4-15 External principles RB Report June 2016, G4-29 Date of previous report June 2015 About this report, EcoVadis p8, UNGC p12 G4-30 Reporting cycle RB Report June 2016, About this report G4-16 Memberships in associations RB Report June 2016, (UNGC, p12; GTTP, p77) G4-31 Contact RB Report June 2016, RB Report 2013, About this report, Back Cover (Trace International p31) 82 Supplementary Information General Standard Disclosures Description Information Specific Standard Disclosures Description Information Report Profile (continued) Compliance G4-32 GRI Content Index RB Report June 2016, G4-EN29 Fines and environmental None p82-83 non-compliances G4-33 Assurance None. Transport Governance G4-EN30 transporting products, other RB Report June 2016, G4-34 Governance structure RB Report June 2016, p17 goods or people p51-52 Ethics and Integrity SOCIAL G4-56 Values www.carlsonwagonlit.com Training and Education Specific Standard Disclosures Description Information G4-LA10 Skills management and RB Report June 2016, lifelong learning p34, 40-42 ENVIRONMENT Diversity and Equal Opportunity Energy G4-LA12 Composition of governance RB Report June 2016, p17, G4-EN3 Energy use within RB Report June 2016, p50 bodies and employee diversity 34, 37-39 the organization HUMAN RIGHTS G4-EN4 Energy use outside RB Report June 2016, Supplier Human Rights Assessment of the organization p51-52 G4-HR10 New suppliers screened using RB Report June 2016, p28 G4-EN5 Energy intensity RB Report June 2016, p49 human rights criteria G4-EN6 Reduction of energy Reduction monitoring to begin Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms consumption in 2016 G4-HR12 Grievances about RB Report June 2016, p27 Emissions human rights G4-EN15 Direct Greenhouse RB Report June 2016, p49 SOCIETY Gas emissions G4-EN16 Indirect Greenhouse RB Report June 2016, p49 Anti-corruption Gas emissions G4-SO3 Operations assessed for risks RB Report June 2016, p27 G4-EN17 Other Indirect Greenhouse RB Report June 2016, p49 related to corruption Gas emissions G4-SO4 Communication and training RB Report June 2016, G4-EN18 Greenhouse Gas Monitored but not disclosed on anti-corruption p26-27 emissions intensity G4-EN19 Reduction of Greenhouse Reduction monitoring to begin Gas emissions in 2016 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 83 Thanks and photo credits Supplementary Information We would like to thank the numerous people who have helped to create this report We mobilized employees in six locations Thanks to the photographers: Thanks to Emperor Design, UK. and have only used real CWT employees Michael Austen (cover page, pages 56-57) to create the photos you see in this report. Dilbert Caglan (cover page, contents page, Last but not least, thanks to the RB On the following pages is a list of those pages 2, 66-67) Ambassadors, Correspondents and CWT who appear in this edition. Ron Lee (cover page, contents page, pages employees for bringing responsible business 20-21, 32, 37, 39, 46) to life in our organization, not only in 2015 Thierry Mesnard (page 74) but in the past and the years to come. Jesse Morgan (cover page, pages 10-11, 24, 33, 42, 44-45, 47, 53, 68) No part of this report must be reprinted or Chris Rasmussen (cover page, contents reused without the expressed permission page, pages 30-31, 53, 58, 80) of CWT. Ricardo Riberto (cover page, pages 78-79) Project team: Françoise Grumberg, Laura Jacquier, Donna Borlongan 84 Supplementary Information Cover (left to right) 01 Introduction 02 Responsible Business Ina Fosli, Savannah Curtin, Shantok Page 02 Strategy & Governance Karavadra, Tony Panter, Harshal Cédric Tavernier Page 10 Mehta, Neil Kelly, Lydiane Lambinet, Richard Scott Andy Wang, Renata Moreti, Eric De Page 03 Rouck, Janick Potier, Julie Cedo Diana L. Nelson Page 11 Françoise Grumberg Page 05 Kurt Ekert Page 19 (left to right) Ahmed Esbtan, Trinette Li, Fredrika Rylander, Joanna Li, Lookman Sanni, Stephanie DeNote, Anna Grigorieva, Min Shao, Meg Ramoso, Raphaël Pasdeloup, Mona Sakr, Terhi Utriainen, Virpi Paasonen, Gregoire Boutin, Lily Chan, Ashwini Kulkarni, Ebbetha Rulynda, Yon Abad, Rashmi Jhaveri, Russell Whitton Page 20 Julie Cedo Page 21 (left to right) Dorine Belliard, Racquel Raymundo, Harshal Mehta, Kerstin Sautter, Andy Wang Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 85 Thanks and photo credits Supplementary Information 03 Ethics & Business Behavior 04 Human Resources 05 Environment Page 24 and Human Rights Page 46 Nadiege Angeon Page 32 Page 44 Helwina Harharah Candice Chen Lydiane Lambinet Page 25 Page 47 Lauren Aste Page 33 Page 45 Françoise Grumberg Jean-Luc Duchemin Françoise Fruitiere, Françoise Grumberg, Page 30 Lydiane Lambinet, Nadiege Angeon Page 53 (left to right) Neil Kelly Page 37 Top: CWT employees Magalie Laederich, Laura Jacquier, Page 31 (left to right) Richard Scott, Ina Fosli Neil Kelly, Tim Webert, Kate Skraba Page 39 (left to right) Ryan Obligar, Angela Ang, Bottom: Nesieriza Pineda, Kathy Marie Heng, Shirley Guzzi, Theresa Murphy Pauzie Powdan Page 56 Page 40 (left to right) Tony Panter Niti Singh, Koby Brice, Kailash Bhardwaj, Jo-Lynn Loh Page 57 Jacquie Longman, Tony Panter Page 41 (left to right) Michelle Greeley, Pam Aase, Iryna Aukhimovich Page 42 (left to right) Alvan Aiau, Albert Zhong, Pohlin Ng, Joyce Hegedus, John Butler, Xiaohan Guo, Wai Mun Wong, Scott McDonald, Geeta Jain, Lisa Akeroyd, Kai Chan, Kelly Kuhn 86 Supplementary Information 06 Responsible Products 07 Community Involvement Page 58 Page 68 Page 75 Tim Webert Françoise Fruitiere Thea Panes Page 59 Page 69 (left to right) Page 76 Carinne Saulet Patrick Andersen, Kai Chan, Top photo: Kelly L. Kuhn (not in order) Page 61 (left to right) Kate Skraba Top: Page 71 Alisa Regnier Tony Panter, Christian Dedekin, Various CWT employees and teams Jessica Weinberger Desmond Lua, Johan Benthin, across the globe Sandie Hulet McKinley Bailey, Kerry Peddle, Tim Webert Almudena Albertos Page 72 (left to right) Charles Dettloff Greater Chicago Food Depository Nell Bury Bottom: volunteers, Johnathan Lim Leisha Lindsay Dominique Godin, Christa Wolpert Shirley Guzzi on behalf of Annette Wiertz, Page 74 Chase Buntgen Alessandra Massa, Isabelle Bousquet, CWT Global and EMEA and CWT Jennifer Green Kasia Owczarz France HQ employees with United Dawn Raasch Way and Michelet Middle School Amy Patiuk Page 66 students Scott Hace Janick Potier Brandon Balcom Page 67 (left to right) Middle: Cédric Tavernier, Janick Potier, Greater Chicago Food Depository Hilde Ladage Verheyen, Cédric volunteers Lesciauskas, Nathalie Morel Annual Responsible Business Report June 2016 87 Thanks and photo credits Supplementary Information 07 Community Involvement 08 Supplementary Bottom: Information (not in order) Page 80 Alexandre De Carvalho, Amy Patiuk Iryna Aukhimovich Brandon Balcom, Heather Grudt Jennifer Green, Kate Skraba, Santiago Vallejo Page 77 Yulia Khivantseva Page 78 Renata Moreti Page 79 (left to right) Renata Moreti, Vanessa Silva 88 CBP0003640106161825 The carbon impact of this paper has also been measured and balanced through the World Land Trust, an ecological charity. Carbon saved (kgs) by this order: 673 Land preserved (sq. Metres) by this order: 56.53 Printed on Symbol Freelife Satin which is an FSCrecognised paper, produced from well-managed forests. This publication was printed with vegetable oil-based inks by an FSC-recognised printer that holds an ISO 14001 certification. Global Office 40 avenue Pierre Lefaucheux © 2016 CWT CS 8012592772 Boulogne Billancourt Cedex France carlsonwagonlit.com
