A Century of Invisible Goodness Sustainability Report 2014-2015 “In a free enterprise, the community is not just another stakeholder in business but is in fact the very purpose of its existence.” Jamsetji N. Tata (1839-1904) Founder, Tata Group Contents CEO & Managing Director's Address 2 Report Contour 4 Company Proﬁle 7 Corporate Governance 15 Sustainable Business 22 Human Resources 36 Economic Performance 50 Environment Performance 55 Occupational Health and Safety 66 Product Responsibility 71 Social Performance 80 GRI EUSS Content Index with CDP, NVGs, and BRR mapping 88 Assurance Statement 94 Annexures 97 Abbreviations 100 Feedback Form 103 CEO & Managing Director’s Address Dear Stakeholder, chain. From Fuel and Logistics, to G eneration, Transmission, Distribution and Trading, the Company is Tata Power, India's largest integrated power company, poised for a multi-fold growth, as a national player in the accomplished 100 years of operations in February 2015. We power sector, by expanding its footprint across the country take pride in sharing the Centenary year celebrations with and overseas. Tata Power believes that enabling selfour stakeholders who have helped us serve the nation for sustained communities not only contributes towards the over 100 years. Buoyed by the vision of our Founder, company's growth, but becomes an eﬀective partner in the Jamsetji N. Tata, that clean, cheap and abundant power is business ecosystem. one of the basic ingredients for the economic progress of a city, a state, or a country, Tata Power began its operations in With this I present to you Tata Power's 6th Sustainability 1915 by commissioning India's ﬁrst hydroelectric project in Report for the year 2014-15, and the ﬁrst one to be Khopoli, Maharashtra. Since we commissioned ﬁrst Hydro prepared in accordance with the latest G4 Guidelines of the unit of 12 MW in 1915, symbolically, we commit to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), The Netherlands. Besides commission 120 MW of new Hydro Power Project during conforming to the new reporting guidelines, the the 100th year. Also, we plan Hydro development of yet uniqueness of the report is the approach used for its another 450 MW starting this year; and train 2,00,000 preparation, keeping in mind the key issues for the skilled workforce by 2025, through Tata Power Skill company. To aid this, we conducted a Stakeholder Development Institute (TPSDI). Engagement and Materiality Analysis to revisit our mater ialit y matr ix, keeping in mind the major Beginning our journey hundred years ago, Tata Power stakeholders' perception. This exercise helped us to today has a signiﬁcant presence across the power value prioritise key sustainability issues and enabled us to Sustainability Report 2014-2015 02 develop a more meaningful roadmap to be future ready. this belief and commitment, safety remains one of the This Sustainability Report presents our achievements prime core values for Tata Power. The year saw against the set targets in the economic, social and strengthening of the Safety Governance Mechanism with a environmental areas, mainly known as the triple bottom 3-tier Structure for oversight. Our continued focus on line performance, with the focus on good governance. It ensuring emergency preparedness, Disaster Management provides information on the various governance Pl a n ( D M P ) / B u s i n e s s Co nt i n u i t y Pro ce s s ( B C P ) structures, operational values, outreach and success implementation, thrust on trainings and audits, and stories, which ultimately lead us towards achieving the Corrective and Preventive Action Plan (CAPA), etc. helps in Mission of the company. the reinforcement of the company's values. Tata Power has been operational in a highly technological Our eﬀorts were recognised at various platforms and a sector that is vital to economic and social development. In testimony to this are the various awards bestowed to us. addition to producing an essential good, our business also Tata Power has been adjudged the Best Governed creates wellbeing for the community, dividends to Company and conferred with the prestigious National shareholders, value to employees and partners, service to Award for Excellence in Corporate Governance, by The customers and many more, as a responsible corporate Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI). We are citizen. We strive to make ourselves and our group also proud to share that Tata Power, Trombay plant has companies a source of technical skill and innovation. This been adjudged in top 3 for the Green rating by Centre for is evident from the Tata Power S E D's (Strategic Science Environment (CSE), New Delhi. The UMPP Mundra Engineering Division) unﬂinching commitment to was also received special recognition for energy achieving Substantive Self Reliance and in-house R&D is eﬃciency. demonstrated by its contribution to the launch of Agni V from SED Launcher. The Secured Rugged Ground Reaching the centenary milestone, I would like to take this Computers' and 'Missile Interface Units' were developed opportunity to thank all our employees, partners and by SED. Another such initiative is venture into the stakeholders who have contributed to the company's gasiﬁcation of biomass which is emerging as a viable achievements over the years, and we are conﬁdent that source of energy for power generation. This fuel source they will continue to be part of our future growth too. also holds signiﬁcant social and business beneﬁts and Moving forward, we value our stakeholder's opinions as being a clean and sustainable source, it promises to be a they help us in the pursuit towards Sustainability and long term growth area. To explore and harness the would like to have suggestions on this report. opportunities, Tata Power has set up a dedicated Bio-fuels Division. With best regards, The year saw two successful additions to the business portfolio in wind and thermal. One is the commissioning of 8 MW of the 32 MW wind farm at Girijashankarwadi in Satara, Maharashtra, adding to total wind generation Anil Sardana capacity of 470.6 MW. Tata Power signed a SPA (Share CEO & Managing Director Pu r c h a s e Ag r e e m e n t ) fo r a c q u i s i t i o n o f 1 0 0 % shareholding in Ideal Energy Projects Limited (IEPL) which owns a 540 MW coal-based thermal power project in Nagpur, Maharashtra. We also achieved full commissioning of 126 MW Dagachhu Hydroelectric Power Project, Bhutan and clean power generated by this plant will be sold to India, thereby helping to reduce carbon emission. The Dagachhu project is a Joint Venture initiative between Tata Power and Druk Green Power Corporation, owned by Royal Government of Bhutan (RGoB) and is the ﬁrst cross-border project registered under UNFCCC's Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). Tata Power espouses the belief that safety, health and wellbeing of its stakeholders are of the utmost importance and take precedence in all business decisions. In pursuit of 03 Performance Reporting Methodology Period Company Proﬁle Human Sustainability Resources Report Scope Performance and Boundary Governance Product Responsibility Report Contour Tata Power always strives to deliver the best to all its Though materiality assessment was revisited internally in stakeholders with the highest ethical practices. In the FY 13, during this reporting year, for the purpose of G4 constant pursuit to grow, the Company has adopted the reporting framework, Tata Power revisited the Stakeholder latest Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines for the engagement and Materiality study with the help of a global Sustainability Report 2014-15. With this, Tata Power will be consulting ﬁrm. The results of this study have been among the early adopters of the new guidelines in the presented in the report. Indian business fraternity. This is the Sixth Sustainability Report of The Tata Power Company Limited and the last The report also addresses the requirements of the National Sustainability Report was published in August, 2014. The Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental, and details on the purpose, reporting period, scope and Economic responsibilities of Business (NVG-SEE) of Ministry boundary, methodology and scope limitations of the report of Corporate Aﬀairs, Business Responsibility Reporting are provided in the next sections. (BRR) by Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) UK, United Nation Global Purpose Compact (UNGC), Schedule VII of The Companies Act 2013, Tata Power's Sustainability Report is published annually to and Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) of the United provide the economic, social and environmental Nations. The Sustainability Report is brought out in addition performance and a cross-sectional view of the business to the Integrated Report and Tata Power Community with strong Corporate governance and good sustainability Development Trust (TPCDT) Annual Report, accessible at practices to live up to the expectations of its key www.tatapower.com and www.tpcdt.org respectively. stakeholders. TPCDT Annual Report provides the detailed activities regarding Corporate Social Responsibility in the area of drinking water and energy. Reporting Period The reporting period for the report is April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015. Tata Power has aligned the report in Report Scope and Boundary accordance to the G4 reporting framework of GRI, The The Report is speciﬁc to the Indian operations of Tata Power, Netherlands and Electric Utilities Sector Supplement viz. Generation, Transmission and Distribution of power. (EUSS). To ensure transparency and to showcase the best These includes seven generating stations namely Trombay; practices in Tata Power, it was decided to adopt the 'in Coastal Gujarat Power Limited (CGPL), Mundra; Maithon accordance Comprehensive level' of disclosure of the G4 Power limited (MPL), Maithon; Jojobera; Haldia; Industrial Guidelines, and the processes were found to be capable of Energy Limited (IEL), Jamshedpur (Plant 5 and Power House addressing them positively. An in-house team has worked 6) and 3 generating stations (Hydro), namely Khopoli, Bhira exhaustively to create repor ting process, review and Bhivpuri. However, the total installed capacity also mechanism, collection and assimilation of data with a includes wind and solar generation, but these are not in the constructive approach to adapt to GRI G4 guidelines. s c o p e o f t h e r e p o r t . L i k e l a s t y e a r, t wo m a j o r Sustainability Report 2014-2015 04 divisions/subsidiaries, viz. Strategic Electronics Division reporting years FY 13 and 14, these have been rectiﬁed and (SED) and Chemical Trombay Terminal Limited (CTTL) reported. Also, the average plant availability factor for continue to be part of the scope. Data pertaining to G4 GRI Trombay and Average Generation Eﬃciency Trombay reporting framework of all 91 performance indicators have (Unit # 7) has been corrected. been included in the report. There have been no signiﬁcant changes in the structure or ownership, data measurement Report Scope Limitations method, etc. during the reporting period. Therefore, the This Report excludes all International Operations, Joint reporting basis does not contain any change, nor aﬀects the Ventures (JV), Associates and Upcoming projects. The table comparability principle. There are two re-statements of below presents the Subsidiaries, JVs and Associates and data in the report for Net Power Generation at Trombay for main Divisions of Tata Power. Subsidiaries Associates Joint Ventures Chemical Terminal Trombay Ltd.* Yashmun Engineers Ltd. (YEL) Cennergi Pty. Ltd. Tsitsikamma Community Wind Farm (Pty.) Ltd. NDPL Infra Ltd. Tata Ceramics Ltd. Amakhala Emoyeni RE Project 1 (Pty.) Ltd. Af-Taab Investment Co. Ltd. Panatone Finvest Ltd. (PFL) PT Mitratama Perkasa Tata Power Solar Systems Ltd. PT Mitratama Usaha Tata Projects Ltd. (TPL) PT Arutmin Indonesia Powerlinks Transmission Ltd. ASL Advanced Systems Pvt. Ltd. PT Kaltim Prima Coal Tata Power Trading Co. Ltd. The Associated Building Co. Ltd. Indocoal Resources (Cayman) Ltd. PT Indocoal Kalsel Resources Tata Power Green Energy Ltd. Rujuvalika Investments Ltd. PT Indocoal Kaltim Resources Nelco Ltd. Hemisphere Properties India Ltd. Tubed Coal Mines Ltd. Tatanet Services Ltd. Brihat Trading Private Ltd. Mandakini Coal Company Ltd. Gamma Land Holding Ltd. Maithon Power Ltd.* Nelito Systems Ltd. Solace Land Holding Ltd. Industrial Energy Ltd.* Beta Land Holdings Ltd. Ginger Land Holdings Ltd. Industrial Power Utility Ltd. Dagachhu Hydro Power Corporation Ltd. Tata Power Renewable Energy Ltd. Candice Investments Pte. Ltd. Coastal Gujarat Power Ltd.* PT Nusa Tambang Pratama PT Marvel Capital Indonesia Bhira Investments Ltd. PT Dwikarya Prima Abadi Bhivpuri Investments Ltd. PT Kalimantan Prima Power PT Citra Prima Buana Khopoli Investments Ltd. PT Guruh Agung Energy Eastern Pte. Ltd. PT Citra Kusuma Perdana Trust Energy Resources Pte. Ltd. OTP Geothermal Pte. Ltd. PT OTP Geothermal Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd PT Sorik Marapi Geothermal Power Tata Power Jamshedpur Distribution Ltd. PT Baramulti Sukessarana Tbk PT Antang Gunung Meratus PT Sumber Energi Andalan Tbk Adjaristsqali Netherlands BV Dugar Hydro Power Ltd. Adjaristsqali Georgia LLC Tata Power International Pte. Ltd Indocoal KPC Resources (Cayman) Ltd Koromkheti Netherlands BV NewGen Saurashtra Windfarms Ltd Koromkheti Netherlands BV *Entities included for reporting 05 Methodology The report is reviewed and approved by the Chief Tata Power's sustainability performance is process-based Sustainability Oﬃcer. Tata Power appreciates feedback for all the parameters pertaining to the triple bottom line. from its stakeholders to improve any aspect pertinent to The SAP-based or other web-based systems ensure the report. To aid this, a form is attached at the end of the ﬁnancial data management, environment, Corporate report to collect feedback which can be sent to Social Responsibility (CSR), Human Resources (HR), sustainability.reporting@tatapower.com or mailed to the Occupational Health and Safety (OHS), CO2 emission, etc. address: The data on environmental parameters, consumption/ emission-related is intensity-based and reﬂects the trends Chief Sustainability Oﬃcer over the previous years. The data provided in the report is The Tata Power Company Limited externally assured by Ernst & Young as per ISAE 3000 and 34, Sant Tukaram Road, AA 1000 AS Standards. The report is GRI checked in Mumbai 400009 accordance to Comprehensive level of disclosure. Sustainability Report 2014-2015 06 Company Proﬁle Tata Power is one of the companies of the diversiﬁed Tata Group conglomerate which is well recognized and rated as the world's 34th most valuable brand (Brand Finance Global 500). Tata Power is in 5th position in terms of Market Capital (US$ 3.60 bn) when compared among the other “A s a r e s p o n s i b l e group companies with a Compounded Annual Growth corporate citizen, we Rate (CAGR) of 9.1% as compared to last year, as of March introspect our 31, 2015. The major businesses of the Company are in Generation, Transmission, Distribution-cum-Retail, Power behaviour in society, Trading, Power Services, Coal Mines and Logistics, Strategic impact on climate, and Engineering for defence applications, Solar Photovoltaic align our future strategy in the best (PV) manufacturing and associated project management interest of humankind. This has become services (Engineering, Procurement, Construction). part of our lives as a result of the moral and selﬂ ess pr inciples disp l aye d Tata Power presently generates electricity from Thermal, traditionally over centuries by Tata’s. We Hydro, Wind and Solar, as well as from Waste Heat recovery. Along with generating, transmitting and distributing have adopted new challenges in the electricity, Tata Power is also delivering progress and ﬁelds like safety, operational eﬃciency, possibility for millions of people and businesses. This biodiversity, carbon emissions, energy Report is about Tata Power's commitment to more conservation, community development, broader social prosperity, deeper environmental and dealing with disasters. Tata Power responsibility, and greater empowerment for 4234 diverse has balanced its generation portfolio individuals who make Tata Power a leader. with a signiﬁcant portion of the installed At Tata Power, success depends on knowing what matters to capacity coming from clean and green its stakeholders, and delivering it so they can do more. sources. Tata Power is conﬁdent that it Sustainability Reporting is one of the media for reaching out will continue to scale new heights and to the stakeholders. The current report entitled signiﬁcantly contribute towards making “A Century of Invisible Goodness” throws light on the legacy the planet a better place to live for its of the Tata's by which it has served the people thereby present and future generations.” serving the country through reliable power supply. Business Overview Mr. Ashok Sethi Tata Power is among the leading private power generating COO & Executive Director companies in India with gross power generation capacity of 8726 MW and value chain existence in all the segments; 07 viz. Generation, Transmission, Distribution, Trading and has To reduce reliance on conventional energy sources, the assets for ensuring fuel supply. The portfolio has a balanced strategy is to diversify into renewable energy including mix of operating, under construction and development hydro, wind and solar with 1120 MW existing capacity and projects with new capacity of 1720 MW under execution. approx. 1278 MW in new capacity under construction; Further, there exists a broad mix of tariﬀ models including which makes Tata Power as one of the largest nonregulated returns, captive, IPP, UMPP and merchant sales. conventional energy players in the country. Tata Power does Tata Power is one of the ﬁrst companies to participate in not operate in nuclear power being a private sector power public-private partnership projects such as Tata Power player. Tata Power has international presence in Indonesia, Delhi Distribution Limited ( TPDDL) and Powerlinks Bhutan, Georgia, South Africa and Zambia. These projects Transmission Ltd. are under various stages of execution and development. Tata Power Business Overview Generation Transmission Power Business Distribution Trading Fuel & Logistics Other Businesses Division Other SPVs % stakes Global portfolio of Assets across Value Chain India & Neighboring Countries International Presence Operational Thermal 7547 MW Hydro 447 MW 489 MW South Africa Georgia Wind Solar 31 MW 50:50 JV with Development of thee Dugar Hydro Transmission Exxaro Resources hydro projects in 2 phases Distribution of 185 MW and 215 MW Delhi TPDDL Powerlinks Rajasthan Rithala DHPC Bhutan 126 MW (TPDDL) Maithon Mundra Maithon Tubed Jojobera Gujarat Tiruldih IEL 1960 MW (UD) Haldia Begunia Kalinganagar Mumbai Mandakini Maharashtra Lodhivali 40 MW Dherand Belgaum Karnataka Under Execution (Development) Thermal 8712 MW Wind 237 MW Hydro 906 MW Coal Tamil Nadu Indonesia Notes: 1. Mumbai includes the power plants in Trombay, Bhira, Bhivpuri, Khopoli and certain Wind projects 2. Projects under execution / development UE under execution, UD under development 3. Some projects under execution / development are overseas Sustainability Report 2014-2015 08 Tata Power has signed a Memorandum of Understanding from across the globe as and when the need arises for (MoU) with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) and sustainable supply for its operation. Siberian Coal Energy Company (SUEK) to develop investment opportunities in the energy sector. RDIF and Fuel Transportation Tata Power will co-operate on identifying and targeting Tata Power's Trust Energy Resources is a wholly owned investment opportunities across Russia in order to develop subsidiary in Singapore. Trust Energy's scope of business is mutually beneﬁcial transactions. SUEK and Tata Power will to securitise regular coal supply and the shipping of coal for cooperate on identifying and targeting opportunities in Tata Power's thermal power generation operations. There the energy sector in Russia and other geographies of have been no environmental impacts reported during common interest. transportation of fuel for the company's operation. However, Tata Power is not quantifying the emissions from Fuel coal logistics during sea transportation. Tata Power has secured the supply of fuel for its operations through long term contracts. The details of fuel supply are Generation given below. Tata Power will continue to tap new fuel assets Tata Power's present portfolio in power generation is Project Requirement Source 8726 MW and has over 9,000 MW projects in various stages Trombay 3 MTPA coal Coal Mines, Indonesia of execution and development. Tata Power Hydro Oil Nearby reﬁneries generating stations are in Khopoli, Bhivpuri and Bhira. The thermal power generating stations are at Trombay, 1 MMSCMD of Gas GAIL Mundra, Maithon, Jojobera, Haldia, and Jamshedpur. In this Mundra 12 MTPA coal Coal Mines, Indonesia reporting year, there was an addition of 163 MW to the Maithon 4.5 MTPA coal Coal India Ltd generation capacity from thermal, hydro, wind and solar Jojobera Coal West Bokaro Coal Fields power. Tata Power signed a SPA (Share Purchase and Mahanadi Coal Fields Agreement) for acquisition of 100% shareholding in Ideal Energy Projects Limited (IEPL) which owns a 540 MW coalHaldia Flue Gas Tata Steel, Haldia based thermal power project in Nagpur, Maharashtra. IEL Furnace & Coke oven Gas Tata Steel, Jamshedpur The details of installed capacity are provided in the table Coal West Bokaro Coal Fields below. Installed Capacity Fuel Source Location State Installed Capacity (MW) Total Capacity (MW) Thermal Trombay Maharashtra 1580 7178 Mundra Gujarat 4000 Maithon Jharkhand 1050 Jojobera Jharkhand 548 Oil/Gas Rithala* New Delhi 108 189 Belgaum* Karnataka 81 Thermal Waste Jamshedpur Jharkhand 120 120 Heat Recovery Haldia West Bengal 120 120 Hydro Bhira Maharashtra 300 573 Khopoli Maharashtra 72 Bhivpuri Maharashtra 75 Dagachhu Bhutan 126 Renewable Wind Farms Maharashtra 208.6 487 Gujarat 89.6 Karnataka 50.4 Tamil Nadu 99 Rajasthan 21 Solar Maharashtra 3 60 Gujarat 25 Maharashtra 29 Delhi 1.65 Total 8726 * Not Operational 09 Renewable Portfolio MW, distribution networks by 4000 MW, energy resources Tata Power is conscious of its role as a sustainability steward by 25 million tonnes per annum and 10-X growth in valueand embraces the challenges of climate change. Tata Power added businesses. To achieve the set target, various strives to lead the path towards growth with responsibility projects are under execution and development stage and committed for generating electricity using clean and both domestic as well as international as given below; green sources. Tata Power has 16% of MW capacity through clean and green sources which is aligned to the strategic Domestic Projects intent to generate 20-25% of total installed capacity from Kalinganagar, Odisha 202.5 MW (3 x 67.5 MW): The clean and green sources, as on March 31, 2015. project is being executed through Industrial Energy Limited (IEL), a JV of the Company (74%) with Tata Steel Tata Power successfully commissioned 126 MW Dagachhu Limited (26%) for its steel plant in Kalinganagar, Odisha. Hydro Power Corporation (DHPC) in Bhutan. This Project is The project is in an advanced stage of execution and will in line with Tata Power's commitment to commission 120 utilise ﬂue gases from blast furnace and coke oven of MW of new Hydro Power Project as part of the centenary Tata Steel. In addition, gas is also fed due to the low caloriﬁc year celebration theme of 'Invisible Goodness', and is the value of blast furnace ﬂue gases. This is one more example ﬁrst cross-border project registered under UNFCCC's from environmental angle to convert waste into useful Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). The Dagachhu resource. Project is a Joint Venture initiative between Tata Power (and Druk Green Power Corporation, owned by Royal Government of Bhutan (RGoB)), and National Pension & Renewable Energy Projects Provident Fund of Bhutan. With the commissioning of the Tata Power Renewable Energy Limited (TPREL): Two project, Tata Power's total hydro generation capacity wind projects at Rojmal, Gujarat (54 MW) and Dangri, today stands at 573 MW and overall capacity at 8726 MW. Rajasthan (118 MW) are under development stages. These The Dagachhu Project is 126 MW (2X63 MW) run of river projects have been partially commissioned in the hydro project located in Dagana Dzongkhag, Bhutan. repor ting per iod and are expec ted to be fully DHPC has entered into a 25 year Power Purchase commissioned during FY 16. Agreement (PPA) with Tata Power Trading Company Limited (TPTCL, a company of Tata Power) for sale of International Projects power from the project. The power generated from the Cennergi Projects: The Company's JV in South Africa, project shall be sold by TPTCL in the Indian power market. Cennergi (Proprietary) Limited, achieved ﬁnancial closure of 134 MW Amakhala Emoyeni Wind Farm and 95 MW I n t h e S o l a r p o r t fo l i o, Tat a Powe r s u cce s s f u l l y Tsitsikamma Community Wind Farm in May and June 2013 commissioned a 29 MW solar photovoltaic (PV) power respectively. Currently, engineering and planning project at Palaswadi, Satara, Maharashtra, through its activities are in progress. subsidiary, Tata Power Renewable Energy Limited (TPREL). The solar plant is expected to generate approximately 46 Zambia: The Company has acquired 50% shares held by MU per year which will enable Tata Power to meet its Solar Tata Africa Holdings (SA) (Pty) Limited (Tata Africa) in Renewable Purchase Obligations (RPO). The successful Itezhi Tezhi Power Corporation Limited during the year, additions to the business portfolio was also made in wind which is implementing the 120 MW Itezhi Tezhi Hydro generation through commissioning of 8 MW of the 32 MW Project in Zambia. wind farm at Girijashankarwadi, Satara, Maharashtra. With these projects, Tata Power now has a strong portfolio of Georgia: The Company acquired 40% shares in 60 MW of Solar and 487 MW of Wind making it the largest Adjaristsqali Netherlands BV, which is implementing renewable utility player in India. To meet its strategic hydro projects in Georgia through its 100% subsidiary, intent, various projects of in India and internationally Adjaristsqali Georgia LLC. The construction of 187 MW respectively, are under execution and development. Shuakhevi Hydro Project has commenced with all major contracts having been awarded. Activities to achieve the Forthcoming Projects on a Multi-Fold Growth ﬁnancial closure are at an advanced stage. The Company path achieved the ﬁnancial closure for Shuakhevi Hydro Project Tata Power is on a multi-fold growth path. By 2022, Tata in the reporting period. The development of 150 MW Power plans to increase the generation capacity to 18,000 Koromkheti Hydro Project has also commenced. Sustainability Report 2014-2015 10 The details of other both domestic and international Station and Tata Power Salsette Receiving Station (8 km projects are provided below. route length) by replacing the existing conductor with high ampacity conductor (capacity increased from 900 amps to Project Name Fuel Capacity (MW) 1800 amps). This uprated 220kV line will relieve critical loading of the Kalwa-Salsette lines and will enhance Domestic transmission capacity for bringing power from outside to IEL Kalinganagar Flue Gas 202.5 Mumbai city. Rojmal, Gujarat Wind 54 Dangri, Rajasthan Wind 100 The acute shortage of power has made it necessary for Dugar, Himachal Pradesh Hydro 449 power to be imported from outside the city. Tata Power has pioneered many initiatives and one such key initiative is International the islanding system in the network of the city of Mumbai, Cennergi AEW Wind 138 which isolates it from blackouts caused by faults in the Cennergi TCW Wind 95 national grid. The transmission system is the link between Georgia Phase I Hydro 184 the generating stations and the distribution companies for Georgia Phase II Hydro 140 transmitting power from the generating stations and also is the corridor for bringing in power from outside Mumbai. Georgia Phase III Hydro 75 This will be commissioned in April 2015. ITPC Zambia Hydro 120 OTP Geothermal, Indonesia Geothermal 240 Tata Power is implementing 400 kV Transmission Line Total 1722.5 project from Kharghar to Vikhroli, Mumbai (about 20 kms line length), along with 400 kV Switching Station at Transmission Ghatkopar, Mumbai and 400 kV Receiving Station at Tata Power has always worked towards improving Vikhroli. The above transmission line is in the advanced reliability of power supply to Mumbai. Mumbai's electricity stage of various approvals such as environment, forest, demand is primarily catered by Tata Power's transmission Airport Authority of India, etc. The project is expected to be network through its transmission license which was commissioned within 3-4 years. This will bring about 1,000 renewed for the next 25 years eﬀective 2014. Based on the MW power into Mumbai city initially, with a provision of projected load demand for Mumbai, a 400 KVA project is additional capacity increase of another 1,000 MW. under development which is expected to be completed by 2017. Transmission operations in Mumbai License is spread Tata Power organises special safet y awareness over the entire city of Mumbai with 21 receiving stations, programmes in the vicinity of High Tension lines in including its suburbs and extended up to the hydro Mumbai, under its Jan Jagruti Abhiyaan initiative. The generating stations in Raigad district of Maharashtra. This objective is to spread the message amongst as many utility with more than 1,174 CKT KM of transmission citizens as possible to reduce the electrical accidents that network in Mumbai License meet the power needs of the can be caused while living in areas which are close to high city. The entire transmission system is centrally controlled voltage transmission lines. Also various initiatives have from Power System Control Centre (PSCC) through state of been taken for safety of employees while working at height the art uniﬁed SCADA system. As part of Powerlinks (installation of ladders on Transmission Towers and Transmission Limited, the installed 400 kV Transmission procurement of new technology equipment for safe lines to evacuate and transmit surplus power from working in operational areas in Receiving Stations). Eastern/North Eastern region (Siliguri) to Uttar Pradesh (Mandaula) covers a distance of 1,166 km. With growth in size and complexity of power system in India, security and reliability of power supply is of topical Tata Power Transmission has grid availability above 99.5% interest to everybody. In the context of major blackouts in and is one of the most reliable systems in the country and number of states, the subject of power system protection carries 60% to 70% of the bulk power consumed by assumes great signiﬁcance. Tata Power designed the Mumbai city. It is the key interlink between the generation islanding scheme for Mumbai Power System way back in and distribution of power and links the city transmission 1981 which isolates Mumbai Power Supply from rest of system with the Maharashtra state grid. Tata Power transmission is continuously upgrading and augmenting Maharashtra in case of major disturbances and continues the transmission system to cater to the increasing demand to supply power to the city. Since 1995 Mumbai Power of customers. System successfully islanded and survived on all 16 occasions. Tata Power has also commissioned islanding The Company completed the uprating of existing schemes at Jojobera which isolates generating units and transmission line between Maharashtra State Electricity ensures survival of the so formed Island thereby Transmission Company Limited (MSETCL) Kalwa Receiving maintaining uninterrupted supply. 11 Distribution and Supply and abroad. Achieving slums electriﬁcation with 24x7 The customer base of Tata Power crossed 2 million power at the most competitive tariﬀs is another initiative customers (14 lakh in Delhi and 6 lakh in Mumbai) across by Tata Power. the country. Tata Power has a customer base of more than 600,000 direct customers in Mumbai and on average about Energy Availability and Reliability 5966 million units (MUs) are sold in a year. Some of its bulk Tata Power as a sustainable power utility endeavours to customers include he Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply operate its stations with its equipment under fully running and Transport (BEST), Railways, Port Trust, Bhabha Atomic condition, have non-interrupted energy or acceptable Research Centre (BARC), Reﬁneries and other important levels of energy interruptions to generate a consistent installations in Mumbai. As in all parts of the business, electrical output and is available to meet predicted peaks improvement in operational eﬃciency is a key focus area. in demand. The operating results regarding Eﬃciency of Tata Power has taken number of initiatives to improve the Generation (Thermal/Renewables), Average Generation quality and reliability of its power supply and enhance Eﬃciency (%) of Thermal station based on the Energy customer service. Tata Power is poised to participate in Source and Average plant availability factor of Thermal power distribution opportunities in other Indian states Stations by energy source are given below. Eﬃciency of Generation (Thermal/Renewables) Net Thermal Production (MUs) 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Coal Trombay (Unit # 5 & 8) 5467.53 5003.32 3796.80 CGPL 12440 23927.80 26577.58 MPL 4587.365 6547.10 6312.12 Jojobera 3067.2 3597.50 3457.83 Oil / Gas Trombay (Unit # 6) 1908.68 453.68 770.18 Trombay CCGT (Unit # 7) 1560.24 1241.60 1119.27 Thermal Waste (PH # 6) 871.5793 929.36 876.97 Heat Recovery (Haldia) 925.4 942.30 889.3 Net Renewable Production Hydro 1397.06 1597 1406.13 Wind 795.87 724.60 759.64 Solar 47.43 47.92 86.15* *The improvement in the solar portfolio is attributed to the newly operational 29 MW Palaswadi solar plant Average Generation Eﬃciency (%) of Thermal Station based on the Energy Source Thermal Plant Eﬃciency 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Coal Trombay (Unit # 5) 34.74 34.38 34.30 (Unit # 8) 37.40 38.06 37.80 CGPL 41 39.79 41 MPL 35.24 35.98 36.14 Jojobera 32.60 32.83 33.15 Oil / Gas Trombay (Unit # 6) 34.26 32.47 30.34 Gas Trombay CCGT (Unit # 7) 43.87 43.04 43.71 Thermal Waste (PH # 6) 33.05 33.43 33.56 Heat Recovery (Haldia) 94.3 96.05 90.6 Sustainability Report 2014-2015 12 Average plant availability factor of Thermal Stations by Energy Source Thermal Plant Eﬃciency 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Coal Trombay (Unit # 5 & 8) 96.73 91.78 69.45 Jojobera 95.39 95.92 95.10 CGPL 84 82.57 83.14 MPL 83.07 87 87.86 Oil / Gas Trombay (Unit # 6) 87.59 30.08 59.27 Gas Trombay CCGT (Unit # 7) 97.92 86.22 77.81 Thermal Waste (PH # 6) 93.73 96.60 94.40 Heat Recovery (Haldia) 95.6 98.1 95.85 Other Key Business Tata Power l 100% subsidiary, holds a trading license for a period of 25 years starting from 2004 Trading l Holds a Category I trading license, which permits it to trade any amount of power l Trust Energy Resources Pte Ltd incorporated in Singapore for owning bulk carriers to meet Shipping shipping requirements and trading in fuel, Energy Eastern Pte Ltd incorporated for chartering of Subsidiaries ships l To be met through a combination of long term charters and out right purchases of cape size vessels 3 long term charters signed and 2 cape size ships purchased l Solar Cell Manufacturing Faculty at Bengaluru, Karnataka Tata Power l Has four main business lines: Solar l manufacturing and sale of solar photovoltaic cells and modules l providing engineering, procurement and construction/commissioning Systems Ltd. l services as well as operations and management services to solar project developers, developing and selling solar photovoltaic products in rural markets Strategic l Originated as an internal R&D unit for power electronics; designs and develops electronic Engineering devices l SED was awarded the modernize airﬁeld infrastructure for the Indian Air Force Division (SED) l Does not manufacture ammunition or explosives of any kind, including cluster bombs and anti personnel mines Chemical Trombay l The terminalling service at Trombay has a Marine berth catering to diﬀerent sized tankers Terminal l Tank farm capacity of ~42,000 KL with license to store A, B and C class petrochemicals Limited (CTTL) l Coal handling operations and Fly ash utilization are new business initiatives 13 Awards Tata Power has been conferred the National Award for The Awards recognise the outstanding contribution of the Excellence in Corporate Governance by The Institute of Company to the nation's economy demonstrated through Company Secretaries of India excellent leadership and long-time performance for overall development in all facets. Tata Power is honoured Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited (TPDDL) won the to have earned local, national and international Innovation for India Award for developing Tamper recognition for its commitment to Sustainability, including Evident & Defraud Electricity Meter leadership related to the environment, community development and operations. The awards received in FY Tata Power bestowed with the Wind Farm Operator of the 14-15 are below: Year Agaswadi Wind farm at the Wind Independent Power Producer Summit 2014 Tata Power received Green Ratings by Centre for Science Environment (CSE) Five Leaves Award for Trombay Tata Power bagged Best Internal Magazine, Indian (3rd Best in the country for Environmental Performance Language Publication, Environment Communication, and 3 Leaves) and Mundra (Best Plant of India for energy Digital Communication & Web Communication at the eﬃciency) 54th Association of Business Communicators Awards Tata Power's CEO & MD honoured with the Central Board of Tata Power was awarded “World's Most Ethical Company” Irrigation and Power (CBIP) Award for Outstanding by Ethisphere Institute of USA for second consecutive year Performance in the Power Sector and Power Persona of the Year Sustainability Outlook felicitated Dr. Y. K. Saxena, as the CSO of the Year at the Parivartan Sustainability Trailblazer Awarded ISO 31000:2009 Statement of Compliance awards for catalysing sustainability action for Tata Power from British Standards Institution (BSI) for Enterprise Risk Management System Conferred for its 'Outstanding Performance in the Power Sector' at the Central Board of Irrigation and Power Trombay Station honoured with Excellent Energy (CBIP) Awards Eﬃcient Unit, Best Innovative Project and Most Useful Presentation, at the 15th CII National Award for Energy Tata Power received the ' Tata Engage Special Management Recognition' award at the Tata Group CSR Meet for involvement of stakeholders during Tata Volunteering Tata Power Distribution received the Innovative Energy Week I. Saving Service award during the 15th National Awards for Excellence in Energy Management, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Tata Power's Jojobera Quality Control team won the Gold Award at the Convention Quality Circle from Quality Circle Forum India (QCFI) Tata Power received Aﬃrmative Action Award during Tata Group Annual Aﬃrmative Action conclave in the Best Strategy and Best practice of need assessment category Sustainability Report 2014-2015 14 Corporate Governance (Care for our Shareholders) The Company is focused on enhancement of long-term value creation for all stakeholders without compromising on integrity, gender sensitivity, societal obligations, environment and regulatory compliances. The actions are governed by values and principles, which are reinforced at “Sustainability as a all levels of the organisation. These principles have been practice is intricately and will continue to be the Company's guiding force in the woven into every future too. This philosophy has been sought to be strengthened through the TCoC, the Tata Business function of Tata Power Excellence Model (TBEM), Tata Code for Prevention of in a way that it addresses the interest of Insider Trading and Code of Corporate Disclosure Practices. all its stakeholders and the society at large.” Vision To be the most admired and responsible Integrated Power Company with international footprint, delivering Mr. Anil Sardana sustainable value to all stakeholders. CEO & Managing Director Mission Tata Power aims at becoming the most admired and responsible power Company delivering sustainable value by Governance Philosophy l Operating assets at benchmark levels More than a century ago, the visionary Founder, Jamsetji N. l Executing projects safely, with predictable benchmark Tata laid the foundation for good governance and made it quality, cost and time an integral part of Tata's business culture. Corporate l Growing the Tata Power businesses, be it across the Governance is concerned with maintaining the balance value chain or across geographies, and also in allied or between economic, environment and social goals. As a Tata new businesses Company, Corporate Governance is the way business is l Driving Organisational Transformation that will make being done, enshrined in every day's activities and plays an the Company have the conviction and capabilities to important role in shaping the organisation's culture. deliver on the strategic intent Corporate governance of the Company is inspired by the l Achieving the Company's Sustainability intent of Tata legacy of 'Leadership with Trust' at the core of which lie ‘Leadership with Care', by having leading and best-inthe Tata Values and Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC), which class practices on Care for Environment, Community, guides to operate with ethics and integrity. Customers, Shareholders and People. 15 Values Statement of Tata Power, which was initiated in June 2014. The values today are ‘SACRED’ to the Company Current performance of the Company against various l Safety: Safety is a core value over which no business parameters of Vision elements was also discussed. In objective can have a higher priority addition, the event witnessed presentations from a mix of l Agility: Speed, responsiveness and being proactive, youngsters and experienced individuals on variety of achieved through collaboration and empowering topics of organisational impor tance Execution employees Excellence, Operational Excellence, Growth, Sustainability, l Care: Care for our environment, care for our customers Technology and Customer Aﬀection. The event concluded and shareholders both existing and potential. Care for with the discussion on alignment of Tata Power's Strategic our community and care for our people (our employees Intent with that of Tata Group 2025 Vision, setting the tone and partners) for strategy development process for the upcoming l Respect: Treat all stakeholders with respect and dignity ﬁnancial year. l Ethics: Achieve the most admired standards of Ethics through Integrity and mutual Trust Governance Framework l Diligence: Do everything (set direction, deploy actions, Corporate Governance is necessary to oversee strategy and analyse, review, plan and mitigate risks, etc.) with a ensure responsibility and ethical corporate behaviour thoroughness that delivery, quality and excellence in all towards all stakeholders thus creating conditions areas, and especially in operations, execution and necessary to nurture Sustainable Development. A part of growth. the 145-year old Tata Group, Tata Power has inherited a legacy of standing strong and being fair, transparent and Strategic Intent ethical in all the facets of business. Corporate Governance Tata Power Strategic Intent 2022 is to achieve the following standards and processes are aligned with the Tata Code of l 18,000 MW of generation capacity commissioned Conduct ( TCoC) and various policies for robust l 20-25% generation portfolio from clean and green governance. In addition to this, the Company has also sources adopted the requirements of Corporate Governance under l 4000 MW of Distribution including DDG Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement with the Stock l 25 MTPA of fuel resources Exchanges of India. At the top of the governance structure l 10-X growth in value added businesses i.e. business is the Board of Directors representing the shareholders and with no/low capital investment (e.g. trading, PMSA various Committees on the Board which oversee the and OMSA services, ash handling, solar components Executive Management. Tata Power has a unitary board and EPC, Defence & Civilian System Engineering structure consisting of 11 members of whom 9 are Nonsolutions). Executive Direc tors (2 Non-I ndependent and 7 Independent Directors) and 2 are Executive Directors as on These targets are in line with the National targets of March 31, 2015. The Chairman of the Board is not an generating 100 GW of Solar, 60 GW of Wind, 5 GW of Small Executive Oﬃcer of the organisation. The Board comprises Hydro and 10 GW of Bio-energy by 2022. The Board and of 1 female Director and female representation is 9%. The senior Executives of the Company play an important role in tenure of the governing body is 5 years, CEO & MD and EDs the development, approval, Value, Vision, Mission, are for the term as applicable and rest of the Directors Strategic Intent related to triple bottom line impacts and retires by rotation. The Board members are nominated/ performance. A Strategy meet is held annually and is selected on the basis of Independence, diversity, expertise attended by senior executives of the Company to discuss and experience relating to economic, environmental and Value, Vision, Mission, and Strategic Intent, etc. Tata social background. Power's Annual Strategy Workshop was held in December 2014, Mumbai. The event witnessed attendance of over 80 The details pertaining to expertise, qualiﬁcation and individuals comprising key leaders of all divisions, appointment with other companies of the Directors is subsidiaries, JVs and corporate functions of the Company. given in Annexure I. These Directors bring in a wide range The event this year focused on the themes of 'People of skills and experience to the Board. The critical concerns Perspective' and 'Customer Aﬀection.' The event was related to economic, environmental and social issues are graced by several eminent leaders from the Tata Group communicated to the Board regularly. The critical concerns including the Chairman, who shared thoughts on overall communicated to the Board as the Board's agenda and industry and economy in general and the key themes in collective decisions were taken to resolve them. This is also particular. In the course of the two days, the participants a part of duties and responsibilities of the Board. None of deliberated on the purpose statements from 'People' and the Directors on the Board is a Member on more than 10 ‘Customer' perspectives. The workshop also focused on Committees and Chairman of more than 5 Committees (as closure of the discussion on parameterisation of Vision prescribed in Clause 49), across all the companies in which Sustainability Report 2014-2015 16 he/she is a Director. The Governance structure of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee (SRC) Organisation and it's committees are responsible for In terms of Section 178(5) of the Act, the Company has decision making on Economic, Environmental and Social rechristened the shareholders'/Investors' Grievance impacts, as well as delegating authority for Triple bottom Committee as Stakeholders Relationship Committee. The line topics from the highest Governance body to senior SRC considers and resolves the grievances of security executives and other employees The organisation has also holders of the Company. It consists of 2 Independent and appointed Executive level positions responsible for Non-Executive Directors and 1 Executive Director as Economic, Environmental and Social focus areas and these Members. report to the Chief Executive Oﬃcer and Managing Director (CEO & MD) The necessary disclosures regarding Nomination and Remuneration Committee Committee positions have been made by the Directors. The Board has laid down separate Codes of Conduct for Non(NRC) Executive Director and Senior Management personnel of The Committee identiﬁes persons who are qualiﬁed to the Company and the same is posted on the Company's become directors and who may be appointed in Senior website www.tatapower.com All Board Members and Management in accordance with the criteria laid down, Senior Management personnel have aﬃrmed compliance recommend to the Board the appointment and removal and shall carry out evaluation of every Director's with the respective Codes of Conduct. The CEO & MD also performance, also considering environment, economic, conﬁrms and certiﬁes the same. The following table gives social performance, etc. The Committee shall formulate the the details on the director's memberships of undercriteria for determining qualiﬁcations, positive attributes represented social groups. and independence of a Director and recommend to the Name of Section 8 Companies/ Board a policy relating to the remuneration for the the Director Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other employees. Trust/Not for Proﬁt Entities The Committee shall also devise a Policy on Board Diversity. Mr. Deepak Satwalekar Trustee, Prabhavati Memorial It consists of 4 Non-Executive Directors, out of which 2 are Foundation Independent Directors. The majority shareholders are Tata Trustee, Teach to Lead Sons Limited and Life Insurance Corporation (LIC); they Trustee, Gyan Prakash Foundation have a representation on the Board. Mr. Thomas Matthew T. has been nominated by LIC as the nominee Director on the Trustee, Isha Education Trust Board of the Company. So the major shareholders are on Trustee, Infosys Science Foundation the Board and they are involved in all the activities of Board. Mr. Ashok Sethi Chairman, Tata Power Community Development Trust (TPCDT) Executive Committee of the Board The Executive Committee of the Board comprises of Committees of the Board 6 members, out of which 2 including the Chairman, are The Committees of the Board focus on speciﬁc areas and Non-Executive Directors, 2 are Independent Directors and make informed decisions in line with the delegated 2 are Executive Directors. This Committee covers a detailed authority. Each Committee of the Board functions review of Business and strategy review, ﬁnancial according to its role and deﬁned scope. projec tions, capital/revenue budgets, ﬁnancial restructuring, acquisitions, senior management succession Audit Committee of Directors planning and any other as may be decided by the Board. Audit Committee is in line with rules prescribed by Clause 49. The Company also complies with the provisions of Ethics and Compliance Committee Section 177 of the Companies Act, 2013. The three member In accordance with the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) committee consists of Independent and Non-executive Regulations, 1992, as amended (the Regulations), the Directors. The CEO & Managing Director, COO and Board of Directors of the Company adopted the TCoC for Executive Director and Head of Internal Audit attend Prevention of Insider Trading and Code of Corporate the meetings. Disclosure Practices (the Code) to be followed by Directors, Oﬃcers and other employees. The Code contains The Audit Committee of the Board reviews the Company's regulations for preservation of price sensitive information, risk management process and its eﬀectiveness on pre-clearance of trade and monitoring and e conomic, environmental and social concer ns. implementation of the Code. The Chief Financial Oﬃcer The roles and responsibilities of this committee includes (CFO) has been appointed as the Compliance Oﬃcer to overseeing ﬁnancial reporting process, statutory ensure compliance and eﬀective implementation of the audit, internal audit and control, cost audit, compliance Regulations and also this Code across the Company. In with statutor y/regulator y requirements, whistle terms of this Code, a Committee has been constituted blowing, etc. called 'Ethics and Compliance Committee' comprising of 17 two members, of whom the Chairman is an Independent Equity Listing Agreement (“Listing Agreement”). In case of Director and other is Executive Director. any inconsistency between the provisions of law and this remuneration policy, the provisions of the law shall prevail Corporate Social Responsibility (C S R) and the company shall abide by the applicable law. While formulating this policy, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee Committee has considered the factors laid down under The CSR Committee of the Board formed under the aegis of Section 178(4) of the Act, which are as under: Section 135 and Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013 l The level and composition of remuneration is reasonable and the provisions of the CSR Rules, 2014 on 2% average net and suﬃcient to attract, retain and motivate directors of proﬁts for immediately preceding 3 ﬁnancial years on CSR. the quality required to run the company successfully; l Relationship of remuneration to performance is clear The CSR Committee comprises of 3 members, of the Board and meets appropriate performance benchmarks; and and chaired by an Independent Director. The roles and l Remuneration to directors, key managerial personnel responsibilities of the CSR Committee are to formulate a CSR and senior management involves a balance between Policy and recommend to the Board. This committee also ﬁxed and incentive pay reﬂecting short and long-term informs the Board regarding the activities to be undertaken performance objectives appropriate to the working of by the Company as speciﬁed in Schedule VII to the Act, or as the company and its goals may be prescribed by the Rules thereto, as well as propose expenditure to be incurred on the activities referred and The remuneration of Non-Executive & Executive Directors is monitor mechanism. given below: Risk Committee Non-Executive Directors (NED) As per the need of the Companies Act, 2013, a new Risk The NEDs are paid remuneration by way of Commission and committee has been formed that consists of two Sitting Fees. In terms of the Members' approval obtained at independent directors, one ED, CFO and Chief of Audit. This the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on August 16, 2013, committee meets thrice a year. The Board reviews the the Commission is paid at a rate not exceeding 1% per Company's risk governance structure, risk assessment and annum of the net proﬁts of the Company. The distribution of risk exposure and management practices and guidelines, Commission amongst the Non-Executive Directors is placed policies and procedures for risk assessment and before the Nomination & Remuneration Committee and the management. It also approves and reviews the Company Board. wide Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework including economic, environment and social risks. It oversees the Company's process and policies for Executive Directors determining risk tolerance and nurtures a healthy and The Company pays remuneration by way of salary, independent risk management function in the Company. perquisites and allowances (ﬁxed component) and commission (variable component) to the CEO & MD and the Executive Director. Salary is paid within the range approved Managing Conﬂict of Interest by the Members. Annual increments eﬀective 1st April each Conduct of Director at Board / Committee meeting: year, as recommended by the Nomination & Remuneration l In case of a contract with a body Corporate (not being a Committee, are placed before the Board for approval and related party), the Board member does not participate in shareholders views are also taken into account on salary the discussions or vote in case the Board member is in and related details of the CEO & MD and Executive association with any other Director, holds more than 2% Directors. The ceiling on perquisites and allowances as a shareholding of that body Corporate, or is a promoter, percentage of salary, is ﬁxed by the Board. Within the manager, CEO of that body Corporate. prescribed ceiling, the perquisite package is recommended l In case of a contract with a body Corporate (being a by the NRC and approved by the Board. Commission is related party), the board member steps out of the calculated with reference to the net proﬁts of the Company meeting in case the board member in association with in a particular ﬁnancial year and is determined by the Board any other director, holds more than 2% shareholding of o n t h e re c o m m e n d a t i o n o f t h e N o m i n a t i o n & that body corporate, or is a promoter, manager, CEO of Remuneration Committee at the end of the ﬁnancial year, that body Corporate. subject to overall ceilings stipulated in Sections 197 of the Companies Act, 2013. Remuneration of Board of Directors The philosophy for remuneration of directors, Key Management Staﬀ Managerial Personnel and all other employees of Tata Power Remuneration of employees largely consists of basic is based on the commitment of fostering a culture of remuneration, perquisites, allowances and performance leadership with trust. The remuneration policy has been incentives. The components of the total remuneration vary prepared pursuant to the provisions of Section 178(3) of the for diﬀerent grades and are governed by industry patterns, Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) and Clause 49(IV)(B)(1) of the qualiﬁcations and experience of the employee, Sustainability Report 2014-2015 18 responsibilities handled by him, his annual performance, l The Company Secretary is responsible for providing etc. For the last few years, eﬀorts have also been made to support (as may be required) to the Chairman of the link the annual variable pay of employees with the NRC for conduct of the Annual ID meeting. performance of the Company. The performance pay policy l The Board should state in its Annual Report as to how links the performance pay of each oﬃcer to his individual, the performance evaluation of the Board, individual divisional and overall organisational performance on directors and its committees has been conducted. parameters aligned to Company's objectives. The ratio of l Group Human Resources will support the NRC with remuneration of the highest paid employee (CEO & MD) to appropriate evaluation templates and reporting the median annual total compensation of all employees for format. the year 2014-15 was 64.9. The ratio of percentage increase of annual total compensation of the highest paid Retirement Policy for Directors individual to the median annual total compensation of all The Company has adopted the Guidelines for retirement employees is 13:14. age wherein MD and ED retire at the age of 65 years, EDs who have been retained on Company's Board beyond the Independent Directors of the Board age of 65 years as Non-EDs for special reasons may continue The roles, responsibilities and duties of the Independent as Directors at the discretion of the Board, but in no case Directors are given in Annexure II. beyond the age of 70 years, Non-Independent NEDs who have completed the age of 70 years prior to 1st April 2011 Board Eﬀectiveness Review may continue as Directors at the discretion of the Board, but l The Board is responsible for annual evaluation of the in no case beyond the age of 75 years and Independent individual Directors, the Board committees and the NEDs would retire at the age of 75 years. The Company has Board as a whole. also adopted a Retirement Policy for MD and ED, which has l It is the responsibility of the NRC to organise the also been approved by the Members of the Company, evaluation process. oﬀering special retirement beneﬁts including pension, exl The NRC is also responsible for supporting the Board gratia, medical and other beneﬁts. In addition to the above, with the determination of the evaluation criteria/ the retiring MD is entitled to residential accommodation or framework for the Board and individual directors (this compensation in lieu of accommodation on retirement. The includes the Chairman, ID, Non-Independent NEDs, quantum and payment of the said beneﬁts are subject to an MD/EDs). While determining the framework for the eligibility criteria of the retiring Director and is payable at evaluation of the Board, the Board should establish key the discretion of the Board in each individual case on the criteria for long term value creation for all stakeholders. recommendation of the NRC. l An annual meeting of IDs would be convened by the Chairman of the NRC to review the performance of nonShareholding Pattern independent Directors, the Board as a whole and the The Shareholding pattern of Tata Power as on March 31, Chairperson of the Company 2015 is provided below. Name of the Shareholder Total shares held as a % of diluted share capital Tata Sons Limited 29.34 Tata Steel Limited 1.40 Tata Industries Limited 0.80 Tata Investment Corporation Limited 0.24 EWART Investments Limited 0.08 Sir Dorabji Tata Trust 0.02 LIC 12.67 Matthews Paciﬁc Tiger Fund 5.98 National Westminster Bank PLC as depository of ﬁrst state global 3.14 emerging markets leaders fund, a sub fund of ﬁrst state investments The New India Assurance Company Limited 2.47 General Insurance Corporation of India 2.43 National Westminster Bank PLC as depository of ﬁrst state Asia Paciﬁc 2.28 Leaders Fund of First State Investment ICVC Aberdeen Global Indian Equity (Mauritius) Limited 1.31 Including underlying shares assuming full conversion of warrants and convertible securities* 19 Corporate Governance Policies l Training and institution building for identiﬁcation, The Corporate Governance policies cover areas ranging measurement and mitigation of business risks from Business Dealings to Media Policy, from Human l Consolidate operational risk identiﬁcation, mitigation process in vogue Rights to Responsible Supply Chain. These help in making l Improve processes for strategic risk identiﬁcation and the governance mechanism more robust. All the policies mitigation interventions for all strategic and tactical are reviewed as per the need. Few of these policies are investment options and projects given below: l Improving Disaster Management and Business l Tata Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading Continuity Processes (BCP) l Code of Corporate Disclosure Practices, Code of l Business decisions to be practiced based on well Conduct for NED and Code of Conduct for Business informed inputs thought through Scenario Building and Dealings Analysis processes for macro situations and l Whistle Blower Policy circumstances visualised and analysed for l Policy of Information Security organisational preparedness. l IT Policy l Gift Policy Two web based systems are being used for Risk l Customer Service Policy Management. The Risk Perception System helps to collect l Business Continuity risks perceived by employees across the organisation. These l Risk Management identiﬁed risks are then reviewed by the RMSC Chairmen for further monitoring. The Risk Management System is used for framing the risks mitigation plans and for monitoring the In addition to the Corporate Governance policies, action taken. This system has also been implemented across Tata Power is also governed by many unique policies, such the 10 major subsidiaries of Tata Power. In October 2014 as; Sustainability, Environment, Community Relations, Tata Power obtained the Statement of Compliance for ISO E-Waste Management, Health and Safety, Human Rights 31000:2009 for its ERM System. The Company is also (HuR), Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH), preparing for ISO 22301:2012 for Business Continuity Responsible Supply Chain Management (RSCM), Management System. A d v o c a c y, A ﬃ r m a t i v e A c t i o n ( A A ) , C o r p o r a t e Communication, Energy Conservation and Customer Business Ethics Satisfaction and Media. The values and principles which Tata Power, being a responsible Corporate, values ethical have governed the manner in which Tata Group of practices and its direct correlation with goodwill to its Companies and employees have conducted themselves is business. Tata Power, which is a part of the Tata Group of the Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC), and all the employees of Companies, both in India and abroad, has a governing body, Tata Power also abide by this. called the Tata Quality Management Services (TQMS), a part of Tata Sons. This body governs the general framework of Risk Management the TCoC, which is uniformly applicable to the entire group. TCoC, ﬁrst formally articulated in 1998, has been revalidated The Risk Management Process is well deﬁned and and signed in 2013 by Mr. Cyrus Mistry after taking over as uniformly followed across Tata Power Group. All risks have Chairman of Tata Group of Companies. The TCoC is a been classiﬁed into 11 categories. They are Fuel, Regulation comprehensive document with an ethical road map for Tata and Legal, Environment and Safety, Competition, Strategy employees, companies, including third par ties and Growth, Assets and Catastrophe, Human Resources, representing/dealing with Tata Power, thus covering 100% Financial, Technology, Governance, Projects, and of its operations through trainings and modules. TCoC Investments. These 11 categories are closely monitored for consisting of 25 clauses, including Financial Reporting, status of mitigation action by 8 Risk Management Sub National Interests, Political Non-Alignment, Health, Safety Committees (RMSC). The RMSCs meet once in two months. and Environment, Corporate Citizenship, Ethical Conduct, The Risk Management Committee (RMC) monitors and anti-corruption just to name a few. The Code is a dynamic reviews risks on a quarterly basis. The Audit committee also document that reinforces the Tata canon of honourable reviews major risks on a quarterly basis. The Audit behaviour in business. TCoC also forms a part of all the Committee consists of members of the Board of Directors. investment and contract agreements. Tata Power also has a Tata Power has moved beyond simple compliance to Human Rights Policy which is applicable to the entire creating a culture that leads employees to identify, organisation and its operations. During the reporting period there were no instances of non-compliance and measure and address risks, fallouts, contingencies, demonstration of any anti-competitive behaviour, antidisruptions, etc. Tata Power has identiﬁed the following trust and monopoly practices in the Company and no ﬁnes priorities with regard to Risk Measurement and Mitigation incurred from any regulatory body. exercise across Divisions/Subsidiaries. l Standardise processes on risk measurement and Being a Tata company, Tata Power is committed to support mitigation across all geographies and businesses of the constitution and governance systems of the country in Tata Power which it operates. Tata Power does not support any speciﬁc Sustainability Report 2014-2015 20 political party or candidate for political oﬃce. No monetary industry. The Company is a member of various institutions beneﬁts were provided in any form to any political party. which are provided below. Tata Power complies with all the statutory requirements of l National Safety Council (NSC) the location in which it operates. The Senior Leadership l The Indian Hotels Co. Ltd. Team (SLT) of Tata Power reinforces the ethical culture l Indian Electrical and Electronics Manufacturers' through the guiding clauses of the TCoC in Association (IEEMA) communications to all stakeholders. The Apex Committee l Association of Power Producer (APP) of Ethics chaired by MD, comprises of the ED and other l Mumbai Cricket Association senior leaders who regularly monitor the functioning of the l Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) ethics structures, and provide thought leadership. An l Bombay Chambers of Commerce and Industry (BCCI) organisational structure with the Chief Ethics Oﬃcer and l Indian National Suggestion Schemes Association Local Ethics Counsellors (LECs), help drive the culture of (INSSAN) ethics. The Apex Committee on Ethics meets once every six l India Infrastructure Publishing months, to provide guidelines for the implementation of l All India Management Association (AIMA) TCoC and resolve ethical concerns. The Chief Ethics l The Institute of Internal Auditors l Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) Counsellor meets up with the Chairman, Ethics Executive l The Cricket Club of India Ltd Committee every quarter, to review the status of Ethical concerns received, and actions taken. As a part of the The CEO & MD is also the member of following compliance by the governing body, TQMS, the MD submits Committees/Boards; however through these memberships, an annual declaration on Business Ethics to the Chairman of the Company does not involve in any lobbying activities. the Tata Group. Every year, Ethics Week is celebrated in the l Member Advisory Board India Energy Exchange month of March, to drive an ethical culture across the Limited organisation. Communication on ethics is given high l Member Managing Committee, BCCI importance and this is carried out through LECs throughout l Chairman National Committee on Power, CII the year. l Member Steering and Advisory Group on the subject Climate Change ABPS Infrastructure Advisory Private In the reporting year Tata Power was awarded “World's Limited Most Ethical Company” by Ethisphere Institute of USA for l Member Associate of Power Producers (APP) second consecutive year. Ethisphere Institute is an l Member Task Force on Public Private Partnership, independent centre of research in USA, which promotes Planning Commission, Government of India (GoI) best practices in corporate ethics and governance. l Member Industry Joint Task Force, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, GoI In the reporting year, 104 concerns (complaints) were l Member National Committee on Infrastructure, CII received from employees, vendors and society, out of which l Chairman India Energy Forum 96 concerns have been resolved and remaining 8 concerns will be resolved soon. Out of 104 concerns, 75 concerns were Tata Power is committed to good Corporate Governance, disclosed concerns and 29 were anonymous concerns. There which promotes the long-term interests of stakeholders, was one POSH related concern. Majority of the concerns strengthens Board and management accountability and received were related to the TCoC clauses on ethical conduct helps build public trust in the Company. The continuous and equal opportunities. In 2014-15, there were 10 concerns endeavour is to be aligned with Tata's comprehensive reporting incidents of corruption and out of these 3 cases corporate standards and policies that govern its operations were genuine and suitable disciplinary action has been and ensure accountability for its actions. There were no taken against the employees. There is no separate policy on ﬁnancial transactions related to in-kind contribution made Anti-corruption and TCoC covers anti-corruption clauses. directly or indirectly to political parties and nor was the TCoC is duly signed by all the employees at the time of company of any such contributions. joining. There were no complaints on discrimination, Child labour, forced labour, freedom of association and right of collective bargaining, HuR, etc. In the reporting year, there have been no incidents of violation of rights of indigenous people. TCoC is communicated to all the members of the governance body. Tata Power was not ﬁned for any noncompliance with laws and regulations in this reporting year. Public Policy Advocacy A well-deﬁned advocacy statement guides the Company's actions. This is exercised by interacting with various institutions/non-government organisations, industry associations, and chambers, etc. This helps the Company keep itself updated with the current scenarios related to 21 Sustainable Business into a diverse value chain and its increasing generation capacity has secured fuel supply options through stake in Indonesian coal mines and has acquired ships for transportation of coal. The Company has several partnerships overseas with leading players (Cennergi JV “From being an exciting with Exxaro in South Africa, Georgia JV with IFC, and Dugar buzz-word many years Project in Himachal Pradesh, India) thus helping in establishing its presence overseas in geographies like ago, to getting into the South Africa, Georgia, South east Asia (Vietnam and minds and hearts of the Myanmar). people who make up enterprise Tata Power, Sustainability has come a long Tata Power's 468.6 MW wind portfolio and its 58.6 MW solar portfolio make it the largest renewable utility player in way in this organization. It reinforces our India, thus reiterating Tata Power's commitment to core values, and while it has a strong renewable energy generation in India in line with the connect will all our values, it does have a Company's Strategic Intent. The Company's strategy emphasises on the development of clean energy deeper and more special relationship generation with 1210 MW from renewable sources to with one of them Care. For us, balance the carbon emissions from fossil fuel based Sustainability is Leadership with Care; generation capacity while contributing towards energy Care for the environment, the customers security of the country. Tata Power currently has four of its renewable projec ts registered under the Clean and shareholders, the community and Development Mechanism (CDM) programme by United our people. And this is what deﬁnes us, Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and helps us chart our journey.” (UNFCCC). These projects include 50.4 MW Wind projects at Gadag, Khandke and Samana, Maharashtra while the fourth project is the 25 MW Solar project at Mithapur, Mr. Vivek Talwar Gujarat. Chief Sustainability Oﬃcer Management Approach Sustainability is a holistic approach to business strategy Tata Power has been a pioneer in the power sector in India, and actions that Tata Power has adopted as a responsible both in terms of leadership in technology adoption as well Company. The company`s mission is based on similar lines as care towards all its stakeholders. Tata Power with its foray which would enable the Company to be the lead adopter of Sustainability Report 2014-2015 22 technology and build capabilities to internalise and use these technologies. Further we focus on fundamental aspects like creation of shareholder value, customer orientation, and a focus on the company`s human potential. As a part of sustainability governance a Sustainability model 'Leadership with Care' has been adopted which streamlines the Company's commitment for Care for major stakeholders. The Company is well compliant with the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles, as well as Business Responsibility Report (BRR) of Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and submits its performance report annually. Sustainability as a practice is intricately weaved into every function of Tata Power in a way that addresses the interest technologies and stronger renewable portfolio. Tata Power of all its stakeholders and the society at large. is using low ash, low sulphur coal, for its current operations, to minimise adverse impacts on the environment and the Sustainability Governance public. Periodic interactions with communities and In a unique governance approach for Sustainability, Tata dedicated community need assessment survey are Power has set up the Sustainability Advisory Council (SAC), conducted by third party to help understand their where apart from Tata Power senior management, the exconcerns and requirements, and aid in developing MD and 2 independent Board members, the council also mitigation plans. The Company revisits its Vision, Mission includes national and international members of civil and Values annually, taking into account the dynamic society who are experts in the ﬁelds of environment business environment and diverse stakeholder needs. The protection, biodiversity conservation, climate change and Vision has been parameterised. This is to help target select community relations. The SAC's role is to challenge the international geographies, as the power sector in India is organisation's strategies on these issues and also guide progressively becoming more diﬃcult with land, water, Tata Power to formulate improved approaches. The community activism and fuel issues leading problems in Company has a deﬁned Sustainability policy and has laid setting up power plants. In line with the Strategic Intent, down processes to monitor the same. Further, the Tata Power has identiﬁed Critical Success factors, which are Corporate Sustainability Committee is responsible for enablers to help the organisation achieve its Strategic driving sustainability in the organisation, has deﬁned Intent. processes and prepares, monitors and reviews action plans that emerge out of SAC. The divisional committees, The Sustainability Strategy for Tata Power is aimed at comprising of divisional champions drive the action plans. ensuring that Tata Power conducts its business in a manner The Corporate Sustainability Committee (CSC) at the that is socially, environmentally, economically and Corporate level drives the agenda of ‘Leadership with culturally sustainable, thereby not only beneﬁtting the Care’, and there are Divisional Sustainability Committees society within which it operates, but also creating, in the (DSC) at all generating stations, driving the Sustainability long term, a competitive advantage over other players. The performance at grass root level across stations. The Sustainability Strategy is intended to help set aspirations performance of CSC is reviewed half-yearly and future and levels of commitment along the key elements of strategies are chalked out. At the Divisional level, monthly sustainability. It will be deployed across the value chain of reviews are conducted to ensure that the Company cruises the organisation and covers all relevant geographies smoothly on the Sustainability journey. So in order to where Tata Power operates. Sustainability in the Tata Power ensure the optimum level of performance on Environment, context draws reference from the well established triple Social and Sustainability front, the CSO reviews the bottom line concept. The key elements in the Tata Power performance of the stations for Environment and CSR context are: activities monthly. Tata Power communicates its progress on the four pillars of Leadership with Care, to stakeholders l Eco n o m i c we l l b e i n g a n d p ro s p e r i t y o f t h e by sharing the update in the public domain, on a regular organisation, its shareholders both today as well for manner. the future l Environment and Ecolo gic al imp a c t of the Sustainability Strategy organisation's activities and reduction and mitigation Tata Power has a Sustainability Strategy and Sustainability of the same Model in place. The sustainability strategy focuses on goals l Social impact of the organisation's activities on its for reduction of carbon footprint, conservation of stakeholders (communities around the plant; people biodiversity and natural resources, clean and eﬃcient working in the plant, etc.) 23 l Cultural focus to help individuals connect to ethics and Sustenance!), Tata Power has committed for each of the moral values. This is an important element to drive Care elements of the Sustainability Model to share value behaviour in an organisation and to help embrace with stakeholders. These commitments are elaborated sustainability across all dimensions. below. Sustainability Model Care for Environment and Nation Building through clean, At Tata Power, it is believed that growth and development cheap and abundant power In its Centenary year, Tata are imperative for a developing economy. However, it Power committed to develop 450 MW of clean power needs to be sustainable and must beneﬁt the stakeholders through hydel (same as its current existing capacity of in the long run, with least impact on the environment. Tata 450 MW of Hydros at Maharashtra), as its contribution to Power embodies the Tata Group's philosophy of building a facilitate clean power for India. strong Sustainable business that is ﬁrmly rooted in the concept of beneﬁt sharing and demonstrates Leadership Through its unique programme on energy and resource with Care. Tata Power has instituted 'Care' as one of the core conservation, Tata Power Club Enerji, which is spearheaded values which entrust Care for Environment, Care for by school children, the Company plans to help citizens Community, Care for Customers, and Care for People, i.e. across the country to save `100 crores in FY 15-16. This will employees, shareholders, suppliers, partners, etc. in the be facilitated through mass awareness drives/rallies and sustainability model. The Sustainability Model aims at unique initiatives facilitated by these school children. strengthening structures and processes for environmental performance, stronger engagement with community, Care for Customers: This Centenary year, a bouquet of customers and employees, by using enablers like new innovative and unique initiatives have been lined up to technology, benchmarking and going beyond compliance delight Tata Power customers such as launch of the ﬁrst in key operational parameters. ever free mobile application for customer convenience in electricity distribution and a special reward scheme to For the centenary year celebrations (100 years of honour loyalty and promoting a special LED scheme in The Enablers Leadership and Oversight Institutional Structures Advocacy on Sustainability and Systems Proactive approaches Conforming to everywhere high ethical The Objective Leadership standards with Care The Elements Care for our Environment (society at large) Care for our Care for Care shareholders our for our Environment Efficient Use Investment and customers Community people Conservation of Energy in Green tech What needs to be done (material to both stakeholders and us) What we are good at doing / is linked to our business What we should take up as national thrust areas for development What we should define as our standards: from compliance to competing to leading Providing sustainable returns to all our key economic stakeholders Benchmarking, New Technology Architecture of Care Going beyond compliance The Enablers Leading practices at Tata Power Annexure III Sustainability Report 2014-2015 24 Mumbai which will help consumers save power. The becomes the responsibility of the entire organisation, from Company has promoted special Charging stations for the top management to the individual employees. The laptops, tablets, mobile phones through manual indices used for this are, Corporate Sustainability Protocol exercising, at places of congregation, to encourage Index (CSPI) and Green Manufacturing Index (GMI) which healthy, pollution-free living. are tracked in a quarterly basis. Care for Community: In line with its nationalistic spirit, the Sustainability Interventions Company also dedicated the Tata Power Skill Development Tata Power has acknowledged the importance of climate Institute (TPSDI) through the empowerment of the Indian change and has drawn up plans to limit carbon emissions workforce. The TPSDI aims to beneﬁt over 600 Power and move towards a renewable portfolio of 20-25% of total Sector workers in FY15 through various Power-Skills generation by 2022. Greenolution, an initiative which was training programmes and bridge the existing skill gap in launched in 2012, is an amalgamation of initiatives that the power value chain through concerted eﬀorts thereby Tata Power undertakes towards ensuring a sustainable fuelling India's growth and building it as a monument of planet, through participation of employees. The objective excellence. TPSDI will be targeting to skill more than 5000 is to traverse the journey and make green living Tata trainees in the next three years and more than 60,000 by Power's way of life. Greenolution puts eﬀorts/practices/ 2022. Undertaking this monumental responsibility, TPSDI programmes that infuse the belief of sustainability as a has employed a 360-degree approach for the holistic movement by making everyone a part of it. Green Heroes development of workers in power-skills encouraging them are the employees who are outstanding performers on the to reach their full potential. The Strategic modular initiatives on Greenolution. Programmes will train, test, certify and accredit the workers to bridge the skills gap. In addition, as a special centenary The key Environment Friendly programmes identiﬁed year contribution Tata Power has identiﬁed several new under Greenolution include: CSR programs for community development in the areas of l Carbon Footprint Mapping and Monitoring sustainable livelihood, healthcare, infrastructure l Implementation of 100% recycled paper usage development and aﬀorestation. l Ongoing tree plantation at all plants l Saving water across locations l Saving fuel through carpooling and other initiatives l Waste management at oﬃces l Energy conservation and eﬃciency initiatives at locations, and outside l Reducing air travel and using webcast/video conferencing facilities l Participation in 'Clean your city' drives and campaigns The green brand helps further one of the key messages of the Company towards Sustainability while also generating awareness on the environment, encouraging employees to undertake green initiatives and identifying green innovations. Care for people: One of the unique oﬀerings for Tata Power Tata Power's Club Enerji recognises the immense employees and public at large is the promotion of manual value of the contribution of school children, along exercising bicycles-cum-charging stations for laptops, with college students and society at large can tablets, mobile phones, etc. at places of congregation to make up to help curb the wasteful usage of electricity. encourage healthy, pollution-free living. More than 1000 Through Club Enerji, Tata Power celebrated Oorja Tata Power employees commit to volunteer for CSR Samvardhan Divas across 12 locations to mark the initiatives undertaken across the country. commencement of National Energy Conservation Week. Family members of the Company's employees became the Tata Power has a very strong mechanism to review business torch-bearers of Club Enerji's eﬀorts towards conservation, performance with respect to Sustainability performance. and educated students across Mundra, Jojobera, Sustainability is one of the strategic pillars of the Company Kalinganagar, Naraj Marthapur, Tiruldih, Khopoli, Bhira, which forms an integral parameter of the MD's Balance Bhivpuri, Lonavala and Mumbai on valuable practices to Scorecard (BSC). This BSC forms the basis for the formation conserve energy. The objective of the programme was to of Strategy Deployment Matrix (SDM) for each department continue with its mission of reaching out to the young and the individual Key Result Areas (KRA). Hence, the minds and creating awareness on the need to save the responsibility cascades down and its performance planet for a sustainable tomorrow. The volunteers 25 Sustainability Conclave was organised for Tata Power personnel engaged all across Tata Power stations of Environment, Biodiversity, CSR and Sustainability. This conclave also witnessed some eminent speakers from industry sectors along with internal sharing of best practices. Senior leaders of Tata Power also addressed the gathering with a message to operate with a vision of better compliance and environmental management, biodiversity conservation and improved sustainability and its reporting for better transparency. The importance of the Stakeholder Engagement was also addressed for improved relations with Community as well as to understand their need and involve them for Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives. conducted the awareness sessions via videos and PowerPoint presentations, and successfully sensitized Tata Power participated in The Green Rating Project 4782 students, across 38 schools. A poster-making (GRP) by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) competition on the theme of 'Save Energy, Save Power' was with support from the United Nations Development organised to instil a sense of responsibility amongst the students towards building a sustainable future. Students Programme (UNDP) and the Ministry of Environment, were also taught how to read the electricity bill and were Forests & Climate Change (MoEFCC), Government of India. made to take a pledge towards conservation of energy and The Five Leaf Award is given by CSE in recognition of the resources. The Club Enerji movement has successfully rating achieved by various industries on the basis of their achieved a signiﬁcant milestone of saving 11.2 million environmental performance covered under GRP. The GRP units of electricity by sensitising more than 7 million analysed 47 plants spread across the country. Tata Power's citizens across 11 locations since its inception and units Mundra, Jamshedpur, Trombay and Maithon generating saved by the Club is equivalent to the amount of energy stations participated in this study. The Trombay station used to light up 5,266 houses for a year and save 11,000 was awarded with 3 Leaves for its environmental tonnes of CO2 emissions. In the current ﬁnancial year, performance and stood 3rd in India. Mundra UMPP won Club Enerji saved over 2.5 million units and sensitised over the special category award on Best in Energy Eﬃciency . 1.5 million citizens. This award symbolises CGPL's dedication to building a sustainable and successful power plant which meets the Tata Power participated in the Global Electricity Initiative country's energy needs, while being a responsible (GEI) of World Energy Council in association with World Corporate Citizen. Business Council of Sustainable Development (WBCSD). The Company's case study on Mundra UMPP and its potential in curbing carbon emission has been highlighted and published in the GEI report. The GEI study highlighted how the UMPP, ﬁrst in India with supercritical technology, is considered to be the most energy-eﬃcient, coal-based thermal power plant in India. The UMPP will outperform existing, traditional plans in lowering greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The GHG emissions generated per KWh are about 750 grams of CO2 per kWh, as compared to India's national average of 1,259 grams of CO2 per kWh for coalbased power plants. The details are available at www.globalelectricityinitiative.com The world average is 919 grams of CO2 per kWh, while the average for Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries is 888 grams of CO2 per Responsible Supply Chain kWh. The plant will emit 23.4 million tonnes of CO2 per year, Management (RSCM) less than the 27 million tonnes that a plant of similar Tata Power has always held a deep commitment to embed installed capacity would emit if using conventional, less sustainability in every aspect of its work, careful of the eﬃcient energy technology. Compared to any other outcome of its actions and reducing its environmental subcritical power plants in India, the UMPP will avoid footprint to build on a safer tomorrow. Valuing its business burning 1.7 million tonnes of coal per year, thus averting partners, Company believes that for responsible business carbon emissions of 3.6 million tonnes per year. functioning and to become truly sustainable, the Sustainability Report 2014-2015 26 commitment and values should be shared and extended to Tata Power commissioned India's ﬁrst Natural Ester-ﬁlled business partners as well. Tata Power wants its suppliers to Distribution Transformer in Mumbai which improves ﬁre hold the same standards for business conduct as we do and safety and reduces carbon footprint. The introduction of help build capacities among suppliers for improving Natural Ester-ﬁlled Distribution Transformers across the environmental and social conditions. As a responsible Mumbai distribution area was done with an objective of corporate citizen, Tata Power takes greatest of care in introducing these green and ﬁre-safe installations to choosing its business partners. From the very onset of ensure safe and sustainable distribution of electricity. The taking partners on board, the principles of ethics, safety, Company is committed to implementing innovative environment and sustainability are engrained in the technology in its day-to-day operations and has taken a vendor registration process. The vendor registration signiﬁcant step with the introduc tion of these application ensures agreement and compliance to Tata transformers. A pioneer in providing reliable and Power sustainability aspects. The vendors are evaluated at uninterrupted power to the city of Mumbai, Tata Power the time of vendor registration wherein, they declare if they caters to over 500,000 residential, commercial and are ISO 14001/EMS certiﬁed. industrial customers. The Natural Esters ﬂuids have a high ﬁre point (350 degree Celsius) and eliminate any risk of Tata Power also attempted to understand the level of compliance of its major and crucial suppliers on the listed pool ﬁres in the electrical installation, as they are selfparameters as per the RSCM Policy. extinguishing. In comparison to the conventional mineral oil ﬁlled distribution transformers, this ﬂuid provides improved ﬁre safety for the densely populated areas Sustainable Innovations within Tata Power's service area. The ﬂuid is made from a Tata Power has been at the forefront of new technology carbon neutral renewable resource, is biodegradable, adoption in the power industry. This includes the super non-toxic and non-hazardous in soil and water. With its critical boiler technology and state-of-art space eﬃcient GIS systems. Some of the innovations or innovative track record of technology leadership, project execution practices are elaborated below. excellence, world class safety processes, customer care and driving green initiatives, Tata Power is poised for multifold growth and committed to 'lighting up lives' for Natural Ester-ﬁlled Distribution generations to come. Transformer Adoption of Kadachimeth as a model village As a unique and innovative practice, Tata Power adopted Kadachimeth, a tribal village in the Thane, Maharashtra and aims to transform it into a model village by 2017. The Company has pledged to partner with the community of Kadachimeth, and work towards improving their quality of life. With more than 90% tribal population, the village is deprived of basic amenities and the standard of living is poor. In the next three years, the Company plans to engage in developing it into a clean and green village with good roads, good education facilities, medical outreach, and solid infrastructure so that the village becomes a rolemodel for the neighbouring villages to emulate. 27 Tata Power has assigned a team of employees to execute the development work, who will further be supported by time and talent by other employee volunteers so as to harness the energy of the entire Tata Power family through a spirit of 'Shramdaan'. This project is aiming to bring about social upliftment and inclusive development of the community. Kadachimeth village is not a part of Tata Power's area of operations, but has been selected by the Company in the true spirit of CSR to beneﬁt the community at large. The Company has communicated the details with the Collector, Member of Legislative Assembly and Member of Parliament of the area. Similarly, Tata Power aspires to adopt one village in each area of operation and develop it into a model village in next three years. These installation of Underground Feeder Pillar (Link Box) along role-model villages would become the proof-of-concept with a new generation compact and fully insulated service for the other villages to emulate. pillar into the LV distribution network will help to enhance safety and cut down the electrical losses, eliminate the menace of power theft and pilferages in congested areas where space is a constraint. Strengthening Sustainability Various policies have been developed in the reporting year which further strengthens the sustainability strategy. They are elaborated below. A Quality Policy has been adopted has been developed which ensure standard processes, products and quality services to customers while embracing the Tata Business Excellence Model. Enhance Safety of Distribution Network The Company has always remained committed to bringing Quality Policy down the tariﬀ through regular expansion of its own network within its license area. Further, Tata Power is a We at Tata Power are committed to continuously pioneer in the application of innovation and technology improving levels of Quality across all our businesses, and has brought tremendous value addition and beneﬁts thereby ensuring the satisfaction of our Stakeholders. to customers through various initiatives. The Company We believe in the principle of First time right and introduced initiatives like High Voltage Distribution Quality Always and will work towards this objective System, E House and Underground Feeder Pillar (Link Box) by: to reduce space constraint and ensure timely installation l Ensuring all processes, products and services and enhance safety of its distribution network in Mumbai. conform to relevant and benchmarked standards The High Voltage Distribution System (HVDS) deploys pole of quality so as to meet aspirations of stakeholders mounted transformers with associated Low Voltage (LV) especially customers. Distribution. The LV coaxial service cables and the LV l Eﬀective Implementation of Quality Management connector system are provided with plug-in type design System (QMS) and quality measures to ensure thereby reducing technical losses and enhanced safety high level of performance of processes, products features coupled with higher reliabilit y. These and services. technological introductions for HV/LV distribution system l Embracing quality principles and Business eliminate the risk of errors in the ﬁeld. The E House Excellence journey as per accreditation of Tata (Electrical House) helps to reduce space and installation Business Excellence Model (TBEM). Identifying, time for 33/11 kV Grid Substations. E House is a re v i e w i n g a n d re s o l v i n g Co r re c t i ve a n d prefabricated enclosure housing the 33kV/11 kV Preventive Action (CAPA) of all non-conformances switchgear with associated auxiliaries installed, tested and and facilitating assurance and excellence in ready to be commissioned once delivered to site. The processes and results. Sustainability Report 2014-2015 28 Risk Management Business Continuity Policy Tata Power is the ﬁrst Indian Power Company to attain the The Business Continuity Policy (BCP) has been developed Statement of Compliance for Risk Management System. to sustain operations, achieve strategic objectives and be Company has been honoured with the ISO 31000:2009 future ready. Statement of Compliance for Enterprise Risk Management System from British Standards Institution (BSI). Eﬀective Business Continuity Policy Risk management process is the key to sustained operations thereby protecting Shareholder value, At Tata Power, we believe that an eﬀective Business improving governance processes, achieving strategic Continuity Management System is the key to objectives and being well prepared for adverse situations sustained operations, thereby protecting or unplanned circumstances, if they were to occur in the life Shareholder value, improving governance processes, cycle of the business activities, in Tata Power. achieving strategic objectives and being well prepared for adverse situations or unplanned circumstances, if they were to occur in the life cycle of Risk Management Policy t h e b u s i n e s s a c t i v i t i e s . Ta t a Po w e r G r o u p At Tata Power, we believe that an eﬀective Risk management shall strive to maintain business management process is the key to sustained continuity under disruptive incidents and unnatural operations thereby protecting Shareholder value, events, so as to contain impact on humans and other improving governance processes, achieving strategic living beings, environment and eco-system and objectives and being well prepared for adverse e c o n o m i c l o s s . Ta t a P o w e r s h a l l e n s u r e situations or unplanned circumstances, if they were to implementation of eﬀective Business Continuity occur in the lifecycle of the business activities. Tata Management System by: Power shall ensure implementation of eﬀective Enterprise Risk Management by: l Implementing Enterprise Risk Management Framework and Processes. l Putting in place Risk Management Frameworks l Identifying risks and promoting a pro-active and Processes. approach to treating such impacts by preparing l Identifying risks and promoting a pro-active practicing Business Continuity Plans. approach to treating such risks. l Allocating adequate resources and management l Allocating adequate resources to mitigate and energy required for Business Continuit y manage risks and minimise their adverse impact Management Systems. on outcomes. l Meeting customer expectations for business l Optimising risk situations to manage adverse continuity by working proactively on internal exposure on deliverables and bring them in line systems, capabilities and redundancies; and with acceptable Risk Appetite of the Company. integrate our associates as well. l Striving towards strengthening the R isk l Striving towards strengthening the Business Management System through continuous learning and improvement. Continuity Management System through l Providing clear and strong basis for informed continuous learning and improvement. decision making at all levels of the organisation on l Delineating Business Continuity Process and an ongoing basis, having duly evaluated like risks Disaster Management Plans as per National and their mitigation plan being controllable and Disaster Management Authority guidelines, for within risk appetite. u n fo re s e e n e x i g e n c i e s a n d k e e p i n g t h e l Delineating Business Continuity Processes and organisation constituents prepared to Disaster Management Plans, for unforeseen appropriately and adequately deal with such exigencies and keeping the organisation circumstances under eventuality of such constituents, prepared to appropriately and happenings. adequately deal with such circumstances, under l Complying with all relevant laws, regulations and eventuality of such happenings. International Standards (ISO 22301) across its l Complying with all relevant laws and regulations areas of operation. across its areas of operation. l Communicating the polic y, traini ng key l Communicating this policy to the required stakeholders, testing readiness of the organisation stakeholders through suitable means and and reviewing it periodically to meet the periodically reviewing its relevance in a challenges of a continuously changing continuously changing business environment. environment. 29 Stakeholder and Materiality Assessment groups, and the media. However, obligations extend to Materiality assessment is the process of reﬁning and secondary, more amorphous entities such as the assessing potential economic, environmental, and social community, its associations, civil society organisations, and governance issues that could aﬀect a business. These and to the wider public. issues are called material to the Company's performance and are of prime signiﬁcance to the key stakeholders. Management Approach However, an issue is considered material when it impacts Tata Power has always been vigilant about the Materiality the ability of the Company to remain proﬁtable, analysis and the involvement of Stakeholders in the environment-friendly and socially responsible to the process and due to the same reason the ﬁrst Stakeholder societies in which it operates. Material issues are Engagement and Materiality assessment (SHM) was condensed into a list of topics that could provide direction conducted in FY 11 with the help of a third party to the Company's strategy, targets, and reporting for consultant. This study resulted with a list of nine main sustainable development. For Tata Power, materiality material issues identiﬁed for Tata Power. An internal survey assessment has been important for deﬁning Vision and w a s c o n d u c t e d i n J a n u a r y 2 0 1 3 b y Co r p o r a t e Strategy of the Company, which forms basis for identifying Sustainability Department for top and senior management the risks and opportunities, helps in future trend-spotting with the intent for measuring the level of maturity of and for ensuring transparency in Sustainability disclosures. Company's Sustainability practices and to strengthen A wide range of issues can be material to a Company, reporting which integrating sustainability agenda. Senior depending upon size of the industry, raw material usage, stakeholder representatives were systematically location and its impact on the surroundings. questioned for insights about Tata Power, power sector, and the larger issues and trends they care about and then Stakeholder engagement is a formal process of the results were put together to identify the aspects of the relationship management through which Companies or business that are most material to its Sustainability. The industries engage with stakeholders in an eﬀort to align objective of the survey was also to drive the sustainability mutual interests, to reduce risk and advance towards the agenda and get new avenues of thinking for better triple bottom line, i.e. the Company's economic, social, and sustainability performance. Further, with the help of these environmental performance. Considering the change in results, an internal materiality assessment was also stakeholder demands, it is important for a Company to conducted, which helped prioritise critical material issues develop positive relationships with stakeholders. Hence, a to be addressed. The collation of responses resulted in ﬁve fundamental implication for companies is proactively material issues, viz. Coal Accessibility, Water Management, valuing stakeholders, enacting programmes aimed at Climate Change, Stakeholder Engagement and embedding and addressing relevant concerns. The ﬁgure Biodiversity. The progress on addressing these issues has below elaborates the type of stakeholders and the been updated in the last two years' Sustainability report. categories. A stakeholder is any group or With the changing regulatory scenario, dynamics of power individual who can aﬀect, or is sector and upgrade in reporting requirements in the form aﬀected by the achievement of of GRI G4 guidelines, Tata Power revisited SHM study with an organization’s objective the help of globally acclaimed consultants. The objective was to be in sync with the business strategy and enhanced disclosure on reporting requirements. The scope of this Primary stakeholders have Secondary stakeholders, on the study included major thermal power stations, renewable interests that are directly other hand, have indirect inﬂuences linked to the fortunes of a on an organization or are less energy projects and a green ﬁeld project, viz. Eight company including shareholders directly aﬀected by its activities. operating locations of Tata Power, including thermal and investors, employees, They include the media and customers, suppliers, and pressure groups, and others that power plants (Mundra, Trombay, Maithon, Jojobera) and residents of the communities inhabit the business and renewable energy-based projects (Khopoli, Khandke, where the company operates social networks of the organization Mithapur) as well as the green ﬁeld project Dherand, Maharashtra. The ﬁrst step for this engagement is setting a strategy for the identiﬁcation of stakeholders. Corporations in fact For Stakeholder Engagement the major objectives were; directly and indirectly aﬀect and are aﬀected by a wide l Identify broad range of stakeholders range of stakeholders; individuals or groups that, at l Characterise each stakeholder group by understanding diﬀerent levels, have a 'stake' or interest in any of the their roles, power, and responsibilities organisation operations. Primary stakeholders are directly l Categorise their needs, expectations, problems identiﬁable constituents vital to the survival and success of l Prioritise and draw a strategy to address the the Company, such as shareholders, employees, requirements of those stakeholder groups which have consumers, government, suppliers, trade unions, industry the most potential to aﬀect a company's operations. Sustainability Report 2014-2015 30 For the materiality assessment, the methodology adopted suﬃcient as per the target of 400 for each category and is for conducting the study initiated with deﬁning the scope presented below. of the study which would give the best representation of Stakeholders Sample Size the entire business followed by identiﬁcation of material issues and categorisation of the same under the Economic, Internal: Employees 417 Environmental, and Social dimension. A questionnaire External: Contractor, Supplier, NGO, Local 459 feedback mechanism was adopted to understand Administration, Regulators, Customers, concerns and expectations of various stakeholders. Community, Investors Stakeholder identiﬁcation and prioritisation was done in consultation with the Tata Power corporate team and Outcomes respective locations' core team. The prioritisation done was The top 10 material issues for Tata Power are given below based on the impact that stakeholders may have on Tata and these are addressed in the report in relevant sections. Power's businesses, as well as the impact Tata Power may l Availability of power at Competitive rates have on each stakeholder. Customised questionnaires l Impact of Local Community were prepared for various stakeholder groups and l Air Emissions feedback on the same was solicited through response on l Water Availability l Water Discharge questionnaires. Stakeholders were divided into Internal l Waste Management and External categories. The internal stakeholders are the l Regulatory Compliance employees and the main external stakeholders include l Customer Satisfaction Community members, Media, Suppliers & Contractors, l Shortage of Coal supply NGOs, Local Administration, Regulatory Institutions, l Plant Eﬃciency Customers, and Investors. The Materiality Matrix and stakeholder speciﬁc questionnaires were developed and With regards to interactions with stakeholder groups to ﬂoated with internal and external stakeholders to gain understand their concerns and perceptions about Tata insights and perception on the material issues for the Power, it was observed that the awareness and involvement Company. The respondent size representation was of the employees and external stakeholders about High Impact on Local Community Availability of Power at competitive prices Water Availability Waste Management Air Emissions Importance to Stakeholders Water Discharge Medium Emergency Preparedness Security & Asset Regulatory Compliances High Maintenance Cost Protection Customer Satisfaction Availability of Skilled Man Power Ethics and Integrity Occupational Health and Safety Plant Eﬃciency Transparency Government Shortage of Coal Policies Low Medium High Importance to Business 31 sustainability can be improved. Interactions with the external stakeholders concluded that the general perception about Tata Power was good. A high level of satisfaction was observed with respect to the quality of interactions with Company personnel. The local community across locations was satisﬁed and beneﬁtted by the initiatives taken by Tata Power. There are a few concerns raised by the communities with respect to water discharge temperature, which is speciﬁc to Mundra and Trombay which the Company is aware of the challenges and is working towards the same. The NGOs which work with Tata Power mentioned that all the projects of Tata Power are always undertaken in a collaborative manner. The regulatory authorities held a very good impression of Tata Power as their representatives mentioned that Tata Power is skill gaps that exist in the value chain, and empower the an environment-conscious company and is very responsive. youth with the knowledge and skill set needed for steady According to these authorities the focus areas for Tata income generation. Tata Power Skill Development Institute power are Coal handling and related issues of emissions, Fly (TPSDI) would beneﬁt over 600 Power Sector workers in FY ash notiﬁcations, Enhance capacity within the environment 15 through various Power-Skills training programmes. limits, Waste Management, Water availability and discharge Government policies, Air Emissions, Emergenc y The modular programmes have been strategically preparedness and Local Community development. The designed to train, test, certify and accredit the workers in a investors of Tata Power responded that the key focus areas phased fashion, thereby honing their professional skills. for Tata Power should be water discharge, impacts on local Professional competence in today's power sector requires community and GHG emissions. not just cutting-edge technical skills, but also eﬀective commercial and interpersonal skills aligned to the speciﬁc This study has been considered as an input into the needs of the power industry. Despite the vital importance strategic planning process and also to determine the of industry-speciﬁc skills, training for these skills can be content of the sustainability report. The material issues also extremely diﬃcult to source. Understanding this, TPSDI has give direction to setting of goals and targets on employed a 360 degree approach for holistic development sustainability. The study helped in ensuring that business of workers in power-skills and encourage them to reach strategy takes into account signiﬁcant social and their full potential. environmental issues, thereby embedding the key material issues in the wider business processes. Overall the results Fly Ash Brick Manufacturing Unit: Fly ash has been a would help in being competitive, prioritise the Company's major cause of concern as its safe disposal creates resources for sustainability issues, highlight areas to environmental challenges as well as storage problem, manage and monitor issues and identify areas where value needs more land for storage/land ﬁll. However, now it ﬁnds is being created for society. usage for making better quality bricks and cement. To promote eco-friendly Fly Ash Bricks, Tata Power, Jojobera Stakeholder Engagement Initiatives supported SHG groups with portable Ash-making In line with the identiﬁed major stakeholders of Tata Power Machines. These SHG groups comprising mostly of various activities that were conducted during this reporting unemployed youths have been formed under Aﬃrmative year to address the stakeholder requirements as below. Action Entrepreneurship program. These groups are being given the machines along with technical knowhow and training. These youth from the tribal community mostly Community Communities are identiﬁed as the key stakeholders and Tata Power engages with them through various community development activities. Through the CSR thrust areas which are aligned as per the MDGs, enables access to health services and primary education, promoting sustainable agriculture practices, providing access to potable water, etc. Tata Power Skill Development Institute (TPSDI): Reiterating its focus on youth development, Tata Power inaugurated a skill development initiative in Mumbai, to unlock employment opportunities for the youth by helping them develop skills needed in the present economy. With this initiative, Tata Power aims to bridge the Sustainability Report 2014-2015 32 indulge in sand mining and working in clay brick kilns and thus have an extensive skill in brick making. Four such machines were run by 4 SHGs, which produced approximately 1.85 lakh bricks. Out of these 1.75 lakh bricks have been sold in the local market thereby generating a proﬁt of approx. `80000 per machine, providing an income of about `8000 per SHG member. Seeing the encouraging response from the market, four new SHGs have been formed for scaling up the project. Biogas Plants: The Company has undertaken the installation of Bio-Gas plants under project 'Annapurna' in Mundra and Mandvi in association with Tata Power Community Development Trust (TPCDT) and successfully installed 36 Bio-Gas plants across eight villages. With this schemes, provides education related assistance, initiative, Tata Power aims to promote the use of Household demonstrates diﬀerent ﬁshing equipment. Bio-Gas by creating awareness on the optimal use of cow dung. Being considerably cheaper than conventional Flood and Cyclone Relief: Tata Power came forward energy sources, the daily input in each Bio Gas plant is through its volunteers and provided support for nearly 40 KG which enables cooking for a family of 5-6 restoration of normal conditions and livelihood for the people. The used cow dung can be reused as fertilizer, aﬀected local people of aﬀected areas with focus on whereas maintenance of the unit is simple and stress free. housing, infrastructure, health and hygiene. For extending The unit has also resulted in monthly savings of nearly `300 the support to Odisha which is recovering after cyclone which was earlier spent on wood and kerosene. Phailin, Tata Power supported in laying water pipeline Additionally, the unit assists in protection of the network. environment as well as health of the villagers as it avoids the pollution caused by burning wood. This reduction in Tata Power has always endeavourred towards the pollution further protects the families from future ailments sustainable development of communities living in and such as asthmatic problems, cataract, etc. around its areas of operation. Since animal husbandry remains a key source of alternative income for the Indian communities at large, the Company has always supported the practice by ensuring regular fodder supply for the cattle. Under its ongoing project 'KALP', Tata Power provides innovative and replicable models for establishing Fodder Supply Centre and building Gaushalas (animal shelters) at Tunda-Vandh and Mota Kandagra to help strengthen this important livelihood option. The Company encouraged the local community to develop a website to create awareness about the various activities conducted under its project KALP, and to help raise funds for the initiatives under Shree Tunda Vandh Gaushala Charitable Trust. The trust looks after approximately 1500 cattle, and, drought mitigation, supplies fodder to more than 6000 Fishermen Information Centre (FIC): Tata Power cattle from eight villages. The successful commissioning of established the Fishermen Information Centre (FIC) at the programme has resulted in a substantial rise in Mundra to help the ﬁshing community in Mundra to get livestock, and a 19-24% increase in the income of the cattle access to quality infrastructure, healthcare, sanitation and owners. The initiative has also encouraged more and more clean drinking water. The local ﬁshing community have a people to engage in the business of animal husbandry. low annual income and survive under debt on account of their inability to earn good price. Recognising this need, Employee Tata Power set up Fishermen Information Centre under the Amnesty scheme: Amnesty Scheme was launched on the Company's ongoing Project Sagarbandhu to create a beﬁtting occasion of JRD Tata's Birth anniversary, for all platform to help the community mobilise, strengthen and employees to “Let Go” and become independent of all promote their produce. At FIC, ﬁshermen can easily access anxieties and worries. As a part of this scheme, employees knowledge on market linkages and liaise with the ﬁshery could confess any unethical activity, any wrong-doings, department. The centre disseminates relevant and need any dichotomy, any self-puzzling episode or behaviour based information regarding ﬁshing activities (license that bothers one. Such subjects can be best discussed with processing, boat purchase), ongoing government external counsellors, with the assurance that smallest to 33 What’s working well in What need to be continued the policy? with improvement? HR Policies What’s not working in What need to be changed the policy? or stopped? revisiting each and every policy at Tata Power. A pictorial representation of the process is depicted below. MD communication meet: Senior leaders communicate with the workforce through open dialogues, focus group biggest reported event or act would be condoned without interactions, corporate communication messages, webcast, penalty or any backlash. The idea was to relieve all of their intranet portal and monthly newsletter. Additional anxieties and negative emotions which cause a nagging mechanisms for two way communication with the MD include drag on one's mind. The professional counsellors with their MD online, Phone your MD and Lunch with MD. Additionally, long standing experience will help employees deal with specialised MD communication meets are conducted for the any to all type of issues and more so it's entirely through all women employees to capture their experiences about the virtual communication of phone. Company. Other communication channels provided to employees to raise issues/voice opinions including emails, one to one interactions and the engagement and satisfaction The Company is committed to the welfare of its employees action planning and feedback sessions. Twitter and Facebook and has organised numerous programmes in order to are also used as communication channels. develop and improve their technical skills, eﬃciency and productivity. Reiterating its focus on enhancing the knowledge and skills of its employees, Tata Power's Media In order to ensure a professional relationship with the Jojobera Division organised Roto Care 2014, a workshop media, due diligence must be done to ensure that on rotary equipment maintenance and overhaul at information originating from the Company is accurate, Jamshedpur. The objective of this initiative was to complete, reﬂects the oﬃcial position of the organisation encourage knowledge sharing and educate employees on and is released to the media and target publics in a timely latest trends, design improvements and good practices manner. In the interest of orderly, consistent management through ingenious presentations on topics such as fans, air of the information released to the media, new guidelines compressors, pumps, rotary air pre-heater, seal, coupling, have been established in the form of a Media Relation etc. Tata Power organised interactive sessions and case Policy. The objective of Media Relations Policy are: studies which also gave an insight into the analysis and l To deﬁne roles and responsibilities within the predictive maintenance carried out by other companies. organisation for working with the media. It will also assist the media by clarifying the level of service they Merit Scholarship: Scholarships are granted to children of can expect regarding access to oﬃcials, provision of Tata Power employees for pursuing their studies every year. information, and responses to enquiries The scholarship is based on the percentage marks obtained l To ensure consistency of our positioning, and key in SSC which decides the quantum of scholarship amount. messages for enhancing our reputation. SRIJAN : It is an organisation-wide initiative Multi-stakeholder Platforms wherein each and every employee is involved in Senior Management from Tata Power participate in the redrafting and co-creating all HR policies. This is an multi-stakeholder forums and associations for knowledge opportunity for employees to understand, question, cosharing and to keep abreast with the ever changing create and co-own HR policies resulting in a better scenario. Sustainability Outlook felicitated Dr. Yogendra acceptance and a better assimilation of HR polices amongst Saxena, CSO Tata Power, as the CSO of the Year at the employees. All policies and guidelines have been clubbed Parivartan Sustainability Trailblazer awards for catalysing into 9 clusters in which each cluster has policies aiming at a sustainability action for Tata Power. Tata Power regularly particular aspect of Employee Life Cycle. Cluster 1 and Cluster participates in the programmes of Environment, Safety and 2 have been launched. In Cluster 1 more than 4000 responses Sustainability, etc. to learn the best practices as well as were received on policies like PMS, Promotion, etc. The same discuss Tata Power's initiatives on these subjects. has been analysed thoroughly and revised policies basis the inputs received and in line with the management guidance Suppliers received will be released shortly. All other clusters are Vendor Development: Tata Power has identiﬁed single expected to be reviewed by FY 16 thereby reviewing and point of contact at the corporate level as well as at Sustainability Report 2014-2015 34 Division/Site level to facilitate development of AA vendors. thereby, bringing about a chain-reaction that can Tata Power promotes entrepreneurship by supporting signiﬁcantly reduce generation of waste and increase enterprise development by SC/ST community, facilitating eﬃcient waste management in the country. SHGs and developing farmers, to make the community members self-reliant. A list of services and products supplied by SC/ST vendors is centrally maintained and shared with all the Division/Sites, which could be used for identifying relevant AA vendors. This year, approximately 25 AA vendors were awarded contracts more than Rs 14 Crores thus far. Supplier Engagement: Time and again, the importance of sustainable actions are emphasised, during interactions with suppliers/contractors, wherein, the views and concerns on business imperatives are shared for long term business relationships. One such forum, Partners Meet is held frequently covering all regions, to discuss various issues and concerns, business scenarios and other E lec trifying O ﬀgrid areas: Tata Power information pertinent to the business every year. These successfully expanded its distribution network Meets facilitate engagement on issues like Sustainability, and developed infrastructure to provide power TCoC, safet y, ethics, aﬃrmative ac tion, qualit y supply to more than 5,000 consumers in Ambujwadi, consciousness, etc. The aim is to align suppliers' base, Mumbai, which is predominantly a slum area located over a social, ethical, environmental, safety and health span of land and is inhabited mostly by workers that responsibilities with our own sustainability objectives. The include construction labourers, hawkers, domestic recent Vendor meet was held at Kolkata to cover eastern workers, etc. The area was devoid of electricity supply region suppliers, since eastern region is of great strategic primarily due to the unavailability of free land for importance in the company's business plans. Among other installation of Sub Station. Tata Power has already provided things like concerns of the vendors, sustainability formed power supply to 3,100 residents and is providing more an important agenda. A brief dedicated session was connections on daily basis. Tata Power has also rolled out arranged to emphasise on sustainable development. Also, various services at the door steps of the consumers in in the vendors' participation, a few of the vendors showed Ambujwadi. For the convenience of the consumers, the their commitment towards Tata Power sustainability vision. Company organised mobile cash collection vans for bill payment. Tata Power representatives also provided guidance and application collection drive for the consumers at Ambujwadi. To increase safety awareness amongst the residents, Tata Power recently organised a special skit which emphasised various safety and precautionary measures while using electrical appliances. More than 200 Ambujwadi residents participated in the Safety Day celebration. Apart from this, Tata Power, time and again, interacts with government institutions, such as the Maharashtra Electricity Regulation Commission (MERC), Bureau of Energy Eﬃciency (BEE), Ministry of Power (MoP), Ministry of Non R enewable Energy ( M N R E ), M i ni s tr y of Customers Environment, Forests & Climate Change (MoEFCC), State Club Enerji: Club Enerji, a national energy conservation Pollution Control Boards (SPCB), to be aware of the movement expanded its vision and launched the 'Waste dynamic regulatory changes and be future ready. Despite Management Module' as a part of its Resource of these engagement eﬀorts, the Company does not Conservation Programme. The Resource Conservation involve in the lobbying agenda. Module lays strong emphasis on saving water, fuel, paper, and electricity, and has successfully imparted knowledge on fuel conservation, water management and energy conservation to lakhs of students. The objective of the Waste Management module is to educate students on the repercussions of waste dumping in the environment, and its impact on the quality of soil, air and the ecosystem as a whole. The module aims to provide a platform to more than 2 lakh students to share and expand their understanding, 35 Human Resources (Care for our People) has functional responsibility for all the HR issues. A top management level committee has been formed at Tata Power to look into better work culture for female employees as well as to prevent sexual harassment, if any. There is a policy also on Prevention of Sexual Harassment “To sustain is to build on (POSH) and the POSH committee consists of 7 members what was created. (3 males and 4 females) from senior and middle management. This policy is widely circulated for awareness, Sustainabilit y is an as well as posted on the Company's website. The cases ongoing journey of related to POSH are dealt with in secrecy by this committee discipline, diligence & values.” and the same is responsible for cases at all the subsidiaries of Tata Power within the scope of this report. Mr. Chetan Tolia The Chief Human Resource Oﬃcer (CHRO) provides Chief Human Resource Oﬃcer direction in diﬀerent aspects of HR, introduces innovative models and tools for continual improvement and value creation. The CHRO, who is also a member of the highest governing body within the organisation, has operational Tata Power considers its employees as one of the most responsibility for all aspects of the workforce. Tata Power valuable stakeholders without whom the Company cannot has a team of senior professionals with separate portfolios achieve its business objectives. The priorities have always for Strategic HR and Business HR involving talent been towards employee retention, succession planning, acquisition and management, learning and development, nurturing and growing internal talent. and employee engagement, etc. In the last couple of years Tata Power has various employee engagement initiatives the focus has been on reﬁning people management coupled with enhanced focus on individual training needs processes and building the talent pipeline. Various training that is aligned to help Company achieve its vision of and development initiatives are in place to create a learning Employer of Choice. It also maintains policies for various environment and develop programmes that link people facets of Human Resource Management, which highlights across the organisation to facilitate business requirements. its commitment of being an employee -friendly organisation. There are HR processes in place for Tata Power believes in stability of employment while safety recruitment and selection of personnel at all levels, well and health are matters of the highest priority for the deﬁned manuals for induction, performance management, organisation, and for this it has developed a range of learning and development, retirement, separation, measures. In addition, the Company has also worked to business practices and exit. The HR function at Tata Power promote continual improvements by enhancing two-way Sustainability Report 2014-2015 36 communication with employees, encouraging a sense of recognise and embrace the diversity each person brings to unity throughout the entire company and sharing the workplace, creating an environment of trust, mutual information during times of crises. By respecting diverse respect and appreciation which allows all employees to values and thinking, Tata Power has created opportunities collaborate eﬀectively in the ongoing development. The for employees to demonstrate the creativity and has Company commits to a workplace culture that builds fostered teamwork. Eﬀorts are also being made to develop respect, fosters inclusiveness, promotes diversity and human resources and create ample systems. The Company embraces the unique skills and qualities of all its employees. has always sought and implemented pioneering and It is well aware of the fact that workplace diversity and meaningful practices to enhance the engagement, inclusion plays a vital role in ensuring the adoption of a capability and competitiveness of its talented workforce. citizen-centric approach to everything being done. These practices are aligned to diﬀerent phases of hiring, assimilation, learning, growth and retention. They are While the composition of workforce is in line with industry shaped by organisational values and industry best standards however, Tata Power is committed to raising the practices. Tata Power also conducts a programme called bar. The percentage of women employees in the Planning for Second Innings for the beneﬁt of retirees and organisation is 8.2% as compared to 7.7% in 2013. In the to better manage career endings. In order to accomplish a reporting year, the Company focused on hiring, developing stable base of business, Tata Power aims to realise and retaining diverse talent. The endeavour is to provide management that shows respect for people and build equal opportunity to all employees irrespective of the sex, stable labour-management relations based on mutual trust caste or creed. Under the Performance Management and mutual respect, as well as to have all employees System (PMS) review, 100% employees are covered. Tata exercise the ability to think, be creative, and utilise strengths Power is an Equal opportunity employer; there are no to the maximum extent possible. The Union is consulted by disparities in the ratio of average basic salary of male to the Management on all signiﬁcant changes for nonfemale. The entry level wage is as per industry standards management employees. For all signiﬁcant operational and may vary according to operating locations. The changes, Tata Power gives a minimum notice period in Company complies with the Minimum Wage Act and for consultation with person concerned. In the reporting year, the contract employees ensures higher payment as there have been no signiﬁcant operational changes. compared to speciﬁc minimum wage. Promoting Diversity and Inclusivity Cadre Management Workplace diversity and inclusion consists of many positive Tata Power ensures an inﬂux of fresh talent into the aspects of life. It is about acknowledging the diverse skills organisation through its Campus Hiring year on year. The and perspectives that people may bring to the workplace cadre recruited consists of Graduate Engineer Trainees because of the gender, age, language, ethnicity, cultural (GETs) from premier engineering colleges, management background, religious belief, sexual orientation, working trainees from campuses and Finance trainees which style, educational level, professional skills, work and life comprise of fresh CAs to augment the ﬁnance function. The experiences, socio-economic background, job function, cadre programme is also extended every year to recruiting geographical location, marital status and family of children of employees of the Tata Power Group. All the responsibilities. It helps in removing barriers to ensure all trainees undergo a structured and customised induction employees enjoy full participation in a workplace which programme to help them in onboarding and aligning supports the development and achievement of well themselves with the culture and values of the organisation. informed and culturally appropriate business outcomes. It Various interventions like Dinner with Leaders, Tata Power also involves recognising the value of individual diﬀerences Fitness Programme, etc., ensure a holistic development of and managing them in the workplace. Tata Power aspires to the trainees. Employee Engagement Engagement is the state of emotional and intellectual commitment of employees to an organisation. This enables a change in an employee's behaviour leading to certain positive business outcomes. Tata Power believes in engaging its people from hiring to retirement through various targeted and customised interventions. The objective is to develop a positive organisational culture on the principle elements of inspiration, care, collaboration, reward and celebration. Various formal and informal processes for assessment of workforce engagement and satisfaction are also adopted. 37 The key elements of employee engagement and its covers all the aspects of the organisation including the assessment are explained below. history, its evolution, the various functions and businesses it is engaged in and also its growth plans and long term Right from the day of selection, the candidate is engaged goals. and welcomed through various initiatives. Within few days of selection, a welcome kit including a welcome letter, Cascading the Strategic Intent: Senior Management of company proﬁle, organisation structure specifying the organisation candidly communicate with employees candidate's position, key deliverables, and strategic through mechanisms like open dialogues, corporate importance of candidate's department/function is shared communication messages, communication meetings, with the candidate. This helps the candidate to get video conferencing for quarterly results, intranet, etc. to acquainted to the company and job location prior to share the key happenings in the organisation. They also use joining. Employees joining Tata Power are acclimatised to these channels to cascade the vision, mission, values and the environment with a thorough Induction Process. This strategic intent of the organisation. During employee induction process has been evolved over the years on the interactions, leaders actively seek feedback and endeavour basis of feedback received from new joiners, line managers to resolve issues raised by employees. The vision and and benchmarking with other companies. Each division mission of Tata Power is communicated to every employee has an Induction oﬃcer who takes care of the new joiners in the organisation by the leadership team through various to provide them with a smooth joining experience. communication channels. HR100+: In order to connote 100 Communication from the MD's Desk: This platform is years of glorious existence of Tata used to share the organisational updates, announcement Power, HR100+ has been launched as of organisational wide initiatives, appointment of key a single communication platform for HR communication management positions, festive greetings to employees, with employees to ensure awareness and eﬀective ﬂow of etc. This is done through various channels such as emails, information. Hence the name of this initiative is in personalised letters, displays in English, Hindi as well as congruence with the chronological evolution of the organization and '+' denotes inﬁnity and immortality. This regional languages for non-management staﬀ. also conveys 100% commitment of HR to the people. HR100+ is also used for policy and programmes related MD's Communication Meet: All employees, including communication with simple nd useful information non-management, across locations and geographies content. participate in this initiative wherein the MD, ED, CFO and CHRO communicate the performance of the company for Town Hall: Town Hall is organised quarterly at each that quarter. After the session with all the employees are location of Tata Power wherein senior leadership share the given an opportunity to ask questions or seek clariﬁcation mission, vision, strategic intent and latest happening in the through the Open Question and Answers session, answers organisation. Town Halls aim at 100% employee coverage. of which are taken up by MD and the Senior leadership Action items derived from these Town Halls are collated team. and addressed within the timelines by the respective Business HRs. Enerji TV: Enerji TV, Tata Power's quarterly in-house video magazine, Newsletters: Newsletters keep employees updated about launched in 2014, with an aim to latest happenings in the organisation. There are various institute a dynamic communication platform that will organisation and divisional-wide newsletters like Enerji provide employees critical company information in a crisp Talk, Sparsh (HR), Darpan (Haldia), Trombay Newsletter, 15-17 minutes package. Any regular episode of Enerji TV Tarang (Transmission), Urja Sampark (Eastern Region contains news items listed under the following six Projects), Safety Newsletters, Sampark, Jojobera categories, namely Important happenings, Key events, InNewsletters, Saarthi, WattsUp (Corporate Engineering), focus, Latest Internal Campaigns, Customer focus and Greenolution, etc. All these newsletters are shared online Sports @ Tata Power. The primary objectives of the medium with the employees. include: l Packing the most important developments within the O D Y S S E Y : Ta t a P o w e r h a s a s t r u c t u r e d a n d company and critical internal news in a compact comprehensive induction programme for lateral recruits package known as ODYSSEY. The objective of this programme is to l Keeping employees updated on all key happenings acculturate new recruits with the “Tata Way” of working within the company will lead to a more satisﬁed and equip them with all the relevant information and workforce, thereby boosting the eﬀectiveness of network to help them perform at best. This program internal communication Sustainability Report 2014-2015 38 l Keeping messaging distinct and emphatic, to help in Cross Functional Teams (CFTs): Short term projects e n e rgi s i n g t h e yo u n g wo r k fo rce a c ro s s t h e critical to Tata Power are identiﬁed and depending upon organisation, and most importantly the complexity and importance of the action plans, l M ak ing communication more engaging and suitable CFTs are formed to ensure cross-functional motivating by recognising organisation-wide integration across departments. Cross functional teams initiatives. work on various operational improvements projects through many knowledge exchange sessions and projects Collaborating & Grievance Redressal Some of the like SPS (Structured Problem Solving) project, Strategic channels where employees can ask questions, provide Deployment Matrix (SDM) projects, SANKALP (Cost saving feedback or otherwise communicate with managers initiative), Quality Circle teams, LEHER project. especially senior managers are detailed below: SPANDAN and Workforce Development Programme HR Connect: In a step towards furthering an emotionally (WDP): The objective of this initiative is to align the connected organisation, a structured approach towards workforce with highest safety standards by working on 'HR Connect' was launched. This reﬂects the intent and interventions covering the whole work-life cycle of the commitment of the organisation towards building and non-management workforce. Trainings are imparted for sustaining a community of people who derive meaning increasing the social and behavioural awareness of the staﬀ out of the work and relate with the organisation which is along with emphasising importance of Safety. beyond economic or transactional. As a part of HR Connect, the HR Manager reaches out to employees to Shikhar Awards: Shikhar provides an opportunity for listen to them, understand concerns and address them employees to suggest Innovative Business ideas to the top suitably. management. Business Plans are invited from cross functional teams of maximum 5 members across the Tata Forum with Top Leadership (Quarterly Financial Power Group. These cross functional Teams help in cross Results Communication and Town Halls): Every quarter pollination, collaboration, engagement and development through a structured and well established process, MD, ED, of young employees. Winners get an opportunity to get a CHR O and CFO meet employees to share the direct entry in Accelerated Career Enhancement (ACE) organisational per formance and future outlook. Tata Power's fast track career enhancement programme. Employees utilise this opportunity to ask questions to senior leadership team, seek clariﬁcation, give feedback on Appraisal Step Redressal Process (ASR): It is a various systems and process, and share any ideas/ mechanism through which employees can raise queries improvement suggestions and concerns to the leadership related to his/her appraisal ratings and promotions. This is a team. structured, systematic and transparent process in which queries are taken up and addressed by a senior level ASR Forum with HR (VOICES): HR organises VOICES (Voices of committee. Appropriate action is taken wherever the Internal Customers for Engagement and Satisfaction) at Management feels that the performance rating or departmental levels, where employees make suggestions promotion of the said employee needs modiﬁcation. Last and/or become involved in making decisions that aﬀect year 135 applications were received for ASR and suitably their job, work environment through interaction with HR resolved. and Admin representatives in an open dialogue. The Talent Management function endeavours to enable Employee Engagement Surveys and Engagement people achieve the full potential and unleash it in a Action Planning: Engagement surveys and Engagement sustainable way. This is achieved through planned Action Planning sessions are well established and are a interventions that identify and develop a leadership and good forum for employees to communicate, provide talent pipeline of key resources and equip them with the feedback and voice concerns directly to Leadership Team, knowledge, skills and competencies to assume future respective Line Manager and HR Manager. The overall leadership roles. employee engagement of the Company determined through Aon Hewitt survey in FY15 was 69% as against the ACME Achieving Continuous Managerial Excellence: 66% in FY14. Several EAP (Employee Engagement Action A C M E i s a Ta l e nt M a n a g e m e nt p ro gra m m e fo r Planning) sessions were conducted with all groups across identiﬁcation and development of future leaders based on Tata Power. All action items arising out of the EAP sessions expected leadership skills and competencies. Oﬃcers who have been documented and are being worked upon. A consistently display high performance are taken through loop back session is done once the action items are Assessment Centres where they are assessed on the Tata completed with the same group. Leadership framework. Consequently, individual 39 development plans detailing strengths and areas of MyFeedback is a developmental improvements are shared with all the participants. tool for oﬃcers in the MA and MB Development Plans are prepared for those oﬃcers who are work level that will enable them to identiﬁed as High Potential Oﬃcers. The High Potential obtain developmental feedback whereby learning and Oﬃcers are put through a number of development development can be initiated by self or aided by the interventions (formal training, job rotations, cross organization. This process involves seeking feedback from functional exposure, on the job training, job enrichment, four respondent groups Self, Manager, Peers and mentoring/coaching) against the identiﬁed areas of Subordinates on one's leadership behaviour at work improvement. As part of the continued development through a structured questionnaire which is based on the process, the High Potential oﬃcers are given preference Tata Leadership Practices (TLPs). The feedback data for Internal Job Postings (IJP) opportunities, invited to generated is shared with the each oﬃcer in the form of a participate in the Company Strategy workshops, summarised report which details the key strengths and Management Development Programmes, interaction areas of improvement of the oﬃcer. with MD and Senior Leadership Team, etc. Learning and Development Succession Management: Succession Management is a In order to facilitate the achievement of the HR vision and leadership development initiative aimed at identifying in turn the organisational objectives, Leadership Capability critical positions in the organisation and identifying and Development caters to the developmental needs of senior developing suitable internal people to ﬁll these key leaders and key talent identiﬁed at the organisational level positions. Tata Power has a well-deﬁned Succession at Tata Power. Apart from nominations to external Planning process where critical positions are identiﬁed in leadership programmes oﬀered by Harvard, TMTC ,etc. The each function. For every critical position, successors are Company hosts a number of customised initiatives identiﬁed in 3 categories: Immediate Successors, mentioned below: Successors ready in 1 -2 years and Successors ready in 3 5 years. Development plans are prepared, implemented and In line with Tata Power's philosophy to encourage monitored regularly for the identiﬁed successors in order workforce diversity, Tata Power has designed an exclusive to groom them to take up the identiﬁed positions. leadership development programme Women to Lead for women employees. The main objective of this programme Management Planning Discussion: Management is to empower women employees to take up leadership Planning Discussion (MPD) is a forum where people roles in the near future and have women employees in the discussions are held with a view to review the depth and leadership role. This programme also includes interactions width of managerial talent in the organisation. These with women icons who have achieved great success in discussions are conducted only for MA and MB work level careers and a module of safety and self-defence. oﬃcers. The objectives of the discussion are to understand senior oﬃcers' career aspirations and plan their careers in D o m a i n A p p re c i at i o n a n d Co n t ex t S e t t i n g such a way that individual capabilities can be further A Programme for Directors: An exclusive programme for aligned to achieve collective goals. the Tata Power Board to facilitate the Board Members to better understand the key drivers of the business covering It is the ﬂagship fast track talent essential topics like Power Sector, Regulations, Tariﬀ management programme of Tata formulations, PPA issues, Sustainability, Business Power which identiﬁes and grooms Excellence, Aﬃrmative Action and Diversity, and Role of the young talent to strengthen the leadership pipeline of the Board members as spokespersons of Tata Power. organisation. The scheme provides an accelerated career growth opportunity for oﬃcers in certain grades. ACE This training programme is speciﬁcally for Senior process evaluates oﬃcers in the junior management cadre Leadership. As a Public Limited Company and provider of on the managerial and leadership qualities and provides electricity, Tata Power Group companies' plans as well as them with ample scope to explore new avenues in the operations are of special interest to the general public. In organisation by way of job rotation and challenging order to maintain correct public image, there was a need to assignments. Selected oﬃcers are provided special develop media management competencies for senior educational inputs, intensive training and appropriate job leaders, so that appropriate and accurate information is postings to realise latent potential. The ACE programme communicated to the Media in apt manner. This program has been running successfully for the past six years. Since enables the sensitisation and preparedness of the its inception in 2009, the ACE process has produced 23 participants to face the media using various methods like young future leaders. feedback on video recorded interviews, case studies, etc. Sustainability Report 2014-2015 40 Tata Leadership Practices based interviewing skills: geographical location. The recorded sessions are also Every year Tata Power has an intake of Graduate Engineer made available on intranet site under Tarang Recordings Trainees and Management Trainees from Campus as part Archive. The platform has gained popularity across the of Cadre recruitment. These candidates are recruited organisation and on popular demand; the Non-Technical through a stringent recruitment process, an important version of TARANG has also gained momentum. The step of which is the face-to-face Interview. Apart from the sessions held every alternate month on the fourth Friday HR representatives, some senior management leaders are covers topics which are relevant to the organisation like also empanelled for conducting the interviews. This Ethics, Environment Awareness, Finance, Safety, programme aims to ensure that best talent is recruited at Organisational Practices and Policies. Tata Power, using the methodology of interviewing which is robust, standardised and aligned to the Tata Leadership E-Learning: As ﬂexibility has become the need of the hour Practices (TLPs). for any growing organisation, Tata Power has successfully launched various E-Learning Platforms. These platforms STEP: This ﬂagship programme was introduced to cope up are: with business growth and thus the need to develop the Managerial and leadership skills in employees for handling Work Integrated Learning Programme ( WILP): greater responsibilities. STEP includes Executive Technical Competency is one of the prime requirements Development Programme, Management Development for the organisation. Tata Power has partnered with Birla Programme & Leadership Development Programme (Step Institute of Technology and Science (BITS), Pilani and i–care) designed for inputs to employees at work level initiated a unique course called WILP for Diploma shift. Around 350 employees across the organisation have Engineers. gone through this programme to develop managerial/ leadership skills. STEP EDP and MDP programme consists N I C M A R : An i n i t i at i ve to e n h a n ce t h e Pro j e c t of three modules related to business acumen, strategic Management capabilities in Tata Power, Tata Power has management and people management, while STEP LDP developed a customised module on Project Management programme focuses on people leadership. These modules in association with National Institute of Construction are revisited regularly to include the fresh inputs and Management and Research (NICMAR). NICMAR Training updates so that the participants are provided with the upProgramme is oﬀered to Tata Power employees in various to-date knowledge and skills thereby increasing the modules based on the target participants. training eﬀectiveness. Women Leadership Programme: In line with Tata Power's Tata Power has identiﬁed Care as one of the SACRED philosophy to encourage workforce diversity, Tata Power values, besides Safety, Agility, Respect, Ethics and has launched few initiatives for women colleagues Diligence. Being a core value, there was a need to imbibe including designing exclusive leadership development care and empathy in the culture of the organisation so as to programme for women employees. 'Women to Lead' be engrained in day-to-day dealings at the workplace. This programme was organised in two batches for the women programme provides inputs for the employees to excel as employees at the Eastern Region, Jamshedpur and people managers to facilitate the transition from being Mumbai. individual contributors to team leaders, build people management capability amongst people managers to Continuous Education Programme in Power Systems build and support the teams to perform, propagate a (CEPPS): This is the refresher course for building culture of care and empathy The Tata Power Manager, and capabilities of all employees in Operations and creating a feeling of 'Being Cared for' in junior Maintenance. It is ideal for employees with substantial management, thereby leading to enhanced employee experience in the power industry. The aim of CEPPS is to engagement levels across the organisation. refresh and strengthen the domain knowledge of cross functional concepts of Electrical and Mechanical Kaleidoscope: This is an online dynamic calendar of the engineers, thus laying a sound foundation in developing training schedule helps the department and function future managers and leaders. heads to plan the training requirements of team members. Tata Power has always been a TARANG (Technical Acumen Rejuvenation Aspire, pioneer in the sector with a Nurture and Grow): In this initiative, sessions which are series of ﬁrsts to its name. This conducted in line through webinars, which enables has mainly been possible due to team's ability to adopt interested employees to log in the system irrespective of and leverage new technologies. With this new platform, 41 the Company expects a signiﬁcant transformation across Employee Wellbeing all our business operations and functions. Tata Power believes that work-life balance is about creating and maintaining a supportive and healthy work Labour Management Relations environment, which enables employees to have a balance Tata Power has two types of permanent workforce viz. between work and personal responsibilities, thus, Management and Non-Management (comprising of the strengthening employee loyalty and productivity. Policies Union employees). The Company respects the rights of are designed and facilities are extended in such a manner employees to exercise freedom of association in that employees have ﬂexibility in fulﬁlling personal accordance with applicable Trade Union laws. There is a responsibilities and also, maintaining a work life balance. cordial relationship between Management and Union and The Company oﬀers range of beneﬁts to the employees like is based on mutual respect and understanding. The Trade Life Insurance, Health Care, Disability/Invalidity coverage, Union is permitted to conduct its elections and Maternity leave/Adoption leave, Retirement provision, appropriate time oﬀ is granted to employees to participate Housing beneﬁts, Car beneﬁts, etc. Details of other beneﬁts in the Union election process. The elected Union oﬃce are given below. bearers are recognised by the management as the representative body of the employees. In Tata Power 26% Mediclaim: To provide ﬁnancial support in case of of the permanent workforce is from the Non-Management illnesses, oﬃcers and FDA employees presently in service cadre, which is an internal Union with no political or are covered under Group Mediclaim Policy (GMP). The external aﬃliations. Meetings are held between policy provides for maternity beneﬁts and pre and post Management and Union periodically. The collective hospitalisation procedures for various illnesses. Besides bargaining agreements with the Union are signed for four this, generic medicines are also provided to employees and years and cover aspects related to salary, allowances, dependents for certain selected illnesses. beneﬁts and productivity clauses, in line with the business requirements. The formal agreements on Health and Safety are included as per statutory provisions. The Union Maternity Beneﬁts: Tata Power has always been sensitive is consulted by the Management on all signiﬁcant to the needs of women workforce. The Company provides changes. There have been no grievances ﬁled about labour 12 weeks maternity leave and also extended unpaid practices through formal grievance mechanism. The total maternity leave maximum upto 12 weeks. Tata Power also number of unionised employees are 1122. 100% of helps the female employees in easy transition back to work employees are covered under Collective bargaining after the leave. Tata Power employees who availed the agreements. There are no unionised employees in SED, maternity leave during the reporting year along with return CGPL and MPL. to work numbers, retention rates, etc. are given below. Tata Power 2012-13* 2013-14** 2014-15 Employees that availed parental leave 5 11 14 Employees who returned to work after end of parental leave 4 9 2 Employees returning from parental leave in the prior reporting period 11 Employees retained for 12 months after resuming from parental leave# 9 Employees due to return to work after taking parental leave 12 Return to work rate 16.7% Retention Rate 100% 100% 81.82% SED*** Employees that availed parental leave 4 3 Employees returned to work and retained for 12 months after resuming 3 1 from parental leave Retention Rate 75% 33% CTTL Employees that availed parental leave 0 0 0 *1 employee returned to work in 2013-14 **2 employees still on leave ***SED 2 employees are still on leave Note: Tata Power has adoption leave which is 45 calendar days for both Male and Female employees Sustainability Report 2014-2015 42 Doctor Series: This was launched with a view to provide location of posting. Few of these are Car Policy, mobile and education on 'preventive health' to employees for better residential phones, children education allowance, housing health management. Sessions are organised across loan, merit scholarship scheme, leaves, etc. In order to locations and geographies on the topics which are encourage work life balance, Tata Power has made it important for basic health and hygiene. mandatory for the employees to avail 50% of the entitled Privilege leave each year. Adventure and Sports: Sports are a way of life for employees at Tata Power. Many interdivisional sports events FUN Fridays: Various Departments at Tata Power celebrate are organised across the organisation for employees and Fun Fridays, in which innovative games and activities are families. Employees are given the opportunity to participate played among the team members followed by sumptuous in tournaments at State/ National levels. Many snacks. The idea is to involve everyone in the Team for s p o r t s p e r s o n s w h o h a ve re p re s e n t e d I n d i a a t promoting a fun and lively culture at workplace. Lemon National/International levels are full time employees at Tata Race, Dumb charades, Push-ups, Single legged run, MonoPower. These sports personalities train the employees for acting and Karaoke are a few activities organised as part of various sports tournaments. Trekking is also a regular Fun Fridays. activity at Tata Power. Trekking events are regularly organised for employees as well as families by the Trekking International Women's Day: The Woman's Day celebration and Adventures Club. at Tata Power is day of fun for all women employees. It is organised by bringing them together and organising visits Stepathlon: Tata Power continually strives to oﬀer a healthy to various sites followed by a special lunch. A special session work environment, where employees feel valued for the is also organised where in the women employees get the contribution and are encouraged to achieve a positive chance to interact directly with the Top Management. This work-life balance. With this objective in mind, the platform helps a two way communication between women organisation has launched the Stepathlon 2014 initiative. workforce and top management. This aids in introducing Stepathlon is a unique, pedometer based mass new initiatives and revisiting the policies that are more participation event which provides a simple and relevant women sensitive. solution to transform the sedentary into active, and the active into more active. Stepathlon 100 day race around a Safety Week: Every year the organisation celebrates Safety “virtual world” is designed to create an immediate positive week from 4th March to 10th March. The main objectives of impact, as well as eﬀecting long term behavioural change to celebrating the Safety week are as follows: assist you in achieving your health goals. Stepathlon is for l To reiterate the importance of making the world a safer the everyday athlete, and is a fun, engaging way to motivate place. participants regardless of age, gender, location, designation or ﬁtness level. 820 employees at Tata Power have registered l To create awareness about Safety, Health and for Stepathlon 2014. Environment (SHE) movement across locations and geographies. Comfort Living: Tata Power has Company owned and l To promote use of participative approach by involving Company leased accommodation in colonies near plants employees in improving Safety. and oﬃces such as Mumbai, Trombay, Hydro (Bhira, Bhivpuri and Khopoli), Maithon, Haldia, Jojobera, Kalinganagar, Founder's Day celebration: Founder's day is celebrated Mundra, etc. The organisation also has the provision of across the organisation in memory of Jamsetji Tata on providing company leased accommodation to employees March 3. The employees across all locations and up to a limit of 1.5 times of the basic salary. Tata Power also geographies pay homage and express gratitude towards has Holiday Homes Facility at multiple locations such as Jamsetji Tata for his vision, ideologies and principles that Nainital, Goa, Panchgani, etc. Employees from Management have shaped the Tata Group. as well as Non-Management cadre are eligible to stay in these holiday homes during vacations along with families. Ethics Weeks Celebration: the Founder's day celebration is followed by Ethics Week, during Miscellaneous Beneﬁts which the ethos and values of the Tata Group Tata Power has a wide array of beneﬁts for its employees. are reinforced. Various competitions and events The details of such beneﬁts are given below. such as storytelling, poetry, Poster Making, puzzles, Slogans, Short stories, experience sharing, essays, etc are organised Special Allowance: Employees posted at project sites, wherein the employees and families participate. special project related beneﬁts such as project allowance, housing, education facilities, allowance for family visits, etc. Long Service Award: Long Service Award functions are are provided. Employees posted at remote stations are organised to recognise oﬃcers for long service with the given a remote station allowance. For employees working at company. This year the Long Service Awards were conducted International Projects, Overseas Assignment Allowance is at Trombay Colony. The Oﬃcers who have completed above provided, which is calculated based on the cost of living, 15, 25 and 35 years of service are presented a Gold coin and a hardships, taxes among other factors prevalent at the certiﬁcate as a token of gratitude. 43 Workforce Snapshot Employment Type: The details of workforce by Tata Power has 4234 employees where in female and male employment categories for Tata Power (including IEL, CGPL workforce accounts for 346 and 3888 respectively. and MPL), SED and CTTL for FY 2014-15 is given below. Tata Power 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Employee M F <30 30>50 Total M F <30 30>50 Total M F <30 30>50 Total Category 50 50 50 Senior 197 6 86 117 203 225 9 1 104 129 234 242 12 2 110 142 254 Management Middle 347 23 13 276 81 370 374 20 9 304 81 394 392 18 5 315 90 410 Management Junior 2133 235 1371 832 165 2368 2125 240 1276 910 179 2365 2069 249 1147 998 173 2318 Management Workmen 1265 26 36 611 644 1291 1182 26 25 548 635 1208 1097 25 20 487 615 1122 FDA* 87 40 76 40 11 127 88 42 73 52 5 130 Total 3942 290 1420 1805 1007 4232 3993 335 1387 1906 1035 4328 3888 346 1247 1962 1025 4234 SED 2013-14 2014-15 Employee Category M F <30 30-50 >50 Total M F <30 30-50 >50 Total Senior Management 16 0 0 8 8 16 16 0 0 8 8 Middle Management 182 22 9 157 38 204 182 22 9 157 38 204 Junior Management 288 69 207 128 22 357 288 69 207 128 22 357 Workmen 15 0 0 1 14 15 15 0 0 1 14 FDA* 16 2 14 16 Third Party Contract (Outsourced) 192 26 165 47 6 218 177 27 134 64 6 204 Others (Trainees/Apprentice) 6 0 6 0 0 6 6 0 6 0 0 Total 699 117 387 341 88 816 699 117 387 341 88 816 CTTL 2013-14 2014-15 Employee Category M F <30 30-50 >50 Total M F <30 30-50 >50 Total Senior Management 4 1 0 0 5 5 4 0 0 1 3 4 Middle Management 3 0 0 1 2 3 6 0 0 3 3 6 Junior Management 15 1 7 6 3 16 12 1 5 5 3 13 Workmen 29 0 6 13 10 29 29 0 5 13 11 29 FDA* 1 1 1 0 1 0 0 1 Consultants 1 1 0 0 2 2 Others (Trainees/Apprentice) 0 1 1 0 0 1 Total 52 2 13 20 21 54 53 52 2 13 20 21 *FDA includes ﬁxed term contract, 3rd party contract, etc. This category of employees was introduced in FY 2013-14. Note: CTTL and SED not in scope of reporting in FY 2012-13 Employees Hired Tata Power ensures signiﬁcant attraction and retention of employees, primarily backed by robust talent management strategy of oﬀering diverse experiences and challenges across varied projects. In FY 2014-15, the total number of employees hired by Tata Power, SED and CTTL is given below. Tata Power 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Employee M F <30 30>50 Total M F <30 30>50 Total M F <30 30>50 Total Category 50 50 50 Senior 23 0 0 16 7 23 9 0 8 1 9 14 1 0 8 7 15 Management Middle 19 2 4 17 0 21 19 1 18 19 16 0 1 15 0 16 Management Junior 202 37 178 61 0 239 144 25 121 48 0 169 103 30 104 29 0 133 Management Workmen 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 FDA* 19 6 11 13 1 25 Total 244 39 182 94 7 283 172 25 122 74 1 197 152 37 116 65 8 189 Sustainability Report 2014-2015 44 SED 2013-14 2014-15 Employee Category M F <30 30-50 >50 Total M F <30 30-50 >50 Total Senior Management 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 1 2 3 Middle Management 4 0 0 2 2 4 14 2 2 14 0 16 Junior Management 40 10 39 11 0 50 51 22 59 12 2 73 Workmen 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 44 10 39 13 2 54 68 24 61 27 4 92 CTTL 2013-14 2014-15 Employee Category M F <30 30-50 >50 Total M F <30 30-50 >50 Total Senior Management 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Middle Management 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Junior Management 4 0 2 2 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 Workmen 1 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 1 0 1 Consultants 0 1 0 0 1 1 FDA 1 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 1 0 0 1 Total 6 0 2 3 1 6 2 1 1 1 1 3 Employee Retirements The employees superannuating in the next 5 and 10 years respectively for Tata Power is given below. Tata Power Next 5 years Next 10 years Workforce Level Male Female Male Female Senior Management 13% 0.1% 13% 0.4% Middle Management 6% 0.1% 9% 0.4% Junior Management 14% 1% 16% 1% Workmen (Union) 63% 2% 59% 2% Total Employees 96% 4% 96% 4% SED Workforce Level Male Female Male Female Senior Management 7% 0 8% 0 Middle Management 55% 7% 53% 5% Junior Management 31% 0% 37% 3% Workmen (Union) 0 0 0 0 Total Employees 93% 7% 97% 3% CTTL Workforce Level Male Female Male Female Senior Management 5% 0 2% 0 Middle Management 4% 0 4% 0 Junior Management 4% 0 2% 0 Workmen (Union) 14% 0 11% 0 FDA 0 0 0 0 Trainee 0 0 0 0 Consultant 0 0 0 0 Total Employees 27%** 0 18%** 0 **Percentage calculated on total employees 56 (including trainees and consultants) 45 Tata Power 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 WorkSenior Middle Junior WorkTotal Senior Middle Junior WorkThird Total Senior Middle Junior WorkFDA Total force Mgmt Mgmt Mgmt men EmplMgmt Mgmt Mgmt men Party EmplMgmt Mgmt Mgmt men EmplLevel (Union) oyees (Union) Contract oyees (Union) oyees Turnover Gender Male 25 14 121 79 239 13 18 114 73 1 219 1 12 98 0 6 117 Tata Power recorded a drop in the attrition rate which is Female 0 0 19 1 20 1 2 19 0 2 24 0 0 16 0 4 20 Age <30 0 3 105 0 108 0 2 95 1 2 100 0 1 79 0 5 85 Employee Turnover 31-50 7 4 23 2 36 5 12 28 2 1 48 0 11 35 0 5 51 >50 18 7 12 78 115 9 6 10 70 0 95 1 0 0 0 0 1 Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Overall 25 14 140 80 259 14 20 133 73 3 243 1 12 114 0 10 137 3.21% as against last year's 3.25%. The attrition rate does Turnover % Gender Male 12.9 4.1 5.8 6 6.1 6.2 5.0 5.4 6.0 1.3 5.5 0.4 3.1 4.7 0 7.2 3 Female 0 0 8.4 3.8 7.1 13.3 9.3 8.0 0.0 5.0 7.7 0 0 6.5 0 9.8 5.9 Age <30 0 22.2 7.5 0 7.5 0 18.2 7.2 3.3 2.6 7.1 0 14.3 6.5 0 6.7 6.5 31-50 8.5 1.5 3 0.3 2.0 5.3 4.1 3.2 0.3 2.5 2.6 0 3.6 3.7 0 10.9 2.6 >50 15.5 8.8 7.7 11.9 11.4 7.3 7.4 5.8 10.9 0.0 9.3 0.7 0 0 0 0 0.1 not include superannuation, death, group transfer cases, Overall 12.6 3.8 6 5.9 6.1 6.4 5.2 5.6 5.8 2.5 5.7 0.4 3 4.9 0 8 3.2 Avg. Tenure of employees 16 15 5 27 13 18.24 12.67 4.72 25.85 0.34 12.5 2.67 5.69 3.40 0 0.97 3.42 leaving (in years) SED 2013-14 2014-15 etc. and considers only resignation cases. The average Workforce Senior Middle Junior Workmen Senior Middle Junior Workmen Level Management Management Management (Union) Management Management Management (Union) Gender Male 12.5 2.2 7.3 0 0 7 93 0 Female 0 4.5 0.1 0 0 0 7 0 tenure consists of experience in Tata Power. The turnover Age group <30 0 11.1 9.6 0 0 0 93 0 30-50 0 1.9 7 0 0 67 7 0 >50 12.5 2.8 0 0 0 33 0 0 Note: No employees exited in 2013-14 and 2014-15 in CTTL CTTL and SED not in scope of reporting in FY 2012-13 and its percentage by workforce level of Tata Power and its subsidiaries/divisions is elaborated below. 46 Employee Training Management, Fire Fighting and Prevention, Crime Training is about improving knowledge and skills of an Prevention for Women, etc. to name a few. The provision of individual. It certainly helps in increasing the productivity sabbatical periods for higher studies with guaranteed and makes a greater impact on an organisation. Training return to employment is also available for employees. The courses are functional as well as behavioural in nature. Security personnel were trained on TCoC which has clauses They are Civil design and Construction, Bearing pertaining to Human Rights. The details pertaining to technology and Maintenance, Building Customer Focus, training are given below. Power Plant related Water Chemistr y, Contrac t Employee 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 Training M F M F M F M F M F M F In Hours Avg. Hours In Hours Avg. Hours In Hours Avg. Hours Tata Power Senior Management 7348 189 55 32 3422 192 15 21 4912 256 15.4 16 Middle Management 13720 920 58 54 8013 590 21 30 16000 576 14.36 15.57 Junior Management 222567 39052 137 181 90294 9902 42 41 84664 8648 14.43 16.83 Workmen 46855 831 21454 237 18 9 24648 216 9.29 11.37 FDA 94 131 1 3 1944 800 13.79 11.77 Fixed Term Contract 132224 10496 67.27 71.54 CGPL Senior Management 296 0 5 0 10 10 960 0 20 0 Middle Management 1762 16 21 3 45 22 3184 112 15 19 Junior Management 18053 1020 59 79 310 10 42 35 13376 352 17 21 Workmen 0 0 0 0 FDA 96 0 24 0 Fixed Term Contract 0 0 0 0 MPL Senior Management 320 0 64 0 324 32 336 0 15 0 Middle Management 1760 0 73 0 866 38 1360 32 16 19 Junior Management 112736 640 561 107 9436 400 44 67 11016 648 23 21 Workmen 0 0 0 0 FDA 0 32 0 0 Fixed Term Contract 40 0 13 0 Employee 2013-14 2014-15 Training M F M F M F M F In Hours Avg. Hours In Hours Avg. Hours SED Senior Management 46 3 14.50 0 0.91 0 Middle Management 732 92 4 4.2 423.13 64.13 2.24 2.7 Junior Management 1172 288 4 4.2 927.88 322.13 2.75 3.3 Workmen 0 0 0 0 Fixed Term Contract 297 94 1.5 3.6 177.75 27.87 1 1 CTTL Senior Management 77 38 19.2 38 128 0 32 0 Middle Management 179 60 408 0 68 0 Junior Management 369 30 24.6 30 584 40 48.6 40 Workmen 804 0 27.7 0 47 Training on anti-corruption was organised at Tata Power for and 462 improvement projects were completed. In FY all the workforce levels. However, at CTTL and SED all the 15, 298 employees were covered and 62 improvement employees were trained during the induction on TCoC, projects are taken up under LASER. which includes anti-corruption and human rights at SED and CTTL. In previous reporting periods, no separate Aakaar Workshops records were maintained for training on Anti-corruption Tata Power conducts various behavioural training and Human Rights, though all the employees were interventions along with an external consultant under trained/informed on TCoC. Aakaar workshops. Programs like Spandan, Workers Workforce Level Employees trained on Anti-Corruption Policies % of employees trained on (2014-15) Anti-corruption policies Male Female Senior Management 9 0 6 Middle Management 25 0 18 Junior Management 57 16 51 Workmen (Union) 29 0 20 FDA 0 6 4 Fixed term contract 0 0 0 Organisation Transformation Initiatives Development Programme ( WDP) and Tejaswini are conducted through these workshops. Spandan focuses on Tata Power Language of Improvement shop ﬂoor level employees up to the middle management l Sankalp: Sankalp is one of the critical improvement employees, WDP covers the contract workforce and Initiatives of Tata Power which focuses on improving Tejaswini is the program designed for the lady family operational eﬃciency, cost eﬃciency, delivery members of Tata Power employees. Started in FY 13, till eﬃciency and building capabilities for continuous now 1275 employees and around 2330 contract workforce performance improvement. Started in April 2011, till FY were covered under Aakaar workshops. In FY 14-15, 460 14-15, 264 employees were trained on Sankalp employees and around 815 contract workforce were methodology (Sank alp champions) and have covered in the above workshops. completed 56 projects with the total accrued savings of `3950 million. The accrued savings due to Sankalp Knowledge Management The Knowledge Management framework in Tata Power projects in FY 14-15 was `500 million. looks at promoting the culture of knowledge seeking, sharing and utilization seamlessly across the organization. l Structured Problem Solving (SPS): The SPS initiative The framework is supported by various formal and informal focuses on the analysis of data available from the platforms which aim at leveraging the organisational various processes using quality tools, and arrives at knowledge. Knowledge Management in Tata Power is solutions for continuous improvements. The projects measured in terms of 'Practices learnt and adapted'. Each are taken up at the divisional level and are executed by Division/Function is given a target and report the number teams of employees who have been trained on quality of practices they have learnt, either from inside the tools. Till FY 14, about 700 oﬃcers, across the organisation (from other divisions, subsidiary companies, organisation, have been trained thus far on SPS, of functions, etc.) or from outside the organisation (other which about a 120 have undergone the higher level of companies, vendors, OEMs, etc). Till now, 205 practices were training and function as facilitators. The facilitators learnt and adapted across Tata Power and in FY14-15, 94 guide the teams in the appropriate usage of quality practices were learnt and adapted against the target 132. tools and help the teams during tough times. In Fy15, content of the SPS training was improved and around Culture @ Tata Power 206 Oﬃcers across the organisation were covered Tata Power has continued its eﬀorts in building leaders. Tata Power has a dedicated position of Chief Culture Oﬃcer under this training. In FY 15, 65 improvement projects and has a dedicated culture building team, looking at are taken up under SPS methodology. interventions to drive the right culture in the organisation. The Culture Building Team is mandated to come up with l LASER: LASER is an organisational transformation initiatives which are transformational in nature and helps initiative targeting shop ﬂoor level to middle the organisation achieve a state where all of its deﬁned management level employees. Started in FY 10, till now Values are truly lived and demonstrated by each and every 2688 employees (management and nonemployee in the organisation. Till date, 'Leher' (a management) were covered under LASER workshops management cadre transformational programme) has Sustainability Report 2014-2015 48 provided an opportunity to about 350 oﬃcers in the counselling through a secure and conﬁdential platform management cadre, across functions, levels and sites. The either online, on telephone, or in a face-to faceprogramme focuses on creating a shift in the thoughts, conversation with the counsellor. Apart from counselling feelings and actions of oﬃcers in the critical levels in the services, the employees also have the access to other organisation. The cultural shifts brought about by services like online resources (self-help articles, selforganisational transformation include taking ownership, assessment tests, etc.), work-life seminars, etc. The services collaborative responsiveness, taking decisions that are also open to family members of the employees of Tata address the greater common good, and working on the Power. It is also planned to expand the services oﬀered to individual development plans. Another OT initiative, employees under 'We Care' to speciﬁc needs to diﬀerent 'LASER' (Learn, Apply, Share, Enjoy, Reﬂect), is aimed at sections of employees. Towards that, the ﬁrst part being achieving high standards of shop-ﬂoor excellence and taken up is to make Tata Power a more women-friendly strengthening relationships between front-line oﬃcers organisation by sensitisation and orientation to bring and workmen has been taken from operating sites to inclusivity at work. Programmes on 'Gender Sensitivity' and support functions. A set of programmes (Spandan, Worker 'Power to Mother' are under the implementation phase and Development Programme and Tejaswini) targeted at are intended to be rolled out in the current year. The improving personal productivity and eﬀectiveness for programme on Gender Sensitivity will work towards frontline and contract workforce was introduced in the creating sensitisation in employees towards opposite Company during the year. gender through engagement by medium of workshops. The programme on Power to Mother is aimed at equipping A p a r t f ro m t h e i n i t i a t i ve s u n d e r O rg a n i s a t i o n the relevant employees and super visors with Transformation, the Company is also driving an array of comprehensive information on maternity beneﬁts initiatives to build the desired culture in the organisation, available in Tata Power, as well as to guide them to make the which would help it achieve its Vision and Strategic Intent. transition for maternity break and the transition back to One of the areas that the organisation is working on for this work from maternity break smooth. is driving the embedment of the deﬁned Values in the organisation through various initiatives. Another such Also, speciﬁc employee volunteering programmes are aspect of the desired culture is how the meetings are designed in a manner that the employees are not just conducted within the organisation. Meetings play an exposed to the particular programme but learn more important role in Tata Power, since it is the platform where about various eﬀorts that Tata Power is taking on the front employees sit together, exchange views and opinions, for environment, bio-diversity and social inclusivity. Tata deﬁne actions and review performance. The organisation Power continued the volunteering programme on has therefore formulated and communicated the 'Meeting Mahseer Conservation, which helped create the right team Etiquette' that refers to the codes of behaviour that all climate within the volunteers group, create awareness on employees ought to follow while attending meetings at various initiatives of Tata Power to conserve environment, the workplace. A similar eﬀort for deﬁning the Operating as well as sensitise employees on environment and bioPrinciples of Tata Power is underway. diversity related issues so that they can be better managers and leaders. Similar volunteering programmes were organised at Jawhar (a district in Maharashtra), where Tata Power is running Aﬃrmative Action programmes. This programme provided the employees an opportunity to understand the concerns of the deprived community and disparity in the living standards of a community which is in close proximity to developed cities like Mumbai and Nashik. It also helped sensitise employees on the issues of inclusivity, which would help the organisation drive inclusivity within the organisation. To reinforce the value of CARE, an array of initiatives under 'We Care' has been rolled out in the organisation, which focuses on care for employees. Under We Care, the organisation has launched an Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) with the help of an external agency, to cater to “emotional” and “psychological” well-being needs of the employees. The programme provides employees with an access to professional counsellors from the external agency that assists employees to cope with life's diﬃculties. The employees can access the services of 49 Economic Performance India’s Power sector had been assigned to have a negative impact on its share price. Tata Power’s stakeholders but stable outlook, given pending policy level issues, provide insights and make signiﬁcant direct and indirect manifestation of risks undertaken in earlier years, contributions to strengthen the business. For example, the mismatch in coal demand and supply and continued tariﬀ neighbouring communities allow to access ﬁnite pressures. Despite these overhangs, electricity growth is resources whereas the workforce help the Company in likely to be in the range of 5-6.5% yoy in FY 15. managing the resources in a sustainable way. As part of the dynamic and evolving role of the power sector and the Beyond market conditions, Tata Power as a leading developing expectations of stakeholders, adding and Electrical Utility Company, contributes signiﬁcantly to sharing value is an important pillar of the Sustainability nation building beyond the proﬁts generated for the Framework. Accordingly, the Sustainability model of shareholders. While the Company generates direct ‘Leadership with Care’ provides the processes and economic value through power generation, transmission standards to deepen the understanding of the and distribution, it also contributes to signiﬁcant indirect stakeholder’s needs. economic impacts which culminate to increased economic activity. The vast value chain of the company supports The Company’s ﬁnancial contributions have positive numerous employment opportunities. The Company’s implications for all key stakeholder groups: signiﬁcant community development agenda empowers communities contributions are made directly in the form of taxes and to carve a path for economic and societal prosperity. community investment programs. The Company has also made a positive economic impact through the wages paid In order to have a robust and accurate reporting, the to employees and contractors. In the reporting year, there Company has an integrated and computerised ﬁnancial has been no appointment from local community for senior accounting system, supported by inbuilt controls, also management positions. ensures reliable and timely ﬁnancial reporting. Audit systems periodically review the controls and compliance with laws and regulations, and the environment under Key Financial Highlights which internal controls exist. The ﬁnancial accounting and audit systems also provide control on fraud and Dividend recommended is Rs. 1.30 per share as compared to Rs. 1.25 per share in FY14 negligence. All ﬁnancial and audit systems are reviewed by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Consolidated PAT at Rs 168 crore as compared to loss of Rs. (260) crore The Company also works towards excellent stakeholder communication. It believes in sharing all information that Standalone PAT at Rs. 1,010 crore as directly or indirectly aﬀects the ﬁnancial and operational compared to Rs. 954 crore performance of the Company and that can have material Sustainability Report 2014-2015 50 Climate Change and its ﬁnancial implications Key Business and Growth Highlights Climate change refers to a change in climate over time, whether due to natural variability or as a result of human l Successfully commissioned its 2nd 29 MW solar farm in Palaswadi, Maharashtra activity. The United Nations Framework Convention on l Commissioned India’s ﬁrst Natural Ester ﬁlled distribution Climate Change, in its Article 1, deﬁnes climate change as, a transformer in Mumbai change of climate which is attributed directly or indirectly l Tata Power's 100% subsidiary reﬁnanced existing to human activity that alters the composition of the global USD 450 million Fixed To Floating Rate Subordinated Notes atmosphere and which is in addition to natural climate by Medium Term Loan l Signed Share Purchase Agreement with Ideal Energy variability observed over comparable time periods. Projects Limited (IEPL) for acquisition of 540 MW coal based thermal power project Across the Tata Group, there has been considerable l Fully commissioned 2 units (63 MW each) of its 126 MW progress in terms of developing abatement strategies, Dagachhu Hydro Power Corporation (DHPC) in Bhutan increasing awareness and determining best practices. As l Completed ﬁnancial closure for its 185 MW Adjaristsqali hydro project in Georgia in association with Clean Energy part of Tata Group, Tata Power has been harnessing quite a Invest AS Norway (Clean Energy) and IFC InfraVentures few opportunities on diversiﬁcation of existing portfolio. (IFC),The project is being ﬁnanced by IFC, ABD and EBRD The strategic intent of producing 20-25% of installed l Entered into a Share Purchase Agreement (SPA) with Tata capacity from NCES is a testimony of Company’s Africa Holdings (SA) (Pty) Ltd. for formalising the commitment to climate change abatement. A climate acquisition of their 50% shareholding in Itezhi Tezhi Power Corporation Ltd (ITPC) Signed MoU with Russian Direct change policy has also been articulated at the group level. Investment Fund to increase Energy Investment between This functions as a common framework for change and India and Russia ensures that the changes taking place are institutionalized l Crossed the landmark milestone of crossing 500 MW and implemented in more companies. The policy has been through wind energy. adopted by all Tata companies and importantly, every l Tata Power Solar won 100 MW NTPC solar project. company has beneﬁted from the deep commitment of its senior leadership. Financial Snapshot Standalone includes Trombay, Hydro, Jojobera, Haldia, Tata Power is a process-driven organisation that employs Wind, services and SED as per published advertisement. strong governance combined with Leadership and the Tata Power didn’t doesn’t receive any ﬁnancial assistance from the government. motivation to deliver operational excellence. The company Economic Growth FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 Rs. million Tata Power* Economic Value generated 102890 92830 9702 Economic Value distributed 93960 86060 8261 Operating costs 73530 63750 5970 Employee Wages & Beneﬁts 5480 5450 687 Payments of providers of capital 11510 13200 1218 Payments to government 3370 3550 358 Community Investments 70 120 28 Economic value retained 8930 6770 1441 CGPL Economic Value generated 27955 56794 5929.49 Economic Value distributed 35339 63474 6395.98 Operating costs 28844 50295 6332.67 Employee Wages & Beneﬁts 254 686 52.12 Payments of providers of capital 6164 12396 1352.95 Payments to government 0 Community Investments 76 97 11.19 Economic value retained -466.49 51 MPL Economic Value generated 16621 23337 2318.76 Economic Value distributed 17484 22309 2108.25 Operating costs 13784 17697 1671.77 Employee Wages & Beneﬁts 158 320 35.29 Payments of providers of capital 3530 4284 346.19 Payments to government 53.29 Community Investments 12 8 1.72 Economic value retained 863 1030 210.51 CTTL Economic Value generated 229 247.31 Economic Value distributed 174.6 Operating costs 107 114.53 Employee Wages & Beneﬁts 44 45.07 Payments of providers of capital 22 Payments to government 12 14 Community Investments 1 Economic value retained 44 72 * Tata Power includes Trombay, Hydro, Jojobera, Haldia, Wind, services & SED utilises well-established management frameworks Responsible Supply Chain Management supported by speciﬁc processes and systems that drive, (Local Supply) measure and report performance on an ongoing basis. The The Responsible Supply Chain Management policy directs Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework facilitates towards engagement and capacity building where the monitoring and oversight of a broad range of vendors/contractors are required to attain the expected corporate, divisional and project risks across all businesses. level of Sustainability performance. This is done in a phased Within this framework, risks and related issues and manner where ever required. Tata Power implements all potential opportunities are identiﬁed, prioritised, owned, the 10 principles of UNGC covering 4 dimensions – human reported on and managed to best value. It is inevitable for rights, labour, environment and ethics, as a good the company to give due respect to climate change and foundation for building and improving supply chain factor it in ERM process also. Company cushions for any practices. The RSCM Policy is intended to work with various present and future risks while keeping in mind the ﬁnancial other policies in the organisation and follows the philosophy of sustainability i.e. Leadership with Care. This implications of the same. year, supply chain guidelines were administered to all the key suppliers. The Company also revised its empanelment Management Commitment and Beneﬁts guidelines to screen the suppliers on social and Unfunded/funded deﬁned beneﬁt schemes are operated environmental parameters, in addition to existing in Tata Power. The schemes are Ex-Gratia Death Beneﬁts, economic criteria. Prior to empanelment also, the suppliers Retirement Gifts, Post Retirement Medical Beneﬁts, Health are scrutinised on various parameters including the Care Insurance, Pension and funded deﬁned beneﬁt plan is Sustainability aspects. The Company shares with the Gratuity, which is administered by the Trustees Tata Power suppliers/contractors certain documents including TCoC, Gratuity Fund. The distinct contribution plans of Tata Power Environment Policy, RSCM and Sustainability Policy that such as Provident Fund (PF) and Superannuation is in place form an integral part of the Enquiry Documents (RFQ/RFP) for eligible employees. A trustee of Tata Power administers fo r m a k i n g t h e m aw a re o f Ta t a Powe r ’s s o c i a l commitments. At the time of ﬁnal registration, suppliers the PF by the consolidated PF and Superannuation fund. are evaluated wherein, they declare if they are ISO Under these schemes, the Company is required to 14001/EMS certiﬁed. The Sustainability requirements are contribute a speciﬁc percentage of salary to retirement conveyed in the form of the TCoC (also contains antibeneﬁt schemes to fund the beneﬁt, as stipulated by corruption clauses) to all the suppliers, which is an integral Government of India. As on March 31, 2015 the Deﬁned part of vendor/supplier contracts and all vendors/suppliers Beneﬁt Obligation for the current reporting year is 2708.4 must sign-oﬀ and agree to abide by these requirements as Million for Tata Power. a part of the engagement with Tata Power. This is further Sustainability Report 2014-2015 52 reinforced at the time of award by making it a part of each Further to establish the veracity of the responses a sample Purchase/Work Order. check was conducted through personal visits to the facilities of the vendors. The results of the same have been In line with the RSCM policy, Tata Power also attempted to found to be satisfactory. The outcome of assessment and understand the level of compliance of its major and crucial veriﬁcation of the sample size has been found to be suppliers on the listed. The screening was based on compliant and no incidence of child labour, forced labour or assessment criteria including Environment Management, any violation of freedom of collective association has been Health & Safety and Human rights compliances. observed. As part of this screening exercise, a Supplier Sustainability In addition to vendor qualiﬁcation process, the Company Questionnaire was sent to major suppliers, constituting an also intends to complement its vendor assessment system annual spend base of ~ 80%. These suppliers were asked to which aims to monitor their performances with regard to indicate status in terms of policies and procedures in place their conduct and also align its vendors on sustainability while reporting their contribution towards Sustainable parameters through supplier performance evaluation on edevelopment. In FY 14, top 120 suppliers based on their sourcing platform which in future, may be one of the spent were shortlisted for screening and out of the important criteria in forging long term relationships with approximately 100 responses have been received, no vendors. violation on the counts of Labour rights, collective bargaining power, forced or compulsory labour, Human The Company has empanelled 321 suppliers during rights, environment has been observed. Going forward the FY 2014-15. It engages with local suppliers (Local is deﬁned company intends to gradually widen its screening base on as based in India). The proportion of spending on continual basis. The responses were compiled and analysed local suppliers was INR 102880.4 million in the reporting and no major actual or potential negative impact on year. A signiﬁcant spend of Tata Power is conﬁned to the Environment was observed. Similarly, no human right Local sourcing i.e. Suppliers and service providers violation was reported by the selected Suppliers. No nonhaving facilities and/or manufacturing bases within compliance on environmental, safety or human right issues geographical boundaries of India. The details of local was reported or observed. The impact assessments for labour and total spent on procurement along with the value of practices have been conducted on all the suppliers. There local suppliers for FY 2013-14 and FY 2014-15 is given were no incidents found where labour practices are violated. below. Tata Power In INR millions 2013-14 2014-15 (exclusive of taxes Local Import Total % of Local Local Import Total % of Local & duties) Procurement Procurement Non-Fuel Procurement 32872.40 397.40 33269.80 98.8 28053.83 588.29 28642.12 97.9 Fuel Procurement 28686.22 43541.5 72227.71 39.71 34463.92 39774.35 74238.27 46.4 Note: Data for FY 2012-13 is not available. This data is newly included in this report. A signiﬁcant spend of Tata Power is conﬁned to the Local sourcing; i.e. Suppliers and service providers having facilities and/or manufacturing bases within geographical boundaries of India. Supply Value (INR Million) FY 2012-13 FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 Tata Power Monetary value of Signiﬁcant Suppliers 77381 85949.47 72980.86 Monetary value of Local Suppliers out of signiﬁcant suppliers 47647 34934.65 41382.37 SED FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 Monetary value of Signiﬁcant Suppliers 452 2572 Monetary value of Local Suppliers out of signiﬁcant suppliers 256 1142 CTTL FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 Monetary value of Signiﬁcant Suppliers 849.76 1008.33 Monetary value of Local Suppliers out of signiﬁcant suppliers 46.51 41.00 Note: In FY 2012-13, CTTL and SED not in the scope of reporting 53 Tata Power conducts Partners Meet to discuss various Ambernath, Mumbai to cater to the growing skill needs in issues, business scenario, concerns and other information power sector. The state-of–the-art Institute has been pertinent to the business every year. These meets facilitate successfully running courses on the power sector and also engagement on issues like Sustainability, TCoC, safety, adds behavioural and customer satisfaction based orientation ethics, aﬃrmative action and quality consciousness, etc. In among the unemployed or semi skills youth. In FY 2014-15, order to consolidate its partnership especially with Eastern 110 contractors were trained in TPSDI, and ~40 contractors Region partners, Tata Power had organised an Eastern were trained in TPSDI, Trombay under this ﬂagship initiative. Region (Jojobera, Haldia, Maithon, Kalinganagar and There are plans to set up two more such state-of-art facilities Tiruldih) Partner’s Meet in Kolkata. During these regular which would cater to other parts of the country. events, wherein the Company and its partners/suppliers share their views and concerns, Sustainability is a priority in Besides this, various skill building courses across the the agenda for discussion. Due to Supply side initiatives locations has been providing training and job based related to Sustainability, the number of key vendors employability avenues as well. Maithon, Kalinganagar, complying with mandatory requirements has increased Naraj Marthapur, Jojobera and Mulshi have established signiﬁcantly. programmes of excellence on employability with aﬃliation to national certiﬁcation courses which oﬀers service and Indirect Economic Impacts manufacturing sector based skill training to youth. Tata Power continued to imbibe inclusive growth opportunities for the neighbourhood in the vicinity of its Under Aﬃrmative Action, tribal youths were encouraged to operations. Various initiatives were undertaken to promote compete and become vendors which have been providing entrepreneurial opportunities for the communities. This basic requirements to some of the locations as well. Women ranged from providing knowledge based management Groups across all locations have been encouraged to derive counselling to support in establishing linkages for creating income under income generation activities which is indirect livelihood opportunities as well. In Jojobera and primarily aimed to enhance overall family income. Maithon, tribal youths were encouraged to undertake ﬂy ash brick making unit. Today this unit provides solutions to Over a period of time, community monitoring in health addressing eco-friendly use of ﬂy ash and also augments programmes have provided gainful insights in improving potential employment opportunities to other marginalised positive health behaviour and community feedback people. Maithon and Jojobera provided necessary capacity suggests reducing illness prevalence resulting in less building support to establish linkages for ﬁnancial expenditure on health and medical requirements at assistance from rural ﬁnancial institutions along with household level. The reduced footfall in some locations due support from Tata Power on self-sustaining mode. This has to community health programmes gives evidence that been a replication of similar initiative initiated at Trombay in proper behavioural change communication strategy has the past. Similar such initiatives have been undertaken been the key to better awareness and adoption of health across various locations. At the same time, in Mundra, practices. The Safe Drinking Water Project across schools in promotion of traditional handicraft under brand Vartika is seven states has shown evidence of increased safe and being promoted to help enhance income and presence the increased intake of drinking water resulting in bettering traditional handicraft of the communities around Mundra. attendance levels. This was Global Hand washing and The ﬂagship livelihood programme at Mundra, Gaushala Nutrition week celebration across locations has played a saw institutionalisation of the eﬀorts with community critical role which has been acknowledged by Global forming a registered Trust to ensure proper governance of stakeholder including World Alliance for Breast feeding the Fodder Programme aimed at local cattle populace of Action, Malaysia (WABA). Hence such social initiatives have 5000. This has resulted in collective reduction of investment demonstrated indirect economic beneﬁt to communities by community who had a challenge to manage fodder in in the reporting period. semi arid agro climate region in Gujarat. Now the Trust envisages raising its own funds through community contribution and becoming self-sustaining in the long run. Across all locations, women empowerment initiatives under SANRACHNA helped to form 300 no of women groups with a membership base of more than ~3700 members. These groups are being trained on various social issues from rights based approach including legal rights of women against domestic violence and similar aspects pertaining to women centric issues. Extension programmes on socio economic income generation initiatives continued to augment additional income as well. The Tata Power Skill Development Institute (TPSDI) is a ﬂagship CSR programme which was established in Sustainability Report 2014-2015 54 Environment Performance (Care for our Environment) Tata Power has many environment management programmes to ensure a harmonious agenda by working on environment conservation while providing electricity to the community. Being mindful of how the operations can aﬀect our surroundings, the element of CARE for environment is “ When we hear the treaded to ensure environment protection takes priority. This element of CARE is part of the Sustainability Model, word Sustainability, we i.e. Leadership with Care. The various voluntary initiatives tend to think of and other national and international disclosures help renewable fuel sources, minimise the impact of operational activities on the reducing carbon emissions, protecting environment through new actions and also take the journey towards beyond compliance. environment and a way of keeping the delicate ecosystems of our planet in At Tata Power, environmental excellence is an integral part balance. In short, sustainability looks to of its business. Tata Power has been working for decades to protect our natural environment, human use resources eﬃciently, advance clean technologies and protect vital species and habitats. The approach is and ecological health, while driving grounded in a commitment for 100% compliance on all innovation and not compromising our environmental requirements depending upon location of way of life.” the generating stations. This year, the environment team across Tata Power worked towards improving its performance from previous years. Mr. Sharad Baijal Chief Corporate Operations (Thermal) Environment Management and Responsibility Tata Power’s commitment to environmental stewardship stretches across its entire energy value chain. The environmental footprint is managed proactively, not only Environmental performance is about how well an because the Company cares about protecting the organisation manages the environmental aspects of its environment, but also to improve operational eﬃciency, activities and services and the impact they have on the maintains its license to operate and enhance its competitive environment. In order to be able to determine how well position in the energy marketplace. As a result, Tata Power is environmental aspects are being managed, environmental able to better serve its customers, create value for its per formance should be measurable. The overall shareholders and employees, and enhance communities. environmental performance can be measured by comparing the environmental management activities Tata Power management is involved judiciously in against the environmental policy, objectives, targets, etc. environment management, sustainability and its 55 reporting. The Corporate Sustainability Department management system is in place to comprehensively review headed by the Chief Sustainability Oﬃcer (CSO) oversees the environment compliance by the top management, as well the various activities and is responsible for Environment, as departmental heads at a deﬁned frequency. Hyperion is Corporate Social Responsibility, and Biodiversity. one such system which tracks, monitors the overall companies Safeguarding the environment is the priority for top performance and environment performance is a major part of management and it is visible by not just conformance to it. The schematic of various reviews is given below. compliance, but to go beyond compliance direction. In every strategic decision the Company promulgates, Environment Management environment management is considered for business Sustainability, helps creating value for stakeholders, enable Top Management Hyperion System/BSC enhancing economic bottom-line, operational eﬃciencies and improve compliance across all generating stations. Review by CSO In addition, the Tata Power management is working on GMI / CSPI various voluntary initiatives such UN Global Compact principles on environment, National Voluntary Guidelines Divisional Environment (NVGs), Business Responsibility Report (BRR), Carbon Performance Disclosure Project (CDP) etc, these details are mapped with GRI Index. These external initiatives bring in a varied perceptive on environmental sustainability and the journey Compliance Monitoring System towards sustainability is strengthened by improvements triple bottom line performance of the company. As an environmentally responsible corporate, environment Disha Internal management starts at the source. Various control measures and monitoring mechanisms are in place such as Air Pollution Audits External Control Equipment (APCE), Wastewater Treatment Plants and Stack & Ambient emissions, including Noise levels, etc, these The Executive Director Operations (ED-O) monitors the monitoring are also carried by third party on monthly basis. Environment compliance through a daily Environment Dashboard which covers mainly incidents and exception to Environmental Grievance Mechanism environment norms and conditions stipulated by state This mechanism is a procedure under the ISO 14001 pollution control board (SPCB). An environment certiﬁcate E nv i ro n m e nt a l M a n a g e m e nt Sys te m to h a n d l e is also submitted to SEBI along with other requisites as part complaints/grievances from external par ties on of the section 49 of SEBI guidelines. The CSO reviews the environmental matters aﬀecting them. Environmental environment performance on a monthly frequency for all Complaints that may aﬀect the Company’s reputation are the major thermal stations monthly and Quarterly for Wind escalated to the Corporate Communications Department, and Hydro as well as waste-heat recovery stations. An Top Management, etc. integrated central online tracking system DISHA is in place for monitoring all Environmental parameters mentioned as per Consent to Operate (CTO) issued by the respective Environmental Expenditure State Pollution Control Board (SPCB). Audit (both internal The environmental expenditure information is crucial in and external) is carried out by third party every two years decision making and to develop eﬀective environmental and a surveillance audit is carried out once every year. The programmes. This reporting year 689 million was spent on Internal Audit is also carried out by Corporate Environment various environment protection and pollution abatement Team with a deﬁned frequency across all generating (emissions, water treatment and waste and environmental stations. In this reporting year, Maharashtra Pollution management, etc.) measure. Control Board (MPCB) issued two notices to Trombay plant Total Expenditure FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 regarding CESS payment without rebate. These were closed with proper explanation. Jharkhand Pollution (` million) 350.5 546 689 Control Board (JSPCB) issued two notices to Jojobera plant regarding improper fugitive dust emission. These were Compliance Management closed with adequate evidence and proper explanation. As operational excellence is the foundation for meeting our customer commitments, environmental compliance is the Environment Sustainability bedrock of Tata Power’s commitment to environmental To ensure environmental sustainability Tata Power has leadership. The environmental policy and governance instituted a process of due diligence to consider all its practices are designed to promote compliance with development proposals based on some internal criteria. This environmental requirements, as well as to provide a primarily considers likely implications on environment and platform from which the environmental performance goes climate change. The criteria involves assessment of land beyond the legal and regulatory baselines. parcel, water source, treatment and disposal of water eﬄuents and solid waste and likely implications on Tata Power continues to make progress in improving its communities around the proposed development. In addition environment compliance by tracking compliance with key to this, a comprehensive Policy document exists which environmental requirements. A robust compliance deﬁnes priorities for conducting various environmental Sustainability Report 2014-2015 56 studies (mandatory/voluntary) speciﬁc to Material Consumed and Recycled Thermal/Hydro/Wind/Solar projects. Tata Power will also The consumption of materials characterises the incorporate Carbon pricing in the ﬁnancial modelling for the expenditure in speciﬁc terms (per unit of production) of assessment of proposed development projects, wherein it will be factoring in probable costs towards Carbon mitigation. material resources such as fuel, energy, and auxiliary materials, etc. needed for production. At Tata Power, the To ensure environmental sustainability Tata Power has major material consumption is fuel used for generating instituted a process of due diligence to consider all its electricity. As an environmental conscious company, none development proposals based on some internal criteria. of the operations uses Polychlorinated Biphenyl (Persistent This pr imar ily considers likely implications on Organic Pollutants, POP) as well as Volatile Organic environment and climate change. The criteria involves Compounds, (VOC). At SED, the material consumption is assessment of land parcel, water source, treatment and majorly for assembling vehicles and the materials used are disposal of water eﬄuents and solid waste and likely semi-manufactured materials such as shaft, steel plates implications on communities around the proposed amounting to 155 tonnes. Other associated material such development. In addition to this, a comprehensive Policy as paints and oils account for 2.1 Kl and Grease for 0.2 document exists which deﬁnes priorities for conducting various environmental studies (mandatory/voluntary) tonnes. The materials consumed by Tata Power’s speciﬁc to Thermal/Hydro/Wind/Solar projects. Tata Power generating units are given below. will also incorporate Carbon pricing in the ﬁnancial Generamodelling for the assessment of proposed development Raw Material FY FY FY ting projects, wherein it will be factoring in probable costs Station (T/ MU) 12-13 13-14 14-15 towards Carbon mitigation. Environmental Sustainability Trombay Coal 491 495 507 involves practices that contribute to the quality of Low Sulphur Heavy Stock 232 254 269 environment on a long-term basis to support human life (LSHS) without compromising on economic development. Tata Gas 166 165 178 Power continues to implement activities which focus majorly on resource conservation, waste minimisation, Jojobera Coal 672 702 705 energy and water conservation, and reduction in auxiliary CGPL Coal 460 480 398 power. These initiatives are tracked through Green MPL Coal 629 610 597 Manufacturing Index (G M I) and Corporate PH # 6 Blast Furnace Gas (MNm3) 2396 2603 2522 Sustainability Protocol Index (CSPI). These initiatives are primarily employee driven which are embedded into their At Tata Power, waste reduction is one of the initiatives routine activity and are visible across all locations. The CSPI under GMI, as mentioned above. However, waste material and GMI are tracked on a quarterly basis for all operating such as scrap steel, wood which form a part of various locations by the MD during the BSC review and by the CSO, auxiliary materials used in installation, construction, monthly during the environment reviews. maintenance activity, etc. are reused internally for fencing, tree guard, etc. However, the quantities were not Corporate Sustainability Protocol Index (CSPI) follows the measured. Used and waste oil generated during operation principle of Audit Review Improve, is a process driven are disposed oﬀ through authorised recyclers. index based on sustainability initiatives and the scoring system is based on the per formance of various sustainability initiatives across generating stations and Air Quality locations. GMI is a quantitative matrix of baseline, target Tata Power understands the potential health impacts of air and achievements on various environment initiatives such emissions such as Sulphur Dioxide (So2), Nitrogen Oxides as speciﬁc water consumption, auxiliar y power (NOx) and Particulate Matter (PM) which are emitted consumption, zero discharge, utilisation of scrap, bottom during electricity generation. There is a commitment on ash utilisation, plantation, rain water harvesting, energy improving air pollution control mechanisms and conservation, etc. GMI targets along with results achieved monitoring. Online analysers installed on stacks for by stations are given below. continuously measuring of pollutants across locations and Green Manufacturing Index periodically monitoring are carried out through third party Location Target Actual laboratories authorised by statutory agencies. Measures Trombay 100 65 are in place to ensure that the statutory emissions limits are Mundra 75 72 met and reported emissions across Tata Power locations are Maithon 100 100 well within stipulated limits. However, NOx emission at Jojobera 100 100 Mundra is high and the company has given representation Hydro 32 28 to Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) for necessary Haldia 100 100 changes. As part of compliance to Montreal Protocol, Tata Power House # 6 100 100 Power does not use Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) are Transmission 100 100 used in any of the operations. The emissions are monitored Distribution DCS 80 80 Distribution DSS 100 97 as per the standard practice of regulatory authorities and Tata Power Consolidated 89 84 the details are given below. 57 The emissions are calculated by weight since FY 13-14. Ambient Air Quality: Ambient air quality or the quality of Accordingly, the emissions in tonnes are given below. outdoor air in the surrounding environment is typically Air Emissions by Weight (tonnes) measured near ground level, away from direct sources of Parameter Year Trombay Jojobera CGPL* MPL pollution. Tata Power being responsible corporate, monitors the quality of ambient air across locations. SO2 FY 13-14 4449 15059 23209 27283 Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations FY 14-15 4366 16547 55226 30978 (CAAQMS) are available in operating locations and also the NOx FY 13-14 1360 2120 40612 9125 monitoring is carried out by third party authorised FY 14-15 511 2133 34823 10279 laboratory. The measurements are sent to the respective PM FY 13-14 6320 525 3187 1242 SPCBs on a monthly basis as well as to regional oﬃce of the FY 14-15 1159 522 2920 1105 Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change *Due to change in coal quality, SO2 and NOx values have variations Note: Quantiﬁcation of Air emission parameters in tonnes initiated in FY 13-14 onwards (MoEFCC) along with the six monthly compliance reports. No emissions from Hydro and Haldia due to use of water and waste gas for power generation respectively. The ambient air quality is monitored at all locations and is Emissions from PH # 6 and SED are monitored regularly and are negligible and not reported. CTTL has no fuel burning, hence no stack emissions. The ﬁgures represent annual average and rounded oﬀ. under the statutory compliance levels. FY 13-14 FY 14-15 60000 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 50000 One of the top sustainability eﬀorts is to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions which arise from the use 40000 of coal as fuel for electricity generation. At Tata Power, as a commitment towards combating climate change, SO2 30000 emissions are captured regularly and assessment carried out on a yearly basis as per the World Business Council for 20000 Sustainable Development (WBCSD) guidelines and GHG 10000 protocol. CO2 Intensity (g/KWhr) 0 Trombay Jojobera CGPL MPL Year Trombay Jojobera CGPL MPL Total for Generating Stations Tata Power FY 12-13 784 946 806 819 722 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 45000 FY 13-14 833 883 824 869 759 40000 35000 FY 14-15 824 923 785 885 747 30000 % Change 1% -5% 5% -2% 2% 25000 from NOx 20000 last year 15000 10000 FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 5000 1000 0 Trombay Jojobera CGPL MPL CO2 Intensity (g/KWhr) Generating Stations 800 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 600 7000 6000 400 5000 200 4000 PM 3000 0 Trombay Jojobera CGPL MPL Total for 2000 Tata Power Generating Stations 1000 Further, as a part of its voluntary disclosers, the GHG 0 emissions are reported to CDP, UK and the details as per Trombay Jojobera CGPL MPL Generating Stations Scope I-III are as follows. Sustainability Report 2014-2015 58 Operations Year Category Direct Greenhouse Indirect Greenhouse Emissions due to Total Carbon gas emissions gas emissions Business Travel footprint (Scope I) (Scope II) (Scope III) Tata Power FY 12-13 25024366 9313 3081 25036760 FY 13-14 34296380 5346 2231 34303957 FY 14-15 35267826 3263 2474 35273563 SED* FY 13-14 110 1720 118 2018 FY 14-15 149 1996 311 2456 CTTL* FY 13-14 202 13 215 FY 14-15 490 490 * SED and CTTL are not a part of CDP due to operational control and information not available for FY 12-13 Renewable Energy generated from this project is ~ Rs. 11.93 lakhs. Tata Power has historically been a leader in foraying into Non (1 ton of CO2e is ~ 1 VCU) Carbon Emitting Sources (NCES) with its hydro power station being commissioned in 1915. This is more so evident Eﬃciency in Energy Consumption now with the strategic intent of the company, which At Tata Power, energy eﬃciency is a way of managing and endeavours to generate 20-25% of its capacity from NCES limiting the increase in energy consumption. As a utility like hydro, solar, wind and waste-heat by 2022. As on March company the operations are more energy eﬃcient if it 31, 2015 the percentage of NCES is 15.4% generates more units for the same energy input, or maintains the quantity of units generated for less energy input. The energy consumption arises from the Emission Reduction Market Mechanism consumption of fuel for generation (direct consumption). Another market mechanism is Renewable Energy The auxiliary energy consumption details are given below. Certiﬁcates (RECs), REC is a market based instrument to promote renewable energy and facilitate compliance of Auxiliary Energy Consumption (GJ) renewable purchase obligations (RPO). It is aimed at Station Million Units addressing the mismatch between availability of RE FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 resources in state and the requirement of the obligated entities to meet the renewable purchase obligation (RPO). Trombay 491 387 334.29 Jojobera 391 369 375.56 RE generators are option to segregate environmental Hydro 53 37 36.62 attributes from renewable power and sale separately, these CGPL 1026 1956 2075.49 environmental attributes are termed as Renewable Energy MPL 269 365 371.95 Certiﬁcate (REC) and One REC is equivalent to 1 MWh Haldia 68 72 67.67 generated from grid connected Renewable Energy sources. PH #6 59 61 60.74 Nine wind Energy generation projects were registered under SED# 1.8 2.06 REC mechanism The capacity and location are given below. CTTL# 0.2 0.5 Capacity (MW) No. of Projects Location #SED and CTTL included from FY 13-14 in reporting boundary 49.5 3 Poolavadi, Tamilnadu FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 17 2 Supa, Maharashtra 2200 Auxiliary Energy Consumption (GJ) 2000 21.95 4 Nivade, Maharashtra 1800 1600 The generated RECs retained by the company for fulﬁlment 1400 of its RPO in FY 2014-15 are 2,25,555 RECs and sold 10,480 1200 RECs through Power Exchanges in Non solar Segment, 1000 which is equivalent to a revenue realisation of ~ Rs. 35 crores. 800 The company also purchased 39,000 RECs from Non-Solar 600 Segment and 9,000 RECs from Solar Segment from power 400 exchanges. Revenues spent in purchase of RECs are ~ 200 Rs. 9 Crores. Note: 1 Non-Solar REC = Rs. 1500 and 1 Solar 0 REC = Rs. 3,500. In the reporting year, 17208 Volume of Jojobera Hydro CGPL Haldia PH #6 SED# CTTL# MPL Trombay Carbon Credits (VCUs) were traded in 25 MW solar power generating station at Mithapur, Gujarat. The revenue Generating Stations 59 Energy consumption outside the organisation has been water is sent back or discharged back to its source. All monitored only in terms of business travel of employees, eﬀorts are in place on regulatory compliance while the which has been captured and reported as Scope III water is sent back to its source and no water bodies with emissions. For the next ﬁnancial year, Tata Power will biodiversity value are aﬀected due to the wastewater attempt to enhance its boundary of reporting to capture discharge across all stations. The trade eﬄuent as well as such energy consumption. domestic wastewater at all the locations is treated as per statutory norms of respective SPCBs. The treated water is Water Management reused internally for horticulture/ plantation/greenbelt Access to aﬀordable, reliable and adequate water supply is development, as well as used for control of fugitive imperative to the success of the business for Tata Power. emissions from coal yards. The System is in place to submit Water is essential for Tata Power’s production of electricity, monitoring results of water management to respective water drives hydro-electric facilities and cools fossil fuel statutory agencies at regular interval. ﬁred stations. Being a material issue for Tata Power, the company recognises that water is a shared resource, critical Total water withdrawal (Mm3) by source to economic development, communities and wildlife in the Water Source FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY14-15 areas where it operates. Tata Power* Fresh Water 21.10 18.79 18.57 Tata Power is committed to preserving long-term viability Sea Water 1243.98 921.54 967.85 of the water resources upon which its operation relies and CGPL is addressing site-speciﬁc water-related issues at each of Sea Water 38.44 4732.60 4668.36 our operating sites. Eﬀorts are in place for sustainable MPL water management especially at Hydros, implementation Fresh Water 14.31 16.50 16.10 of best management practices across stations as the same CTTL Fresh Water 0.0026 0.0018 is visible from the table as a percentage reduction. At SED Hydros, water is given back to the source without changing Other Sources 0.027 0.018 aﬀecting its quality. (Supplied By 3rd party) Basic treatment is in place, such as temperature reduction * Includes Trombay, Jojobera, PH # 6, Haldia through mechanical devices and other similar mechanism Note: There is no water consumption in Hydros as the water to returned back such as cascading, Oil and Grease removal, etc, before the without changing its quality Speciﬁc Water Consumption trends Station wise Generating Consumption (m3/MWh) FY 13-14 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 % Reduction from Stations previous year Municipal Water consumption 0.16 0.16 0.23 -44 (Process + Domestic Water) Trombay Sea water consumption 132 130 160.81 -24 (Condenser Cooling water) Municipal Water consumption 3.34 3.2 3.1 4 Jojobera (Process + Domestic + Make up for Condenser Cooling) Municipal Water consumption 2.7 2.6 2.6 -1 PH # 6 (Process + Domestic + Make up for Condenser Cooling) Municipal Water consumption 4.52 3.7 3.5 5 Haldia (Process + Domestic + Make up for Condenser Cooling) Surface Water Withdrawal 3.04 2.52 2.4 4 MPL (Process + Domestic + Make up for Condenser Cooling) Sea Water Withdrawal 3.09 2.8 175.67 11 (Process & Domestic after RO CGPL treatment + Make up for Condenser Cooling) Surface Water Withdrawal 27223 26049 25486 2 Hydros# (Domestic Consumption) # Hydros water consumption is given in absolute values in M3 Note: Speciﬁc water consumption of SED and CTTL has not been included in the table as they are not into power generating business and their water consumption as compared to power business is insigniﬁcant Sustainability Report 2014-2015 60 Waste Management from coal yards. No water body has been aﬀected due to water Across Tata Power, we are working to better understand withdrawal or water discharge at any location. waste generation and ensure that the best management Bio-medical Waste practices are in place to reduce, reuse and recycle the waste The waste generated from medical facilities is of higher generated. In addition to recycling a strong focus on signiﬁcance and improper management of this waste causes a identifying opportunities to prevent waste or bring new direct health impact on the community. Tata Power understands life to materials that might otherwise be discarded. From the signiﬁcance of bio-medical waste management in line with power poles and transformer oil, to oﬃce waste and coal the Bio-medical Waste (Management and Handling) Rules, 1998 power plant scrubber by-products, Tata Power is and its amendment in 2003. Bio-medical Waste is disposed oﬀ continually improving its materials management by using through authorised vendors across locations and the quantum more environmentally-friendly and better-performing disposed in kgs is given below. products that result in less waste. As a part of regulatory Location FY 13-14 FY 14-15 compliance the waste generated is disposed through authorised vendors. Hazardous waste is stored and Corporate Oﬃce, Carnac, Mumbai 270 215 disposed as per Hazardous Wastes (Management, Trombay 27 11 Handling and Trans-boundary Movement) Rules, 2010. Tata Hydros 38 39 Power does not import or export any wastes in/from power Jojobera 3 2 generation and there has been no hazardous waste MPL 5 6.5 imported or exported as per the Basel Convention. The CGPL 234 170 reporting year did not witness any spills across locations. Total (kg) 577 443.5 Being an electricity generating utility with coal being its Note: Disclosure on Bio-medical waste was initiated in FY 13-14 on a voluntary basis. major fuel, a large quantity of ﬂy ash is generated, the quantity depends on the quality of the coal used i.e. Indian/ e-waste imported. The ﬂy ash and Hazardous waste generation as Tata Power’s Information technology department well disposal quantity is given below. manages a company-wide asset recovery programme to Generation(kg/MWh) Waste Type Station FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 Ash Trombay 8.7 9.06 7.36 Jojobera 296 314 312 CGPL 24 22.15 19 MPL 271.5 304 246 Generation (Tonnes/Annum) Hazardous Waste Trombay 15 87.7 53.69 Jojobera 34 15 45.78 CGPL NA 109.6 35.036 MPL NA 12 14.7 PH # 6 3 0 0 Hydros 0.05 0 0* *Hazardous waste generated and disposed at Hydros include 182 numbers of batteries (~5 tonnes), 23 nos. of batteries (1 tonne) at Trombay, and 3.99 and 13.23Kl of used oil at Haldia and Maithon respectively. reuse and recycle obsolete electronic assets. Through Majority of water used at various stations is for cooling purposes. It is importance is given to return water back to its authorised vendors, Tata Power ensures that all of its source, as per regulatory norms with no/minimal changes to its electronic waste is de-manufactured for reuse or properties. The temperature of the discharge water is reduced reclamation in a responsible manner. through cascading and by use of mechanical devices. This discharge from the generating stations is mainly condenser Tata Power has concluded the e-auctioning of 1.06 MT of cooling water which is treated for any possible contamination, e-waste at Jojobera for disposal and disposed 4 tonnes such as Oil and Grease, and while discharging utmost care is e-waste at Trombay. However, at other stations, the taken that no water bodies with biodiversity value are aﬀected inventory of the e-waste has been initiated and the same due to the wastewater discharge. The quality of the wastewater shall be reported during the next reporting year. A Cross generated is closely monitored and results submitted at Functional Team (CFT) on e-waste is in place to eﬃciently regular interval to the respective statutory agency. The treated monitor the e-waste across stations; this CFT consists of wastewater is used for horticulture/plantation/greenbelt members from Corporate Environment, IT, Administration development as well as used for control of fugitive emissions and representatives from across stations. Additionally, the 61 e-waste policy was revised with methodology and process to maintain inventory and dispose e-waste. E-waste Policy The Tata Power E-Waste Management Policy reaﬃrms our commitment to environmental protection by ensuring proper management of electronic waste. Through this policy, Tata Power will : l Comply with all applicable local (country, state, etc.) rules and regulations regarding the management of EWaste (e.g. E-Waste Management and Handling Rules 2011 by MoEF in India) pertaining to all articles for biodiversity conservation measures to step out of this mentioned in Commitment & Compliance Document of conventional viewpoint, permeate into and get applied in E-Waste Management Policy. hitherto unexplored places, such as business operations. Indeed business operations are one of the new frontiers of l In the absence of speciﬁc rules, regulations or legislation biodiversity conservation due to awareness of the subject on the subject in any other the country of operation, we and need of the hour. Such a viewpoint is not new to Tata shall follow the Indian Rules and Regulations regarding management of E-Waste. Power, however. This is apparent from the legacy of Company’s ﬂagship project the Mahseer Conservation l Educate and sensitise employees on importance of Programme initiated more than three decades ago, at a proper management of E-Waste and the risks and time when a business’s role in environmental stewardship hazards associated with their improper disposal, was yet to gain ground. Additionally, in line with the especially the items of personal ownership (e.g. mobiles, Company’s legacy, new initiatives are developed across the personal computers, laptops, Flat Panel TVs, etc.) Company’s locations that resonates this philosophy ranging from aﬀorestation activities, mangrove l Explore possibility of extending usable life of items for plantations, monitoring sea turtle populations, avi-fauna internal/ external use to minimise E-Waste generation. studies, as well as initiating a Biodiversity Action Plan for select locations, wherever required. Biodiversity conservation is also in line with our unique Sustainability Protecting Biodiversity at Tata Power Model of Leadership with Care of which “Care for Biodiversity’s connection to business growth seems less Environment” forms an integral part and Sustainability apparent as compared to other aspec ts of the Policy which states that “Tata Power will continue to serve e nv i ro n m e n t , s u c h a s e n e rg y e ﬃ c i e n c y, w a te r the communities by constantly protecting ecology, conser vation and waste management, etc. This maintaining and renewing biodiversity and wherever connection, however intangible, does exist. Businesses are necessary conserving and protecting wildlife, particularly aﬀected by and in turn, impact biodiversity and related endangered species”. ecosystem services in a myriad diﬀerent ways. Many ﬁnd it hard to believe and even comprehend that biodiversity Tata Power is perhaps the only Company in India to have a and businesses can co-exist and even ﬂourish, side by side dedicated Biodiversity expert team within its Corporate with better environmental management and biodiversity Sustainability Department. The Company has signed the conservation. Indeed the idea that biodiversity can exist India Business & Biodiversity (IBBI) Declaration and its within the conﬁnes of an industrial area, if the necessary Mahseer Conservation Programme featured in IBBI’s measures are taken, is a concept that is relatively new. No re ce n t p u b l i c a t i o n , 2 0 I l l u s t ra t i o n s w h i c h w a s doubt, Tata Power, being a conscious Corporate is wellinaugurated during the 12th Conference of Parties (COP) versed with the need of Sustainable development and to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), South actively initiated many projects for biodiversity Korea, October 2014. This repor t is available on conservation too. http://businessbiodiversity.in/document/5070Busin ess%20and%20Biodiversity%20in%20India%20For many years, biodiversity conservation globally, %2020%20Illustrations.pdf consisted only of protection of natural habitats that are alienated from the rest of the developed human world Tata Power is probably the ﬁrst Company to align its such as national parks, bio-reserves and others. Whereas, Biodiversity initiatives with those of the Aichi Biodiversity areas of human developmental activities such as Targets rolled out by the Convention on Biological Diversity industries, business operations and urbanised areas were (CBD) and these have been reported in the Sustainability thought to be biodiversity-deﬁcient. Time has now come report FY 13-14. Sustainability Report 2014-2015 62 Additionally, the Company is proud of the fact that none of providing a safe zone from the tides and minimal human its operations are in close proximity to any nationally or interference. For our other sites, Hydros in Lonavala, internationally designated Protected Areas (PA), such as Maharashtra and Maithon, Jharkhand there are reserve national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, World Heritage Sites, forests in the vicinity. These forests are part of the etc. and all such areas (if any) are situated more than 10 kms catchment area of Hydros (Walvhan, Mulshi, and Shirota) from the operations, as shown in the table below. and Maithon dams. Proximity of Protected Areas to Company Locations Location Protected Area ~Distance (km) Trombay, Mumbai, Maharashtra Sanjay Gandhi National Park 25 CGPL, Mundra, Gujarat Pirotan Marine National Park 34 MPL, Maithon, Jharkhand Garpanhkot Forest Reserve 18 Jojobera, Jharkhand Chandeli dalma elephant reserve 28 Khopoli, Lonavala, Maharashtra Karnala Bird Sanctuary 25 Bhira, Raigad, Maharashtra Phansad Wildlife Sanctuary 48.5 Bhivpuri, Raigad, Maharashtra Bhimashankar Wildlife Sanctuary 25 Haldia, Midnapur, W. Bengal Sunderban National Park 86 PH # 6, Jamshedpur Chandeli dalma elephant Reserve 28 SED, Bangalore Bannerghatta National Park 13 CTTL, Mumbai, Maharashtra Sanjay Gandhi National Park 25 Sources: Google Earth, Google maps, Wikimapia, India Biodiversity Portal, World Heritage Sites, IBA publications Neither terrestrial, nor aquatic areas of biodiversity The Biodiversity Action Plan for Trombay power plant has signiﬁcance are aﬀected by Tata Power operations. chalked out management action points for vegetation. It Similarly no IUCN Red List species are aﬀected by includes plantation of trees that abate air pollution, Company operations. The Company has two thermal plantation of speciﬁc trees, herbs and shrubs for power plants that have thermal discharge into the sea stabilisation of soil mixed with bottom-ash, removal of Trombay and Mundra. Thermal discharges at both the invasive alien Leucaena leucocephala seedlings and locations are maintained well within the statutory saplings and also planting trees at certain locations that requirements. Trombay operations do not pose any may enhance biodiversity. Also for the area under transmission lines that run through the plant premises, negative impact on biodiversity of adjoining mudﬂats and slow growing and small sized trees have been mangroves of Sewri, Mumbai which are designated as recommended. Measures to connect habitats under the Important Bird Area (IBA) by BirdLife International. In fact transmission lines by using potted plants on concretised the continued sustenance of the mangrove ecosystem of surface have also been recommended. the area is evident from the regular arrival of migratory birds such as lesser and greater ﬂamingos (Phoeniconaias No habitat underwent an oﬃcial oﬀset mechanism. minor and P. roseus) respectively in the area every year. This However, aﬀorestation activities are on-going across Tata was reported in the Biodiversity Action Plan conducted for Power locations to improve greenery around it and to the station by a reputed third party consultant. According increase tree density which also helps in the catchment to this report, bunds at the outfall channel of the power areas. Additionally, mangrove restoration work was station become ideal foraging and resting ground for carried out at Mundra, Gujarat and Navi Mumbai. wader birds. Presence of warm sea water allows marine Mangrove plantation was carried out at Kantiyaja, district Bharuch, Gujarat in association with the Gujarat Ecology micro and meio-fauna to thrive which the wading birds Commission (GEC). The project covered an area of 1000 forage on. Secondly, the bunds provide a refuge for the hectares. This project has been successfully completed waders from the direct open sea during high tide. And and was part of a regulatory requirement. It has been thirdly, as this area is prohibited for the general public, the approved by an external authority, the Mangrove Society birds are not directly disturbed by presence of humans, or of India. Another mangrove plantation project is slated to associated activities such as hunting, ﬁshing, boating, commence at village Sarsole, Navi Mumbai in an area of 25 tourism, etc. The area is thus protected due to three main hectares. This project is partly for fulﬁlment of a reasons warm water providing food for foraging, bunds regulatory requirement. 63 Tata Power has aligned its activities in biodiversity Project Sanjivani with the 5 Strategic Goals set out by the Project Sanjivani was completed during this reporting year Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). The to estimate the amount of CO2 sequestered by trees present Aichi Biodiversity Targets are clubbed into Goals and the within Company-owned land. So far, the Project covered details are given below. land owned by Tata Power speciﬁcally, hydro power plants Strategic Goals Activities at Tata Power Strategic Goal A: Address the underlying causes of biodiversity l Capacity building of employees loss by mainstreaming biodiversity across government l Awareness on biodiversity through e-mailers and society l Mahseer Conservation including employee volunteering activity Strategic Goal B: Reduce the direct pressures on biodiversity l Project Samridhi, an initiative for livelihood under Corporate and promote sustainable use Social Responsibility l High eﬃciency air pollution control equipment to maintain emissions l Replace invasive plant species with native ones wherever possible Strategic Goal C: To improve the status of biodiversity by l Mahseer Conservation Programme safeguarding ecosystems, species and genetic diversity l Sea Turtle Monitoring Project, Mundra Strategic Goal D: Enhance the beneﬁts to all from biodiversity l Plantation of mangroves in Mundra; and ecosystem services l Tree plantation in catchment areas of Hydros Strategic Goal E: Enhance implementation through l Student visits to the Hydros facility for knowledge participatory planning, knowledge management and capacity enhancement of various conservation activities including building Mahseer breeding A number of initiatives are carried out under the ambit of from Maharashtra including their catchment areas, facility biodiversity. Some of these are highlighted below: areas and residential colonies; Trombay thermal power plant, Mumbai; various transmission and distribution Avifauna Survey, Maithon facilities in Mumbai; residential colonies in Mumbai; wind power plants in M aharashtra, Gujarat, K arnatak a, Maithon Power plant is situated in the state of Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan. This project is a valuable tool to which is one of the least studied states in terms of its ecology. quantify the extent of Company’s positive impact in the Although some baseline data exists on the biodiversity of the realm of climate change. Additionally, this project’s ﬁeld region, a detailed survey of the bird life around the power work was carried out with the help of volunteers, plant was initiated. The survey was carried out for three keeping alive Tata’s legacy of volunteerism. They were seasons summer, winter and monsoon during 2014-15, guided by domain experts, ensuring consistency of data by adopting a scientiﬁcally rigorous methodology. Other than quality. birds, a preliminary survey of reptiles, amphibians, mammals was also carried out. According to the report, more than 150 bird species belonging to 48 families were recorded. Plantation This has helped create a baseline of the avian population Massive plantation drives are a routine phenomenon in around the power station. Since very little literature on the Company and more than 18 million trees have been avian populations of the state of Jharkhand is available, planted over the past 3 decades in the Hydros region this report will certainly help in creating much needed alone. The total number of trees planted for the last three baseline. years across divisions is given as below. Tree Plantation across the Divisions Division FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 Trombay 1515 715 570 Hydros 1077600 193350 983000 Mundra 233445 78759 403424 Maithon 61790 73995 66460 Jojobera 450 300 480 Haldia 612 590 850 PH#6 455 284 341 Total 1375255 1148000 1455125 Sustainability Report 2014-2015 64 Awareness on Biodiversity videos were uploaded on the Company website and the link Awareness sessions on Business and Biodiversity were shared with the rest of the organization. regularly organized during this reporting year. ~150 Tata Power employees took part in the sessions across seven Another initiative at Hydros combined Tata Power’s legacies locations. The participants represented a cross section of of biodiversity conservation with that of employee various departments and this training helped them in volunteering. Employee volunteers were part of an initiative understanding the close links between biodiversity and that studied various species of ﬁshes and other aquatic life in businesses in general and Tata Power in particular. the fresh water streams feeding Walwhan dam of Hydros catchment area. The programme covered over 314 Emails on important international days commemorating volunteering days and 19 samples of ﬁshes and other biodiversity and environment were disseminated to all the aquatic life were collected during the programme. This personnel in Tata Power and its subsidiaries. Days covered programme helped sensitise the participant employees on were International Day on Biological Diversity, World biodiversity conservation and gave them a taste of ﬁeld Environment Day, and International Tiger Day, International work involved in biodiversity conservation. day of Forest, World Water Day, and International Day for the Preservation of the Ozone Layer, World Wetlands Day, Individuals across various divisions, carry out small scale International Day of Forests and World Water Day. The emails initiatives to boost local biodiversity. These were lauded by detailed the importance of each day and provided the Company through platforms such as Green Heroes. For information on the steps an individual could take in their instance, more than 350 indigenous trees were planted by personal as well as professional lives to improve biodiversity an employee from Trombay, while a rock python was around the locations. rescued with the help of snake rescuers in Khopoli division, an injured bird was rescued at Bhira Hydro plant, while a Under Greenolution, an initiative was launched that biodiversity-friendly space was created at Mundra by a local encouraged employees to observe biodiversity around their working with the CR Department. places of work and homes and ﬁlm it on cameras. The best Tata Power acknowledges that the environmental challenges facing our society, and is committed to finding more and better solutions wherever possible. 65 Occupational Health and Safety At Tata Power a healthy workforce is an important contributor operates. A Safety Management System (SMS) is in place to to its competitiveness and Sustainability. All stations maintain ensure that both employees and contractors adhere to conducive work environments meeting Indian/International good safety practices and procedures at all times. The risks standards on hygiene, lighting, ventilation and eﬀective are assessed; incidents tracked and corrective and controls on noise and dust. Stations are provided with preventative action plans are developed through SMS. occupational health centres with adequate medical staﬀ to Further, to handle unforeseen events or disasters, Disaster monitor occupational health and provide immediate relief Management Plan (DMP) is in place at all generating when required. Adequate numbers of ﬁrst aider’s are trained stations. These DMPs are location speciﬁc and are reviewed in various in-house sessions; such sessions are conducted on a regular basis. periodically by well-known specialists/medical practitioners on occupation related health hazards. In recent years, Tata Power has been raising greater awareness among its employees on the importance of Identiﬁed medical examinations, as per statue, are conducted safety in eﬀorts to keep the operations accident-free. This is for various categories of employees based on age-groups as done through setting annual Safety Targets as well as onwell as exposure to occupational hazards. These statutory going initiatives that seek to engage both employees and medical examinations take place annually once in a years, as contractors on safety issues. The Safety Targets are applicable. In the reporting year, no employees were found communicated to all its employees by its highest decision suﬀering from occupation related illness/diseases. making authority. It is the responsibility of the senior management at respective locations to make sure that the At Tata Power, maintaining high safety standards at all its safety targets at met 100%. stations is of signiﬁcant importance, as it is committed to protecting the health and safety of each of its employees, The performance against safety targets of the reporting contractors, customers and the communities in which it year as provided below. Proactive Targets Target Achieved Adherence to Annual Safety Plan (%) 100 99.73 PTW Audits (Nos) 2275 3369 i) Safety Inspections-Critical (%) 90 243.64 ii) Safety Inspections-Regulatory (%) 100 148.68 Repetitive near miss 22.5 45.2 Stop Observation (SO) % 80 93.95 Safety Intervention Audit 560 831 Safety Training Index 0.4 0.78 Implementation of recommendation (%) 100 99.11 Sustainability Report 2014-2015 66 Reactive Targets Plan Actual Fatality (Nos) 0 2 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 0 0.19 Lost Time Injury Severity Rate (LTISR) 0 293.68 i) Incident Investigation using RCA 100 99.89 ii) Implementation of CAPA (%) 100 99.21 Sharing of lessons learned (%) 100 100 At Tata Power, Safety culture is guided by the 10 Further, Tata Power relies on a sizeable number of commandments of Safety and it is the responsibility of all contractors/vendors (on term contracts) to perform its employees to adhere to the 10 commandments on regular tasks at the generating stations, under the Safety. Further, the commitment is shown through the supervision of employees throughout the year. To ensure Safety vision, pledge and policy. that Tata Power continues to uphold its good safety Tata Power Safety Vision Health and Safety Policy To be a leader in Safety Excellence in the global power and We, at Tata Power, reaﬃrm our belief that the health and safety of energy business. our stakeholders is of the utmost importance and takes precedence in all our business decisions. In pursuit of this belief Global Leader and commitment, we strive to: l Aspiration to be world class l Maintain and proactively improve our management systems to minimize health and safety hazards to our stakeholders and all Safety Excellence others inﬂuenced by our activities l Feel safe to work l Ensure total compliance with all applicable occupational l Taking Safety to all stakeholders health and safety regulations and other legal requirements l Bring Safety into the DNA of the organisation l Integrated health and safety procedures and best practices l Live and breathe safety as managers and workmen into every operational activity with assigned line-functional l Climate of ‘care‘ for the workforce (including responsibilities at all levels for improving and sustaining contract workers) Health and Safety performance l Involve our employees in maintaining a safe and healthy Safety Performance Standards workplace through periodic reviews of operational procedures, l No harm/No injuries safe methods of work and a safe work environment l Benchmarked approaches l Develop a culture of safety through active leadership and provide appropriate training at all levels to enable employees to fulﬁl their Health and Safety obligations. l Incorporate appropriate health and safety criteria into business decisions for selection of plant and technology, performance appraisals of individuals and appointments in key positions l Ensure availability at all times of appropriate resources to fully implement the Health and Safety policy of the Company l Actively communicate this policy to all stakeholders by suitable means and periodically review its relevance in a continuously changing business environment. Safety Pledge Ten Commandments On Safety We the employees of Tata Power ﬁrmly believe that all injuries It is the responsibility of all employees to adhere to the 10 are preventable and all operating exposures can be Commandments on Safety. These are inviolable Safety rules that safeguarded. must be complied with at all times within the Company’s premises or anywhere in relation to the Company’s work. We wholeheartedly accept that working safely is everybody’s responsibility and a condition of employment. We shall strictly Willful violation of any of these rules shall attract strict adhere to Tata Power safety standards and procedures for the disciplinary action as per the Consequence management policy prevention of all types of incidents. of the Company. 67 We shall put all our best eﬀorts to achieve our safety vision 1. Obtain a valid Permit-to-Work (PTW) before commencing “To be a leader in safety excellence in the global power and any activity that is listed in Appendix 2 of PTW procedure energy business.” 2. Comply with all the requirements of the Lock out Tag out (LOTO) procedure We solemnly aﬃrm that we will dedicate ourselves to the 3. Verify isolation before beginning work on all rotating and cause of safety in the interest of self, our family, organization, electrical equipment or any system that may have the society and nation at large. use the speciﬁed life-protection equipment 4. Do not defeat or override safety-critical trips or interlocks without obtaining proper authorisation 5. Do Not Smoke in the notiﬁed ‘No Smoking’ areas 6. Use the speciﬁed fall-prevention equipment when working at height 7. Do not operate any machinery/powered equipment without formal training and registered authorisation to operate. 8. Wear seat belts in a moving vehicle, including rear where ﬁtted 9. Never use a mobile phone while driving a motor vehicle or working with mechanised equipment 10. Do not drive or work under the eﬀect of drugs or alcohol. performance, contractors’ safety is taken seriously. The objective of Consequence Management Policy is to Contractors are not only required to take part in the regular reinforce Tata Power’s commitment to Safety by setting safety brieﬁngs at daily toolbox meetings, they also clear expectations regarding the consequences of participate in safety initiatives and emergency drills various behaviours and outcomes. The Consequence organised. Various Health and Safety topics are covered in Management Policy (Safety) sets out the general the formal agreements with Trade Unions. approach for managing the safety deviations and establishes processes for corrective counselling. It Consequence Management Policy discusses the disciplinary actions in response to safety Tata Power strongly believes that employees are its misconducts or violations as described in the Industrial greatest asset and it is committed to ensure their overall Employment Standing Orders Act 1946 or such other safety. Zero harm to the employees, allied workforce and Acts/Rules applicable to the Company. This Policy also the communities within which the Company operates is ensures that while laying down an approach, it does not an overarching priority. This is evident in the various overlook the intent behind any safety deviation or business processes and working procedures that have malpractice. The objective of the policy is to ensure that been laid down in the organisation. In order to achieve each employee is committed to Safety and at the same this, world class safety standards and procedures have time, gives them independence to take decision as per been implemented for establishing Safety culture and the necessary process and operation. inculcating safe behaviour among the employees. Given the nature of the operations, every activity in Tata Power Safety Reward and Recognition needs to be carried out not only with a focus on cost Tata Power has a reward and recognition policy. Person eﬃciency, quality but also with a robust focus on Safety. who reports maximum number of near misses, unsafe Physical safety of all the employees and associates is one conditions and special category actions will be awarded of the most important business imperatives. Tata Power as a Divisional Safety Champion for that month. The envisions that Safety is each employee’s personal person who excels in all three categories in a three mission and all employees are working together in consecutive months will be awarded as a Star Safety adopting Safety in its true spirit. Ensuring the safety of Champion for the quar ter. Criteria for selecting employees and complying with safety procedures at Divisional Safety Champion and Star Safety Champions organisation is the primary responsibility, and it is in line are well deﬁned in policy statement. with the values of ‘Safety ’ & 'Care'. For ensuring demonstrated behaviours of 'Safe Working' at all levels in Safety Governance the organisation, a Consequence Management Policy Tata Power espouses the belief that safety is of utmost (Safety) is in place applicable to all employees of Tata importance and takes precedence in all business Power, CGPL and MPL. decisions. In pursuit of this belief and commitment, Sustainability Report 2014-2015 68 Safety remains as one of the prime core values as deﬁned management including the CEO & MD and EDO are in SACRED i.e. “S” for Safety. The year saw strengthening responsible for safety governance. The details of this of the Safety Governance Mechanism with a three tier three tier system is given below. Structure for oversight with speciﬁc Charter. Senior Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Safety Committee Apex Operating Group Frequency Once in a Year Once in 6 Months Once in 6 Months Chairman CEO & MD Secretary Head Corp OH&S Charter l Set Safety Vision/Goal/ l Oversee Implementation of safety In addition to Tier 2 Charters, Performance standards vision/goals across Tata Power this group l Approve Annual Safety l Approve Annual safety Plan l Review and monitor Plan l Review and monitor Operations individual safety l Assess the overall safety performance performance eﬀectiveness of safety l Promote sharing of 'Lessons l Promote sharing of Best organization Learned' and 'Best Safety Practices amongst JVs and l Understand safety trends Practices' Subsidiaries and exceptions l Recommend policy changes for l Create alignment to l Provide guidance, direction approval of Apex Safety facilitate improvement of for and approve policy Committee safety standards of Project changes, Develop/nurture l Create alignment of corporate and Operations handled a sustainable safety culture functions to facilitate through JVs and in Tata Power improvement of safety standards Subsidiary route Safety Statistics Injury Statistics Permanent Contractor Permanent Contractor Permanent Contractor employees and employees and employees and subconsubconsubcontractor tractor tractor workforce workforce workforce Tata Power FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 Total Days Worked 3988414 1200598.7 4064448.2 Total Hours Worked 15281064 25091464 8777865 31907319 9604789.6 32515585.6 Lost Days (Man-days Lost) 94 6330 12067 18235 130 12240 Fatalities 0 1 2 3 0 2 Absentee Rate Occupational Disease Rate Injury Rate/Total Injury Frequency Rate 3.8 17.9 Accidents* 2 6 SED Total Days Worked 96138 Total Hours Worked 945863 945863 922925 922925 Lost Days (Man-days Lost) 0 0 Fatalities 0 0 0 0 CTTL Total Days Worked 15269 1989 Total Hours Worked 120281 26632 122151 15912 Lost Days (Man-days Lost) 0 0 0 0 Fatalities 0 0 0 0 NoteSED and CTTL were included in scope in FY 13-14 * Only Reportable accidents as per 'The Factories Act' are mentioned Note: The data pertains to the entire workforce and is not segregated as per gender. However, there were 0 injuries to female employees 69 Total 2 Fatalities were reported in FY-15. The 1 fatality Safety Key Initiatives happened in Trombay i.e. during chimney painting work l Visitor Safety Induction Module: This initiative was the cage slipped and landed on a platform around 6 m started to give safety instructions to visitors before below. Another one was at Jojobera i.e. While driving the acquiring a gate pass to enter the plant. vehicle out from the unloading area, instead of driving l Employee Safety Induction Module: To induct GETs, along normal path on about 20m wide platform, the DETs and Lateral joinees to be aware of safety systems driver lost control of his vehicle and hit the victim on his available at Tata Power. Each joinee has to undergo back side. Tata Power has a structured way for reporting, this training module before they join duty. investigating, and monitoring incidents. Tata Power has l Safety Intervention on Wheels: Training setup made a written procedure to report and investigate incidents. on a vehicle and moved around the site, during tea All incidents are reported through on line safety portal, Break at evening time this is utilised to share Safety “SURAKSHA”. Safety alert is immediately generated videos along with unsafe situation observed during (through system) for high severity incidents (LTI, etc.) are brought to the immediate notice of senior leadership site round. team for issuing necessary instructions/further line of l Disaster Management and Business Continuity Plan: action. A system generated report of all other incidents Disaster Management plan and Business Continuity (Daily Incident Report) is also shared with select senior Plan has developed in line with NDMA guidelines for leaders which gives details of the incidents across the Tata Power across divisions as per ISO: 22301. organisation occurring during the day. All incidents are investigated using standard root cause analysis Safety Performance Trends checklists to establish the root causes. For high potential/high severity incidents and near misses, a Safety Performance cross func tional team is for med to thoroughly 3000 9 investigate causes and identify suitable corrective and 8.53 8.5 8 2500 Million Man Hours preventive actions to avoid recurrence. Implementation 2512 7 of the recommendations is veriﬁed for close out through 2000 6 5.47 online system and the Divisional Head (where the Nos 1454 5.07 5.3 1500 5 incident has occurred) is responsible for ensuring timely 4 close out. As a standard practice a “Lesson learnt” 1000 778 3 presentation is shared as a ‘Safety Pause’ during the MD’s 595 590 monthly BSC review meeting attended by all senior 500 2 FY 11 FY 12 FY 13 FY 14 FY 15 leaders. These incidents are also shared company-wide through monthly ‘Safety & Security’ newsletter. Soft Total Injuries Man hours Wored copies of the lessons learnt are also uploaded in company portal. Reportable injury Frequency Rate (RIFR) Safety Training Initiatives 0.5 5 N’s Train the Trainer programme on Critical Safety 0.47 l 0.45 Procedures conducted and 509 O&M engineers were 0.4 trained in FY’15.15 O&M Engineers trained in 0.37 practical training on Work at Height from external 0.35 vendor 0.3 0.3 l 500 O&M Engineers are undergoing web-based Elearning for 10 High Hazard Safety Modules. 0.25 Monthly report of training progress is being shared 0.2 with divisions 0.18 0.19 l 200 Oﬃce employees are undergoing 5 oﬃce safety 0.15 FY 11 FY 12 FY 13 FY 14 FY 15 web-based E-learning modules. Safety Trainings Safety Permanent Contract Permanent Contract Permanent Contract Parameters Workforce Workforce Workforce Workforce Workforce Workforce FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 Training Man-hours 379914.5 277278 84136 302011.84 Training Index 0.9 0.53 0.88 0.93 Note: SED imparted safety training to 100% employees and contract employees Sustainability Report 2014-2015 70 Product Responsibility (Care for our Customers) Tata Power would continue to balance stakeholder’s interests within the distribution area by welcoming small and residential customers along with commercial and industrial consumers while keeping good relations with the other operators in the area. In this direction, Tata “For us Sustainability is Power distribution in Mumbai will support BEST's case for not just a word, an idea transport subsidy to be rationalised across each electricity unit collected and make sure that BEST margin of business or a noble thought. At is not aﬀected adversely as it has been a long term Tata Power, it is our participant in power supply system in Mumbai. Tata Power commitment for a better world for the strongly believe that the vision of MERC and Governments coming generations. This commitment to get consumers a competitive cost option with reliable supply, must rather be augmented and Tata Power would comes out of our genuine concern for the continue to facilitate the same with positive and close entire Ecosystem. We feel this will enrich association with all stakeholders. not only our lives but also that of our children and grand children.” Tata Power would also like to convey its gratitude and thanks to its consumers who have trusted the brand and its promise of bringing trustful choice to them. The Mr. Sunil Joglekar Co m p a ny i s d e d i c ate d to p rov i d e re l i a b l e a n d Chief Distribution Customer Services uninterrupted power at competitive rates to all its consumers. Tata Power continues to aggressively expand its network in Mumbai to connect more and more consumers on its wires so that they can avail of tariﬀ Tata Power is currently the fastest growing power utility in beneﬁts. The Company remains committed towards strict the city of Mumbai. In the reporting period the Distribution compliance of MERC’s Electricity Supply Code and License of Tata Power was granted for the entire city of ‘lighting up lives’ for the years to come.” Mumbai, including suburban and South Mumbai for the next 25 years, where it has a history of having served the With an annual sale of 5966 MUs, the retail customer base customer for the last precise 100 years. Tata Power has has increased to 6,18,422 with an addition of 1,24,711 dogmatically stood the test of 100 long years by providing consumers from the previous year. The licensed area for reliable and uninterrupted power supply 24x7 basis and distribution is 485 sq. km. and the entire licensed area is would sustain the same. Tata Power is not into sale of served through Tata Power’s distribution network without banned or disputed products. any unserved area. 71 Highlights Length and Eﬃciency of Transmission In order to serve its growing consumer base, Tata Power FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 has grown its distribution network infrastructure Length overhead (Kms) 977.36 995.08 CKT 1026 CKT KM manifold and its focus has been to develop a robust (220 kV and 110 kV) 129.63 Length underground 131.52 148 CKT KM network backbone which includes Distribution Sub (Kms) (220 kV and 110 kV) Stations and the High Tension (HT) network to be able to Transmission loss 1.15 1.54% cater to the growing market demand in addition to the development of last mile connectivity to reach consumer Management Approach premises. The infrastructure developed in FY14 includes: Tata Power embarked on the ﬁnancial year by achieving a new milestone of crossing 5 lakh consumers in April 2014. During the journey of serving consumers for a century, Tata Highlights Power has quickly adapted to the demands of the city at large and has gone through remarkable changes in various Distribution Sub stations (DSS) processes, consumer approaches, increasing customer 33 kV/22 kV/11 kV = 6 nos. expectations, operations and maintenance of its assets, and fought it out with stiﬀ competition and surging tariﬀ because High Tension network (HT) = 266 KM of higher cost of fuel. Tata Power endeavours to make all its Consumer Sub Stations (CSS) 11 kV/ 440 V = 85 nos. consumers happy, at all touch points, through its supply and Low Tension network (LT) = 336 KM service. In Feb 2015, Tata Power has achieved yet another benchmark for itself by acquiring an additional lakh of consumers there by bringing smiles to 6 lakh consumers, Tata Power is thus creating a backbone (33kV/11kV) of majorly from 0-300 unit consumption category. distribution’ network, identifying sources or outlets at Receiving Sub Stations (RSS) to feed supply to DSS, Tata Power also contributes to provide uninterrupted power establishing connectivity to feed the DSS from identiﬁed supply to some of the major life-lines of the Mumbai city like RSS and creating 11kV main ring network. The network railways, airport, reﬁneries and major hospitals with cutting addition has been achieved against all odds, the most edge technology. Tata Power supplies cheapest power to crucial being loss of time for cable laying due to consumers in the 0-300 residential category (cheaper by permission related delays. Tata Power is also complying about 25%-30% over the competitive distribution licensees). with network rollout philosophy as per the MERC Supply Tata Power is growing at a rapid pace through its increased Code Regulations, SOP Regulations and CEA (Technical focus on Consumer Acquisition Camps for low end Standards for Construction of Electrical Plant and consumers and oﬀering all the possible aids for consumer’s Electrical Lines) Regulations, 2010. Tata Power plans to beneﬁt. In the reporting year, Tata Power has lit up lives for setup additional 30 DSS out of which 17 are planned to be people in various parts of North and South Mumbai, who commissioned in the next 5 years and the remaining 13 were in darkness for ages. Tata Power is committed to DSS post FY 2018-19. The Company is also planning to facilitating power supply to the larger population and is increase MVA Capacity from 1525 MVA to 2445 MVA by FY proactively working for the inclusive growth of the community residing in slums in its licensed area. 2018-19. The developed capacity of Tata Power is expected to meet 50%of the future Mumbai load Tata Power lights up lives slum households devoid of assuming growth rate of 3% per annum. electricity in Mumbai Tata Power reached out to the slums located in Mumbai. Distribution and Transmission Network The area pre-dominantly inhabited by the aﬄuent also The transmission and distribution business of Tata Power ensures energy reliability and availability in the areas of presence. The length of Distribution and Transmission lines has been provided below. Length and Eﬃciency of Distribution FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 Length overhead (Kms) 95.29 95.29 95.29 Length underground 1545 HT-1805.6 HT-2093 KM (Kms) LT-958 LT-1510 KM Aggregated Technical & 1.26 1.1 0.96 Commercial loss (% of energy loss) * Circuit Kilometres = No. of route length multiplied with No. of circuits Ambujwadi, Mumbai Sustainability Report 2014-2015 72 has a neighbourhood with paucities. Tata Power reached Customer Statistics out to the ﬁrst set of 28 slum households which were Tata Power has three categories of customer base and the devoid of electricity ever since its inception and statistics for the same is given below: provisioned power supply thereby lighting up lives the lives of these people. Numbers Category FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 In continuation with these eﬀorts, the Company has started supplying power supply to slum dwellers of Residential 330309 445942 574824 Ambujwadi in Mumbai with the support of Maharashtra State Government. The region is predominantly a slum area Industrial 7554 6482 5569 with a total population of around 50,000 people and this Commercial 44311 41287 38018 slum is inhabited by workers that include construction labourers, hawkers, domestic workers, etc. Since its Customer Engagement inception the area is devoid of electricity supply. Tata Power Customers are the most important stakeholders for any has successfully provisioned power supply to ~5000 organisation and the success of the business depends on residents. Tata Power has successfully established the the satisfaction and delight oﬀered to them, in today’s Consumer Sub-Station and laid its cable network which will fast paced and competitive business environment. initially cater to the requirement. Tata Power is conscious of the fact that its products and services touch many lives and livelihoods in more Apart from the above, Tata Power has been regularly ways than one. The Company constantly strives conducting Consumer Acquisition Camps for low end to develop trusted relationships with consumers consumers and oﬀering all the possible aids for consumer’s by winning them over through anticipating their beneﬁt such as: behaviour and preferences and engaging with them on a l Awareness sessions through addressing mass regular basis. gatherings of area/society residents. l Guidance meetings with Society’s Oﬃce Bearers/ R e p re s e n t a t i ve s / I n ﬂ u e n ce r s / Co n s u m e r s fo r procedures and advantages of shifting to Tata Power. l Banners and Posters in the catchment areas along with the application collection drive. l Sensitisation and meeting with Inﬂuencers, e.g. NGO’s/Leaders/Society Members before rolling out Application collection camps. l Advertisement in local Hindi, Marathi and Gujarati newspapers informing consumers about competitive tariﬀ for low-end consumers. l Announcement of the schedule of camps in leading local newspapers. Consumer Meet l Flyer insertions in widely circulated newspapers. Tata Power has a ﬁrm belief in “Leadership with Care” which l Fleet on Street team visiting consumers with respect to is demonstrated by its eﬀorts to address hindrances like providing guidance, collecting applications. language, cultural, low literacy and disability related barriers for accessing and safely using electricity and customer support services. Tata Power has a multilingual portal in three languages (viz. English, Hindi and Marathi). Additionally, most of the oﬃcers at Customer Relations Centres are ﬂuent in the local languages. At Customer Relations Centers, preferential service is accorded to physically challenged customers, wherein their queries/concerns are resolved on priority basis. Tata Power also has a multilingual call centre for 24x7 customer support. Tata Power has a team of dedicated Key Account Managers who play a crucial role in customer engagement Consumer Enrolment Camps conducted in various areas initiatives for HT consumers by apprising them of all the 73 valuable information and initiatives beneﬁcial to the l OEM Training for Consumers: Tata Power has mutual relationship and to entrust the values of conducted knowledge sharing sessions on 415 VLT organisation. While a dedicated team is there to facilitate as Breaker for the Industrial category consumers on a a single window mobile service unit for LT consumers. monthly basis with the support of ABB India, Schneider and L&T; which shared their expertise on the subject In view of Customer centricity, some value added services and updated them on the technological trends. designed to deliver customer excellence are elaborated Participation by 408 from 148 organisations was below. recorded. These sessions impart knowledge to l Safety Audit for Consumers: To control safety risks or consumers in the areas of Principle of breakers; hazards in high footfall, Safety Audits are being carried Operations and Maintenance of breakers; out for determining necessary actions to minimise such Replacements of parts in case of defect; Safety aspects hazards. Professional safety consultants along with during handling; Latest technological trends. Divisional Operation & Maintenance Engineers have carried out 282 safety audits in diﬀerent major places of public congregation. These Audits sensitise the consumers towards the safety by sharing their safety index and detailed report of audit. l Safety Inspections: Tata Power’s Operations & Maintenance Engineers conduct inspections in small commercial, industrial establishments and residential societies to identify electrical hazards in consumer’s premises with special attention to unsafe installations, potential electrical ﬁre hazards, etc. Tata Power has carried out more than 1000 safety inspections till date. l Safety Awareness: Speciﬁcally for residential consumers, Tata Power Distribution Division arranged safety training programmes for residential complexes l Residential Consumer Meets: Tata Power is to make consumers aware about electrical safety, committed to helping its consumers in their energy causes of electrical accidents at home and preventive conservation initiatives and ensure safe environment. measures. The in-house developed two simulator kits Tata Power conducts various consumer meets across for demonstrating use of Earth Leakage Circuit Breaker various segments to create awareness about safety and (ELCB) and overloading. energy conservation, together with understanding l Wireman Training Programme: M any times their needs and process constructive feedback. consumers face challenges judging wiremen on their l Free Medical Camps: Medical health check-up camps requisite skills to carry out designated wiring work, were organised by Tata Power. More than 125 people therefore many consumers have always been longing availed free health check-ups. Basic medical checks for a good quality electrician to service their day-to-day were conducted for the people to check for any needs. To cater to this consumer requirement Tata unidentiﬁed health issues. Out of them 5 people were Power launched a hands-on training ﬁve-day module identiﬁed and refered to Seven Hills Hospital for of “Wiremen Training Programme” for residential undergoing free surgeries under the Rajiv Gandhi Consumers. Presently, Tata Power has trained 54 Jeevandayi Arogya Yojana of Govt. of Maharashtra. wiremen successfully in the reporting year, under its Wi re m e n t r a i n i n g p ro gr a m m e, a d d i n g u p to approximately 300 trained wireman so far. l Energise Newsletter: As a value added service Tata Power publishes its quarterly newsletter “Energise” to Sustainability Report 2014-2015 74 its key Commercial and Industrial consumers in order the price. Old, ineﬃcient appliances received in to keep them updated about the sector and various exchange from the consumers are scrapped in an ecoinitiatives taken by the company in the sector. The friendly manner. Tata Power has rolled out eﬃcient newsletter tracks key developments, analyses major energy appliance exchange/new purchase programmes market trends, features opinions of industry experts, for T5 Tube Lights, Ceiling fans, Refrigerators, Air interviews top managers, captures technology conditioners and LED Tube Lights which have received developments, proﬁles people of interest and provides an overwhelming response from consumers. key data and statistics. The newsletter has been highly appreciated by consumers as high quality, userl Energy audits: Energy Audits’ at customer’s premise is friendly and relevant. done by a certiﬁed Energy Audit agency and l No to Paper Bills: For the Company’s commitment for recommendations are provided for achieving further ‘Care for Environment’, the consumers have joined reduction in energy consumption. The helps customers hands by opting for e-bill. So far 14,486 consumers with saving recommendations and optimisation energy have opted for only e-bill. usage. Tata Power has so far carried out these audits for over 142 consumers and cumulatively provided Demand Side Management recommendations for reduction of over 100 Mus. Tata Power has been able to cater to the ever-burgeoning demand of the Mumbai city by generating, procuring and l Peak load shifting programmes: Tata Power has rolled distributing 100% power requirement. To this end, Demand out Demand Response Programme. During the periods Side eﬀorts have been eﬀectively used by Tata Power to of transmission constraints or when the power complement the supply side measures. Tata Power has procurement cost is very high, Tata power requests the realised the importance of Demand Side Management consumers to reduce their load for a short time. The (DSM) and launched multiple programmes to manage the consumer voluntarily curtails the load when Tata Power demand by promoting energy conservation and eﬃciency needs and consumer gets paid per unit curtailed. Tata at the consumer end. Scientiﬁc load research and market Power has launched Thermal energy storage which also survey activities are the cornerstone of these programmes. supports peak load shifting. Under the Thermal energy Tata Power runs the most comprehensive, economically storage scheme 15,000 TR-hours are enrolled. viable and novel portfolio of DSM programmes in India. The programmes have received national acclaims with the Tata Power has enrolled a Thermal Storage capacity of over receipt of many awards. The DSM programme has received 15,000 TRH which has achieved load shift of more than the ‘Innovative Energy Saving Service’ Award by CII. 3.6 million units of energy from peak to oﬀ peak hours. Through the ‘Thermal Energy Storage Incentive Programme’ Tata Power takes DSM activities as a platform to make Tata Power promotes energy eﬃciency by shifting load from stakeholders more energy literate and build their capacity peak hours to oﬀ-peak hours by using practical, ﬁnancially for energy management/energy eﬃciency. DSM team viable and proven technologies. With the use of ‘Thermal sensitises the general public about energy eﬃciency using Energy Storage Technology’ the central AC plants run in the eﬀective communication tools, organising special night and converts water in the form of ice. During day-time, awareness programmes and conducting training sessions. the AC plants are switched oﬀ and building is cooled by the Necessary handholding is also provided to the consumers energy stored in the form of ice. Thus, air-conditioning is as and when required. As a result, the importance of energy provided during the day-time without actually running the eﬃciency is impressed upon the minds of the stakeholders. large AC plants. Tata Power DSM initiatives can be categorised in three major areas: Consumer Beneﬁts New system SOOCHNA introduced for enhancing l Appliance Exchange Programme: With the advent of consumers’ communication regarding planned outages technology in appliance manufacturing, it is now and force shut down. Consumers will be communicated possible to signiﬁcantly improve the energy eﬃciency of through an SMS 7 days in advance of their planned outage a home appliance. It has been observed that generally and also during their forced outage. an eﬃcient appliance uses 40% less energy as compared to its ineﬃcient version. Unfortunately, a large section of Development of SAP-based Dashboard for CRC and CC the society still uses old and ineﬃcient appliances which executives for deeper clarity in understanding of High were purchased earlier. Higher upfront cost of the Registration cases resulting into on the spot revert to the energy eﬃcient appliance is considered to be a major consumers and reduction of non genuine complaints. hindrance to their widespread penetration. To Because of this initiative the high registration overcome this barrier, Tata Power has developed various complaints/1000 consumer index was brought down by programmes which help consumers to exchange/ almost 45% in the month of Dec. 2014.More than 340 Nos. of purchase a new eﬃcient home appliance at almost half weekend customer acquisition camps held in Q3 FY 15. 75 Bill Payment Options: Tata Power’s consumer base is has replaced the paper based Feedback forms with TABS increasing year-on-year. To facilitate easy bill payment for Automated Feedback Mechanism at the CRCs. This facility for consumers, the Company has numerous bill system enables us to tap consumer’s feedback in less than payment options available and are adding on to these 10 seconds. The ease of use is tempting enough to hook on options based on the technology improvements and to the user fraternity and whether Tata Power’s consumers demands from consumers. The bill payment options are providing feedback, paying a compliment or making a oﬀered by Tata Power under various categories are as complaint, their inputs are the key for improving Tata follows: Power’s products and services. It is quick and has precise control over feedbacks received at the CRCs with a central l Brick and Mortar Options: Consumer Relations Center server repository and eﬀective analysis in real time. (CRCs)/Bill Collection Centers (BCCs) Three new BCCs have been launched thereby summing upto 23 CRCs Consumer Payment behaviour analysis: Through SAP and 10 BCCs are set-up across the length and breadth of system, Tata Power analyses its consumers on the basis the License Area for accepting bill payments. Tata their payment behaviour trends and segregates them in Power has also tied up with Post Oﬃces across Mumbai; diﬀerent group thereby helping Tata Power to arrive at a provision of cash payment through Suvidha/ ITZ-Cash speciﬁc group of consumers who are not availing the Cards; and tie-up with more than 200 bank branches prompt payment discount. Thereafter, Tata Power and six for cash and cheque payments. encourage them by means of reminder SMS, Tele-calling and other personal communications to avail the prompt l On-the-Go Options: These options include installation payment discount. of more than 25 kiosks with a provision of accepting cheque payment and providing instant receipts; more Innovations than 800 drop boxes at public places where Tata Power initiates various innovations to ensure consumers can opt to deposit bill payments by improvement in the processes and operations, thus cheques; and Mobile Bill Payment Collection Van which continuously striving to enhance customer service and covers remote locations weekly catering to about enrich consumer experience. Some of the innovations ~2700 consumers per month. undertaken in operations and maintenance area assess the healthiness of the network are as below: l Elec tronic Payment Options: These include Immediate Payment Service (IMPS) which allows the In-house Breaker Testing Kit: Breaker maintenance was consumers to make payment of electricity bills directly taking more time, leading to increased shutdown time to through their mobile phones; Online payment through consumer. Due to usage of this kit during maintenance and debit card, credit card and net-banking; Electronic testing activity maintenance time is almost reduced from Clearing Service (ECS) enabling consumer to make his 2 hrs to 30 Min as there is no need to open breaker cover to monthly Tata Power bill payment directly through his identify the problem. This kit not available in the Market. bank account; and through Electronic Bill Payment with standing instruction on their debit card or credit card to make a monthly payment to Tata Power. l Consumer Relation Centres: Tata Power’s Consumer Relation Centres (CRCs) provide its consumers with easy access to a number of ser vices and the opportunity to directly interact with Tata Power representative, all under one roof. Various services provided at CRCs are providing and accepting application forms; Handling Consumer queries, request and complaints; and Bill Payments in cash and cheque. Some of the initiatives taken in Customer Relations Centre: Q u e u e M a n a g e m e n t Sys t e m : Ta t a Po w e r h a s implemented Queue Management System in CRCs, which In-house Fuse puller tool for Kit-Kat fuses: Earlier is a complete branch analytics system that not only employees were operating at very less clearance from the manages Consumer queues in real-time inside CRCs, but live parts. So in case of ﬂashover chances of injury were also provides the management real-time access to more. With the development of in house Kit-Kat fuse puller, performance metrics like Consumer Wait Time, Average engineering method has been developed for the process Service Time and Employee Eﬃciency. thus maintaining safe distance from live parts. It will help in minimising the intensity of injuries at the time of ﬂashover Feedback Tabs: With the advent of technology, and in line if any. It is a new in house innovation and not available in with its focus on conserving green economy, Tata Power market. Sustainability Report 2014-2015 76 substation. In case of any emergency, this trolley mounted Substation can be easily moved and can be replaced with a new one within few hours. While trolley mounted Substation oﬀer all the conveniences, they are also cheaper than the conventional Sub-Stations due to no civil costs and less installation costs resulting in overall reduction in expenditure and ultimately in reduced tariﬀ to consumers. Disconnection and Re-connection of Power Supply Consumers disconnected due to non-payment The details of residential disconnections for non-payment and reconnection, broken down by duration of disconnection In-house SF6 Gas ﬁling Kit for RMU: Tata Power and by regulatory regime as on Mar 31, 2015 are given below: Distribution is adopting new technology, Ring Main Unit (RMU) for Customer satisfaction and quick restoration of By Time Between Disconnection & Payment supply during fault. As per the internal plant performance FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 review of last two year in SAP Notiﬁcation System it is <48 hours 1238 903 1034 observed that due to SF6 pressure low it is imperative to replace entire RMU unit and it increases shutdown time to 48 hours 1 week 252 346 435 consumer. 1 week 1 month 261 438 551 1 month 1 year 1248 536 986 >1 year 0 1 Nil By Time from Payment to Reconnection FY FY FY 14-15 New 12-13 13-14 As per old SOP SOP-24 Hrs 8 Hrs. < 8 Hours 2588 <24 hours 3103 2192 253 NA 24 hours 1 week 22 32 1 173 >week 0 0 Nil Nil Service Interruption Trolley Mounted Substation: One of the innovative The service interruptions frequency and duration that the solutions for attending space constraint challenge in consumers have faced is given in the table below: Mumbai is introduction of unitised substation called as Trolley Mounted Substation. Earlier practice in any utility Power outage frequency FY FY FY was installation of HT breaker, Transformer and LT Breaker and Average Power 12-13 13-14 14-15 in conventional LT substation. These equipment were outage duration placed with suﬃcient statutory clearances in a given foot Average number of 1.82 1.69 1.104 print area to meet all safety and CEA standards. Typical LT interruptions that a customer times times times substation requires foot print area of 8x5 Mtrs. However in would experience, measured trolley Mounted Substation transformer, LT Panel and RMU in units of interruptions per are installed on trolley which can be moved anywhere as customer. (SAIFI) per requirement and can be used in case of breakdown of Average outage duration for 39 29.48 16.16 existing installed equipment. This trolley mounted each customer served, minutes minutes minutes Substation occupy a foot print of only 2.5x4.5 Mtrs measured in units of time, resulting in saving of almost 75 % of foot print area and also often minutes or hours. serving the purpose of both utility and consumer. (CAIDI) Average time taken for 22 17.42 17.83 Further, trolley mounted Substation comes under a single restoration of power supply minutes minutes Minutes container and is readymade solution for commissioning measured in terms of minutes within 2 days as against the conventional Sub-station per aﬀected customer. This is a which takes about 2 months including civil construction of Benchmark for this parameter 77 Customer Satisfaction Survey warranted. The information stated in products and Customer Satisfaction Sur veys are key indicator services and on product brochures clearly list out the parameters to measure customer satisfaction and known potential utility risks and mention ways to dissatisfaction levels. The surveys are conducted on a disseminate or eliminate such risks. quarterly basis across all segments, i.e. commercial, industrial and residential consumers and are face-to-face Marketing Communications: The Tariﬀ and Regulatory interaction with 5-point rating scale. The ﬁndings of the orders are the major according to the standards/laws of report guide us to understand the key improvement areas marketing for the power sector. These are communicated via which are shared with the concerned departments and print media and consumer collaterals. To remove all the accordingly the necessary action is taken based on the key impediments in the communication, the company has ﬁndings. Overall Customer Satisfaction Assessment total introduced multilingual customer care web portal, pictorial (CSAT) score in percentage for the reporting year are given depiction of signage/safety warnings and 24x7 call centre below: facility. The Company believes that eﬀective communication is vital to avoid any kind of misrepresentation, incorrect Customer SatisfacFY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 statements or misleading impressions. Fully integrated tion Score (%) systems are in place to conform to all the statutory laws and Residential 83 83 83 standards related to marketing communication, advertising, promotion and sponsorship. There have been no incidents Industrial 71 87 77 pertaining to violation of any regulation or voluntary codes Commercial 69 86 81 pertaining to marketing communication. Social Networking: With time, the communication Health and Safety Practices approach has also transformed, only to cater to a wider Tata Power believes good safety is one of the key audience. Embracing social media marketing is one such parameters which helps sustain business performance. change to not just promote the products, but also receive Tata Power has always ensured that safe practices are customer feedback on the same. Facebook and Twitter are followed by the employees together with educating its the online communication channels used by Tata Power for customers on safety parameters. Street plays are social networking. In addition to the above, Customer Talk organised on safety for citizens living near high monthly magazine is circulated internally that elaborates on transmission lines in Mumbai. the progress made by the Distribution segment of Tata Power. Tata Power endeavours to make the neighbourhood safe through wireman training. The consumers always long for Case Studies a good quality Electrician to service their day to day needs. Accreditation by National Accreditation Board (NABL) Thereby to cater to the above, Tata Power launched a for Meter Testing and Calibration: Tata Power has been Wiremen Training Programme for residential consumers. granted with ISO/IEC 17025:2005 accreditation by the National Accreditation Board (NABL) for its Meter Testing Compliance and Calibration Laboratories at Mumbai. The Meter Testing Health and Safety Regulations: At Tata Power, the goal is and Calibration Laboratories of Tata Power were assessed to deliver 100% conformance to compliance with in accordance with the ‘General Requirements for the regulations of product and service; voluntary codes Competence of Testing & Calibration Laboratories’ for the concerning health and safety; product information and technical competence of laboratory staﬀ, equipment and labelling. traceability of its calibration, laboratory accommodation and environmental conditions, safety and measurement Product and Service Information: Customer centricity, capability and accredited by NABL. This accreditation will information security and delivering high quality and enable Tata Power to reach out to its consumers in Mumbai timely information are integral parts of the solution. There to oﬀer meter testing and calibration services with highly is an internal Customer Relationship Management (CRM) accurate, fully automated, state-of-the-art facilities. system for making any changes in the customer information as and when required. There have been no Tata Power rates cheaper than peers for high-end complaints pertaining to the breach of customer privacy users: MERC has introduced competition in the Mumbai and loss of customer data. It is believed that providing distribution area and consumers were able to choose the accurate and appropriate information enhances the service providers of their choice by duly weighing the tariﬀ quality and productivity of power distribution. Thus it is an and service levels oﬀered by the distribution utilities. As endeavour to comply with mandatory disclosures and per the proposed tariﬀ hike indication, there is supposed ensure that all electrical installation is labelled as to be increase in cross subsidy surcharge for 2015-16. The Sustainability Report 2014-2015 78 tariﬀ proposed by Tata Power is competitive despite slight increase according to the power industry experts. For high end power consumers using 300-500 units per month, Tata power has proposed slight increase in per unit as compared with the competitors. Ghar Ghar Me Jan Jagruti Abhiyan: Ghar Ghar Me Jan Jagruti Abhiyan was conducted during the Sankranti Month to create safety awareness amongst public staying below the overhead lines. Employees visited diﬀerent locations of Transmission Lines and created awareness amongst the public. The Jan Jagruti had following features l Door-to-Door campaign: Employee Volunteers conducted door-to-door campaigns at diﬀerent locations and explained safety hazards of ﬂying kites under the Transmission Lines l Radio FM Ad for three days during the festival l Distribution of pamphlets l Safety Awareness during kite festival for School children l Street Plays by the play Group: The safety Message was given in the form of street play, 33 street plays were conducted. 79 Social Performance (Care for our Community) team mainly known as Community Relations (CR) Division, the Company also worked in Jammu & Kashmir, Andhra Pradesh for recent ﬂood and cyclone respectively while continuing its support for Uttrakhand relief eﬀorts from a long term support for persons aﬀected with natural “The element of disasters. Company also moved to address the developmental challenges faced by the SC/ST community trusteeship urges us to in Jawhar Block, Thane Maharashtra. look beyond business and be a partner of CSR Governance The Tata Power Board remained committed to the aspect of country’s development goals. Through CSR governance and revisited and realigned its CSR policy Tata Power Trust, the journey is set to to the Companies Act 2013 requirements. The CSR become more engaging with Committee was formed which includes CEO & MD of Tata Power and 2 independent directors. One of the communities who are signiﬁcant independent director is the Chairperson of the CSR stakeholders in our business.” committee. The Committee meeting is attended by invitees which includes the Executive Director, Managing Trustee of Tata Power Community Development Trust (TPCDT), Head Mr. Debabrata Guha of CR Division, Head of Strategy, Chief Sustainability Oﬃcer Chief Executive TPCDT and Company Secretary of the Company. The CSR Committee recommended the CSR Policy to the Tata Power social initiatives took a leap in the reporting year Board and ﬁnalizes the activities to be undertaken by the by evolving a strategic shift in the approach and Company as speciﬁed in Schedule VII of the Companies Act commitment beyond neighborhood. The company & CSR Rules in line with thrust areas. The Committee also realized that social initiatives need to connect to recommends the amount of expenditure to be incurred marginalized community irrespective of geography. The during the reporting year and the activities to be organization evolved its strategy over a period of time by undertaken as well as monitor as per the CSR Policy of the involving thought leaders from TISS and other social Company. The Committee meets once in every quarter. organizations to crystallize this two-pronged approach of continual focus on neighborhood and reaching out to CSR Policy marginalized community at the hour of need. The Tata Power CSR policy was framed to drive planning, implementation and evaluation of initiatives and resources While Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities were across its operations. In view of the Companies Act, Tata undertaken in the vicinity of our plants through a dedicated Power revisited the CSR policy and strengthened by Sustainability Report 2014-2015 80 mapping the thrust areas with the activities deﬁned in level programs are then derived based on the thrust areas Schedule VII of the Act. Similarly, all subsidiaries/JVs are also as well as the speciﬁc needs identiﬁed in the region. In aligned to the Tata Power CSR Policy. addition to the overall need assessment, need assessment is also conducted for socially disadvantaged sections of community (SC/ST) to identify their needs and drive Corporate Social Responsibility Policy strategy and programs on Aﬃrmative Action (AA). To ensure that the social canvas in which the Company Tata Power is committed to ensuring the social wellbeing of operates, continues to be rich and multifaceted, Tata Power the communities in the vicinity of its business operations invested in ﬁve primary palettes of change. The thrust areas through Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives (CSR) in alignment with Tata Group Focus Initiatives. of social initiatives have been strategically selected with an objective to empower communities to be self-suﬃcient. Tata Power shall engage with the community by Women Empowerment and AA is specially designed to undertaking the following principles and activities: uplift SC/ST communities in the vicinity of operations or l Consult pro-actively with the community and other key other areas depending upon the need. stakeholders for understanding needs and designing initiatives for the social well-being of the community. AugmenBuilding Enhancing Building Nurturing l Undertake activities as per 5 major thrust areas, which ting and Programs Social Sustainincludes, Primary Strengon Capital and ability for 1. Augmenting Primary Education System with Education thening Livelihood InfrastrucInclusive System Healthcare (Samriddhi) ture Growth emphasis on girl child education (VIDYA) with Facilities & (Sanrachna) (Akshay) 2. Building and Strengthening Healthcare Facilities emphasis (Arogya) Employ(AROGYA) including safe drinking water (SWATCH on Girl including ability JAL) Child Safe (Daksh) 3. Enhancing Programs on Livelihood (SAMRIDDHI) & Education Drinking Employability (DAKSH) (Vidya) Water 4. Building Social Capital and I nfrastruc ture (Swatch (SANRACHNA) Jal) 5. Nurturing Sustainability for Inclusive Growth (AKSHAY) Women Empowerment and These thrust areas are mapped with the activities as Aﬃrmative Action suggested in the Schedule VII of the Companies Act l Facilitate assistance during natural disasters, as appropriate l Build and strengthen community institutions and Outreach stakeholder engagement In this reporting year, Tata Power reached out to more than l Collaborate with Civil Society, Industry Associations and 250 villages/urban pockets across 7 states including Government institutions etc. licensed Area of Delhi & Mumbai with an outreach of more l Encourage its employees for volunteering (ARPAN) than/. 0.5 Million beneﬁciaries covering more than 1,01,700 l Undertake CSR initiatives with the aim that over time students in more than 250 primary schools. Tata Power these become self-sustainable ramped-up CSR operations across all locations by bringing l Engage with disadvantaged sections of the community as per Aﬃrmative Action Policy it robustness to systems and processes through internal and l The CSR Committee of the Board will Monitor, external transformation. Community Information Centers Review and Evaluate CSR activities and expenses on a at Maithon and Mundra acts as a window of interface with periodic basis as per the calculation of 2% of net proﬁt community. The purpose encompasses dialogue on based on ﬁnancial statement and report as per deﬁned development, entrepreneurial opportunities including format grievance. This is periodically monitored to ensure common l Communicate the CSR activities to stakeholders as per the regulatory requirement understanding, transparency in communication and resolution on matters of concern. There is implied focus on Tata Power shall work as per the Company’s Community key communities like in case of Mundra, ﬁshermen form the Relation Policy for Community Initiatives in and around the predominant community for engagement. vicinity of its business presence for Corporate Social Responsibility. Tata Power Community Development Trust CSR Thrust Areas (TPCDT) TPCDT being the development vehicle for CSR programs is Tata Power believes a progressive society is important for Company's sustainable growth. To drive the strategy and assigned to support all Tata Power Group Companies to programs for social development around the undertake CSR Programs in their areas. Since its formation neighborhood, Tata Power undertakes community Need in 2009, Safe Drinking Water & Rural Energy have been the Assessment Surveys, based on a set methodology through key focal areas for TPCDT activities. third party organizations having expertise in this ﬁeld. The community needs are assessed at a frequency of 4-5 years. This year marked the completion of TPCDT’s 5 Years of The outcomes of these surveys help the organization to engaging in community development. As a part of arrive at common thrust areas for CSR programs. The site celebrating the humble and foundational work on the 81 ground, a workshop was organized to share learnings l More than 40 villages installed with Solar Street Lights across activities in 7 states and replicate the same in the l TPCDT reached out to new geography like Jammu, coming years. The Trustees shared their vision for the next 5 Uttrakhand and Andhra Pradesh (AP) years during the workshop urging for the need to expand l 130 farmers are being reached with the facility of Solar the scope and horizon. Irrigation Pumps in AP l 1 school covered in J&K under Solar Energy Signiﬁcantly, TPCDT reached out to Jammu and Kashmir l Pipe water supply installed in 2 villages of Banki in and provided Solar Energy Solutions with support from ILFS to one school in remote Kud Valley, enabling Odisha connectivity to Solar Lighting to the school. Due to l TPCDT supported safe drinking water solutions for collective eﬀorts, today more than 100 oﬀ grid villages more than 94,900 beneﬁciaries in across locations have got connected to solar energy solutions adding value l TPCDT ensures coverage of rural energy, In the to their education and reducing drudgery of daily work reporting year 155 Home Lighting System were which was assessed in the reporting year. installed in 30 villages l 48 Bio gas were installed covering 15 villages at Maval, This year marked the introduction of smart grid solutions Mulshi and Haldia locations on sustainable model basis as part of Model Village l 100 hand pumps repaired at Maithon beneﬁtting more Concept in 5 villages of Hydros on pilot basis. This model than 29000 villagers in 21 villages & 21 hand pumps includes providing smart grid based power connectivity installed in Tiruldih beneﬁtting more than 3000 and ensuring community participation in terms of running villagers in 4 villages the solar power management through power user groups l Over 200 youth provided opportunity for income and collection of power user fee to the tune of Rs 150-300 generation through Khopoli BPO centre per month and meeting the operating expenses. This pilot is self-sustaining as it ensures prepaid concept and smart Presently, all the CSR activities are undertaken through card basis. TPCDT would go beyond and look for such solutions on commercial microenterprise in these villages, TPCDT. TPCDT also partners with local banks/NABARD for through willingness of villagers and power user committee speciﬁc program implementation. New partners arriving member under Private Public Partnership (PPP) Model and on board include NEDCAP, an AP Government undertaking also connect to the grid for self-sustaining business model that promotes renewable energy. and revenue generation. Tata Power 5 thrust areas are mapped with the activities TPCDT Highlights suggested under the Companies Act of Schedule VII & CSR l More than 200 villages reached through water and Rules as well as with Millennium Development Goals of energy solutions United Nations. Alignment of CSR Thrust Area with Schedule VII of Companies Act Major Activities Schedule VII Tata Power Thrust Area Schedule VII, Companies Act 2013 Augmenting Building and Enhancing Building Social Nurturing Primary Strengthening Programmes Capital and Sustainability Education Healthcare on Livelihood Infrastructure for Inclusive System with Facilities (SAMRIDDHI) (SANRACHNA) Growth emphasis on (AROGYA) and (AKSHAY) Girl Child including Safe Employability Education Drinking Water (DAKSH) (VIDYA) (SWATCH JAL) i. Eradicating extreme hunger and poverty * ii. Promotion of education; including special education * * iii. Promoting gender equality and empowering women * iv. Ensuring environmental sustainability, ecological balance * * v. Protection of national heritage, art and culture * vi. Measures for the beneﬁt of armed forces veterans, war widows and their dependent vii. Training to promote rural sports * viii. Contribution to the Prime Minister's National Relief * * ix. Contributions or funds provided to technology x. Rural development projects * Reducing Child Gender Equality Mortality Primary Improving Global Environmental Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) Eradicating Partnerships Sustainability Education Maternal Health Extreme Hunger Combating HIV & Poverty AIDS etc Sustainability Report 2014-2015 82 The thrust area wise activities undertaken in this reporting Building and Strengthening Healthcare Facilities year are as follows: (A R O G YA) including Safe Drinking Water (SWATCH JAL) Augmenting Primary Education System with Good health is a pre-requisite for a productive, satisfying emphasis on Girl Child Education (VIDYA) life. Health compromises both physical and psychological Education is one of the most eﬀective elements to combat well-being. The Company participates in providing and social and economic backwardness. The Company maintaining aﬀordable, integrated and quality healthcare undertakes diverse and sustained educational initiatives to enrich the lives of underprivileged children. facilities to the marginalized. The activities rolled out under the Education theme The activities rolled out under the Health theme includes includes the following: the following: l E-Learning l Adult Literacy l Scholarships l Special l Mobile Health program l Behavior Change Coaching l School Infrastructure l Mainstreaming dropCommunication l Safe Drinking water & Hygiene l Health out students Infrastructure l Women & Child Health Awareness Major Highlights l Project RISHTA A Joint Initiative for Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) is launched with Tata Steel (Jojobera) l Trombay launched ‘Mobile Blood Donation Van’ initiative to provide safe blood donation services to communities PAN Maharashtra l Mulshi (Bhira) celebrated Breast Feeding Week with the theme Winning Goal for Life The initiative was awarded by World Alliances for Breastfeeding Action (WABA) Enhancing Programmes on Livelihood Major Highlights (SAMRIDDHI) & Employability (DAKSH) l E-learning Initiatives across Mumbai & Jojobera in 61 The activities rolled out under the Skill Building theme Schools with Tata Class Edge, NIIT Foundation and includes the following: Extramark Education. l Vocational training for youth l Promote Livelihood l Alignment with Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan through practices among farmers/ﬁshermen l Income Generation Building as Learning Aid (BALA) program. activities for Women Self Help Groups l Special Sanitation Projects at School to prevent Girl Child Drop-outs across locationsHaldia, Hydros, Dherand. l Sensitization programs across locations on World Toilet Day (19th Nov) and focusing on awareness about ill eﬀects of open defecation. l Remedial coaching centers for secondary class students from economically backward section in Jojobera, Tiruldih & Maval (Bhivpuri) Experiential Learning Through understanding Multisensory of lesson Learning concepts Multiple Learning Major Highlights Experiences Model l Income generation activities like Tailoring, Nursing, Agarbatti, Straw & Jute Handicraft Production carried out at Mulshi (Bhira) & Naraj Marthapur. Active Enhances Learning students' social l Sustainability agricultural practices were enhanced at environment and thinking skills Maval through introduction of best practices like SRT/ SRI beneﬁtting more than 1500 farmers in 33 villages l Employability Initiative with TCS in Maithon and Education does more than opening doors to Odisha. More than 700 youth trained and 187 gainfully opportunity, it unlocks potential. engaged post training in BPO Services 83 Initiatives undertaken for Stakeholders at diﬀerent stages: Major Highlights l Fishermen for capacity building & Innovation (Solar l More than 400 SHGs have been formed with approx. Boats) 5400 women membership l Farmers for technology inputs, cash crop promotion, l Jan Jagruti Abhiyan, raised awareness through 78 street drip irrigation play sessions sensitizing 9400 people on avoiding l Women & Youth for service industry training, ITI-Male accidents near transmission lines during monsoons. (focus under AA), micro ﬁnance & income generation l Ash Brick Production facility was established by Self Help Groups at Jojobera Tata Power Skill Development Institute (TPSDI) The progress and development of a nation depends upon Nurturing Sustainability for Inclusive Growth the skills of its citizens. Skill development is an essential (AKSHAY) ingredient for India's future economic growth as the Inclusive growth is a concept that advances equitable countr y transforms itself into an internationally opportunities for community participants and captures competitive economy. the importance of structural transformation. The sustainable inclusive growth approach takes a longer-term The TPSDI would beneﬁt Power Sector workers through perspective wherein eﬀorts are consciously made to raise various Power-Skills training programs. The modular the standards of living of the underprivileged. programs have been strategically designed to train, test, certify and accredit the workers in a phased fashion, The activities rolled out under the Nurturing Sustainability thereby honing their professional skills. Understanding theme includes the following: this, TPSDI has employed a 360 degree approach for l Rural Energy l Promoting Sports/Games l Support to holistic development of workers in power-skills and Natural Calamit y l Tree plantation l Employee encourage them to reach their full potential. Volunteering Major Highlights l 223 LPG gas connections provided to tribal families at Maval (Bhivpuri). More than 1300 tons of ﬁrewood fuel saved and this would also ensure convenient cooking for rural folks and eliminate ailments due to use of Chulhas l Plastic removal campaign conducted near Mulshi (Bhira) water to spread awareness among tourists on ‘Do not ‘litter’ and Plastic Free Tourism Employee Volunteering: Arpan Self-driven participation has the potential to trigger transformation. By nurturing volunteers amongst TPSDI will provide training and certiﬁcation to create a employees, the Company tap a large pool of resources, competent and skilled workforce in the power sector and essential for the ongoing growth of communities. allied areas. TPSDI will empower people with learning for Volunteering boosts employee morale and provides them livelihood and help skilled people to pursue growth the opportunity to extend themselves beyond work and opportunities within the entire chain of Power Utility Skills. contribute to society. Employees are the ambassadors of Company’s core values. Many of them selﬂessly involve Building Social Capital and Infrastructure their time and resources to multiple local initiatives that (SANRACHNA) work for the beneﬁt of community in the areas of our 5 Communities strive to support change eﬀorts for survival deﬁned thrust areas. The employee volunteering initiatives and vitality, the importance of social capital has become are aligned with the Tata Group initiatives under the theme evident in community development. By integrating social Tata Engage. and human capital constructs into the program, greater and positive impacts have been made by developing the Major Highlights inherent power of relationships and social networks. l Registrations of Employee volunteers increased from 380 to 1128 compared to previous year in Tata Engage The activities rolled out under the Social Capital theme Website. includes the following: l More than 1600 employees & family members l Institution Building l Participatory Rural Development participated for Tata Volunteering Week initiatives Works l Women empowerment training programs contributing to approx. 8086 volunteering hours. Sustainability Report 2014-2015 84 l Jojobera & Trombay was jointly awarded as winners for Community Engagement Index (CEI) Arpan Award 2014 Community engagement is deﬁned as community working l Tata Power received the ‘Tata Engage Special collaboratively with the organization, through continuous Recognition’ award at the Tata Group CSR Meet for interaction & involvement to create common sustainable involvement of stakeholders during Tata Volunteering goals for the future. The Engaged community members are Week II motivated to assist the organization in its business purpose l Tata Power has aligned with Tata Group Volunteering and take a position that is of mutual beneﬁt. Initiative ‘Pro-Engage’. This initiative is a skill-based, parttime volunteering opportunity which will enable Tata The Community Engagement Index (CEI) helps to Power employees to share their professional expertise determine engagement levels of the various stakeholders with civil society organizations/NGOs to contribute to across the stages of the CR intervention. The purpose of the larger goal of systems for a more lasting impact. this project was to develop a tool to measure the Community Engagement Index (CEI) for diﬀerent CR Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) Flood Relief & initiatives undertaken by Tata Power. RASCI Model stands Rehabilitation for Responsible, Approve, Support, Consulted and The calamity at Jammu and Kashmir has impacted Informed, was customized to determine engagement thousands of lives of locals residing in about 2300 villages levels of the various stakeholders across stages of CSR including 400 villages totally submerged. This has been intervention. Model was developed in engagement with declared as a national disaster in India. The major cause of Berkley University-Intern and ACERSTata Power. This was this devastation being incessant rain resulting multiple based on discussions with academicians and internal CSR breaches on banks of Jhelum and other rivers, overﬂow team to evolve a framework which would go beyond just from ﬂood spill channel and breach of check dams in the service delivery and allied satisfaction, to measure the rivers. Tata Power came forward and in close coordination eﬃcacy of engagement with community in CSR program with Tata Sustainability Group (TSG) provided its support planning, implementation and ownership keeping the to the cause of relief and rehabilitation for restoration of Sustainability Model in mind. The element of Sustainability normalcy and livelihood for the local populace of aﬀected of CSR Programs is the intrinsic part of CSR Strategy and areas with focus on immediate and long term priorities like hence this index would oﬀer gainful trends once in 3 years education, housing, infrastructure, health and hygiene. on engagement levels at diﬀerent point of time across Locations. In next year, 6 locations would complete 3 years cycle of integrated CSR programs and would be measured by this Index. Community Engagement Index (%) Maval Mulshi Maithon Haldia Jojobera (Bhivpuri) (Bhira) 72.38 62.3 48.06 90.52 66.52 The Pilot CEI study was carried out at 5 major locations Maval (Bhivpuri), Mulshi (Bhira), Maithon, Haldia & Jojobera. The criteria for selecting these locations H u d H u d Cyc l o n e d i s a s te r R e l i e f & depended upon the maturity of the project running for Rehabilitation minimum 2 years and sustainable continuation of the In latter part of 2014, Cyclone Hud-hud pounded the project for the next 2 years. CEI study will be undertaken coastal districts of Andhra Pradesh (AP) with heavy rain and once in every 3 years. winds of almost 200 kmph. Hud-hud is the ﬁrst cyclone to have had a massive impact on agriculture, particularly Aﬃrmative Action (AA) paddy in AP. Farmers were facing problems in terms of lack Tata Power has endeavored to positively uplift the lives of of irrigation facilities as they are totally dependent on communities around its areas of operation. In line with the natural source of irrigation. Tata Power stepped forward to Tata Group belief that addressing the social needs of carry out relief work in cyclone aﬀected areas. traditionally disadvantaged groups is the ‘right thing to do’ l 2000 Solar lamps were provided at Vizag district. and as part of our nation building endeavor, the company l Distribution Teams provided support in restoring has carved out a focused approach for the upliftment of Power network as immediate relief. these communities through Aﬃrmative Action (AA). Tata l As a sustainable eﬀort, TPCDT with NREDAP (New and Power in line with the Tata Group directive, has aligned its Renewable Energy Dept, AP) provided 130 Solar AA programs to the 4 E’s (Education, Employability, Irrigation Pumps in Anantpur & Chitoor districts to Employment, and Entrepreneurship). The Company has farmers from economically weaker communities. also recognized the importance of the 5th E Essential 85 CR Statistics FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 about the ill eﬀects of open defecation and the importance No. of Volunteers 1393 1462 1655 of using the toilet. Schoolchildren also participated in the Employee Volunteering 6974 9722 8086 extempore competition on the subject with much Hours enthusiasm. The highlight of the programme was the CSR Expenses in Rs. 231.6 256.8 493 Talking Doll Show which was attended by more than 370 Million community people, schoolchildren and teachers. Through CSR Expenses for Social 56.80 54.13 133.96* this interactive demonstration, the Talking Doll interacted Capital and Infrastructure with the community people and addressed grievous (in Rs. Million) concerns such as the importance of washing hands with soap after using the toilet and stressing on converting this Amenities to support the development of the AA into an ingrained habit to prevent diarrhea and other communities along with other 4 E’s and achieve diseases. The audience also attended an awareness session improvement in the quality of life of these communities. on the various diseases caused by open defecation and the Aﬃrmative Action in Tata Power Eﬀorts is reaching out to advantages of using the toilet. approx. 75,000 people. New Paradigm in Academic Performance Managing Relocations It becomes important to hone student’s skills and boost Tata Power has always remained cognizant of potential their conﬁdence during their crucial year of Board exams as sites for assessing the socio-economic impact and working a number of students ﬁnd English, Mathematics and closely with communities. Before selecting a site, studies Science subjects extremely diﬃcult. A high percentage of are conducted which include demographic, economic, students fail their exams by a small margin in these political, cultural and social aspects. On the Beguina front, subjects’ resulting in loss of admission in good colleges and the Company has continued assessment on various desired careers paths. The Company supported students aspects pertaining to the proposed site and business from ﬁve high schools in the Maval catchment area by proposition has maintained an evolving stage in the providing extra coaching classes for the SSC Board reporting year. In this reporting year, at Maithon there has Examinations held in the reporting year. The Company been 4 relocation of households and the relocation organized additional coaching classes in Maths, Science beneﬁts amounting 1.87 million was disbursed. In all there and English with the assistance of external faculty and have been 60 relocations in the past three years. provided study material to the students as well. Case Studies Awareness for Sanitation Equality and dignity are challenged by the fact that across the world, 2.5 billion people lack access to basic improved sanitation, thus sensitizing the community on various health and hygiene related issues caused due to sheer negligence and ignorance was indispensable. In line with Prime Minister’s national campaign, 'Swachh Bharat Abhiyan', Haldia Division of the Company organised a unique Sanitation Awareness Programme and Rally for the community in honour of the World Toilet Day 2014. To promote the use of toilets and put a halt on the practice of open defecation was the main objective. More than 400 school children along with teachers participated in the The classes made a remarkable diﬀerence in the academic Awareness Rally organised by the team and alerted people performance of the 254 students who sat for the examination with a 94 per cent pass rate of which 25 per cent scored distinction and more than 60 per cent scored ﬁrst class. Of the 15 toppers, 13 of the students were girls. The coaching classes have assisted the students to increase their overall marks and percentage by 10-15 per cent. The initiative was highly appreciated by the community members, teachers and students. The ﬁve schools supported through this initiative included the following: l Bhairavnath Vidyalaya, Wahangoan with a 100% result l Tribal Residential School Wadeshwar with a 98% result l UshaTai Lok hande, Sangishe with a 97% result l Mahadevi Vidyalaya, Inglun with a 96% result l Golden Glades High School, Karajgaon with a 91% result Sustainability Report 2014-2015 86 Rain Water Harvesting Kutch District in Gujarat, India has been a rain deﬁcit area, as it is part of the Great Rann/Desert ecology. Kutch receives an average 12 days of rainfall during a given year and its ground water is one of the lowest in India. Given this situation agriculture is not the main source of livelihood. Men and women folk engage in various skills based, non-farm and traditional livelihoods which help them avoid distress migration. People in this region face severe hardships owing to scarcity of water, during summer months, i.e. March to June. Ground water can be found only after average 800 feet below surface though this water not safe owing to high salinity. On the other hand, Kutch has a repository traditional knowledge about water conservation and harvesting. This major need for water was transformed into a big opportunity in FY 15 through TPCDT in Mundra, wherein More than 120 solar street lights have been installed in the 100 households were mobilized from neighbouring nearby villages of MPL in 2 phases on a complete need community, to engage in the RRWHS construction and basis. The ﬁrst and second phase saw an installation of maintenance. The RRWHS would be a multi-year program 60 and 62 solar street lights respectively. The ﬁrst phase of and in FY 15, 40 systems were in place and functional, installations had a lot of appreciation that talked about the thereby beneﬁtting families. RRWHS helps with availability huge help due to the common area lighting and a demand of 8000 liters potable water which is consumed throughout for more solar lights for the up-liftment of the community. most of the year. Availability of such water vastly reduces The second phase followed soon meeting the demands of drudgery among women, who utilize the time saved (3-4 hrs the people. Solar lights have mostly been installed in per day) in other productive works. This system is a good locations where a group of villagers can assemble and avail example of sustainable living, since it reduces the pressure the facility such as temples, mosques, crossroads etc. on transporting water through bore-well or through The villagers took active participation of the street lights tankers, both of which consume fuel and cost money. during installation. “The legacy continues to inspire to scale new p a r a d i g m i n Sustainability. Maiden century of existence has set up the foundation for mutual co-existence for Solar Powered Street Lights many more….” MPL invited TPCDT to install Solar Power Street Lights in 21 villages around MPL. This initiative was seen as a major need to address the poor quality and consistency of power Mr. Avilash Dwivedi supplied to villages from the grid. Head Community Relations Owing to poor lighting conditions, most areas in all villages would be in darkness for almost all nights in a given year. Common area lighting was one of the needs expressed by a cross section of the Community, the Sarpanches, R&R committee, village opinion leaders. The installation of solar street lights would reduce road accidents and snake bites in the village. It would also help the villagers conduct meetings and programs at night. Solar street lights also provide light during the frequent power cuts in the night time which would ease the movement around the village. Last but not the least, it would greatly improve the safety of women and makes them feel secure while fetching water from nearby tube wells. 87 GRI EUSS Index & Mapping with CDP, NVGs, UNGC & BRR General Standard Disclosure Requirements Page Number Remarks UNGC NVG External Disclosures /Link (principle (1-9) Assurance Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the 2, 3 ü organizations and its strategy G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 3, 31, 32 2, 6 ü Organizational Proﬁle G4-3 Name of organization 2 ü G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 7, 8 ü G4-5 Location of headquarters 6 ü G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates 8 ü G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 7 ü Sustainability Report 2014-2015 G4-8 Markets served 7, 8 ü G4-9 Scale of the organization 7, 8 ü G4-10 a. Total number of employees by employment contract and gender 44 ü b. Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender c. Total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender d. Total workforce by region and gender e. Explanation whether the organization's work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed or by 42 ü individuals f. Any signiﬁcant variations in employment numbers 46 ü G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 42 3 5 ü G4-12 Organization's supply chain 26-27, 52-53 ü G4-13 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization's size, structure, ownership, or supply chain 4, 5 ü G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the Precautionary approach is addressed 4 ü G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization 4 8 ü subscribes G4-16 Memberships in major associations 21 ü Identiﬁed Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 a. All entities included in the organizations consolidated ﬁnancial statements or equivalent documents 50, 51 ü b. Explanation of whether any entity included in the organization's consolidated ﬁnancial statements or equivalent ü documents is not covered by the report G4-18 a. Process for deﬁning the report content and the aspect boundaries 4 ü b. How reporting principles for deﬁning report content has been implemented 8 ü G4-19 List the material aspects identiﬁed in the process for deﬁning report content 31 ü G4-20 For each material aspect, report aspect boundary within the organization 31 ü G4-21 For each material aspect, report aspect boundary outside the organization 31 ü G4-22 Any restatements 5 ü G4-23 Report signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries 4, 5 ü Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 31 4 ü G4-25 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders 30, 31 4 ü G4-26 Organization's approach to stakeholder engagement 30, 31 4 ü G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded 31 4 ü to them Report Proﬁle G4-28 Reporting period 4 ü G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 4 ü G4-30 Reporting cycle 4 ü G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content 6 ü G4-32 a. 'In accordance' option the organization has chosen 4 ü b. GRI Content Index for the chosen option 88-93 ü 88 c. Reference to the External Assurance Report 94-96 ü General Standard Disclosure Requirements Page Number Remarks UNGC NVG External Disclosures /Link (principle (1-9) Assurance G4-33 a. Report the organization's policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 6, 88-93 ü b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the Sustainability Report, report the scope and basis of any 88-93 ü external assurance providers c. Relationship between the organization and the assurance providers 6, 88-93 ü d. Explanation of whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the 6, 88-93 ü organization’s Sustainability report Governance G4-34 Governance structure, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for 16-18 1 ü decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior 16, 17 8 ü executives/employees G4-36 Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position (s) with responsibility for economic, environmental and 16, 17 8 ü social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body G4-37 Process for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social 17 8 ü topics G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 17, 18 ü G4-39 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive oﬃcer 16 1 ü G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees; the criteria used for nominating 17 1 ü and selecting highest governance body members G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided and managed; and whether they are 18 1 ü disclosed to stakeholders G4-42 Highest governance body's and senior executives roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s 99 ü purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies and goals related to economic, environmental and social topics G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body's collective knowledge of economic, environmental 97, 98 ü and social topics G4-44 Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body's performance with respect to governance of economic, 19 ü environmental and social topics; actions taken in response to evaluation results G4-45 Highest governance body's role in the identiﬁcation and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks 18, 19 ü and opportunities; and whether stakeholder consultation supports the results of above process G4-46 Highest governance body's role in reviewing the eﬀectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for 18 8 ü economic, environmental and social topics G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body's review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and 18 8 ü opportunities G4-48 Highest committee/position that formally reviews and approves organization’s sustainability report & ensures coverage of 6 ü material aspects G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body 16, 17 ü G4-50 Nature/number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to 17 ü address and resolve them G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives. How performance criteria in the 17-19 ü remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body's and senior executives' economic, environmental and social objectives G4-52 Process for determining remuneration 17-19 ü G4-53 How stakeholders' views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration 17-19 ü G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest paid individual to the median annual total 19 ü compensation for all employees G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest paid individual to the median 19 ü percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization's values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 20, 21 1 ü G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational 20, 21 1 ü integrity G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to 20, 21 1 ü organizational integrity 89 General Standard Disclosure Requirements Page Number Remarks UNGC NVG External Disclosures /Link (principle (1-9) Assurance Speciﬁc Standard Disclosures Category : Economic G4 DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 50 ü Material Aspect : Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct & indirect economic value generated and distributed 51, 52 ü G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 51, 52 ü G4-EC3 Coverage of organization's deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations 52 ü G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government 51 ü Material Aspect : Market Presence G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at signiﬁcant locations of operation 37 ü G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at signiﬁcant locations of operation 50 ü Material Aspect : Indirect Economic Impacts Sustainability Report 2014-2015 G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 86 ü G4-EC8 Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of Impacts 54 ü Material Aspect : Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Procurement practices with regard to local supplier and signiﬁcant location of operation 53 ü Category: Environmental G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 55-57 ü Material Aspect : Materials G4-EN1 Materials used weight or volume 57 8 ü G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 57 8 2, 6 ü Material Aspect : Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 59 8 6 ü G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 60 8 6 ü G4-EN5 Energy intensity 59-60 8 6 ü G4-EN6 Reductions of energy consumption 59-60 8 6 ü G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirement of products and services 75 2, 6 Material Aspect : Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by sources 60 8 6 ü G4-EN9 Water sources signiﬁcantly aﬀected by withdrawal of water 60 8 6 ü G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 60 8 6 ü Material Aspect : Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 63 8 6 ü protected areas G4-EN12 Description of signiﬁcant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high 63 8 6 ü biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 63 8 6 ü G4-EN14 Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas aﬀected by operations, 63 8 6 ü by level of extinction risk Material Aspect : Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 58-59 8 6 ü G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions 58-59 8 6 ü G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 58-59 8 6 ü G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 58-59 8 6 ü G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions 58-59 8 6 ü G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone depleting substances (ODS) 57 8 6 ü G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other signiﬁcant air emission 57-58 8 6 ü Material Aspect : Eﬄuents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 60 8 6 ü G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 61-62 8 6 ü G4-EN24 Total number and volume of signiﬁcant spills 61 8 6 ü G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention 61 8 6 ü 90 Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally General Standard Disclosure Requirements Page Number Remarks UNGC NVG External Disclosures /Link (principle (1-9) Assurance G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats signiﬁcantly aﬀected by the 63 8 6 ü organization’s discharge of water and runoﬀ Material Aspect : Products and Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 54, 56 8 2, 6 ü G4-EN28 Percentage of product sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category N/A ü Material Aspect : Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental 56 7 ü laws and regulations Material Aspect : Transport G4-EN30 Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization's operations, and 9 8 2, 6 ü transporting members of the workforce Material Aspect : Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 56 8 ü Material Aspect : Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 26, 27 7, 8 ü G4-EN33 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and action taken 26, 27 2, 6 ü Material Aspect : Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts ﬁled, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 56 ü Category : Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Material Aspect : Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and rate of employee turnover by age group gender and region 44 3 ü G4-LA2 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 42 3 ü G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 42 3 ü Material Aspect : Labor/Management Relations G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are speciﬁed in collective agreements 37 ü Material Aspect : Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help 42 3 ü monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury, injury rates, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by 69, 70 3 ü region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 66 3 ü G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 42, 66 3 ü Material Aspect : Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 47, 48 ü G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that supports employability of employees and assist them in 41, 42 3 ü managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee 37 ü category Material Aspect : Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, 36 ü minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Material Aspect : Equal Remuneration for Women & Men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by signiﬁcant locations of operation 37 ü Material Aspect : Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers screened using labor practices criteria 52, 53 ü G4-LA15 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken 52, 53 ü Material Aspect : Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices ﬁled, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 21 ü Human Rights Investment G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of signiﬁcant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that 53 1 5 ü underwent human rights screening 91 General Standard Disclosure Requirements Page Number Remarks UNGC NVG External Disclosures /Link (principle (1-9) Assurance G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are 47 1 5 ü relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Material Aspect : Non-Discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 21 6 5 ü Material Aspect : Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers in which employee rights to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may be 21 3 5 ü violated or at signiﬁcant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Material Aspect : Child Labor G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute 21 5 5 ü to its eﬀective abolition Material Aspect : Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to 21 4 5 ü Sustainability Report 2014-2015 contribute to its elimination Material Aspect : Security Practices G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to 47 1 5 ü operations Material Aspect : Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken 21 2 5 ü Material Aspect : Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 21 2 5 ü Material Aspect : Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 52, 53 2 5 ü G4-HR11 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 52, 53 2 5 ü Material Aspect : Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts ﬁled through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period 52, 53 2 5 ü & their redressal Society Material Aspect : Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development 80, 81 4 ü programs G4-SO2 Operations with signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 54 4 ü Material Aspect : Anti-Corruption G4-SO3 Number & percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption 21 10 ü G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 21 10 ü G4-SO5 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 21 10 ü Material Aspect : Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneﬁciary 21 7 ü Material Aspect : Anti-Competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes 21 ü Material Aspect : Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 21 ü Material Aspect : Supplier Assessment for impacts on society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers screened using criteria for impacts on society 52, 53 ü G4-SO10 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken 52-54 ü Material Aspect : Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society ﬁled, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 81 ü Product Responsibility Aspect : Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 Percentage of signiﬁcant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement 73, 74, 78 2, 9 ü G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety 78 2 ü impacts of products and services during their lifecycle, by type of outcomes Material Aspect : Product and Service Labeling 92 G4-PR3 Product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for information and labeling 78 9 ü General Standard Disclosure Requirements Page Number Remarks UNGC NVG External Disclosures /Link (principle (1-9) Assurance G4-PR4 Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product & service information 78 ü and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 78 9 ü Material Aspect : Marketing Communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products 71 N/A ü G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, 78 ü including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Material Aspect : Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 78 ü Material Aspect : Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of 78 ü products and services Electric Utility Sector Speciﬁc (EUSS) EU1 Installed Capacity 9 ü EU2 Net energy output 12, 13 ü EU3 Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customers 73 9 ü EU4 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines 72 ü EU5 Allocation of CO2e emissions allowances or equivalent, broken down by carbon trading framework 58, 59 ü EU6 Management approach to ensure short and long-term electricity availability and reliability 71, 72 1, 8 ü EU7 Demand-side management programs 75 ü EU8 Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at providing reliable electricity and promoting sustainable 76, 77 9 ü development EU9 Provisions for decommissioning of nuclear power sites 8 N/A ü EU10 Planned capacity against projected electricity demand over the long term, broken down by energy source 9 ü EU11 Average generation eﬃciency of plants by energy source 12 ü EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy 72 ü EU13 Biodiversity of oﬀset habitats compared to the biodiversity of aﬀected areas 63 6 ü EU14 Programs and processes to ensure the availability of a skilled workforce 84 ü EU15 Percentage of employees eligible to retire in the next 5 and 10 years broken down by job category and by region 45 ü EU16 Policies and requirements regarding health and safety of employees and employees of contractors and subcontractors 66-68 2 ü EU17 Days worked by contractor and subcontractor employees involved in construction, operation & maintenance activities 69 2 ü EU18 Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees that have undergone relevant health and safety training 70 2 ü EU19 Stakeholder participation in the decision making process related to energy planning and infrastructure development 30 4 ü EU20 Approach to managing the impacts of displacement 86 4 ü EU21 Contingency planning measures, disaster/emergency management plan and training programs, and recovery/restoration 3 7 2 ü plans EU22 Number of people physically or economically displaced and compensation, broken down by type of project 86 4 ü EU23 Programs, including those in partnership with government, to improve or maintain access to electricity and customer 71-73 2 ü support services EU24 Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy and disability related barriers to accessing and safely using electricity 73 ü and customer support services EU25 Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets, including legal judgments, settlements and 78 2 ü pending legal cases of diseases EU26 Percentage of population unserved in licensed distribution or service areas 71 ü EU27 Number of residential disconnections for non-payment, broken down by duration of disconnection and by regulatory 77 ü regime EU28 Power outage frequency 77 ü EU29 Average power outage duration 77 ü EU30 Average plant availability factor by energy source 13 ü 93 Assurance Statement Sustainability Report 2014-2015 94 95 Sustainability Report 2014-2015 96 Annexure I: Details of expertise, qualiﬁcation, appointment with other companies Name of Director Mr. Cyrus P. Mistry Mr. R. Gopalakrishnan Dr. Homiar S. Vachha Mr. Nawshir H. Mirza Mr. Deepak M. Satwalekar Date of Birth 4th July 1968 25th December 1945 23rd April 1942 4th April 1950 14th November 1948 Date of Appointment 23rd December 2011 15th January 1999 30th March 2001 29th September 2006 12th February 2008 Expertise in speciﬁc Mr. Mistry was earlier Managing Director of the Mr. Gopalakrishnan is a Director of Tata Sons Dr. Vachha was the General Manager of ICICI Mr. Mirza was a partner of Mr. Satwalekar was the Managing Director functional areas Shapoorji Pallonji Group. Under his leadership, Ltd., Chairman of Rallis India Ltd., Ltd. in a career spanning over 25 years. He S. R. Batliboi & Co., Calcutta. He is an and CEO of HDFC Standard Life Insurance Shapoorji Pallonji’s construction business grew into Vice-Chairman of Tata Chemicals Ltd. and a was appointed as Nominee Director on the Advisor to Jardine Matheson Ltd., Company Limited from November 2000 till a billion dollar enterprise, evolving from pure-play Director of several other companies like Azko Board of the erstwhile The Andhra Valley Hong Kong. his superannuation in November 2008 and construction to execution of complex projects in the Nobel India Ltd., Castrol India Ltd. etc. Prior Power Supply Co. Ltd. in 1993. On ceasing to prior to this, he was the Managing Director marine, oil and gas and rail sectors, across a number to joining Tatas in 1998, he served with be such Nominee Director, he was of HDFC Limited from 1993 to 2000. of international geographies. He joined the Board of Levers for 31 years, where he rose from being re-appointed on the Board of that Company Tata Sons Ltd. in 2006 and was appointed Chairman a Management Trainee to being and continued as Director till its He has considerable experience in the ﬁelds of its Board in December 2012. Vice-Chairman of Hindustan Lever Ltd. amalgamation with the Company in 2000. of ﬁnance, infrastructure and corporate He was been subsequently appointed on the governance. In addition to being Chairman of Tata Sons, Board of the Company in 2001. Mr. Mistry is also the Chairman of major Tata group companies. Qualiﬁcations Graduate of Civil Engineering from Imperial Graduate in Physics from Calcutta University Post graduate degree in Economics from the Fellow of The Institute of Chartered Bachelor’s Degree in Technology from IIT, College, UK, M.Sc. in Management from London and in Engineering from IIT, Kharagpur University of Bombay (Gold Medallist in Accountants of India Bombay and a Master’s Degree in Business Business School Industrial Economics); Doctorate in Administration from The American Economics from the University of Bombay. University, Washington D.C. Directorships held in Tata Sons Ltd. Tata Sons Ltd. Tata International Ltd. Thermax Ltd. Asian Paints Ltd. other companies Tata Industries Ltd. Tata Chemicals Ltd. Tata Ceramics Ltd. Coastal Gujarat Power Ltd. Piramal Enterprises Ltd. (excluding foreign Tata Teleservices Ltd. Rallis India Ltd. Af-Taab Investment Co. Ltd. Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd. IL&FS Transport Networks Ltd. companies) Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. Akzo Nobel India Ltd. Finolex Cables Ltd. Tata Power Renewable Energy Ltd. Franklin Templeton Asset Management Tata Steel Ltd. Castrol India Ltd. Bachi Shoes Ltd. New Gen Saurashtra Windfarms Ltd. (India) Pvt. Ltd. Tata Motors Ltd. Tata Autocomp Systems Ltd. Tata Power Renewable Energy Ltd. Powerlinks Transmission Ltd. Germinait Solutions Pvt. Ltd. Tata Chemicals Ltd. Tata Technologies Ltd. Industrial Energy Ltd. Dugar Hydro Power Ltd. India Mortgage Guarantee Corporation Pvt. Tata Global Beverages Ltd. Advinus Therapeutics Ltd. New Gen Saurashtra Windfarms Ltd. Ltd. The Indian Hotels Company Ltd. Metahelix Life Sciences Ltd. Prabhavati Memorial Foundation Cyrus Investments Pvt. Ltd. ABP Pvt. Ltd. Teach to Lead Sterling Investment Corporation Pvt. Ltd. Gyan Prakash Foundation Isha Education Trust Infosys Science Foundation Committee position Nil Audit Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Stakeholders Relationship Committee held in other Member Chairman Chairman Chairman companies Tata Chemicals Ltd. Finolex Cables Ltd. Coastal Gujarat Power Ltd. Piramal Healthcare Ltd. Akzo Nobel India Ltd. Tata Ceramics Ltd. Tata Power Renewable Energy Ltd. Castrol India Ltd. Tata International Ltd. ABP Pvt. Ltd. Member Member Thermax Ltd. Af-Taab Investment Co. Ltd. Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd. Tata Power renewable Energy Ltd. New Gen Saurashtra Windfarms Ltd. Industrial Energy Ltd. New Gen Saurashtra Windfarms Ltd. Bachi Shoes Ltd. 97 Name of Director Mr. Piyush G. Mankad Mr. Ashok K. Basu Mr. Thomas Mathew T. Ms. Vishakha V. Mulye Mr. Anil Sardana Mr. Ashok S. Sethi Date of Birth 18th November 1941 24th March 1942 3rd June 1953 4th February 1969 16th April 1959 3rd April 1954 Date of Appointment 3rd July 2008 26th March 2009 7th August 2009 28th February 2013 1st February 2011 7th May 2014 Expertise in speciﬁc Mr. Mankad is a retired civil servant Mr. Basu is the former Secretary to Mr. Thomas Mathew T. has Ms. Mulye joined the ICICI group in Mr. Sardana brings with him over three Mr. Sethi joined Tata Power on functional areas with a distinguished career of over 40 Government of India, Ministry of Steel, 33 years of professional 1993 and has vast experience in the decades of proven expertise in the power 1st August 1975 as a Graduate years in the Civil Services. He has held Secretary Power and Chairman of experience in the life areas of strategy, treasury and sector and has worked with companies like Engineer Trainee. a number of important positions Central Electricity Regulatory insurance industry. markets, proprietary equity and Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd. (erstwhile including Counsellor (Economic) in Commission. investing and management of longNorth Delhi Power Ltd.), a subsidiary of Tata Mr. Sethi has worked in the Indian Embassy, Tokyo; Controller term equity investments, structured Power, National Thermal Power Corporation Thermal and Hydro of Capital Issues, Ministry of Finance; Mr. Basu was also Member (Industry ﬁnance and corporate and project Ltd. and BSES Ltd. (prior to it becoming an Generation, Transmission & Finance Secretary, Government of and Infrastructure) of the West Bengal ﬁnance. In 2009, she assumed ADAG group company). Distribution, Commercial and India. He was the Executive Director Planning Commission. He was also leadership of ICICI Venture Funds Regulatory & Advocacy. This for India and four other countries and elected as Chairman, South Asia Management Co. Ltd. as its Mr. Sardana was the Managing Director of varied experience over such Board Member, Asian Development Forum of Infrastructure Regulators Managing Director and CEO. In Tata Teleservices Ltd. for over 3 years as well long period has resulted into a Sustainability Report 2014-2015 Bank, Manila, until July 2004. during 2005-06. addition to her responsibility as MD as Tata Teleservices (Maharashtra) Ltd. for wide and deep understanding and CEO of ICICI Venture, she serves about 6 months. Earlier, he had held the of the levers of business. This on the Board of Directors of leading position of Executive Director (Strategy 7 enables him to drive Indian companies in the media, IT Business Development) of the Company operational excellence across and ﬁnancial services sectors. She is from 1st March 2007 to 3rd August 2007 the breadth of responsibilities. a member of the Aspen Global and then served as Non-Executive Director Leadership Network and a fellow of from 9th August 2007 to 2nd July 2008. the inaugural class of the India Leadership Initiative. She was selected as ‘Young Global Leader’ for the year 2007 by World Economic Forum. Qualiﬁcations Master’s Degree from Delhi University B. A. (Honours with Economics); IAS Post Graduate in Economics, Graduate in Commerce, Fellow of Electrical Engineer from Delhi College of B. Tech from IIT, Kharagpur and Post Graduate Diploma in Bachelor’s Degree in Law and a The Institute of Chartered Engineering, a Cost Accountant (ICWAI) and Development Studies from Cambridge Post Graduate Diploma in Accountants of India holds a Post Graduate Diploma in University, UK; IAS Management from the Management from Delhi International Institute of Advanced Marketing Directorships held in Heidelberg Cement India Ltd. Tata Metaliks Ltd. Voltas Ltd. ICICI Venture Funds Management Tata Power Trading Co. Ltd. Tata Power Trading Co. Ltd. other companies Tata Elxsi Ltd. The Tinplate Company of India Ltd. MCX Stock Exchange Ltd. Co. Ltd. Maithon Power Ltd. Industrial Energy Ltd. (excluding foreign Mahindra & Mahindra Financial JSW Bengal Steel Ltd. Larsen & Toubro Ltd. Star Health and Allied Insurance Co. Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd. Maithon Power Ltd. companies) Services Ltd. Visa Power Ltd. L&T Capital Markets Ltd. Ltd. Coastal Gujarat Power Ltd. Yashmun Engineers Ltd. Noida Toll Bridge Co. Ltd. Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd. L&T Infra Debt Funds Ltd. AION India Investment Advisors Pvt. Af-Taab Investment Co. Ltd. Tata Power Community Tata International Ltd. Tata Metaliks DI Pipes Ltd. Ltd. Tata Power Solar Systems Ltd. Development Trust DSP Blackrock Investment Managers Maithon Power Ltd. Tata Power Renewable Energy Ltd. Pvt. Ltd. Industrial Energy Ltd. Hindustan Media Ventures Ltd. Tata Power Trading Co. Ltd. Committee position Audit Committee Audit Committee Nil Audit Committee Audit Committee Nil held in other Member Chairman Member Member companies Heidelberg Cement India Ltd. Maithon Power Ltd. Star Health and Allied Insurance Coastal Gujarat Power Ltd. Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd. Co. Ltd. Services Ltd. Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd. Member Tata International Ltd. Tata Metaliks Ltd. DSP Blackrock Investment Managers The Tinplate Company of India Ltd. Pvt. Ltd. JSW Bengal Steel Ltd. Tata Power Trading Co. Ltd. Visa Power Ltd. Industrial Energy Ltd. Stakeholders Relationship Committee Tata Metaliks DI Pipes Ltd. Chairman Heidelberg Cement India Ltd. Stakeholders Relationship Committee Tata Elxsi Ltd. Chairman The Tinplate Company of India Ltd. Member Tata Metaliks Ltd. 98 Noida Toll Bridge Co. Ltd. Annexure II: Roles, Responsibilities and Duties of Independent Directors Roles and Responsibilities Assist in bringing an independent judgment to bear on the Board’s deliberations especially on issues of strategy, performance (including economic, social, environment performance), risk management, resources, key appointments and standards of conduct Bring an objective view in the evaluation of the performance of Board and management Scrutinize the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance Satisfy themselves on the integrity of ﬁnancial information and that ﬁnancial controls and the systems of risk management are robust and defensible Safeguard the interests of all stakeholders, particularly the minority shareholders Balance the conﬂicting interest of the stakeholders Determine appropriate levels of remuneration of executive directors, key managerial personnel and senior management and have a prime role in appointing and where necessary recommend removal of executive Directors, key managerial personnel and senior management Moderate and arbitrate in the interest of the company as a whole, in situations of conﬂict between Management and shareholder’s interest. Duties Undertake appropriate induction and regularly update and refresh the skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Company (G4 43) Seek appropriate clariﬁcation or ampliﬁcation of information and, where necessary, take and follow appropriate professional advice and opinion of outside experts at the expense of the Company Strive to attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and of the Board committees of which he/she is a member Participate constructively and actively in the committees of the Board in which they are chairpersons or members Strive to attend the general meetings of the Company Where they have concerns about the running of the Company or a proposed action, ensure that these are addressed by the Board and, to the extent that they are not resolved, insist that the concerns are recorded in the minutes of the Board meeting Keep themselves well informed about the company and the external environment in which it operates; Not to unfairly obstruct the functioning of an otherwise proper Board or committee of the Board Pay suﬃcient attention and ensure that adequate deliberations are held before approving related party transactions and assure themselves that the same are in the interest of the Company Ascertain and ensure that the Company has an adequate and functional vigil mechanism and to ensure that the interests of a person who uses such mechanism are not prejudicially aﬀected on account of such use Report concerns about unethical behavior, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the Company’s Code of Conduct or Ethics Policy Acting within his authority, assist in protecting the legitimate interests of the company, shareholders and its employees Not disclose conﬁdential information, including commercial secrets, technologies, advertising and sales promotion plans, unpublished price sensitive information, unless such disclosure is expressly approved by the Board or required by law. Annexure III: Leading Practices of Tata Power Leading Practices Tata Sons Limited Tata Steel Limited Tata Industries Limited Tata Investment Corporation Limited EWART Investments Limited Sir Dorabji Tata Trust LIC Matthews Paciﬁc Tiger Fund National Westminster Bank PLC as depository of ﬁrst state global emerging markets leaders fund, a sub fund of ﬁrst state investments The New India Assurance Company Limited General Insurance Corporation of India National Westminster Bank PLC as depository of ﬁrst state Asia Paciﬁc Leaders Fund of First State Investment ICVC Aberdeen Global Indian Equity (Mauritius) Limited 99 Abbreviations AA : Aﬃrmative Action DHPC : Dagachhu Hydro Power Corporation 4 E's : Education, Employability, Employment and Entrepreneurship DMP : Disaster Management Plan 5th E : Essential Amenities DSM : Demand Side Management ABB : Asea Brown Boveri Limited DSS : Distribution Sub Station ABPs : Annual Business Plans E House : Electrical House AC : Air Condition EAP : Employee Assistance Program ACE : Accelerated Career Enhancement ECS : Electronic Clearing Service ACME : Achieving Continuous Managerial Excellence ED-O : Executive Director Operations AGB : Aryavart Gramin Bank EDP : Executive Development Program AGM : Annual General Meeting EDS : Executive Directors AP : Andhra Pradesh ELCB : Earth Leakage Circuit Breaker APCE : Air Pollution Control Equipment EMS : Environmental Management Systems APP : Associate of Power Producers EMS : Environmental Management Systems ASR : Appraisal Step Redressal Process ERM : Enterprise Risk Management B&V : Black & Veatch EU : Electric Utilities BARC : Bhabha Atomic Research Centre EUSS : Electric Utilities Sector Supplement BCCs : Bill Collection Centers FCs : Fuel Cells BCP : Business Continuity Processes FDAs : Fixed Duration Associates BEE : Bureau of Energy Eﬃciency FIC : Fishermen Information Centre BEST : Brihanmumbai Electricity & State Transport FIFA : Federation Internationale de Football Association BITS : Birla Institute of Technology & Science FY : Financial Year BOOT : Build Operate Own and Transfer GEC : Gujarat Ecology Commission BPO : Business Process Outsourcing GEI : Global Electricity Initiative BRR : Business Responsibility Report GETs : Graduate Engineer Trainees BSC : Balance Score Card GHG : Greenhouse Gas BSI : British Standards Institution GJ : Gigajoules CA s : Chartered Accountants GMI : Green Manufacturing Index CAAQMS : Continous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations GMP : Group Mediclaim Policy CAGR : Compounded Annual Growth Rate GoI : Government of India CAPA : Corrective and Preventive Actions GPCB : Gujarat Pollution Control Board CAPEX : Capital Expenditure GRI : Global Reporting Initiatives CBD : Convention on Biological Diversity GRP : Green Rating Project CBIP : Central Board of Irrigation & Power GW : Giga Watt CCGT : Combined Cycle Gas Turbine HC : Hydro Carbon CDM : Clean Development Mechanism HR : Human Resources CDP : Carbon Disclosure Project HT : High Tension CEA : Central Electricity Authority HuR : Human Rights CEI : Community Engagement Index HVDS : High Voltage Distribution System CEO : Chief Executive Oﬃcer IBA : Important Bird Area CEPPS : Continuous Education Program in Power Systems IBBI : India Business Biodiversity Initiatives CFL : Compact Fluorescent Lamps ICSI : The Institute of Company Secretaries of India CFO : Chief Financial Oﬃcer IDs : Independent Directors CFTs : Cross Functional Teams IEEMA : Indian Electrical & Electronics Manufacturers Association CGPL : Coastal Gujarat Private Limited IEL : Industrial Energy Limited CHRO : Chief Human Resource Oﬃcer IEPL : Ideal Energy Projects Limited CII : Confederation of Indian Institute IFC : International Finance Corporation CO : Carbon Monoxide IISc : Indian Institute of Science CO2 : Carbon Dioxide IJP : Internal Job Postings COO : Chief Operational Oﬃcer IL&FS : Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services Limited COP : Conference of Parties IMPS : Immediate Payment Service CR : Community Relations INR : Indian Rupees CRC : Consumer Relation Centres IPP : Independent Power Producers CRCs : Consumer Relations Centre ISO : International Organization for Standardization CSAT : Customer Satisfaction Assessment Total IT : International Technologies CSC : Corporate Sustainability Committee IUCN : International Union for Conservation of Nature CSC : Consumer Relation Centers J&K : Jammu & Kashmir CSE : Centre for Science Environment JSEB : Jharkhand State Electricity Board CSM : Combined Section Meeting JVs : Joint Ventures CSO : Chief Sustainability Oﬃcer Kg : Kilo grams CSPI : Corporate Sustainability Protocol Index Kms : Kilometers CSR : Corporate Social Responsibilities KRA : Key Result Areas CSS : Consumer Sub Station KV : Kilo Volt CTO : Consent to Operate KVA : Kilovolt Ampere CTTL : Chemical Trombay Terminal Limited L&T : Larsen & Toubro DCS : Distribution Customer Services LASER : Learn, Apply, Share, Enjoy, Reﬂect DF : Distribution Franchisee LDP : Leadership Development Program Sustainability Report 2014-2015 100 LECs : Local Ethics Counselors RFP : Request for Proposal LED : Light Emitting Diode RFQ : Request for Quotation LIC : Life Insurance Company of India RGoB : Royal Government of Bhutan LPG : Liquid Puriﬁed Gas RMC : Risk Management Committee LSHS : Low Sulphur Heavy Stock RMSC : Risk Management Sub Committee LT : Low Tension RMU : Ring Main Unit LTIFR : Loss Time Injury Frequency Rate RO : Reverse Osmosis LV : Low Voltage RPO : Renewable Purchase Obligations MCX : Multi Commodity Exchange RRWH : Roof Rain Water Harvesting System MD : Managing Director RSCM : Responsible Supply Chain Management MDP : Management Development Program RSS : Receiving Sub Station MERC : Maharashtra Electricity Regulation Commission SAC : Sustainability Advisory Committee mg : milligram SAP : System Application & Products MMSCMD : Million Standard Cubic feet per day SC/ST : Schedule Caste/Schedule Tribe 3 MNm : Blast Furnace Gas SDM : Strategic Deployment Matrix MNRE : Ministry of Non Renewal Energy SEBI : Securities Exchange Bureau of India MoEF : Ministry of Environment & Forests SED : Strategic Engineering Division MoP : Ministry of Power SHE : Safety, Health and Environment MoU : Minutes of Understanding SHGs : Self Help Groups MP10 : Particulate Matter SHSs : Solar Home Lighting Systems MPD : Management Planning Discussion SIAT : Safety Intervention Audit Training MPL : Maithon Power Limited SLT : Senior Leadership Team MTPA : Million Tons Per Annum SMS : Safety Management System MU : Million Unit sms : Short Message Services MW : Mega watts SO2 : Sulphur Dioxide MWh : Megawatts hour SOP : Standard Operating Procedure NABARD : National Bank for Agriculture & Rural Development SPA : Share Purchase Agreement NABL : National Accreditation Board SPCBs : State Pollution Control Boards NCES : National Center for Education Statistics SPS : Structured Problem Solving NCEs : Non Carbon Emitting Sources SRC : Stakeholders Relationship Committee NEDs : Non Executive Directors SSC : Secondary School Certiﬁcate NGOs : Non Government Organizations STEP : Strategic Training for Employees Progress NICMAR : National Institute of Construction Management & Research SUEK : Siberian Coal Energy Company NIIT : National Institute of Information Technology T/day : Tonnes per day Nm3 : Normal Cubic meter TARANG : Technical Acumen Rejuvenation Aspire, Nurture & Grow NML : National Metallurgical Laboratory TBEM : Tata Business Excellence Model NOx : Nitrogen Dioxide TCE : Tata Consulting Engineers NRC : Nomination and Remuneration Committee TCoC : Tata Code of Conduct NREDAP : New and Renewable Energy Dept. TCS : Tata Consulting Services NSC : National Safety Council TLPS : Tata Leadership Practices NVGs : National Voluntary Guidelines TML : Tata Maithon Limited O3 : Ground Level Ozone TMTC : Tata Management Training Centre ODS : Ozone Depleting Substances TPCDT : Tata Power Community Development Trust OECD : Organization for Economic Co-operation & Development TPDDL : Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited OEMs : Original Equipment Manufacturers TPREL : Tata Power Renewable Energy Limited OT : Organizational Transformation TPSDI : Tata Power Skill Development Institute PA : Protected Area TPSSL : Tata Power Solar Systems Limited PAT : Proﬁt After Tax TPTCL : Tata Power Trading Company Limited PET : Bottles made of Polyethylene Terephthalate TSG : Tata Sustainability Group PH#6 : Power House No.6 TQMS : Tata Quality Management Services PM : Particulate Matte UK : United Kingdom PMS : Performance Management System UMPP : Ultra Mega Power Plant POP : Persistent Organic Pollutants UN : United Nation POSH : Prevention of Sexual Harassment UNDP : United Nations Development Program PPA : Power Purchase Agreement UNFCCC's : United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change PPM : Part Per Million UNGC : United Nation's Global Compact PPP : Public Private Partnership USA : United States of America PTW : Permit to work VCUs : Volume of Carbon Credits PV : Photovoltaic VOC : Volatile Organic Compounds QCFI : Quality Circle Forum India VOICES : Voices of Internal Customer Engagement & Satisfaction R&D : Research & Development WABA : World Alliance for Breastfeeding Action RASCI : Responsible, Approve, Support, Consulted and Informed WBCSD : World Business Control for Sustainable Development RCA : Root Cause Analysis WDP : Workforce Development Program RCH : Reproductive and Child Health WILP : Work Integrated Learning Program RDIF : Russian Direct Investment Fund RECs : Renewable Energy Certiﬁcates 101 Feedback Form for Sustainability Report 2014-15 Please spend a few minutes on this form so we can further improve our performance. 1. Is the information provided in the report adequate? It’s more than enough Yes, it is precise, not too much; not too little No, more details could have been provided 2. What do you think about the structure of the report in terms of content? The report is well structured with a ﬂow linking the chapters The report structure is good but could have been better The report is not well structured; the content has no ﬂow 3. After reading the report, what do you think about Tata Power’s eﬀorts in Sustainability? I think Tata Power is doing a lot in Sustainability I think Tata Power is doing a lot, but a lot more can still be done No, I don't think Tata Power is doing much in Sustainability 4. Can you suggest areas in which we could further improve ourselves in Sustainability? 5. Rate the report in terms of design and layout Excellent Very Good Good Poor Name : Designation : Organization : Contact Address : E-mail : You can also email your feedback at sustainability.reporting@tatapower.com or write to: Chief Sustainability Oﬃcer The Tata Power Company Limited 34, Sant Tukaram Road, Carnac Bunder, Mumbai 400 009 India Releasing of Mahseer in the water systems of Western Ghats through volunteerism Tata Power’s volunteerism for social and environmental causes is a powerful tool for transformation and leads to inculcating culture of care in themselves and the organization. Mr. Govindarajan Sridharan Mr. Fulendra Dhurandhar Mr. Rajesh K. Sinha Trombay, Mumbai Mundra, Gujarat Jojobera, Jharkhand I was very fortunate to be a part of Taking carefully prepared apparatus I was aware that our company is team which par ticipated for for ﬁngerlings survival, I descended associated with Mahseer breeding releasing Mahseer ﬁngerlings in into the lake and released them into programme since 1970 which has Mulshi lake. We were guided by wa t e r f o r t h e i r n e x t j o u r n e y. come a long way in terms of experts who explained that the Swooping through hands, little conserving the specie. When I got ﬁngerlings swam with graceful to know about this volunteering ﬁngerlings will be released in a momentum. Seeing them through new environment and hence we activity, I did not want to lose a water stream, I realized and thanked need to take care that they adjust chance to contribute my bit. I had nature for the wonders it has created to the diﬀerent temperature and and felt proud to be a part of this butterﬂies in the stomach while q ua l i t y o f wa t e r. I t wa s a unique opportunity. Being a part of releasing the ﬁngerlings in the wonderful experience and I could organization which has always lake. My heart was undergoing the see the joy and a sense of worked towards sustainable same feel one undergoes while achievement in everyone’s face. It development, I am thankful for this holding the hands of baby taking was a learning experience for me. amazing and humbling experience. its ﬁrst steps. Mr. Janak Pandya Ms. Nikita Kanodia Mr. Arpit Jain Dharavi, Mumbai Corporate Centre, Mumbai Corporate Centre, Mumbai The volunteering programme was Though I am a vegetarian by birth, I I was personally moved by the entire meticulously planned by experts in have always felt bad about animals process of releasing the Mahseer in the water slowly acclimatizing them with the serene environment of Mulshi. We being killed for becoming food of the lake water by changing the water of were awestruck to see the Mahseer human beings. This whole event the bags with the water of lake part by ﬁngerlings which were carefully where we actually took Mahseer part. The care that was taken in the transported to be released into the ﬁngerlings and released them very entire process, to ensure that it is not lake. The HeadBiodiversity explained carefully in the Mulshi lake, was done as an activity or as a task. The the systematic procedure that would process was similar to a parent letting very touching for me emotionally. It his/her kid enter a new place by making be followed. Most of us knew about was a very nice feeling that I was an him/her familiar with the surrounding the company’s eﬀort for Mahseer enabler, though in a very small way, and then letting him/her be on their breeding and distribution to various in giving a balanced eco-system to own. The biggest learning was If we parts of India. Looking forward to those little ﬁngerlings who will now could embrace fractions of that passion contribute many such volunteering towards work and care towards all, live a full life a nd grow into would we get true satisfaction and all programme for the act of conserving, beautiful golden gigantic ones… It our decisions would then truly reﬂect supporting & lighting up the life. was an experience of a life-time. the value of Care. Bombay House, 3rd Floor, 24, Homi Mody Street, Mumbai 400 001 Tel: 91 22 6665 8282 Fax: 91 22 6665 8801 www.tatapower.com Printed on 100% recycled paper
