RA INTERNATIONAL Global Compact Report 2015 “ We Deliver, Regardless..” www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL Human Rights Environment Principle 7 Principle 1 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Businesses should support and respect the protection of environmental challenges; internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 8 Principle 2 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental make sure that they are not complicit in human rights responsibility; and abuses.. Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Labour Standards Principle 3 Anti-corruption Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 10 Principle 4 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; including extortion and bribery. Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL What we do “Local Implementation at International Standards” With pride, integrity, and good humour, we strive as a team to make a positive contribution to our customers and clients, and the people we employ. “WE DELIVER,REGARDLESS” Our people make up our solutions www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL RA INTERNATIONAL: WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO RA International evolved from roots in Africa over 40 years ago to become a premier service and construction delivery provider to clients requiring service without compromise in remote and challenging locations. Our brand stands for “Reconstruction Assistance,” and we have gained significant experience through operating predominately in crisis and post crisis areas as well as developing nations in Africa and the Middle East region. Today, RA International is headquartered in Dubai, with regional offices across Africa. We have grown into a multifaceted firm, employing over 1,000 staff from 27 different countries. RA International is a dynamic people-oriented service provider and experienced international operator, specialized in the provision of Civil Construction, Building Construction, Operation & Maintenance and Camp Services. We maintain flexibility and adaptability in our approach to project delivery. All regional operations maintain a high degree of autonomy, whilst managers are empowered to take immediate decisions and to respond to client requests in a timely manner. Our approach has proven successful in reducing bureaucratic delays in the decision making process. www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL INTRODUCTION FROM SORAYA NARFELDT CEO / Chairman, RA International RA International signed up to the UN Global Compact in June 2005. As signatories to the UN Global Compact we are committed to demonstrating the progress we are making in each of the ten principles. At the foundation of our success is our workforce. Each of our people has a passion for quality and a ‘can do’ attitude with a desire to honor our corporate tag line that “ We Deliver….Regardless”. We remain fully committed to sustainability in its broadest context and operate day to day on the basis that we have a responsibility to balance economic interests with those of the environment as well as with those representing the needs and interests of the communities in which we operate and serve. RA International’s owners and senior management are from English, Arabic, African and French cultures. This blend of cultures has led to a deep understanding of people and has allowed our organization to flourish, without offending the communities within which we operate. www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL INTRODUCTION FROM SORAYA NARFELDT cont… Personnel are, wherever possible, generally recruited from the local national population, but preferably from the surrounding communities. This develops a feeling amongst the local residents that change has indeed started to happen and that they are a part of it. Furthermore it engenders a strong groundswell of support for the project which assists us to meet our objectives. From time to time, RA International will assist potential candidates from within the local community in setting up small businesses, particularly where these candidates have demonstrated a willingness to learn and improve their capabilities. These new businesses are then incorporated into the RA International Supply Chain, usually with successful and mutually beneficial results. In addition, RA International frequently sponsors general training facilities and supports schools, with some services being provided free of charge. It is, and always has been, our objective to combine our business projects with sustainable outcomes for the local environment and for the people we employ. RA International is committed to providing a productive, safe and healthy work environment for employees, contractors, clients, customers and visitors on its premises or that of its clients. This commitment extends to ensuring that RA International’s operations do not place the local community at risk of injury, illness or property damage, as well as ensuring its works are conducted in an environmentally sustainable and responsible manner. Our Report is in the public domain and can be viewed on the UNGC website or via a link on our website: www.rainternationalservices.com www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL Principle 1 Principle 2 Businesses should support and respect the protection of make sure that they are not complicit in human rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and abuse RA International ensures that human rights are respected and integrated into our business from a day to day perspective and an overall approach from top down. We believe that our employees are entitled to: Freedom of speech Freedom from fear Freedom from discrimination Right to life, liberty and personal security Freedom from slavery and freedom of movement Freedom from torture Right to recognition and equality before the law Freedom of opinion and expression Right to peaceful assembly Freedom from compulsory association Right to work and to choose one's employer Right to equal pay for equal work and fair remuneration Right to rest and leisure Right to basic living standards sufficient to ensure health and well-being www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL RA international has its own clinic in Somalia to regularly assist all staff with any medical or health issues. In 2015 we created a vaccination program for Somali staff who had never been inoculated against TB, hepatitis and small pox. We work with more than thousands of direct and indirect suppliers both in the international arena and in the local countries where we operate. We recognize that first world suppliers have had more time to support and create interval checks and balances to ensure that they adhere to international laws and standards supporting Human rights and yet local suppliers in Africa and other third world countries who are just turning the curves of instability have not yet achieved similar levels. We encourage and actively support all local business to world and expect them to conduct their operations in a socially and environmentally sustainable manner. All suppliers must comply with applicable laws and regulations, as well as our social and environmental standards. We use a variety of tools to assess suppliers including background checks, self-assessment surveys, site visits and audits. www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL 2015 targets: Encourage: i. All partners local and international to incorporate the Global compact principles on a day to day basis. ii. Ensure that all staff understand and adhere to the principles iii. Create Reporting mechanisms to capture efforts that support the Global Compact. iv. Link up with NGO’s that are active within certain fields of the Global compact such as Human Rights. v. Support further employment of women vi. Respect for the different cultural identities of our employees, stakeholders and customers. vii. Zero tolerance of any form of discrimination or harassment. viii. Promoting honest, ethical and transparent conduct, including in the handling of actual or apparent conflicts of interests between personal and professional relationships. ix. Conducting our business in good faith and with integrity. x. Complying with all applicable laws and regulations. RA International does not support child labor in any form. We check all employees to ensure that they are above the legal age of employment. We spot check suppliers and sub-contractors as well to ensure that they are not hiring children within their operations. www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL Our biggest staff commitment was the construction of a primary school for Orphans in Kenya. Process: All the children were nominated via the existing Somali elders committee as they are deemed to be disadvantaged for a variety reasons – poverty, broken homes, orphans and in foster care or under a guardianship. The school typically takes 20-24 children aged between 3 to 8 yrs. The original school was destroyed in major floods and as a result the children had no place to go for 6 months. RA International provided all the resources for the construction of the facility using a Prefabricated building for speed and adding toilets to the facility which the children had never had before . www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL PROGRESSBEYONDTARGETS: We have completed numerousstaff safety trainingeventsthis year including: ✔ Personal Protective Equipment inspection cours.es. ✔ Safety courses for local staff ✔ NationalWater Safety Programme for support staff ✔ Trainingfor the maintenance team in AsbestosAwareness and Passive Fire Protection measures,such asfire doorsand fire resistingwalls ✔ Phase one of the new Online SafetyTrainingsystem hasbeen finalised and sent out to about 30 Associate staff to complete. ✔ A number of face to face safety inductionsand webinarshave taken place this year covering general safety aswell asduty of care and Programme Directorssafety responsibilities. www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL Principle 3 Principle 4 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 6 Principle 5 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and the effective abolition of child labour; and occupation. RA International recognize that our key asset is our people. Consequently RA is committed to adheringto,and goingbeyond,all legal requirementsto provide fair,flexible and appropriately remunerated employment to all our directly employed and freelance contract staff. Key labour related issues for Impact involve providing a safe and healthy work environment, flexible working structures (both in terms of available contracts for staff and day to day working practices) and providing transparent remuneration and appropriate benefits for contract staff. Impact employ a large number of ‘contract’ or ‘freelance’ staff across our global offices. Because of their freelance status such staff often have the least access to representation and forms of collective bargaining. Relevant feedback from Human Resources • People are treated fairly regardless of their age, race, sexual orientation, race or ethnic group’ • ‘this is a physically safe place to work’ • ’There is a“family” /“team”feeling here’ www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL PROGRESSBEYONDTARGETS: We have completed numerousstaff safety trainingeventsthis year including: ✔ Personal Protective Equipment inspection cours.es. ✔ Safety courses for local staff ✔ NationalWater Safety Programme for support staff ✔ Trainingfor the maintenance team in AsbestosAwareness and Passive Fire Protection measures,such asfire doorsand fire resistingwalls ✔ Phase one of the new Online SafetyTrainingsystem hasbeen finalised and sent out to about 30 Associate staff to complete. ✔ A number of face to face safety inductionsand webinarshave taken place this year coveringgeneral safety aswell asduty of care and Programme Directorssafety responsibilities. www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015 RA INTERNATIONAL 2015 TARGET: Continue to encourage other sub contractors to adopt a consistent approach to safety. Whilst all contractors carry out a high level of safety, very little information is provided to ensure that actions and procedures are consistent and in line with our global safety standards. PROGRESS: Still continuing to encourage and support local sub contractors in terms of safety. There is now a quarterly safety update provided by each country. This update is assessed At the regional HQ to record, monitors and manage all safety activity. EXTERNAL SAFETY AUDITS: Due to the type of activities we deliver, senior management do spot checks on Site Safety. UNHQ also audits field activities to ensure safety and adherence to contractual obligations We have kept up to date with safety legislation changes. www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL Total accidents: • Our total accidents went up 2 from 8 to 10. • The number of accidents to participants is down from 7 to 6 from last year. • Accidents to staff were minor. All the injuries this year were minor, with a few lower limb sprains just requiring ice and Elevation, plus a broken finger from a trapped door. 2015 TARGET: Continue to develop a robust food safety system that can be measured and quantified. Increase safety awareness Implement audits across subcontractors and suppliers PROGRESS: HACCP certification achieved BN 11530. www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL PROGRESS BEYOND TARGETS: We have completed numerousstaff safety trainingeventsthisyear including: • Confined Space Entry • Personal Protective Equipment • Fire Protection and Prevention • Material Handling • Storage, Use, Disposal • Hand and Power Tools • Welding & Cutting • Scaffolding • Fall Protection • Cranes/Derricks • Food safety • HACCP refresher www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL THE HACCP CERTIFICATE www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL THE ISO CERTIFICATE www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL Principle 7 Principle 8 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental environmental challenges; responsibility; and Principle 9 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Like all businesses RA faces considerable environmental challenges. As a service organization our key challenges are around resource usage in our projects, office energy efficiency and transport. 2015 TARGET: introduce Solar power, increase construction waste reuse and increase recycling. PROGRESS: We will be installing 200 solar water heaters around all locations thus reducing generating power usage, diesel and carbon emissions. Re-Use waste: Oftentimes the waste generated on a construction site can be reused. RA International reuses excavated materials from a construction site as backfill, or alternatively for landscaping purposes. Not only does this prevent masses of wasted material, it is also very beneficial to the environment. There are numerous organisms that live in the varying layers of soil, to replace that in the area from where it came, results in minimal disruption to the ecosystem. www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL 2014 TARGET: Publish a clear travel policy that states which form of transport should be used for which purpose with the aim of reducing overall travel and increasing use of low carbon methods. PROGRESS 2015: Following a period of staff consultation we have now published a travel policy on the intranet for all staff to better inform travel choices. Staff feedback has been positive to date with any recommended changes reviewed and incorporated as necessary. All car journeys are pooled transport and the metro is used in the UAE by 70% of staff thus cutting vehicle transport. 2014 TARGET: Work with at least one of our suppliers to help them deliver their services or products in a more environmentally sound method. PROGRESS: We have changed suppliers of all cleaning products and pest control to environmentally friendly products that are made for eco-sustainability . 2015 TARGET: Gain a new award for the Impact International LLP Environment Management System. PROGRESS: We have researched the different environmental awards available to us and also sought advice on what would be most appropriate to us. At SME level, there are not a great deal of awards that have a strong set of criteria for achievement. There are many awards that are simply given following a fee and answering of a few questions. We are looking for something more robust than this, yet not a fully blown ISO 14001 for which we cannot currently justify funds. We will continue to look for a suitable alternative in 2016 www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY – MODADISHU, SOMALIA RA International constructed a waste management facility outside of the protected areas for all UN/AMISOM personnel (Over 12,000 today). Each area was facilitated with a multi-purpose shredder, packaged incinerator unit, a covered storage and sorting facility, medical incinerator, hazardous waste storage, compost facility, concrete ash holding area, landfill site, and a waste management office. The purpose of the waste management facility is to process all collected and segregated solid waste materials in order to reduce the volume of waste to more than 95% without any hazardous affects to the environment.The design Criteria was as follows: Incoming waste would be comprised of both organic and inorganic material (tires, thin steel beams, wood from construction, old trees, plastic, glass, foods, etc.)Incoming waste had to be sorted with all recyclable material being further processed by others. All organic waste had to be incinerated. Incinerator ash had to be transported to landfill site. Landfill site was fully sealed and equipped with underground sampling points to monitor groundwater. Landfill site was be de-watered continually, and water to be transported to an evaporation pond. Challenges: Security was a particular concern in this instance, for this project was constructed outside of the AMISOM protected areas. The land was constantly being overrun by the local population and required a lot of coordination with the community to ensure the project was executed to its potential. Due to the nature of this project there was particular emphasis on the sensitivity of the equipment. Specifications of incinerators and shredders had to be upgraded from the design brief to ensure the ability to cope with the anticipated waste load. RA International would deploy engineers to the manufacturers facilities to verify that upgrades were correctly implemented. Ground conditions were another challenge we faced. Due to the very harsh and unstable terrain, it was necessary to add significant additional ground stabilization measures to ensure landfill sidewalls would not collapse. www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL TARGETS FOR 2015  Further integrate environmental issues into daily working life for all staff through team days, regular updates, newsletters and meetings Empower all staff to innovate new recycling ideas.  Work with at least one of our local suppliers to help them deliver their services or products in a more environmentally sound method. Do more work in the Environmental , waste and recycling theatre of operations. Update the London Office Code of Practice for environmental performance  Minimise water usage  locate food growers locally in country to provide supplies and minimise logistics costs Each country office to partner with a local environmental NGO or charity to deliver a needed service. www.rainternationalservices.com Global Compact Report 2015: RA INTERNATIONAL Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. RA International prohibits bribes or any payments of anything of value intended to improperly influence anyone whether they are government official or not. However, because even ordinary interactions with government officials are strictly regulated, this policy has been adopted to establish the standards and procedures to be followed by RA International employees and business partners to prevent official corruption and improper payments in the conduct of RA International business worldwide. This Policy applies to all employees, contractors and members of RA International’s board of directors (collectively “employees”) and all agents, consultants, distributors, resellers and other representatives (collectively “business partners,” “agents” or “intermediaries”) acting on behalf of RA International. Employees are regularly advised to: Read, understand and follow the articulated policy and procedures Complete required anticorruption training Communicate requirements of policy to external business partners Affirm or certify that they follow anti-corruption policy and procedures www.rainternationalservices.com
