SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Table of Contents 1 About Our Report 2 Message from the CEO 4 CCI At a Glance 6 Performance Highlights 8 CCI’s Sustainability Achievements 10 Integrating Sustainability 22 Sustainability across the Value Chain 30 Corporate Governance and Ethics 34 me 42 we – Employees 56 we – Community 66 world 87 Performance Indicators 100 Glossary 101 CCI Reporting Guidance 106 GRI G4 Content Index for “In Accordance option Core” 113 Independent Assurance Letter 114 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement About Our Report We are proud to present you CCI’s eighth sustainability level of assurance was deemed “reasonable” and the report. This report includes our practices and performance materiality was considered to be below 5% by the verifier. About Our Report results obtained during the period between January 1 and The assurance statement of SGS is included on pages December 31, 2015 for five of the 10 countries in which we 114-116 of the report. operate: Azerbaijan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Pakistan and In addition, selected information as defined in the Turkey. In this report, we refer to these countries as our “five Independent Limited Assurance Report on page 113 of this countries of operation”. In the last quarter of 2015, a new report received limited assurance from the independent plant became operational in Astana, Kazakhstan, data of audit company EY. In 2015 we obtained, for the fifth which is not included in this report, unless stated otherwise. time, limited assurance on Selected Information* for our We extended the scope and boundaries of this year’s operations in Turkey. The Selected Information covered report by including full data from CCI Pakistan. With the total energy data, per-product energy use, total water inclusion of Pakistan, the coverage of the report reached withdrawal and consumption data and per-product 87% of CCI’s total production volume and 80% of CCI’s water use, as described in the CCI Reporting Guidance employees as of December 31, 2015. In our remaining included on pages 101-105 of the report. Within the context five countries of operation, there are other critical of this audit, 2015 data from CCI’s Turkey plants were priorities; therefore they are not covered in this report assessed to reach a conclusion of Limited Assurance in in terms of performance data. As we did last year, we accordance with the international standard Assurance added new contents to our report this year as well, in Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical order to meet the information disclosure requirements of Financial Information (ISAE 3000 (Revised)). In addition, various sustainability indices including the Borsa Istanbul for the second time, the same Selected Information* Sustainability Index. (total energy data, per-product energy use, total water withdrawal and consumption and per-product water use) Standards Used for our operations in Pakistan received limited assurance The three principles of the AA1000 Assurance Standard, in accordance with the international standard ISAE 3000 namely materiality, inclusiveness and responsiveness, (Revised). guided the content development process of this report. In addition, we measure and report our social, Feedback environmental and ethical performance using leading Receiving feedback from our stakeholders is vital in principles, standards and methodologies such as those helping us improve both our practices and our reporting adopted by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4, CDP processes. We evaluate every issue that comes to our Programs, the International Labor Organization (ILO), the attention, and use any feedback from our stakeholders to United Nations Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC) continuously improve our practices. and the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol developed by the We invite our stakeholders to share their opinions, World Resources Institute (WRI). suggestions or complaints by sending an e-mail to The contents of this report have been prepared in corporate.affairs@cci.com.tr, accordance with the “core” option of the G4 Sustainability or by calling the Corporate Affairs Department at Reporting Guidelines of the GRI. The report also serves +90 216 528 40 00, as our Communication on Progress (COP) to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) as well as our progress or through the Contact Us tab on our website report on implementing the United Nations Women cci.com.tr. Empowerment Principles (WEPs). Verification For the fifth consecutive year, certain data in this report were independently audited. The GHG emissions of CCI Turkey’s manufacturing, sales and distribution operations for 2015 were audited, as in the last three years, by a third-party auditing organization, SGS, and verified in accordance with the International Organization for Standardization’s ISO 14064-3 2006 Standard as meeting the requirements of ISO 14064-1. CCI Turkey successfully passed the audits. Both GHG Protocol’s Scope 1 and Scope * The Selected Information can be found in the Independent Assurance Letter 2 emissions were verified as a result of this process. The on page 113 of the report. 1 Message from the CEO Message from the CEO Dear Stakeholders, Within the past decade, Coca-Cola İçecek has grown from being a local Coca-Cola bottler to be an international company and the fifth-largest Coca-Cola bottler in the world, with annual sales exceeding 1 billion unit cases. This impressive growth inevitably increased our impact on the environment and the society rapidly. Being aware of this fact from the very early days on, as CCI, we have sought to match our business growth with our intensive efforts to achieve sustainability where it matters the most in our business. I am very pleased to say that we have come a long way since we published the first GRI-checked Sustainability Report in Turkey in 2008. Since joining the UN Global Compact in 2009, we have been firmly committed to supporting its ten principles. Thereby, we continue to strive for improvement in our policies and practices on human rights, labor conditions, environment and anti-corruption. Our objective is to further integrate these principles into our business where they matter most and effectively track our performance. As a recognition of our efforts, since 2013, CCI became a UNGC 100 Index company. Building up on our success, in 2015, we were chosen among the 29 companies to be quoted in Borsa Istanbul’s (BIST 50) Sustainability Index. Meanwhile, we continue our disclosure Muhtar Kent launched the Transparency Initiative, in which to CDP Turkey where we submitted our sixth Climate Change we also take part as CCI, to support the global fight against report, as well as our second detailed water report to the CDP obesity. Water Program this year. In 2015, we continued to expand our principal active, healthy Our geography offers many opportunities, accompanied by living program 3.2.1 Move! We mobilized around 80 thousand tremendous challenges. We managed to grow our business in youth in Turkey, Pakistan, Iraq and Kazakhstan; inspiring them 2015, both in volume and revenue, skillfully managing serious to be more physically active through training, games, sports economic, political and security challenges in our region. As events and material support offered under the framework a proof of our faith in the extensive growth potential of our of 3.2.1 Move! It is my pleasure to share that 3.2.1 Move! markets, we continued our investments this year by opening program received a Bronze Stevie Award at the 12th Annual three new plants in Multan, Astana and Dushanbe. International Business Awards, and voted as one of the best In 2015, we revised our vision and priorities with a glance corporate social responsibility programs of 2015 in Europe. towards 2025. Our vision is to be the best FMCG company The program was also recognized by the Coca-Cola system across our markets. We see our business, our consumers, this year, being honored with the Excellence Award in the our communities and the environment as interdependent and individual Wellbeing category at the 2015 Coca-Cola Eurasia inseparable from each other. We put targets every year for our and Africa Sustainability Awards. sustainability goals and measure our performance, to ensure We continue to collaborate with local ministries and sports that we know where we are and where we are going. Our federations and organize the widely popular Coca-Cola 2015 Sustainability Report is prepared to inform you, all of our Grassroots Football Tournaments in our countries of operation. stakeholders, about where we are in our sustainability journey; In 2015, around 400,000 young people in Kazakhstan and and it is also an invitation for you to join us in any way you 250,000 in Azerbaijan participated in our tournaments. can, to contribute to the well-being of our communities and the Our Let’s Play Project in Turkey has so far reached a total of environment. 800,000 students in 400 schools and 50 cities, creating play areas in primary schools and engaging school children in me: Enhancing personal well-being physical activity through games. We are committed to enhancing the personal well-being of our consumers by offering safe and superior quality we: Employees products, offering a wide range of lowor no-calorie beverage With our new 2025 vision, our motto is to act as One Team options and packaging sizes, providing transparent nutrition as CCI employees, celebrating diversity and respecting the information about all our products, marketing responsibly rights of everyone within a culture of inclusion, openness and and supporting active, healthy living programs that benefit participation. To help achieve this objective, we do our best communities. to provide a safe, happy and motivating workplace for our Regarding consumer health, we continue to work in employees, where they can feel at ease to fulfill their true partnership with TCCC. In 2015, TCCC’s Chairman and CEO potential. 2 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 In line with TCCC’s global policy, empowering women to help world: Environment them unleash their full potential in both economic and social We use natural resources such as fossil fuels for energy, and life is a major commitment for us, something that we also water in our production and as a major product ingredient. We see as crucial for the healthy and sustainable growth of our use tons of glass, resin and PET to produce millions of product business. I am very pleased to state that as of March 2015, CCI packages every year. Our activities as CCI create a significant became a signatory to the Women’s Empowerment Principles footprint in the environment and weighs heavily on the world’s Message from the CEO (WEPs) established by the UNGC and UN Women. The WEPs scarce resources; and therefore, we must do whatever we can framework will allow us to set more specific goals with regards to decrease this impact to the minimum possible. Our motto is to women’s empowerment and disclose more detailed to produce more by consuming less. information regarding our practices. Through the efficiency projects conducted in our Azerbaijan, The minimum that we as CCI are obliged to provide our Jordan, Kazakhstan, Pakistan and Turkey plants, we achieved employees is a safe and healthy workplace. We already have a total annual energy savings of 27.2 million MJ in 2015. Our various policies and guidelines to regulate not only the rights energy savings helped us reduce our CO2 emissions by 2,378 and obligations of our own employees, but also that of our tons in 2015. distributors, contracters and suppliers. In 2015, we launched our new Distributor Safety Program in five countries, reaching As a business whose main input is water, we have a vested 345 distributors and their 5,869 employees. This year we interest in preserving and improving local water sources. provided 40,900 hours of training on OHS in 5 countries, and As CCI, we reuse and recycle water in our plants to reduce in early 2016, we launched an all-encompassing program water withdrawal, treat used water via wastewater treatment called Hand in Hand Safety to reach our ultimate goal of “zero facilities and replenish it through environmental projects. accident”. Despite our efforts, the average lost time incident In 2015, we saved around 177,000 m3 of water in our five rate (LTIR) was realized as 0.49 in our reported five countries, reported countries. In 2015, the average water use ratio in showing a slight increase compared to last year’s 0.47. each of our five reported countries was below the CocaMeanwhile, our average LTIR value for all CCI countries showed Cola system average, except for Pakistan which equaled the system average. We fully support TCCC’s ultimate goal of an improvement in 2015, decreasing from 0.59 to 0.52. “replenishing every drop of water used”. In 2015, our water replenishment rate in Turkey reached 150% (up from 58% in we: Building stronger communities 2014), corresponding to about 4.27 billion liters of water. Welfare of the communities in which we operate is a primary concern for us, for it directly affects the sustainability of our We base our sustainable packaging strategy on three main business. In Turkey, we support the Anadolu Foundation and principles, which are reducing the amount of raw materials The Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation which carry out projects used in production and using recycled materials, promoting that benefit communities and the environment on CCI’s behalf. post-consumer packaging recovery and recycling, and using renewable materials such as the PlantBottle. In 2015, we CCI’s primary contribution to communities happens through produced all 330 ml Damla water bottles in Turkey using 7,600 value creation and employment generation. CCI’s economic tons of PlantBottle resin. Through our Lightweight projects, we contribution is not limited to only itself as a single company, saved 2,212 tons of resin in our four reported countries. but it indirectly entails a much larger economic system that consists of distributors, dealers, customers and suppliers. To I am also pleased to share that our efforts towards excellence give but a few examples, every TL 1 of value created by Cocagain recognition on a national and international level. This Cola in Turkey actually results in a contribution of TL 6.8 for year our Turkey operation was honored, for the third time, the Turkish economy. This multiplier value is calculated as 4.9 with the Grand Prize of Best Country Bottling Operation; and for our Pakistan operations. The Coca-Cola system in Turkey our İzmir plant was honored, for the fourth time, as the Best creates 3,000 direct and 30,000 indirect jobs. In Pakistan, Performing Plant in the environment category in the 2015 CocaCCI directly employs over 4,000 people, but the indirect Cola Eurasia and Africa Sustainability Awards. Moreover, our employment it creates adds up to 70,000. Bursa plant received an Excellence Award in the Developing Organizational Capability category from the EFQM and our In line with our commitment to women’s empowerment, we Mahmudiye plant received the National Quality Excellence implemented various projects in our countries of operation. Grand Prize in 2015. These projects mostly focus on helping women improve their On behalf of all my colleagues, I would like to thank you, all individual and social lives by creating platforms where they can of our stakeholders, for your interest and support to CCI’s improve their business skills and gain competences. More than sustainability journey. I hope that this report serves to improve 3,200 women took part in the training programs organized by CCI’s reporting and practices in sustainability even further, and our Turkey, Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan operations. evokes discussion and feedback that is necessary to take CCI’s Access to clean drinking water is a major health concern in our performance to the next level. geography. In Pakistan, we have been running our Paani Clean Sincerely, Water project in collaboration with the WWF, where have so far established eight water filtration plants that provide clean Burak Başarır drinking water to 160,000 people in Pakistan every day. We Coca-Cola İçecek, CEO intend to provide clean drinking water to more than 500,000 people every day through the additional water filtration plants that we will establish by the end of 2016. Meanwhile in 2015, we also improved access to clean and safe drinking water for a rural community of more than 25,000 people and 4,000 children in Kazakhstan by installing water filters. 3 CCI At a Glance CCI is the fifth-largest bottler in the Coca-Cola system in terms of sales volume. CCI produces, distributes and sells sparkling and still beverages of The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC) across Turkey, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, Jordan, Iraq, Syria and Tajikistan. CCI At a Glance CCI employs over 10,000 people and has a total of 25 plants, offering a wide range of beverages to a consumer base of 380 million people. In addition to sparkling beverages, the product portfolio includes juice, water, sports and energy drinks, tea and iced teas. CCI’s shares are traded on Borsa Istanbul (BIST) under “CCOLA.IS”, American depositary receipts (ADR) are traded over the counter in the United States under “COLAY”, Eurobond is traded on Irish Stock Exchange under “CCOLAT” tickers. Key Financial and Operational Indicators 2014 2015 Sales Volume 1,152 million unit cases Sales Volume Increase Turkey International Consolidated 1.9% 2.6% 1.1% 1.9% Net Sales 6,724 million TL Net Sales Increase Turkey International Consolidated 12.3% 10.0% (7.8%) 12.3% EBIT 632 million TL EBIT Increase Turkey International Consolidated 0.5% 36.7% (35.7%) 0.5% EBITDA 1,051 million TL EBITDA Increase Turkey International Consolidated 9.3% 26.7% (18.7%) 9.3% 4 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 KAZAKHSTAN CCI At a Glance AZERBAIJAN KYRGYZSTAN TURKEY TURKMENISTAN TAJIKISTAN SYRIA IRAQ JORDAN PAKISTAN Our 2025 Vision Be the best FMCG company across our markets. Our Values Passion: Teamwork: Accountability: Integrity: We put our heart and We collaborate for our We act with a high sense We are open, honest and mind into what we do. collective success. of responsibility and hold ethical, and we trust and ourselves accountable. respect each other. A Regional Power House 26 billion annual servings to 25 plants with 5th 380 million people 10 thousand employees largest bottler 10 countries $ 2 billion of investment in the past 10 years 700 thousand sales point Brands More than 25 brands in 8 categories 5 Performance Highlights Sustainability across the value chain Performance Highlights We identified and implemented 177 Operational We provided 677 training Excellence (OE) projects and improvements that resulted sessions on technical and personal 1,758 distributor in an annual saving of approximately USD 6.8 million. development to employees in Turkey. me Enhancing personal well-being Since 2011, more than About 180 schools in Iraq, Kazakhstan, Pakistan 15,000 employees and Turkey participated in the and distributors have program and 80,000 benefited. participated in our Coca-Cola More than 16% of our products sold in Turkey were lowor no-calorie beverages. Ambassador training program. Around 650,000 young people participated the Coca-Cola grassroots football tournaments in Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan. we Building stronger communities Workplace We provided a total of Our Lost time incident rate 330,865 man-hours of (LTIR) was realized as 0.49. training (corresponding to We provided 40,900 man-hours 43.4 hours per employee). of OHS training to our employees. Community The Coca-Cola Belestery program provided business skills The water filtration plants installed under training and green technologies opportunities to around our Paani – Safe Water project in 5,400 rural women in Kazakhstan since 2013. partnership with WWF-Pakistan provides clean drinking water to around 160,000 people in Pakistan. 310 women benefited from the UNDP Women’s Empowerment Program in Azerbaijan. By installing water filters, we improved access to clean and The first phase of our My Sister program completed safe drinking water for 4,000 children and in May 2016 provided training to 900 women more than 25,000 rural inhabitants in from seven provinces in Turkey. Kazakhstan. 6 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Performance Highlights world Protecting the environment Performance Highlights We provided + 5,000 man-hours of environmental training to our employees. Energy Efficiency & Climate Protection Water 60% of our coolers in Turkey are HFC-free coolers. We submitted our second report to CDP Water Program and became one of the 15 companies responding to CDP in Turkey. 87% of our coolers are equipped with EMD (energy management device) in Turkey, 50% Between 2006-2015, we achieved a water use reduction rate of in Azerbaijan and 39% in Kazakhstan. By installing EMD in our coolers 45% 30% 17% 11% 15% 184,000 tons of CO 2 in Jordan in Kazakhstan in Turkey in Azerbaijan in Pakistan* * For Pakistan the rate is calculated for 2014-2015 emissions were prevented corresponding to the amount that We achieved a 5.1% reduction in 15.3 million trees extract our annual water consumption. annually from the environment. In our plants we achieved For every liter of water we use in Turkey, we an annual energy savings of return 1.5 liter of water, which 27.1 million MJ, eliminating is equal to the daily consumption of 2,378 tons of CO 2 approximately 363,000 emissions. households . Sustainable Packaging and Waste We reduced the glass weight of our Damla 330 ml is made from returnable bottles by 20% in Turkey and 30% plant-based saved 820 tons of glass. material. Our total waste recycling rates in our plants were By using RGB we save annually about 9,000 tons of glass and therefore 96% 94% 93% 96% 71% prevent 8,500 tons of CO2 emissions in Turkey. in Turkey in Jordan in Kazakhstan in Azerbaijan in Pakistan Footnote: Unless stated otherwise, the information and figures provided are cover the five countries of operation, namely: Azerbaijan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Pakistan and Turkey. 7 CCI’s Sustainability Achievements CCI’s Sustainability Achievements 2015 2014 • CCI is the only company from Turkey that is included in the • CCI is the first and only company from Turkey and the CocaUNGC 100 Index (as of May 2016). Cola system to be included in the UNGC 100 Index. • CCI’s 2025 Vision and Strategic Framework is announced. • CCI’s sixth sustainability report is published in accordance with • CCI is quoted in the BIST 50 Sustainability Index. the GRI G4 “core” option. • CCI is quoted in the Euronext Vigeo Emerging 70 Index. • CCI İzmir plant receives an award in the Water Management category from the Green Business Platform. • CCI’s seventh sustainability report is published in accordance with GRI G4 “core” option. The report includes selected data of • CCI receives the second-highest score and wins second CCI Pakistan for the first time. place in the Transparency category in the CDP Turkey Climate Leadership Awards. • program receives a Bronze Stevie Award in the 12th Annual International Business Awards. • CCI becomes the first and only company in Turkey to participate in the CDP Water Program. • CCI Elazığ plant receives the LEED v2009 Gold Certificate in the Existing Building category. • CCI’s Corporate Governance Rating score as measured by SAHA increases from 8.8 to 9.25. • CCI is awarded the Grand Prize in the ÇEVKO Green Dot Industry Awards, which recognizes companies with environmentally sustainable practices. • CCI Ankara plant is awarded as the Best Performing Plant for Quality and CCI İzmir plant as the Best Performing Plant for the Environment in the 2014 TCCC Eurasia & Africa Group (EAG) President’s Sustainability Awards. • CCI Turkey receives three awards, including the Grand Prize • CCI Bursa and Mahmudiye plants receive National Quality of Best Country Bottling Operation of Coca-Cola Eurasia Excellence Awards. and Africa Sustainability Awards in 2015. In addition, CCI Azerbaijan and CCI Kazakhstan are voted among the 10 finalists nominated for this prize. CCI Turkey also receives the Excellence Award in the individual Well-being category and 2013 its İzmir plant receives the Best Performing Plant award in the • All plants in all operating countries complete the Top 10 environment category. Energy-Saving Challenge Program and CCI Turkey becomes • CCI becomes a signatory to the UN Women’s Empowerment the first multi-plant country operation in the Coca-Cola system Principles. to complete the program. • CCI’s Corporate Governance Rating score as measured by • CCI receives an Ethics Award from the Ethical Values Center SAHA increases from 9.25 to 9.40. Association. • CCI Bursa plant receives the EFQM Excellence Award in the • CCI wins three prizes in the 2013 TCCC EAG President’s Developing Organizational Capability category. Sustainability Awards: the Grand Prize for Best Country Bottling Operation, the Best Performing Plant for Quality, and the Best Performing Plant for the Environment. • CCI announces its new Code of Ethics, Workplace Rights Policy and Ethics Service. • CCI Turkey receives the first ISO 14064-1 certificate for its greenhouse gas emissions. • CCI becomes the first and only company in Turkey and within the Coca-Cola system to be included in the UN Global Compact 100 Index. • CCI is named one of Turkey’s carbon disclosure and performance leaders by CDP in its Turkey 100 Climate Change Report 2013. • CCI Mahmudiye plant receives National Quality Excellence • CCI Turkey receives a Gender Equality Certification from Grand Prize. KAGIDER. • All CCI Turkey plants are granted 5-Star Excellence certificates • CCI’s fifth sustainability report is published in accordance with by the EFQM. the GRI’s A+ application level. 8 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 • CCI publishes its second CSR report, which includes Jordan and Kazakhstan operations and the report becomes Turkey’s CCI’s Sustainability Achievements first GRI B-level report. 2009 • CCI ranks first in Turkey’s Accountability Rating. • CCI becomes a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. 2008 • CCI Corporate Governance Committee is established. • CCI’s first CSR report is published, becoming the first GRIchecked CSR report in Turkey. 2012 • CCI is recognized as one of Turkey’s top two carbon 2007 performance leaders of 2012 by CDP. • CCI İzmir and Mersin plants complete the Top 10 Energy-Saving • CCI ranks fifth in Turkey’s Accountability Rating. Challenge of TCCC and WWF (the World Wildlife Fund). • CCI is named among the companies with the best sustainable development practices in Turkey, and represents Turkey in the 2006 Rio+20 Innovation Competition. • CCI Ankara plant receives EFQM’s (the European Foundation for • CCI Ankara plant receives the first ISO 22000 Food Safety Quality Management) Taking Responsibility for a Sustainable Quality Management System certification. Future prize. • CCI’s fourth Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report receives GRI check as an “A+” application level. 2004 • Turkey, Azerbaijan and Jordan operations are among the finalists in TCCC EAG President’s Sustainability Awards. CCI • CCI İzmir plant receives the first HACCP TS 13001 Food Safety Turkey wins the Best Country Bottling Operation Grand Prize. Quality Management System certification. CCI Ankara plant is recognized as the Best Performing Plant for Quality and CCI İzmir plant as the Best Performing Plant for the Environment. 2003 • CCI Ankara plant wins TCCC Eurasia Africa Group Presidency 2011 Quality Award. • CCI Ankara plant receives the first OHSAS 18001 Occupational • CCI Jordan wins an Occupational Health and Safety Health and Safety Management System certification. Management Award. • CCI’s third CSR report is published and covers operations in Turkey, Kazakhstan, Jordan and Azerbaijan. 2002 • CCI becomes a charter member of the Climate Change Leaders Group. • CCI’s first environment policy takes effect. • CCI becomes Turkey’s first food and beverage company to • CCI receives its first ISO 14001 Environmental Management participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project, and one of the System certification. country’s five carbon disclosure leaders. • CCI signs the 2°C Communiqué regarding climate protection. 1997 2010 • CCI Mersin plant obtains the first ISO 9001 Quality Certificate and Certificate of Compliance with The Coca-Cola Quality • CCI’s 2020 Vision and Strategic Framework is announced. system. • CCI İzmir plant wins the Best Performing Plant for the Environment Award in TCCC EAG President’s Environment Awards. 1994 • CCI Turkey wins the Best Country Bottling Operation Grand Prize in TCCC EAG President’s Environment Awards. • CCI undersigns TCCC water use savings commitment. 9 INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY Integrating Sustainability Sustainability is a fundamental and indispensable aspect of our business. It is embedded in our 2025 vision and goals. We integrate sustainability principles into all our operations and activities. In line with our 2025 vision, we will continue to create value for all our stakeholders by offering our consumers a wide choice of products fit for every lifestyle and occasion, being the preferred partner of our customers, offering a great place to work for our employees and being a good corporate citizen. Our 2025 Vision To be the best FMCG company across our markets. Sustainability Approach we, world” – is our shared vision with TCCC for how we can work together to create social value, enable Our overall sustainability goal is to ensure the longpositive change for the consumers and communities term viability of our business by being proactive and we serve, and help preserve our environment. While innovative in environmental protection and to be this framework was developed by TCCC, we adapted it recognized as one of the most responsible corporate to suit CCI’s needs. Under this framework, we identified citizens by all stakeholders. In line with this approach, eight material areas that we closely manage, which our sustainability strategy focuses on issues that are are listed in the figure on the next page. The contents material for our stakeholders and our company. of our sustainability report reflect our commitments and Our sustainability framework – what we call “me, progress in these areas. 10 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 3 Pillars of Our Sustainability Framework and Core Sustainability Areas Integrating Sustainability ME WE WORLD Enhancing personal well-being Building stronger communities Protecting the environment Product Safety and Quality: We Workplace: We aim to provide Energy Management and Climate aim to maintain high safety and a happy, safe and motivating Protection: We strive to reduce quality requirements with our workplace where our our energy consumption and products. employees can fulfill their true GHG emissions, and contribute to potential. global efforts to support climate protection. Consumer Well-Being: We are Community: We strive to Water Management: We strive committed to offering lowor build stronger communities to protect watersheds, reduce no-calorie beverage options in our wherever we operate and build risks to water supplies and move markets, providing transparent local partnerships focusing towards balancing our water use nutrition information and on social needs, such as through reducing, recycling and marketing responsibly. women empowerment, youth replenishing. development and environmental protection. Active, Healthy Living: We are Sustainable Packaging and committed to helping people get Waste: We aim to minimize the moving by supporting physical environmental impact of packaging activity programs. and achieve our ultimate goal of “zero waste to landfill”. Governance of Sustainability • To review performance and quarterly progress on key performance indicators (KPIs); and The CCI Board of Directors is actively engaged in • To give final approval for sustainability disclosures. the company's sustainability issues and integrating sustainability into business strategy. In 2015, one of CCI’s Function heads of CCI at both the group and country independent board members, Yılmaz Argüden, was levels integrate the sustainability targets set by the also the Chairman of UNGC Turkey Network and UNGC SSC into their respective functional objectives. All CCI Board Member. The CCI Board of Directors’ Corporate function heads play a critical role in making sure that Governance Committee has the ultimate responsibility sustainability priorities and targets are embedded in in determining and implementing the sustainability field operations. The strategic orientation and objectives strategy. This responsibility is undertaken by the CCI that are determined by upper-level management Executive Committee, which is headed by the CEO, and processes are conveyed to functional management to by the CCI Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC) that be integrated into field practices. The Corporate Affairs became functional in 2015. The CCI Executive Committee function is responsible for the disclosure, reporting and is comprised of senior management, and the SSC is communication of sustainability targets and performance composed of CCI’s Finance, Corporate Affairs, Legal, results. Human Resources and Supply Chain Directors. In 2015, Two working groups support the SSC: the Climate CCI Corporate Affairs Director Atilla D. Yerlikaya was also Protection & Energy Management and the Environment the Deputy Chairman of UNGC Turkey Network. & Water Management working groups. These working The main responsibilities of the SSC are: groups are composed of plant energy coordinators, • To set the long-term sustainability vision, strategy, plan and the function managers of Logistics, Cooling and goals, and to submit these for CEO approval; Equipment, Procurement, Engineering, Corporate Affairs, • To make decisions on capital expenditures regarding Administration and TCCC Technical and Public Affairs in sustainability; Turkey. 11 Our employees are key enablers in integrating maintenance and quality while maintaining minimum sustainability into our business practices. Our technical levels of waste, energy and resource consumption operators in particular play a significant role in achieving and environmental impact. We work hard to foster a supply chain and operational excellence targets through culture of sustainability throughout CCI operations by the improvements they make in production processes by recognizing our employees through awards programs Integrating Sustainability maintaining maximum levels of operational efficiency, such as CCIdea. Communication and Engagement on Sustainability In CCI we find it important to be in an ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders to obtain better insights about their expectations and to share with them our efforts on sustainability. We strive to develop long-term relationships, and to create platforms for open and honest dialogue. We use various platforms such as annual sustainability reports, our corporate website, and reports to CDP Water and CDP Climate Change Programs. We engage with our key stakeholders through platforms such as stakeholder panel workshops, external report review committee, factory visits, investor calls and questionnaires, and stakeholder reputation surveys. CCI’s Roadmap for Communication on Sustainability 2010 Materiality analysis to determine key sustainability pillars 2011-2012 Update of the materiality analysis 2013 Stakeholder panel to review CCI 2011 CSR Report 2013 Stakeholder mapping workshop 2014 Materiality analysis in line with GRI G4 2014 Review of the sustainability report by an External Report Review Committee 2014-2015 Boundary of the report extended to cover five countries of operation 2017 2018 Boundary of the report will be extended to cover six countries of operation 2019 Integrated Report 12 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 Corporate Reputation Survey in CCI Turkey We listen to the opinion of our stakeholders In 2013 we conducted a comprehensive stakeholderabout our company via a survey that we conduct mapping workshop with the participation of once every two years to measure our corporate Integrating Sustainability representatives from CCI headquarters, all Turkey reputation. In 2015, the survey was conducted by business units, Turkish plants, and the commercial team an external survey company, targeting national to identify key stakeholders and devise engagement and local intellectual leaders (representative of plans. We used AccountAbility’s AA1000 SES Standard communities), public institutions, general public and and the EFQM Business Excellence Model to map and neighbor organizations. Primary topics covered by prioritize our stakeholders and to map the existing the survey were management quality, product and engagement methods and the frequency of engagement service quality, employee brand image, financial strength, emotional commitment, work location with our key stakeholders. We reviewed these results and environment, contribution to the society (social with our senior managers from various business responsibility) and impact on the environment. functions in 2014. Within the context of sustainability communication, we identified our key stakeholders as: Case: Capacity Building on Stakeholder • investors and financial institutions Engagement in Pakistan • non-governmental organizations CCI Pakistan held a two-day interactive training • opinion leaders on stakeholder engagement attended by over 20 participants from various departments in 2015. The • shareholders workshop aimed to equip business leaders with • employees, and necessary public relations and media management • the Coca-Cola system. skills, enabling them to independently engage with local stakeholders in each territory. It gave For business continuity, we also engage regularly and participants a thorough knowledge of public intensively with other stakeholders, including: relations, covering the subjects of stakeholder • distributors mapping, stakeholder engagement, an overview of • customers, and the media landscape in Pakistan, as well as media • suppliers. engagement and crisis management. We Sponsored the Sustainability Summit in Boğaziçi University As CCI Turkey, in May 2015, we sponsored the Sustainability Summit organized jointly by Boğaziçi University’s Center for Corporate Governance and the Sustainable Development and Cleaner Production Center. The summit brought together prominent opinion leaders in the field of environment, society and corporate governance. CCI Turkey’s General Manager was also among the speakers of the summit. 13 How do we respond to stakeholders’ questions and concerns? G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 Stakeholders Engagement Platforms Frequency of Examples of issues that were engagement brought up by stakeholders in 2015 Integrating Sustainability Investors Annual report, investor conferences, Regular and CCI’s financial, operational and sustainability and financial analyst meetings, investor presentation, often performance; future investment plans. institutions webcast, e-mail distributions, special case Example: We became one of the 29 Turkish announcements, Public Disclosure Platform, companies quoted in Borsa Istanbul’s direct feedback forms through the corporate Sustainability Index in 2015. website, sustainability report, CDP Climate Example: We are included in the Euronext Change Report, CDP Water Report, BIST Vigeo Emerging 70 Index as of December Sustainability Index Assessment 2015. CCI’s 2015 performance was also assessed and rated as “AA” as part of MSCI ESG Rating. NGOs Project partnerships, corporate and individual Regular CCI’s operational, environmental, quality employee memberships, participation in and community-related performance; conferences and presentations, reputation transparency and reporting. survey, stakeholder engagement panel Example: CCI Pakistan and WWF-Pakistan signed a memorandum of understanding under which both organizations jointly work to improve access to safe drinking water. Example: CCI became a signatory to the Women’s Empowerment Principles established by the United Nations Global Compact and UN Women. Example: We conducted a corporate reputation survey in Turkey in 2015. Opinion leaders Reputation Survey, sustainability report, External Regular CCI’s operational, environmental, quality and Stakeholder Review Committee, stakeholder community-related performance. engagement panel Shareholders General Assemblies, corporate website, Public Regular Financial and operational performance and Disclosure Platform reporting. Employees Employee engagement and satisfaction survey, Regular Business results, environmental performance, Newsline, Newsletter, CokePort, Vision 2020 community projects, awards and (CCI Turkey Magazine), press releases, CCI recognitions, compensation and benefits training programs, leadership development topics. trainings, reputation surveys, CCI Community Example: We launched CCIdea, a new Champions Awards Program, CCIdea platform where all our employees have the opportunity to share their innovative ideas. In 2015, our employees from CCI Turkey submitted 323 new ideas. A CCI-wide employee survey was conducted in 2015. The Coca-Cola Regular meetings, TCCC’s Sustainability, Public Regular, very CCI’s and its suppliers’ sustainability System Affairs and Communication Summits often performance. Example: TCCC shares its sustainability vision and strategy in the Eurasia Sustainability Summit in June each year. Distributors/ Customer Interaction Center, Distributor Periodic Business performance, commercial plans, Sellers Satisfaction Survey, distributor meetings and satisfaction scores. trainings, regular visits, plant visits, distributor Example: We provided capacity-building portal, CCI Call Center trainings to the owners and employees of our distributors. Customers Trainings, support programs, regular visits, Periodic Business performance, commercial plans, plant visits, Coca-Cola Customer Road Show, products, marketing plans. Customer Satisfaction Survey, CCI Call Center, Example: We hosted our modern trade focus group studies, business development channel customers for the annual Customer meetings Business Development Meetings that aim to review the past year’s business results and discuss improvement opportunities. 14 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Stakeholders Engagement Platforms Frequency of Examples of issues that were engagement brought up by stakeholders in 2015 Suppliers Training programs, improvement audits, plant Regular Quality of the materials and services, visits, supplier days, supplier performance future plans, strategic initiatives, business Integrating Sustainability scores, supplier satisfaction surveys, performance, sustainability, workplace rights, cooperation portal, Green Supplier Awards, innovation in cooling equipment. industrial development and pilot activities Example: In 2015 we conducted our second supplier satisfaction survey which is an opportunity for our suppliers to evaluate our company. We achieved an overall score of 83%, which indicates that our suppliers are satisfied to work with CCI. Public Information for contribution to sector Annual CCI’s operational, environmental, quality and Institutions and development, compliance with laws and reputation community-related performance; compliance Organizations regulations, support for infrastructure survey, regular with regulations. investments, Reputation Survey, Environment meetings Example: A team of seven officials from Days, Presentations, expertise sharing in public the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) conferences, plant visits of Punjab visited our plant in Gujranwala, Pakistan where they observed the operation of the wastewater treatment plant. Consumers Coca-Cola Open to Curiosity Platform, Regular Product quality, consumer satisfaction, Coca-Cola Social Interaction Center, informative lowand no-calorie product alternatives, publications, plant visits, product labels nutritional labeling, product ingredients. Union Union representation, collective labor Regular Human and workplace rights. agreements, representative meetings, plant visits Sector Groups Corporate memberships, joint projects, Regular Industry-wide issues, regulations, legal meetings, conferences compliance, speaking engagements at conferences, benchmark visits to plants. Example: CCI Jordan supported the ninth Arab Regional Conference that focused on highlighting the best social responsibility practices in the Jordanian corporate sector. More than 300 business leaders from the region participated in the event. Local community Stakeholder Survey, voluntary practices, Annual CCI’s operational, environmental, quality donations, plant visits, field studies, needs and community-related performance; analyses for community investment projects, sponsorship and donation requests. economic impact assessments Example: CCI Pakistan conducted an economic impact study in collaboration with research teams from two leading business schools in Lahore. Society Coca-Cola Open to Curiosity Platform, Regular Product quality, product ingredients, donations, plant visits, voluntary practices, marketing and promotion campaigns, sports product labels, advertisement and marketing tournaments. activities, social engagement projects, field Example: Our Employee and Families studies, meetings, surveys and eliciting Volunteering Clubs continued to conduct opinions, sustainability report social responsibility projects and community welfare activities based on the local needs of the communities where our plants are located. Example: Corporate reputation survey was repeated in Turkey in 2015. Media Regular updated, statements, support Regular Products, marketing and promotion programs, regular visits, plant visits, reputation campaigns, product ingredients, survey sustainability performance, community development projects. Universities Conferences, career days, plant visits, Regular Sustainability performance, career sponsorships, volunteering for community development opportunities. development projects Example: Sponsored the Sustainability Summit organized in Boğaziçi University in May 2015. 15 Defining the Contents of Report G4-18, G4-19, We worked further to integrate these comments and G4-20, G4-21, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 suggestions to the 2015 report. Our sustainability efforts as well as the contents of our External Report Review Committee sustainability report focus on issues that are material to Members Integrating Sustainability our sector, company and diverse stakeholders. In 2015, we engaged an external report review Process for Identification of Material Issues committee. The committee members included: We identify material issues through materiality analysis • Asst. Prof. Tamer Atabarut, Director of Lifelong based on GRI G4 aspect list, various stakeholder Learning Center & Deputy Director of Sustainable engagement and dialogue activities, desktop research Development and Cleaner Production Center, Boğaziçi on broad-based societal expectations, and benchmarks University with other food and beverage companies. When • Prof. Güler Aras, Founding Director of Center for developing the contents of our report, we use GRI’s four Finance, Governance & Sustainability, Yıldız Technical Principles for Defining Report Content: sustainability University context, materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness and • İbrahim Betil, Founder, Sen-de-Gel Association completeness. • Ozan Çakmak, Policy and Partnerships Officer, We conducted our first comprehensive materiality International Labor Organization Turkey Office. analysis in 2010 using TCCC’s global sustainability Main Comments Provided in 2015 framework as a guide. Since then, each year we review and revise our material issues considering their • CCI’s 2014 sustainability report clearly explains both relevance and importance for our stakeholders, as well the commitments and the efforts of CCI to improve its as their impact on our business. In the beginning of 2014, sustainability performance. we conducted a materiality analysis of various business • CCI has taken into account all relevant stakeholder functions with our senior managers. These managers groups to provide extensive information on its annual shared not only their own opinions on what is important sustainability practices. for CCI, but also the expectations of stakeholders • The report includes commitment of CCI’s top with whom they maintain regular communication. management on sustainability issues and consultation Additionally, we covered issues that are considered with stakeholders about the content of the report. material by sustainability indices. • The report contains elements that contribute positively Moreover, for the purpose of reviewing the contents of to its reliability and transparency, including external our sustainability reports and revising the list of material assurance and verification of selected information and issues, we received feedback from an external report a detailed Report Guidance section of this report. review committee in 2015. It was possible to integrate • The report provides a wide range of qualitative and many of the comments and suggestions in the final quantitative information. version of the 2014 report, while some other suggestions • CCI has a very comprehensive Workplace Rights Policy necessitated either additional actions or disclosure. (WRP) that covers many essential topics. 16 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 In 2015, we further worked on some of our improvement areas which are summarized in the table below. Main Comments Provided by the External Review Committee in 2015 Improvement Recommended Action Progress Made in 2015 and Further Commitments Integrating Sustainability Areas Content and Extend the boundary of the Report We extended the boundary of the report by including full-data Boundary of by including all of CCI’s active from our Pakistan operations (6 plants). With the inclusion of the Report operations. Pakistan, the coverage of the report reached 87% of CCI’s total production volume. We plan to include another country of operation within the next two years. Increase the level of transparency Regarding consumer health, we will continue to work in regarding the perceived impact of partnership with TCCC, the owner of the brand. TCCC is increasing Coca-Cola products on consumer its efforts to ensure maximum transparency regarding its actions health. concerning the fight against obesity. In 2015, TCCC’s Chairman and CEO Muhtar Kent launched the Transparency Initiative and TCCC has made a strong commitment to publish on its corporate website a list of all system efforts to reduce calories and market responsibly, along with a list of health and well-being partnerships and research activities it has funded in the past five years, which will be updated every six months. As a company of the Coca-Cola system, CCI also participates in this initiative. Increase the transparency regarding Regarding managing our environmental impacts on the raw CCI's success in managing the material suppliers’ side, in the first half of 2016, we will establish environmental impacts of its raw a work group that is composed of TCCC and CCI Procurement, material suppliers. Supply Chain and Corporate Affairs function representatives. The aim of the group is to investigate opportunities and conduct feasibility studies to identify sustainable supply sources in the regions where CCI operates and set quantitative goals to comply with TCCC’s 2020 sustainable agriculture guidelines. Reliability and Provide more disclosure about We described CCI’s risks and challenges in the Risk Transparency CCI’s challenges and areas for Management section of the report and shared detailed data on improvement. 2015 legal non-compliance in the World section of the report. Quantitative Disclose the quantitative results The quantitative results of our programs on community Information of CCI’s programs on community investment and active healthy living are provided in the relevant investment and active, healthy sections of the report. living. Women Set more ambitious goals related to In 2015 we became a signatory to the United Nations Women Empowerment women’s empowerment. Empowerment Principles (WEPs). In 2016 we will set goals to comply with the requirements of WEPs and disclose more detailed information regarding our practices and performance results. We already set a goal to appoint a female leader in our senior management and our Board of Directors and to develop a women empowerment program in 2016. Workplace Set more ambitious goals and We work continuously to improve our workplace practices that Rights Policy further improve CCI’s practices. respect human rights and comply with applicable local labor laws (WRP) and core international conventions. In order to focus on developing transparent and inclusive workplaces we set the bar very high and aim to achieve “green” score for all our countries of operation in the WRP audit of TCCC. Green score indicates that we do not need to take further action in the WPR topics (same topics as SGP). 17 Our Material Issues G4-19, G4-23 matrix. We actively monitor and manage these issues The graph below illustrates our material issues in the and communicate our actions and performance through context of sustainability management and reporting. different media, including our sustainability reports. Top Right: Issues that are listed in the top right corner Bottom left: The bottom left corner of the materiality matrix Integrating Sustainability of the matrix are material issues that are relevant to includes the list of issues that we have assessed but do most of our stakeholders and important to the success not find material enough to disclose our performance in of our company. These issues have a relatively high this report. Although these issues are less material to our environmental, social or economic impact, and are stakeholders, we still monitor and/or manage them. therefore included in our priority list for managing and As illustrated in the figure below, for this report, representatives improving our performance. This report focuses on these from relevant functions from CCI Headquarter reviewed material issues. and updated our material issues in the light of our risk Middle: Issues that are important to some of our management practices, the data requested by sustainability stakeholders, or issues that we believe have less impact indices, as well as CCI’s and TCCC’s priorities in 2016. The on our business, are listed in the middle of the materiality issues marked with a “*” sign have been revised. High • Wastewater • Product Quality and Labeling • Corporate Governance • Consumer Health and Safety and • Anti-competitive Behavior Well-Being • Economic Performance • Occupational Health and Safety • Indirect Economic Impact* • Energy Efficiency and Carbon • (Raw) Materials Sourcing Reduction Influence on Stakeholder Assessment and Decision • Biodiversity* • Packaging and Waste • Sustainable Agriculture (sugar)* • Water Use • Transport • Compliance • Work Place Rights* • Business Ethics • Freedom of Association and • Supplier and Distributor Assessment Collectiv Bargaining • Diversity and Inclusion (incl. Women • Prohibition of Forced Labor Empowerment)* • Commitment for No Child Labor • Community Engagement • Arbitrary Discrimination • Working Hours and Wages • Safe and Healthy Workplace • Workplace Security • Emissions to Air • Grievance Mechanisms • Customer Privacy • Training and Education • Indigenous Rights • Security Practices • Investment and Procurement Practices • Equal Remuneration for Women and Men • Financial Assistance Received from Governments Low Low Medium High Significance of Environmental, Social and Economic Impact Notes: 1) The issues that are highlighted in blue are also material for our supply chain (e.g. our suppliers, distributors, customers, consumers and TCCC). 2) The issues given in the quadrants above are not listed in terms of their relative importance. 3) In the figure, “Low” indicates a score between 0 and 4.0, “Medium” indicates a score between 4.0 and 4.6 and “High” indicates a score between 4.6 and 5.0. Aspect Boundaries G4-20, G4-21, G4-23 assessment, we take into account our level of influence We assess material issues not only for our own on the issue, which can be either direct or indirect. In the operations, but also for the operations of other matrix above, the issues that are also material for our stakeholders in our supply chain; namely suppliers, supply chain and where we have influence are marked distributors and customers. While conducting this in red. Information on our efforts and performance on these issues are available in this report. 18 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 For example, energy efficiency and carbon emissions reduction are important issues for our customers and we CCI Turkey Submits 2015 CDP Climate have a direct influence on them. We help our customers Change and Water Reports reduce their energy consumption by offering them CCI Turkey submitted its 2015 reports to the CDP energy-efficient coolers. Integrating Sustainability Climate Change and Water Programs. CCI has been part of the CDP Turkey’s Climate Change Program There are other issues where we do not have a direct since 2011 and the CDP Water Program since 2014. influence, such as those managed by TCCC. For CCI was the first company from Turkey to be invited example, child labor and biodiversity issues with regard by Nordea to be part of the CDP Global Water to our suppliers’ agricultural operations are managed Program. by TCCC through Supplier Guiding Principles (SGP) audits conducted by third parties. The results for 2015 CDP global and Turkey water programs were announced in a meeting organized Our Corporate Memberships by Sabancı University Corporate Governance Forum. In 2015, 51 large BIST 100 companies were invited to By engaging with business and sector specific NGOs, join the CDP Water Program and only eight of them we follow topics related to reputation and regulations. responded. CCI was one of the 15 Turkish companies In 2015, we continued our membership to the following that reported their water risks and performances NGOs and business associations: during the program’s first year in Turkey. In the • ÇEVKO (Environmental Protection and Packaging scoring, which runs from A to D-, CCI achieved a B, Waste Recovery and Recycling Trust) that is classified as a Good Result and the highest score achieved among the Turkish companies. • TÜSİAD (Turkish Industry and Business Association) Meanwhile globally only eight companies were able • YASED (International Investors Association) to score an A. Our reports submitted to the CDP can • MEDER (Beverage Industry Association) be reached on www.cdp.net. • KALDER (Turkish Quality Association) • DEİK (Foreign Economic Relations Board) • SUDER (Packed Water Manufacturers Association) • MEYED (Fruit Juice Industry Association) • TEİD (Turkish Ethics and Reputation Society) • TÜYİD (Investor Relations Association) CCI Signs UN Women’s Empowerment Principles • TOBB (Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey) Empowering women to unleash their full potential in both economic and social life is a priority and • TGDF (Federation of Food and Drink Industry a long-term commitment for CCI, something Associations of Turkey) that is also indispensable to ensure sustainable • Brand Protection Group business growth and increased welfare in the society. As of 4 March 2015 CCI became a • UN Global Compact Network Turkey signatory to the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) established in 2010 by the UNGC and the Initiatives to Which We Are Signatories United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the • CDP Climate Change Program Empowerment of Women (UN Women). WEPs • CDP Water Program ensure that necessary measures and actions are taken within corporations to address a wide range • Equality at Work Platform of issues concerning women such as gender • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) equality, respect and support for human rights and • Turkish Climate Platform of the Turkish Climate Change nondiscrimination, health, safety and well-being, Leaders Group education, training and professional development. As of March 2016, WEPs were signed by 83 • The 2°C Challenge Communiqué of the Prince of companies in Turkey and over 1,100 companies Wales’s Corporate Leaders Group globally. • United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles 19 External Recognition CCI Included for the Third Time in The Global Awarded as One of the Best Integrating Sustainability Compact 100 Stock Index* CSR Programs in Europe As per the results of the rating conducted by the CCI’s program running since 2013 was international sustainability-rating agency Sustainalytics, selected as one of the best corporate social responsibility CCI was selected once again to be included in the programs of 2015 in Europe, receiving a Bronze Stevie UNGC 100 Index. Announced in May 2016, CCI was Award in the 12th Annual International Business Awards still the only company to be included in the Index from (IBAs). Meanwhile CCI’s Community Champions Awards Turkey. This year CCE joined the UNGC 100 Index along Program, initially launched in 2010, has been selected with CCI as the second Coca-Cola bottler. CCI was as one of the best communications or PR campaigns of chosen as the first the year in the low budget category, receiving a Silver company from Turkey Stevie Award. As the world’s premier business awards and the Coca-Cola program, the 2015 IBAs received entries from more than system to be included 60 nations and territories. More than 3,700 nominations in UNGC 100 Index from organizations of all sizes and in virtually every during 2013/2014. industry were submitted this year. Stevie Award winners were determined by the average scores of more than 200 executives worldwide who participated in the CCI Turkey Won TCCC EAG Best Country judging process from May through August. Bottling Operation Grand Prize in 2015 CCI Turkey received three awards including the Grand Prize of Best Country Bottling Operation at the CocaCola Eurasia and Africa Sustainability Awards ceremony organized in June in Istanbul. The Grand Prize is given every year to the operation that has the best performance in quality, environment and contribution to the society. In addition to the Grand Prize, Turkey also received the Excellence Award in the individual Wellbeing category with its youth active lifestyle program and CCI İzmir plant received the Best Performing Plant award in the environment category. CCI Quoted in the BIST 50 Sustainability Index CCI’s iLead2020 Training Program Received CCI became one of the 29 Turkish companies quoted in Best Leadership Program Award from TEGEP Borsa Istanbul’s new Sustainability Index. CCI’s inclusion CCI received the Best Leadership Program award with its in this important index is a strong message reaffirming iLead2020 training program and a Special Jury Award our commitment in adhering to sustainability principles with its Sales Team Capacity Development program in all aspects of our operations. In 2015, CCI’s practices in the Learning and Development Awards organized and disclosure performance in a wide range of areas by the Turkish Learning and Development Association such as environmental management, climate change (TEGEP). This year 23 Turkish companies competed with mitigation, biodiversity, governance, anti-corruption, 33 projects in six categories human rights, supply chain, health and safety was consisting of leadership, assessed by EIRIS for the first time within the framework learning and development, of the BIST Sustainability Index. The Index launched in sales, learning technologies, 2014, aims to provide a benchmark for Borsa Istanbul social responsibility and companies that perform well in terms of sustainability mentorship. and to increase awareness, knowledge, and practices regarding sustainability in Turkey. *“The Global Compact 100 stock index, developed by Sustainalytics, is composed of a representative group of Global Compact companies. Constituents are chosen for the Index with the three goals of sector representation (free-float market cap weights) within a range of the key, well-known global indexes; geographic representation within a range of the key, well-known global indexes; and to choose companies that have strong practices and performance in adhering to the principles of the UN Global Compact around management of human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. The constituents of the Global Compact 100 are reviewed on an annual basis in September.” 20 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 CCI Quoted in the Euronext Vigeo Emerging 70 CCI Azerbaijan Received CSR Excellence Awards Index CCI Azerbaijan received three awards in the Corporate CCI was included in the Euronext Vigeo Emerging 70 Social Responsibility Excellence Awards organized by the Index as of December 2015. The index distinguishes 70 American Chamber of Commerce (ACC) in Azerbaijan. Integrating Sustainability companies from emerging countries that achieve the Competing among the member companies of the ACC, most advanced environmental, social and governance CCI took 3rd place in Public Awareness and 2nd place in performances. Companies quoted in the index are Economic Empowerment and Environmental Excellence assessed by Vigeo, a leading European Agency categories, winning three excellence awards. specialized in evaluating corporate responsibility through six domains: business behavior, community CCI Turkey Plants Received EFQM Excellence involvement, Award and 5-Star Excellence Certificate corporate governance, In 2015 CCI Bursa plant received an Excellence Award in environment, human the Developing Organizational Capability category from rights and human the EFQM and CCI Mahmudiye plant received the National resources. Quality Excellence Grand Prize. Meanwhile in July 2015, all of CCI Turkey plants were granted a 5-Star Excellence certificate by the EFQM as per the results of the assessment carried out CCI Received Best Investor Award From the in 2014. Turkey’s Supply Chain operation was also assessed State of Kazakhstan by EFQM in 2015 and received a 5-star recognition for all CCI received the Best Investor award from the state of of its departments including Customer Services (Logistics, Kazakhstan as a recognition of its contribution to the Planning, Order Management, Customer Management, development of the country with its investments and Engineering, CDE), Purchasing and Operations. EFQM’s operations. The award came as a testimony to CCI’s 5-star certificate is given to position as the company with the most consistent growth high performing organizations in the Kazakh beverage market, with long-term growth where change is the norm and plans as demonstrated by its new Astana plant opened that continually improve, refine in 2015. and simplify their practices in order to meet their goals. 21 SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS THE Sustainability across the Value Chain VALUE CHAIN CCI is one of TCCC’s more than 250 bottling partners worldwide, and manufactures, packages, merchandises and distributes the final branded beverages to its customers, who then sell them to consumers. We have access to close to 740,000 sales points through our extensive sales and distribution network. More than 380 million consumers enjoy our products in our wide operating geography that consists of 10 countries. We strive to improve our environmental and social performance at every step of our value chain. Since our larger social and environmental impact goes beyond the boundaries of our own operations, in cooperation with TCCC, we help develop capacity and create awareness among our suppliers, distributors and customers to improve their performances. CCI's Value Chain R AL U LT U T S PA C K AG RIC DIEN ING AG G R E IN S ER UM M NS AN UF GB AC YC O TUR E N J OY I N ING ORT DT R E FR R AN SP IGE AN TIO RA IC N ST GI LO CU S TO RS ME U TO RS DIS TRIB 22 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Goals and Commitments Sustainability across the Value Chain Priority Areas 2015 Goals Performance in 2015 Status 2016 Goals Excellence in To continue involving Involving our distributors in N No new target for distributors. our Operations our distributors in new Operational Excellence projects Operational Excellence was very limited due to economic projects in Turkey. reasons. To receive Recognition We received Recognition for A To receive an EFQM Prize for Turkey for Excellence 5-Stars Excellence 5-Stars for Turkey operations. for Turkey operations, operations. including plants, logistics, planning and purchasing. Sustainability To conduct a Supplier We conducted a Supplier A To conduct this survey every two years and of our Suppliers Satisfaction Survey in 2015. Satisfaction Survey. increase our supplier satisfaction score. To attain a success rate of The overall SGP success rate N To attain a success rate of 92% for the SGP 91% for the SGP audits in was 82% for these four countries audits in all countries of operation. Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan and 83% including Pakistan. and Azerbaijan. The reason for not achieving the target is explained on page 27. Capacity To provide occupational We developed a distributor safety To continue providing occupational health A Building of our health and safety training program and provided training and safety training to our distributors. Distributors to our distributors. to our distributors. We reached 345 distributors and their 5,869 employees in Azerbaijan, Turkey, Kazakhstan, Jordan and Pakistan. Customer To achieve a customer We will conduct our customer O To achieve a customer satisfaction Satisfaction satisfaction performance satisfaction survey in 2016. performance score that is above the average score that is above the score of our competitors. average score of our competitors. To organize a Local Key Accounts’ Joint Business Plan meeting in Istanbul. A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved Our Operations We conduct bottling and distribution operations with 25 plants in 10 countries. Legal compliance, continuous improvement and excellence in our operations are key priorities for the sustainability of our company. Beyond Compliance In the Coca-Cola system, the set of operating requirements known as KORE governs food safety and quality, environment, and health and safety performances in our plants. KORE is consistent with the external standards and principles listed in the table below. In all our plants and for all relevant processes, we operate in accordance with the requirements of these standards, and audits are conducted annually both by third parties and by TCCC internal auditors. 23 Issue Internal Policies Related External Standards and Sustainability across the Value Chain Principles Environmental management CCI Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Policy ISO 14001 TCCC HSE Policy KORE EOSH* Requirements Water management KORE – EOSH Requirements ISO 14001 Energy management & carbon KORE EOSH Requirements ISO 14001, ISO 50001, ISO 14064-1, GHG Production emissions Protocol Sustainable packaging & waste KORE EOSH Requirements ISO 14001, PAS223 management Quality management KORE OE ISO 9001, EFQM Business Excellence (Production process) Model, Lean Six Sigma Product quality & safety KORE ISO 9001, ISO 22000, FSSC 22000, GFSI** Occupational health & safety KORE EOSH Requirements OHSAS 18001 Sustainable supply chain Supplier Guiding Principles UNGC, GRI Marketing responsibly TCCC Responsible Marketing Policy, TCCC Global School Beverage Guideline Human and workplace rights Workplace Rights Policy UN Guiding Principles on Business and Other Human Rights Anti-corruption CCI Ethics Code, Workplace Rights Policy UNGC Community involvement TCCC’s Policy UNGC Overall Code of Business Conduct, KORE UNGC, GRI * EOSH: Environmental and Occupational Safety and Health ** GFSI: Global Food Safety Initiative CCI Plant Certification External audits are conducted in our plants for checking and verifying compliance with relevant standards. As of 2015 year-end: • All the plants in our five countries of operation hold certificates for the following Standards: ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and FSSC 22000. • 80% of the plants in our 10 countries of operation, except the newly established plants in Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and three plants in Iraq, hold certificates for the following Standards: ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and FSSC 22000. We plan to complete the certification process of all our plants in 2016. • All of our plants that produce preforms hold PAS 223 Packaging certificates. • All of our Turkish plants, sales operations and offices are certified against ISO 50001 Energy Management and ISO 14064-1 Greenhouse Gases Standards. We also obtained the ISO 50001 certificate for our Burundai plant in Kazakhstan. 24 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Operational Excellence (OE) Sustainability across the Value Chain To support the continuous improvement of our business processes and systems, we aim to create a culture of Operational Excellence (OE). The OE Model we apply is developed based on Lean Six Sigma methodologies. The OE Model is applied to all of the company functions, and it focuses on maximizing quality and efficiency while minimizing failure and waste. Since 2008, we have been training our employees in the OE Model. Thanks to the 177 OE Projects that were implemented in our five countries of operation in 2015, we managed to identify and implement improvements that resulted in an annual saving of approximately $6.8 million. Since the introduction of our OE Model, we have implemented a total of 1,015 projects in our five countries of operation, and we have received 667 certifications. Achievements in Turkey 2008 2015 Actual 2015 Actual (Cumulative since 2008) 6 Projects 131 Projects 634 Projects 42 Certifications 81 Certifications 478 Certifications $1.2 million per year in savings $4 million per year in savings $49.5 million* savings * Calculated on a yearly basis. CCI Turkey Innovation Day CCIdea is a platform where all of our employees can share their ideas. The submitted ideas are evaluated “Harnessing creativity and innovation” is one of the by evaluators who are experts their subject areas fundamental goals in the EFQM Model. To fulfill this and trained in the evaluation methodology. In 2015, need with a more systematic approach, on March CCI Turkey employees submitted 323 project ideas. 2016, as CCI Turkey, we organized our first CCI Turkey 10 projects were selected. After conducting further Innovation Day to recognize and award innovating feasibility studies, we will implement the projects and energizing new ideas that can positively impact that are most feasible in terms of resource use and both our communities and our business operations. financial return. The Innovation Day combines CCIdea, OE projects and the Innovation Competition under a single framework. Innovation Competition 200 invitees including top managers participated in We made use of the CCIdea platform to collect the Innovation Day. innovative project ideas. 145 ideas were submitted, where nine of them were presented during the Innovation Day. The winners were determined by the votes of the participants. OE During the Innovation Day, 29 employees received their green-belt certificates and eight finalist projects were presented. The winners were determined by the votes of the participants. Social Responsibility Project Competition Through the CCIdea platform, we collected more than 100 ideas for social responsibility projects. The top three voted projects will be provided funding. 25 Continuous Improvement and Excellence in Turkey Plants Sustainability across the Value Chain Our plants are assessed and audited regularly by TCCC for their compliance with its operating requirements (KORE), their possession of relevant and applicable certifications, and their engagement with approved excellence programs. The results of these assessments are consolidated into a Maturity Continuum consisting of five categories: Risk, Compliance, Process, Improvement and Excellence. Each plant in the Coca-Cola system is categorized according to the Maturity Continuum based on its progress towards these requirements. During the reporting period, all CCI plants in Turkey reached the Excellence category in the Maturity Continuum, which constitutes around 56% of all the plants in the entire Coca-Cola system that reached this category. In July 2015, all CCI Turkey plants were granted a 5-Star Excellence certificate by the EFQM following an assessment carried out in 2014. EFQM’s recognition also signifies that all CCI plants in Turkey have obtained the level of Excellence within TCCC’s Maturity Continuum model. CCI Turkey’s Quality Award Journey 2009 2010 2011 2012 2014 2015 Bursa Plant: Ankara Plant: Headquarters Ankara plant: Bursa and Bursa plant: Recognition for National and Çorlu plant: EFQM prize Mahmudiye Developing Excellence 4-Star Quality Prize Recognition for plants: Organizational Excellence KalDer Turkey Capability prize 5-Star Excellence in the EFQM Award Excellence Ankara plant: Awards National Quality İzmir, Çorlu, Award Mersin, Mahmudiye Köyceğiz and plant: The Grand Elazığ Plants: Award in the Recognition for SME category Excellence in the KalDer 5-Star Turkey Excellence Awards Recognition for Excellence 5-Stars for Turkey operations, including plants, logistics, planning and purchasing. Supplier Satisfaction Survey Our Suppliers Our suppliers provide us with the ingredients, raw In 2015 we conducted our second supplier materials, equipment and services necessary for our satisfaction survey, an opportunity for our suppliers business. The main ingredients of our products are to assess our company. The suppliers assess CCI concentrates and syrups that are directly supplied by under the following four categories: tendering and TCCC. We also buy ingredients and packaging material order management, payments, approach, and from strategic suppliers authorized by TCCC. Some of communication. We achieved an overall score of these include sugar, juices and carbon dioxide used 83% in 2015. According to the survey methodology, as product ingredients, and packaging materials such this score, which is significantly higher than 70%, as PET plastic, aluminum, shrink-wrap and corrugated indicates that our suppliers are satisfied to work cardboard. A detailed overview of the types and with CCI. For the areas identified as requiring amounts of materials used is provided under the improvement, we already began taking action. Our Performance Indicators section of this report. goal is to conduct this survey every two years and increase our supplier satisfaction score. Together with TCCC, we work closely with our suppliers to improve their sustainability performance. We make use of various tools and methods to embed sustainability criteria into our procurement processes. These range from Supplier Guiding Principles (SGP) to international standards. 26 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Supplier Guiding Principles working hours especially night shifts, rest day violation, Sustainability across the Value Chain overtime issues and health and safety in Turkey. In 2015, The SGP establish the minimum requirements to which the overall SGP success rate for these four countries of we expect our suppliers to adhere. Before we can operation has increased to 82% compared to last year’s contact a direct material or cooler supplier, it is obligatory rate of 78%, however we could not achieve our goal of to that the supplier goes under an SGP audit and 91%. In Pakistan, 4 direct suppliers were audited in 2015, complies with SGP standards. and 25% compliance was achieved. We are working Since 2002, the SGP has been included in our supplier with the suppliers to solve their issues and to become agreements, valid for TCCC’s direct and authorized SGP compliant again. For issues that are identified for suppliers, as well as direct suppliers to bottlers including improvement, an action plan for remediation is sent to CCI. Our suppliers are provided a copy of the SGP at the the supplier and follow-up visits are organized. In the contraction stage and are expected to communicate it to last three years, TCCC has audited all of CCI’s ingredients their employees. and packaging suppliers. Alongside audits conducted by a team of TCCC’s and CCI’s The full text of the SGP can be viewed on this link: own trained personnel, TCCC routinely utilizes independent http://assets.coca-colacompany.com/1bd5/9c8554554f third parties to assess supplier compliance with the SGP. d29678c97791e27c83/SGP_Brochure_ENG.pdf These assessments include confidential interviews with In our supply chain, we do not tolerate child labor, forced employees and on-site contract workers. If a supplier fails labor, abuse of labor and discrimination. We also expect to uphold any aspect of the SGP requirements, auditors our suppliers to fully support freedom of association develop an action plan including corrective actions that and collective bargaining within their workforce and all the suppliers are expected to implement. TCCC reserves comply with related laws and regulations. the right to terminate an agreement with any supplier that cannot demonstrate that it is upholding the SGP Suppliers to TCCC and suppliers authorized by TCCC requirements. In practice this means that, as CCI, we also are required to meet the minimum standards on the stop purchasing from such suppliers. following topics with respect to all their operations: The frequency of audits depends on a number of factors and they may vary from once a year to every three years. SGP Topics The findings of the audits, including non-conformities, • Laws and • Freedom of • Health and are reported to TCCC’s global audit team and are regulations association and safety recorded and tracked on the global audit system. CCI collective bargaining closely monitors the audit results and organize training • Child labor • Discrimination • Environment programs if necessary. • Forced labor • Wages and benefits • Demonstration Of the 34 direct suppliers in Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan of compliance and Azerbaijan that were audited in 2015 for compliance • Abuse of • Work hours and with SGP, 68% of them passed without any major labor overtime issues. Major findings of 2015 SGP audit were related to Supplier Compliance with Standards Our strategic suppliers are required to have one of the certificates recognized by the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI), a condition also valid for all of our plants. Therefore all of our authorized strategic suppliers possess a current food safety certificate such as the FSSC 22000. Suppliers that hold the FSSC 22000 certificate are also required to have ISO 9001 Quality Management Systems established. Quality, Environmental, and Health and Safety Certificates of Our Suppliers: • 97% of our strategic suppliers’ plants hold a relevant and current certificate for the ISO 9001 Quality Management System and FSSC 22000 (or similar). • 67% of our strategic suppliers’ plants hold a certificate for the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System. • 52% of our strategic suppliers’ plants hold a certificate for the OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety Management System. • 18% of our strategic suppliers’ plants hold a certificate for the ISO 50001 Energy Management System. Note: This data refers to the 33 plants of our top 16 strategic suppliers that supply us with packaging materials and ingredients. 27 Working with Local Suppliers Sustainability across the Value Chain As CCI, we make direct and indirect contributions to the local economies where we carry out our operations. We make a direct economic contribution through our local spending. The proportion of spending on raw materials from local suppliers (within the same country) is provided in the table below. Local Procurement (%) Turkey* Jordan** Kazakhstan*** Azerbaijan*** Pakistan 2015 95 49 13 47 95 2014 98 65 12 54 95 2013 96 68 17 48 94 2012 96 20 12 41 n/a * Concentrate is not included. ** In Jordan we switched to local suppliers for sugar, can and preform in 2013, which resulted in an increased percentage. *** There are no approved suppliers in these local markets for some product and service categories. (There are no local suppliers available for some of the product categories with high spend. Selection and approval of the suppliers are done by TCC.) Our Distributors Distributors are our strategic business partners. In Under the “people” aspect of the Distributor Business Turkey we work heavily with distributors, while in other Development project, we provide a series of capacitycountries of operation where distributor networks are not building trainings to the owners and employees of our common, we work with third-party partners. As of 2015 distributors. In 2015, we provided 677 training sessions year-end, we work with 261 distributors in Turkey, which on numerous technical and personal development conduct around 75% of our distribution operations. topics, which were attended by a total of 1,758 participants from our distributors. We share our know-how and expertise with our distributors and support them in building the same In 2015, CCI initiated the Distributor Safety Program high-quality systems that we have in place for their own and implemented it in Azerbaijan, Turkey, Kazakhstan, operations. Our overall goal is to bring our business Jordan and Pakistan. We reached 345 distributors partners up to our standards as we hand over our with 5,869 employees. Further information about this distribution responsibilities to them. These sustainable Program is provided under the Employees section of this and long-term relationships benefit us in many ways, report. including the achievement of 100% market sales monitoring. To improve business relations with our distributors, we engage with them on different platforms, such as “We provided 52,578 man-hours our Customer Interaction Center, Distributor Business Development Projects and Distributor Satisfaction of OHS training to our distributors Surveys, where we learn about their needs, wishes and in 2015.” complaints. Distributor Satisfaction Survey To evaluate the satisfaction level of our distributors, a third-party service provider conducts a Distributor Satisfaction Survey, which includes an evaluation of our company image. The results of these surveys for the last five years illustrate an increase in the satisfaction scores, and are given in the table below. Around 94% of our distributors participated in the 2015 Survey. Distributor Satisfaction Survey 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Satisfaction Score 76.0 83.8 84.0 84.9 84.5 Company Image 81.6 89.2 88.4 87.8 87.7 28 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Our Customers Customer Satisfaction Survey Sustainability across the Value Chain In all CCI countries, we have around 740,000 sales CCI Turkey has been conducting customer satisfaction points, including supermarkets, restaurants, convenience surveys since 2005. Other CCI operations (excluding stores, hotels and other retail outlets. Syria, South Iraq and Tajikistan) conducted this survey for the first time in 2012. Since then, surveys have been We aim to develop strategies that focus on maximizing conducted at least once every two years, and sometimes customer satisfaction. We try to identify and implement more often depending on the countries’ needs. We plan measures to reduce our environmental footprint along the to conduct a survey in 2016, involving approximately value chain, e.g. through delivering energy-efficient coolers 2,000 customers from Turkey and 3,700 from other CCI to our customers. Renewing or replacing coolers also helps operations. us build a stronger relationship with our customers. CCI Customer Engagement Studies Annual Customer Business Development In countries where we have strong distributor channels, Meeting we include evaluations of our distributors’ customers in our customer engagement studies. With this We hosted our modern trade channel customers approach, we create the opportunity to broadly assess at the annual customer business development customers’ levels of satisfaction and learn about their meetings organized in our İzmir, Ankara and Mersin expectations. Based on these engagement surveys, plants in 2015. During the meeting participants we determine improvement areas and develop action reviewed past year’s results and discussed plans accordingly. The surveys are conducted by an improvement opportunities. Presentations on sales, independent research company by questionnaires, marketing, human resources and results on our telephone and face-to-face interviews. community development and projects were followed by a discussion on joint To engage with our customers, we utilize the Customer plans for 2015. Satisfaction Surveys, Distributor Customer Satisfaction Surveys, Distributor Satisfaction Surveys and Focus Groups with Customers. 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance and Ethics AND ETHICS Goals & Commitments Priority Areas 2015 Goals Performance in 2015 Status 2016 Goals Risk To utilize CCI Portal for We launched the ERM A To update and further develop the ERM Management communication and to website and made it website. develop an awareness available to our employees. program for Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). To continue to share We took part in the regular A To integrate the ERM process into strategic best practices with other Coca-Cola System ERM planning. bottlers in October during Exchange Virtual Meetings the Coca-Cola System throughout the year, and ERM Exchange. shared our experience with other bottlers during the annual ERM Exchange meeting held in Tokyo. Information To create awareness on We placed posters on P To implement Information Security Security information security and bulletin boards and handed standards in our other country of to train our employees, out leaflets in our Group operations. starting with the Group Office premises; and Office. started giving trainings sessions for our employees. Business Ethics To give training on the We provided this training To give training on Code of Ethics and antiP Foreign Corrupt Practices in all CCI countries except bribery policy to all management teams in Act and anti-bribery policy North Iraq and Tajikistan. all CCI counties. to management teams. To review and update Code of Ethics and anti-bribery policy in line with TCCC practices. Business To provide IMCR training IMCR training was delivered P To provide IMCR training to teams in Continuity to teams in Kazakhstan to teams in Kazakhstan. Jordan. and Jordan. A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved 30 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Corporate Governance CCI management uses the pillars explained in the company’s strategic business plan to evaluate business Corporate Governance and Ethics CCI conducts all of its operations within the framework risks. The Sustainability pillar lists environmental risks of all existing regulations and the Corporate Governance such as community relations, water scarcity, wastewater, Principles as outlined by Turkey’s Capital Markets Board. energy, climate change, air emissions, and noise. In line with these principles, we publish an annual Risks such as food safety, packaging, water, supplier Corporate Governance Principles Compliance Report, management and quality are listed under the Supply which includes information that corresponds to each Chain pillar. Legal and Compliance pillar includes all item of the Corporate Governance Principles. compliance risks, bribery, corruption and ethics; whereas CCI has a strong corporate governance structure. It the People pillar includes risks related to workplace is managed and represented by a Board of Directors rights, human rights and health and safety. Each country comprised of 12 members. There are three committees operation’s management assesses these risks periodically under the CCI’s Board of Directors: Audit, Corporate and prepares mitigation plans, which are monitored by Governance and Risk Detection. CCI’s Corporate the top management and the Risk Committee. Governance Committee oversees the determination and During the 2014-2015 period, CCI’s priority risks included implementation of the sustainability strategy. health, safety, security, climate change, recycling, water For further details on corporate governance in CCI scarcity and legal compliance. Financial risks which are please see the CCI 2015 Annual Report and our investor rated as top three risks of CCI for 2016 are exchange relations page on cci.com.tr. rate uncertainty, slowdown in economic activity and adverse tax initiatives, followed by volatile regulatory Risk Management environment, law and order, brand perception, category health perception, consumer shift to alternative drinks, CCI’s management has the primary ownership of environmental risks, health, safety and security of the Risk Management and Internal Control System. employees and industrial relations. Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), which directly reports As an example for a mitigation plan, for Turkey, global to the CEO and the Risk Committee, acts as a facilitator warming and drought is identified as a risk area; and and provides assurance and consultancy services in the we aim to tackle the risk through effective water use risk management area. management and identifying new water sources. The Risk Committee was established through the In 2015 we launched our ERM website that is accessible resolution of the Board of Directors dated June 2013. to all CCI employees through the internal CCI Portal. On The mission of CCI’s Risk Committee is to ensure early the ERM website we describe the ERM program and detection and mitigation of risks that may endanger the processes in detail. We also provide an ERM tool along presence, growth or continuity of the Company. with guidelines, leading articles, useful links and an ERM Under the ERM framework, CCI’s management identifies awareness training presentation. critical threats and opportunities and manages these Throughout 2015, we participated in the Coca-Cola according to the Company’s risk appetite using a system ERM Exchange virtual and face-to-face meetings systematic and disciplined approach that is integrated with TCCC and other bottlers. This made it possible for into the Strategic Business Planning process. us to observe and track the collective ERM program The ERM investigates risks on country and group levels progress that is made across the Coca-Cola system. and shares opinion with the management on identified The annual ERM Exchange meeting with TCCC and risks. Risks that are assessed as high-priority are main bottlers from the system also helps us advance reported to the Risk Committee along with mitigation enterprise-wide culture of risk management that action plans, to be reported to the Board of Directors. CCI enables and equips us to proactively address risks, seize employees are regularly trained on risk management. opportunities and deliver business objectives. CCI’s Risk Pillars Legal and People Supply Chain Sustainability/ Compliance Environmental E.g. human rights E.g. food safety E.g. ethics (countering E.g. climate change, bribery) water scarcity 31 Information Security Communication Channels Corporate Governance and Ethics CCI published an official CCI policy on information We offer alternative channels of communication to security in 2014, and since then, a number of actions our employees for expressing their concerns. They have been taken to increase employee awareness on can directly contact their own managers or their Local this topic. These included display of posters in working Ethics and Compliance Officers. Alternatively, they can areas and distribution of leaflets to employees on the use the CCI Ethics Service, which is run by a completely importance of information security. A new intranet site independent third party and is available 24/7 to all our on information security became online for our employees employees. There are translators providing translation in 2014 and we started to conduct information security services online in Arabic, English, Georgian, Russian and training sessions starting with the Group Office Turkish. employees in Turkey. CCI Ethics Service communication channels are: As of March 2016, 704 employees were trained in CCI 1. E-mail: employee’s name and e-mail address are about information security with 280 hours of training. kept confidential. 2. CCI Ethics and Compliance websites Ethics www.ccietikhat.com (in Turkish) and Integrity and honesty are of vital importance for the www.cciethicsline.com (in English, Russian success and continuation of our business, as well as for and Arabic): employees can login to the page our reputation. Besides, one of the most valuable assets anonymously and enter their message. of CCI is the Coca-Cola brand. This brand presents unique and very crucial qualities such as esteem that 3. Dedicated phone number. arises from honesty and reliability. The Corporate Governance Committee has also CCI Code of Ethics guides our employees to live our developed necessary mechanisms for stakeholders to values and “do the right thing”. The Code was updated report any illegal or unethical practices in the company on April 30, 2013 and its scope was expanded to apply to the Corporate Governance Committee or the Audit to all CCI countries of operation. CCI Code of Ethics and Committee. Code of Ethics Handbook are available for everyone for their further review and understanding, and can be Roles and Responsibilities reached on CCI’s corporate website: CCI’s Corporate Governance Committee ensures full implementation and enforcement of the Code of Ethics. www.cci.com.tr/en/investor-relations/corporateImplementation of the Code is the responsibility of the governance/code-of-ethics. CCI Ethics and Compliance Officer and the Local Ethics and Compliance Officers. There is also a CCI Ethics and Compliance Committee, which is composed of CCI’s CFO, Code of Ethics Human Resources Director, General Counsel, Corporate The CCI Code of Ethics, which provides guidance to Affairs Director and Chief Audit Executive. uphold our corporate values, highlights four main principles: Procedural Rules and Available Sources • Act with integrity and honesty. CCI Internal Audit Department handles the investigations • Safeguard business and financial records and concerning Code of Ethics violations and the CCI Ethics keep them accurate, complete and correct. and Compliance Committee takes decisions based on • Safeguard the interests of CCI and avoid any the findings of the investigations. Certain categories of conflicts of interest. decision-making authority may be delegated to Local • Deal with everyone we encounter fairly and in Ethics and Compliance Committees in accordance with accordance with the law: the Guidelines for Handling Code of Ethics Matters. • Be extra careful when evaluating a third party who might interact with a government authority We impose disciplinary measures that fit the nature on behalf of the company. and circumstances of each Code violation. Letters of • No pecuniary or non-pecuniary interest may be reprimand are issued for less significant, first-time offered to a government official. offenses. Violations of a more serious nature may result • Bribes and facilitation payments are prohibited. in suspension without pay, loss of progress payments and bonuses or termination of employment. 32 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 All newly recruited employees must sign an Business Continuity acknowledgement form confirming that they have Corporate Governance and Ethics CCI implements TCCC’s Incident Management and Crisis read the Code of Ethics and agree to abide by its Resolution (IMCR) program, which is designed to create provisions. All employees are required to make this and maintain an efficient and integrated structure for acknowledgement periodically. Code of Ethics Handbook preventing and managing incidents. Implementing the and Guidelines for Handling Code of Ethics Matters IMCR program is a key management activity, and it is are shared with our employees in electronic format. everyone’s responsibility in CCI. Moreover, representatives and consultants assigned by CCI and third parties doing work on behalf of CCI may To ensure that we prevent or reduce the impact of also obtain a copy of the Code and learn about their incidents on our business, we have incident management obligations therein. teams in each country of operation. Each team joins our annual training sessions, and collectively they work on Training simulations of complex incidents. In addition to the IMCR Starting in 2013, we began training our employees on training sessions that were delivered to teams in Turkey, the revised Code of Ethics, the Code of Ethics Handbook Jordan, Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan in 2014, we provided and procedural provisions. In 2014, we provided 4,200 further training in Kazakhstan, and Tajikistan in 2015. We man-hours of training on the Code of Ethics in 13 plan to conduct IMCR training in Jordan in 2016. locations, including sales points and plants in Turkey. As a part of the IMCR program, each country conducts In 2015, we provided 2,000 man-hours of training in six the IMCR Validation program, which aims to create countries, mainly during orientation training sessions. readiness for crisis situations, build awareness, identify In 2016, to ensure that the Code of Ethics is rolled-out gaps and develop action plans to make improvements. effectively in all CCI countries, we will train Code of We completed the IMCR Validation program in Azerbaijan, Ethics trainers in each country to start local training Jordan and Pakistan in 2014, and in Kyrgyzstan and North sessions. We conduct the Code of Ethics training at Iraq in 2015. In 2016, we plan to carry out the program in least once every two years. Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and South Iraq. 33 me In our sustainability framework, “me” implies providing high-quality and safety-compliant beverages while working to inspire happier, healthier lives. Goals and Commitments Product Safety and Quality Consumer Well-Being Active, Healthy Living Enhancing Personal Well-being Our longstanding commitment to our consumers’ well-being begins with ensuring that each and every beverage we deliver is safe. Furthermore, we work to inspire our consumers to pursue healthier lives by providing expanded beverage choices and transparent nutrition labeling, conducting responsible marketing practices and supporting active, healthy living programs in our countries of operation. Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2015 Goals Performance in 2015 Status 2016 Goals Product safety To have zero major There were no major findings A To have zero major findings in food safety and quality findings in food safety and identified during the food safety and quality audits. me quality audits. and quality audits. Consumer To continue with the Open We have received around 18,600 A To continue with the Open to Curiosity Well-being to Curiosity (Merak Ettim) questions from our consumers platform as a means to communicate with platform as a means to via the Open to Curiosity platform our consumers. communicate with our since 2014. consumers. Active, healthy To inspire more than We mobilized almost 70,000 A To reach 80,000 young people in 120 living 60,000 young people in 10 young people in 10 cities. schools in Turkey to inspire them to be more cities in Turkey to be more We reached 100 schools and physically active. physically active, support collaborated with 120 physical 80 schools and reach education teachers within the 100 physical education program in teachers. Turkey. To train 7,000 youth and 7,000 young people regularly A No new target. inspire more than 60,000 participated in the program young people in Pakistan delivered by 375 coaches and and Iraq to be more youth leaders. physically active. To launch the 3,000 young people in 19 schools A To inspire more than 3,500 young people Program benefited from the program. in Kazakhstan to be more physically active, in Kazakhstan and reach support 28 schools and reach 70 physical out to 18 disadvantaged education teachers. schools. A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved Product Safety and Quality Compliance with product safety and quality requirements both by our suppliers and our own plants is regularly Product safety and quality is the starting point of our monitored through unannounced audits by TCCC. In commitment to well-being. The safety and quality of 2015, 10 CCI plants were audited and all of them passed our products are ensured through rigorous standards. the audit successfully. In addition, third-party external We make sure that international food safety standards audits on compliance with the FSSC 22000 standard are and/or TCCC’s Operating Standard (KORE) are respected conducted, resulting in either re-certification or follow-up. by all actors in our value chain, including our strategic As of 2015 year-end, all the plants in our five countries of suppliers along with our own plants. We implement operation hold FSSC 22000 certificates. various globally accepted standards in our plants such as the FSSC 22000 Food Safety Standard. Our (Further information about the quality processes is strategic suppliers, such as suppliers of ingredients and provided in the Sustainability in the Value Chain section packaging material, are required to hold a certificate that of the report under the subheadings Our Operations and is recognized by the GFSI. Our Suppliers.) 35 Consumer Well-Being We are committed to promoting consumer well-being by marketing responsibly, offering lowor no-calorie beverage options in every market and providing transparent nutrition information on our products. We engage with our consumers, health professionals and the public to highlight the importance of active, healthy living and the role our products play in such a lifestyle. TCCC’s support of evidence-based, scientific research as well as educational and awareness raising programs are important components of our engagement me as we work to expand the broader understanding of our beverages and how they can be part of an active, healthy lifestyle. We strive to provide consumers with clear, understandable and scientific information regarding our products. Through this approach, we fulfill our obligation to comply with local legal requirements and our commitment to the policy of transparent communication TCCC’s Transparency Initiative about our products. Regarding consumer health, we continue to work The online Open to Curiosity platform in Turkey is in partnership with TCCC, the owner of the brand. established to address concerns at the consumer TCCC is increasing its efforts to ensure maximum level regarding our products. In addition, we organize transparency regarding its actions concerning the plant tours for those who are interested in seeing our fight against obesity. production processes. Consumers may either physically In 2015, TCCC took the first critical step in becoming visit our plants, or take virtual tours online to learn about a better company and partner against obesity by the production phases of Coca-Cola products. Please visit publicly sharing a list of the health and well-being merakettim.coca-colaturkiye.com and partnerships and research activities it has funded coca-colafabrikasi.com or further information. over the last five years, along with a list of its efforts which will be updated every six months. Being a part of the Coca-Cola system CCI also Coca-Cola Ambassador Program participates in this initiative. TCCC’s transparency Coca-Cola Ambassador is an initiative designed to website features a list of organizations, scientific ensure that all employees use the same language experts and researchers that it funds, along with when talking about our company and its products, answers to frequently asked questions. and that they are strong ambassadors of Coca-Cola. www.coca-colajourney.com.au/stories/well-doLaunched in 2011 in Turkey, within the past years the better-coca-cola-vows-to-improve-transparency program expanded to all CCI countries as well as to CCI distributors. As of 2015 year-end, more than 15,000 employees and distributors have received the Ambassador training. Transparent Nutrition Information In addition to classroom training sessions, selected We are committed to providing transparent nutrition content from the Ambassador training was adopted as an integral part of CCI’s onboarding orientation information about all of our products, so that consumers program in 2015 to familiarize our new colleagues with can make choices that fit their lifestyles. We follow brand affiliation, our core values and our success story. nutrition labeling requirements in the countries where We also launched a refresher campaign in 2015 for our products are sold, and in many places we exceed our country operations where the classroom training these requirements. At a minimum, our labels provide sessions were completed. The campaign includes basic nutritional information about the beverage, such as an internal communication campaign and an online the amount of energy (kilocalories, calories, kilojoules), refresher training. Our Turkey, Jordan and Kazakhstan protein, carbohydrates, fats, total sugars and sodium. operations successfully launched the refresher Our corporate policy exempts bottled water products that campaign. Currently, the online Ambassador training are not flavored or sweetened, since water is by nature is available in English, Turkish, Arabic and Russian. free of calories. 36 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Lowor No-calorie Beverages Responsible Advertising and Marketing With the aim to meet the ever-evolving preferences of In line with our principle of complying with legal our consumers and to build a stronger business, we regulations, we conduct only responsible and lawprovide more choice across our beverage portfolio, abiding advertising and promotional activities in all CCI including lowor no-calorie beverage options. countries regarding all advertising media for all of our beverages. In addition to legal requirements and the We offer a noor low-calorie alternative for regular expectations of our stakeholders, TCCC’s standards and sparkling soft drinks in the CCI countries of operation policies serve as our fundamental guide in our marketing where the per capita consumption of sparkling soft practices. The Global School Beverage Guidelines, as drinks is relatively high. established by TCCC, forms the basis of our approach Some of the highlights for Turkey in 2015 were: to responsible marketing. We voluntarily do not conduct • In 2015, we started serving Sprite light in 330 ml cans any sales activities for our sparkling beverages in me and 1 L PET, and Coca-Cola zero in 200 ml returnable elementary schools within our operating geography. glass bottle. Moreover, honoring the rights of parents and caregivers to make the appropriate choices for their children, we • 16.3% of the volume of our products sold in Turkey in do not engage in advertising or marketing activities 2015 was in the category “without energy” (< 4kcal/100 targeting children under the age of 12. Details for our ml) (excluding tea, including Fuse tea light, Coca-Cola responsible marketing policy can be found on: light, Coca-Cola zero, Sprite light, Damla Minera, www.coca-colacompany.com/stories/responsibleDamla water in PET). In 2014, this rate was 14.1%. marketing-policy. • Coca-Cola zero and Coca-Cola light comprised 7.8% of all the Coke-category products we sold in Turkey in 2015. This rate was 6.9% in 2014. • In terms of product portfolio, 26% of the product and package alternatives (excluding water) we offer to the market are in the “without energy” category. Small Packs In addition to the expansion of lowand no-calorie beverages, a critical component of our business and well-being strategy is the expansion of smaller package sizes. For example, in Turkey we see an increase in the market share of the products sold in 200 ml returnable glass bottle and 200 ml cans. Product Calorie Profile kcal per 100 ml 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.2 0.6 1.2 1.5 13 29.0 37.7 41.0 45.0 47.6 37 Active, Healthy Living program in Kazakhstan and supported 19 schools in rural areas. Supporting more inclusive active, healthy living programs is one of TCCC’s global commitments on well-being, Participation in the program is either regular (trained) or as well as one of the main focuses of CCI’s community non-regular (activated). In 2015 we touched the lives of engagement programs. According to research, regular about 80,000 young people in Turkey, Pakistan, Iraq and physical activity is vital to attaining and maintaining good Kazakhstan through health. Therefore, a key pillar of our well-being efforts is supporting programs that make exercise and movement accessible to as many people as possible. As CCI, our vision is to inspire, empower and engage me a generation of youth regarding the importance of an active, healthy lifestyle and regular physical activity. We put this vision into practice through a number of projects and programs that are making a great difference in the lives of young people. These include in Turkey, Iraq, Pakistan and Kazakhstan; ongoing Coca-Cola Grassroots Football Tournaments in Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan; Olympic Moves program in Azerbaijan and the Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation’s Let’s Play project in Turkey. Turkey Launched in three pilot cities in October 2013, the program expanded to 10 cities in 2015, inspiring close to 70,000 young people to live a more physically active and healthy life. Turkey: 10 Cities 100 schools activated In 2015, the program was carried out in 100 secondary 70,000 young people schools and high schools in the provinces of Istanbul, Mersin, Bursa, Sakarya/Sapanca, Van, Ordu, Hatay, Iraq: 180 coaches and youth leaders Aksaray, Erzincan and Elazığ. The projects were 30 schools trained 3,251 young people developed and implemented under the leadership of physical education teachers, where CCI supported them Pakistan: 195 coaches and youth leaders by providing indoor and outdoor physical activity fields as 30 schools trained 4,075 young people well as sports equipment. Through these projects, young people started taking active part in various activities such as athletics, gymnastics, table tennis, basketball, Kazakhstan: 70 coaches and youth leaders volleyball, dance, step, korfball, bocce, archery, handball 19 schools 3,000 young people and badminton. The program provides the youth with fun spaces to move and the opportunity to learn and to connect with one We developed and launched the another. Through the activities and upgraded school program in 2013 in Turkey with the participation of facilities offered by young people volunteer physical education teachers. Our vision started to participate in quality physical education with the program is to support the social and physical classes. Young boys and girls got used to “moving” development of young people, raise their awareness together. They learned to play new games and had fun on active and healthy living, and help them develop a while developing their friendships. They also started to lifelong habit of physical activity. meet not only in physical education classes, but also in In 2014, we launched the program in Iraq and Pakistan their spare time. in partnership with Mercy Corps, which is a global humanitarian organization that empowers people to recover from crisis, build better lives and transform their communities for good. In 2015, we launched the 38 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Based on the field research conducted by academics, the program has not only increased the time spent by youth in physical activity, but also significantly increased their self-confidence and self-esteem, while strengthening their relationships with peers. 90% of the youngsters responding to the survey stated that they participated in the project activities and exercised more. Meanwhile, 88% of them experienced a positive impact on their relationships with their friends. Pakistan and Iraq Based on its success in Turkey, the program was me launched in Iraq (1.2.3 Entalik!) and Pakistan (3.2.1 Bhago!) in selected secondary schools and high schools in Lahore, Pakistan and Baghdad, Iraq during the 2014/15 academic year. In the second year, we expanded the program with learnings from the first year. In the 2015/16 academic year, the number of youth After six months into the program, 80% of the youth leaders in the program and their responsibilities were reported that they were more physically active than increased. By doing that, we managed to expand our before. For example, 50% of the girls in Pakistan reach both in Iraq and Pakistan. had never participated in sports activities prior to the program. 90% of the parents reported that their children Through the program, about 4,900 young people were were more active than they were before the program trained on critical life skills through games and inclusive and, even more strikingly, they reported that their sports activities. Overall, the program has reached over children were showing better health and study habits. 20,000 youth through school-wide and community events, and is projected to reach an additional 20,000 In the 2015/16 academic year, we aim to increase the young people by the end of the school year. number of young people reached through the program by 40%, which means training over 7,000 youth and The application of in these countries reaching 60,000 young people through events and is unique because not only does it emphasize physical activities in Pakistan and Iraq. activity, it also aims to enhance life and leadership skills. One of the program goals is to help build substantial relationships between the mentors and the youngsters to support their personal development. To achieve this goal, teaches teamwork, leadership and communication skills. Kazakhstan Launched in March 2015 in Kazakhstan, was implemented in 19 schools from low-income rural areas within the Arshaly district of the Akmola region. Within the scope of the program, more than 70 youth leaders and coaches received training on mobilizing youth in their schools and communities, while over 3000 students received sports equipment. The indoor sports hall in the Izhevsk village in Arshaly was renovated, and the floor of the Saryoba village school was repaired. The program reached over 27,000 community members through youth-led events. 39 The 2014-2015 season brought together a record number of children, about 400,000 boys from 5,500 Coca-Cola Grassroots Football schools, aged 9 to 15, which represents more than 80% Tournaments of Kazakhstan’s male student population. From year to year, Coca-Cola Bylgary Dop gives the children of Azerbaijan: Started in 2011 250,000 young Kazakhstan an opportunity to play in the Copa Cocapeople participated in 2015 Cola international tournament, which brings together children from all over the world. Kazakhstan: Started in 2006 400,000 young people participated in 2015 me Azerbaijan Since 2011, nationwide grassroots football tournaments have been taking place in partnership with the Association of Football Federations of Azerbaijan and the Ministry of Education. Every year more than 250,000 students participate in the School Cup, which covers all regions of Azerbaijan. One of the important elements of the School Cup is that every football team must have at least one female player. Some of the students that participate in the Coca-Cola School Cup move on to play in professional leagues. A joint group of experts evaluates the impact of the project based on the number of school children involved, their performance at school Olympic Moves and their plans to continue physical activity. On December 2015, Coca-Cola, the worldwide partner of Olympic Games, and the National Olympic Committee of Azerbaijan, together with the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Education of Azerbaijan announced the launch of Olympic Moves, a new innovative mass sports program for schoolchildren in Azerbaijan. Olympic Moves is an international school sports program created by Coca-Cola and the International Olympic Committee in 2001, in partnership with the Dutch Olympic Committee. This global program’s extension to Azerbaijan has been realized as part of Coca-Cola’s commitment to positively contribute to the wellbeing of communities wherever it does business. Kazakhstan The first of the Coca-Cola grassroots football tournaments, aimed at promoting love of football among children and young people, was organized in 2006 in Kazakhstan under the name Coca-Cola Bylgary Dop. Since then, Coca-Cola Bylgary Dop has become the country’s biggest football tournament, organized by the Coca-Cola Company and the Football Federation of Kazakhstan (FFK) for the ninth season already. 40 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 CCI Jordan Supports Active, Healthy Lifestyle CCI Jordan signed a five-year agreement with the Zaha Cultural Center, which is a part of the Greater Amman Municipality, to develop the center’s facilities to promote active, healthy lifestyle. CCI Jordan will support the construction of a walking track in Amman that will serve more than 500 families weekly, a garden and a play area inside Zaha Cultural Center in Madaba, which will serve more than 200 families weekly. me Olympic Moves will directly engage over 50,000 teens from close to 500 schools of Baku in regular sports The Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation activities in athletics, cycling, basketball and badminton. Let’s Play Project The program will primarily focus on the four sports disciplines and will start at the school level, followed 50 Cities 400 Schools 3,200 Playgrounds by intra-school championships and inter-school tournaments that will culminate in the Olympic Moves Target: To reach 1 million children in 50 cities at Finals in Baku. The Baku Finals, the largest school sports 500 schools in Turkey event in the country, will take place in one of Baku-2015 European Games venues. Olympic Moves will aim to Project Partners: The Ministry of National inspire local communities in Azerbaijan to live a more Education, the Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation, the active lifestyle, whereby both children and their parents Active Living Association will have a chance to be engaged in regular physical activity by doing sports together; many of them for the first time ever. The Let’s Play project aims to encourage children to include more physical activity in their daily routines by creating play areas in primary schools. The project ensures that play lies at the core of the learning process. In this way, children are able to develop their creativity, become physically more Olympic Moves has been developed based on the active and develop communication abilities with ongoing Active Family, Healthy Community (Feal Ailem, their peers while playing games. The Let’s Play Sağlam Alem FASA) program; and from 2016 it will be project creates game clubs that develop new replacing FASA. FASA is carried out in the form of regular games, which are then used during in-school and entertaining sport activities among schoolchildren, activities. As of December 2015, the project created together with their parents. In 2015, more than 10,000 500 game clubs and reached 800,000 children. parents and 40,000 schoolchildren participated in the national tournament that covered 20 regions. Winning For more information: families from the regions then participated in a series of www.hayataarti.org/disari_oynayalim.html contests in the finals held in Baku. 41 we Employees We aim to provide a happy, safe and motivating workplace where our employees can fulfill their true potential. Our Workplace Goals and Commitments Employee Profile Diversity and Inclusion Recruitment and Placement Talent Management Performance Management Learning and Development Compensation and Benefits Employee Engagement Occupational Health and Safety Our Workplace and implementation of the WRP across all CCI countries. A directorate that was established under the Group HR Our employees play a critical role in our company’s Department coordinates the implementation process. success. While recruiting, developing and retaining All HR associates and people managers are given WRP the best talents, our priority is to provide a happy, safe training in order to embed WRP components into CCI’s and motivating workplace where our employees can day-to-day operations in all countries of operation. fulfill their true potential. We work hard to establish an The WRP and the Code of Ethics are also included in engaged, diverse and inclusive workforce, welcoming the training provided to fresh employees during the we – Employees and encouraging everyone to share their views. onboarding and orientation period. In CCI, we celebrate diversity. We come from 10 different countries. We are an equal opportunity employer. We hire and promote our employees on an equal basis, In CCI, we implement the three components of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights regardless of whether they are young or old, with or that were adopted by the UN Human Rights Council in without disabilities, male or female. 2011. These are: We value our relationship with our employees and build • A policy commitment to fulfill the responsibility to our success with the contribution of every single employee. respect human rights; We are determined to create open and participatory • A due diligence process to identify, prevent, mitigate workplaces that are based on universal human rights and be accountable for human rights abuses; and principles. We value each and every employee and • Processes to enable the remediation of any adverse encourage them to fulfill their best potential. human rights impacts that CCI causes or to which it contributes. Workplace Rights Respecting the human rights of our employees, and creating an environment for them to succeed is both a Workplace Rights Policy moral and a business imperative for us. Our policy on Our WRP supports our values and establishes a set of workplace rights is clearly outlined and published in fundamental standards on human rights and working our Workplace Rights Policy, which has the main focus conditions. It is based on international principles on of creating transparent and inclusive workplaces. This human rights according to the United Nations Universal policy clearly states our commitment to the fundamental Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor principles of international human and workplace rights Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and everywhere we do business. Rights at Work, and the United Nations Global Compact. In line with the target priorities stated in our 2025 When the WRP provides broader protection than the Vision, we fully integrate human and workplace rights applicable laws, policies or common law in our countries into our practices, corporate values and sustainability of operation, it provides guidance to our approach and strategy. Our respect for human and workplace rights is implementation. Local laws and standards are applied engrained in our culture and guides our interactions with where applicable laws, policies or common law provide suppliers, customers, consumers, employees and the more extensive protection for employees. communities we serve. The WRP was launched and communicated to all CCI We are guided by the CCI Workplace Rights Policy (WRP) employees in October 2013, and is available in English as in all our operations, and our suppliers are required to well as in all of the official languages in our countries of comply with the Supplier Guiding Principles (SGP) which operation. It is also available online on our website on also covers all the issues of the WRP (please see the Our www.cci.com.tr/UserFiles/pdf/2015/CCIWRPPolicy.pdf. Suppliers section for detailed information on the SGP). Issues related to workplace and human rights, and The WRP covers the following elements: health and safety risks such as overtime work, health • Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining and safety, workplace conditions and compliance, and use of child labor are part of our risk assessment • Prohibition of Forced Labor processes and are assessed under the People pillar. • Commitment Not to Employ Child Labor Each country operation assesses these risks periodically, • Arbitrary Discrimination and CCI top management and the Risk Committee • Working Hours and Wages monitor their mitigation plans. • A Safe and Healthy Workplace • Workplace Security CCI’s Head of Human Resources (HR), who reports • Community and Stakeholder Engagement directly to the CEO, is responsible for the development 43 WRP Processes Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan. We have a due diligence process in place to identify, In 2015, we received a “pass” score for all CCI operations prevent, mitigate and be accountable for human rights except South Iraq, which was not yet audited. abuses. Alongside our WRP implementation efforts, CCI Ethics procedure allows our employees to report independent auditing companies authorized by TCCC claims regarding harmful practices within CCI, including routinely audit CCI plants as well as our suppliers against those that involve violation of the CCI Code of Ethics the SGP. we – Employees and the WRP. Claims can be reported to CCI’s Ethics When a CCI operation is recognized as non-compliant and Compliance Committee anonymously through our with WRP components, an action plan is developed and implemented. After completing the action plan, an independent service provider, CCI Ethics Line, and are independent auditing company conducts a follow-up subject to investigation. In addition, CCI employees audit to evaluate the corrective actions taken. can report their claims directly to their manager, or to Independent WRP and SGP compliance audits took the HR or Legal department representatives. Further place in 2014 and in 2015 for our plants in North Iraq, information about our ethics procedure is provided in the Turkmenistan, Pakistan (six plants), Turkey (four plants), Governance section of the report. Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2015 Goals Performance in 2015 Status 2016 Goals Workplace To obtain “green” scores All CCI countries of operation A To obtain “green” scores on WRP audits for Rights on WRP audits for all CCI obtained “green” scores on WPR all CCI operations in 10 countries. operations in 10 countries. audits. Diversity and To maintain the current Female-male ratio of our A To sustain and increase female Inclusion female-male ratio (which employees increased to 16%. representation in managerial positions and in is 14.6%). the Executive Committee (ExCom) across CCI. To continue working on Diversity survey was conducted to A To initiate a program on women business processes that understand our employees’ point empowerment in line with our commitment concern TCCC’s gender of view. to UN WEPs. equality goal. To establish a Diversity and Inclusion Steering Committee and to define a diversity and inclusion strategy and a framework for CCI. Leadership To offer top-level managers Train the trainer sessions for MOB P To complete MOB and SOB rollouts to all Development and supervisors two new and SOB were delivered to all target audience in Group Office, Kyrgyzstan programs: the Manager on country HR representatives so that and Turkey. Board program (MOB) and they can roll out the programs the Supervisor on Board in their respective countries. (SOB) program. Azerbaijan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Pakistan and Turkmenistan rolled out MOB and SOB, while Group Office, Kyrgyzstan and Turkey could not roll them out due to busy schedules. To complete the iLead2020 Two of the modules of the iLead P To complete the remaining two modules in program for mid-level program are completed. Pakistan. managers in Pakistan. A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved 44 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2015 Goals Performance in 2015 Status 2016 Goals Work-life To set annual leave usage This target is embedded in people A To include the annual leave usage target in balance targets as a part of our manager’s targets. the performance targets of all leaders in all management objectives. country operations. we – Employees To review overtime monitoring processes within the policy standardization project. Employee To conduct the Employee Employee Engagement Survey will A To define and follow up engagement action Engagement Engagement Survey in all be conducted in April 2016. plans based on the survey results. countries of operation in 2016. To set engagement targets as part of CCI’s management objectives. OHS policy, To make sure that all All CCI countries have developed A To renew legal compliance assessments in procedures countries of operation and issued their own disciplinary all countries of operation. and systems develop and publish their procedures. own disciplinary procedures. Safe driving To make sure that all CCI All CCI countries organized O Continuous goal, therefore no new goal. countries have defensive defensive driving training driving training. sessions. To install GPS devices in GPS devices were installed to a P To test an alternative vehicle tracking all suitable Turkey and large part of the suitable Turkey technology. Group Office vehicles. and Group Office vehicles. OHS To further reduce the LTIR was 0.49 in the five countries A * To further reduce the LTIR to a maximum of performance LTIR (lost time injury rate) of operation and 0.52 in all 10 0.42 in all countries of operation. to a maximum of 0.50 countries of operation. in the four countries of operation, and to a maximum of 0.45 for all countries of operation. OHS along the To develop and share CCI Contractor Safety program A To start implementing the Contractor Safety supply chain CCI contractor safety was developed and procedures program in all CCI countries of operation. procedures in all CCI were shared in all CCI countries of countries. operation. To develop and share Distributor safety procedures A To initiate a monthly reporting system on CCI distributor safety were developed and shared with OHS for selected distributors. procedures in Turkey. distributors in Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Pakistan and Kyrgyzstan. To train our distributors’ KORE requirements training was A To conduct warehouse spot checks at least employees in six given to targeted distributor in 10 distributor warehouses in each country countries on KORE employees in six countries of of operation. requirements. operation. * We achieved this target for the five countries of operation, however we did not achieve it in all countries of operation. A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved 45 Employee Profile As of 2015 year-end, 9,543 people were employed by CCI in the 10 countries of operation, of which 7,632 were from the five countries of operation. For detailed data about our employee profile (gender and employment type), please see the Performance Indicators section of the report. In the five countries of operation, it is not a common we – Employees practice to employ part-time employees. In 2015, we employed 9 part-time employees in the Group Office in Turkey for operational tasks. We employ a limited number of temporary employees, often to replace an employee on maternity leave or to conduct a short-term project. During high season, we also employ seasonal workers in Turkey and Azerbaijan. In 2015, we hired 395 seasonal employees in Turkey and 95 in Azerbaijan. Number of Employees per Country 2013 2014 2015 Employee Category Senior Management Turkey – Group Office 9 10 114** Turkey – Operations* 7 8 Jordan 4 6 6 Kazakhstan*** 25 25 8 Azerbaijan 6 6 6 Pakistan n/a n/a 10 Other Employees Turkey – Group Office 157 133 2,759 Turkey – Operations* 2,335 2,211 Jordan 405 391 398 Kazakhstan 724 820 942 Azerbaijan 367 384 346 Pakistan n/a n/a 3,554 * Turkey operations include plants and sales offices. ** This figure includes all senior managers in CCI Group office and CCI Turkey Operations. *** From 2015 onwards, we include only the leadership team in this category, not the extended leadership team as it was the case in previous years’ reports. Diversity and Inclusion Our recruitment efforts also focus on these positions, which are usually not among the first choice of female In CCI, we maintain an equal opportunity approach in all candidates. Therefore, we dedicate major efforts to HR policies, procedures and recruitment processes. encourage female recruitment in both CCI’s operations CCI’s philosophy in pursuing diversity and inclusion and those of our partners. CCI’s signing of the UN’s incorporates the following: Women Empowerment Principles (WEPs) is an indication of its commitment to make progress in this area. This • Recruiting and retaining a high-performing and commitment not only includes our own employees, but talented workforce, which is reflective of the diverse also women in the communities we serve. marketplace we serve. As of 2015 year-end, 10.2% of CCI’s employees in the • Fostering an inclusive culture which helps us to five countries of operation were female, which shows an embrace differences and positively impacts our increase compared to 2014. In line with our commitment capacity to meet our 2025 Vision goals. to WEPs, we aim to increase the ratio of our female In the geography where CCI operates, there are major employees in our Turkey operations to 20% by 2025, challenges for female employment. The majority of which is currently 14.1%, and to increase our overall our employees work in production and sales positions. female workforce ratio from 8% to 20%. 46 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Employees by Gender 2013 2014 2015 (%) Male Female Male Female Male Female Turkey – Group Office 59.0 41.0 55.9 44.1 83.7 16.3 Turkey – Operations* 85.0 15.0 85.9 14.1 Jordan 95.6 4.4 95.0 5.0 94.6 5.4 we – Employees Kazakhstan 84.9 15.1 86.2 13.8 85.7 14.3 Azerbaijan 88.2 11.8 87.7 12.3 87.5 12.5 Pakistan n/a n/a 96.0 4.0 94.4 5.6 TOTAL 85.4 14.6 90.6 9.4 89.8 10.2 * Turkey operations include plants and sales offices. Support Platforms for Women Employees Case: Women’s Club in CCI Azerbaijan We support our women employees through various platforms. For example, we launched a Women’s Objectives: Leadership Steering Committee in Turkey with the • Improvement of female employees’ capabilities aim of facilitating communication among women in • Increasing female employment ratio leadership roles, expanding employment opportunities • Creating a synergy among female employees for women and increasing the representation of women • Initiating and conducting social responsibility in leadership roles. projects • Conducting social activities Jordan and Azerbaijan Women’s Club continued to be a platform for women employees to interact • Having fun while working and organize various activities focusing on higher Main Focus Areas For 2015 engagement, capability development, leadership skills 500 hours of training was provided to 150 and empowerment in the workplace and community. participants for capability development covering These clubs provide opportunities to all women topics including women leader talks, presentation employees to demonstrate and develop their capabilities skills, MS Excel, money management, vision board and collaborate with each other to foster creativity and and stress management. innovation in their work in a professional environment. Social responsibility projects were realized in Additionally, CCI Pakistan held the Savvy and Successful communities neighboring CCI on issues such awards ceremony in 2015 recognizing the unique efforts as breast cancer awareness, school visits, of eight versatile women from various occupations in violence against women, economic and social Pakistan, which also included two CCI employees. empowerment of youth, and disabled women. The Technical Apprentice (KOTA) in CCI Pakistan is a key program for building a talent pool for our operations. With a combination of classroom, on-thejob and practical training, the KOTA program provides a curriculum which provides high-performing trainees a chance to obtain a City & Guild certification, thereby opening up this talent pool to other countries in the Coca-Cola system. Our training center in Lahore is a certified City & Guild test center now, an achievement unique to Coca-Cola in Pakistan. In addition, as we support Women’s Clubs and networking events for women entrepreneurs in the communities where we operate. Detailed information is provided in the Community section of the report. 47 Recruitment and Placement • Established internal job posting principles and process to create visibility of available opportunities, enabling In 2015, we launched the CCI Talent Acquisition Policy employees to drive their own careers. outlining the entire process and required tools, setting the foundation for a standardized recruitment and selection process across all countries of operation. Talent Management Talent management is the mechanism through which Some other key programs implemented under the title of CCI ensures that it has the right people, optimally we – Employees Talent Acquisition in 2015 were: deployed and properly engaged to deliver CCI’s strategy • Developed CCI’s EVP (Employer Value Proposition), and produce business results. It is also a key business creating an independent employer identity in key accountability that is shared by all of our people operating markets. managers, who co-create and encourage feedback • Created social media presence: CCI’s external career and development. With this aim, we provide tools and page integrated with Success Factors e-recruitment resources for personal and career development so that module went live in Jordan, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan and our employees are better enabled to lead their own Turkey, creating automation and efficiency in the hiring career. process with increased internal customer services and In line with our 2025 Vision, we are constantly improving a platform to reach out to Y generation candidates. our approaches to talent management with the aim of • Introduced personality assessments for both white and training our HR teams and structuring our leadership blue collar positions, which helps increase hire quality teams, which we consider crucial in reaching our and ensure better job fit. strategic objectives. • Launched programs such as new joiner’s buddy, onboarding and orientation, facilitating quicker In 2015, we implemented new practices, enhanced adaptation and enhancing time for the productivity procedures and continued to developed policies such as: and engagement of new employees. • Better emphasis of our focus with the name change • Updated the interviewing skills program, and annual of the ODF process, which is now called Talent hiring plans guidelines and tools. Development Forum (TDF) 48 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 • Better identification of CCI future leaders with three performance management, e-recruitment, and main factors: agility, aspiration and engagement. 360-degree evaluation to support development • Bringing better calibration and alignment in talent objectives and succession plans. Our employees use identification through Hogan Inventory, a new MyCareer to follow their performance and development methodology that is commonly used by high plans. performing companies, to be used for development 360-degree evaluation is a short and quick survey that is purposes only used for development purposes regarding behavior. we – Employees • More focus on talents’ development It is a system in which employees receive confidential, In order to support and be more effective in the career anonymous feedback from the people who work with planning process, we also continued to use the My them. Employees can reach the 360-degree evaluation Career Talk platform. This platform facilitates CCI form in MyCareer platform. employees to identify their career goals, establish a plan We published our performance management policy for pursuing those goals and take personal responsibility and established standards for promoting a two-way for making those goals a reality. system of communication between the people manager We continued to conduct our TDFs and strengthen the and the employee for clarifying expectations about process in order to fill our vacant positions with the right roles and accountabilities. It helps positioning a regular people. We filled critical positions from our internal talent and transparent feedback mechanism for further pool by creating opportunities for 37 employees to gain development. experience abroad through our talent management We aim to work on increasing our people management process, which also includes the internal job post capabilities, through setting smart business objectives, mechanism. providing feedback and coaching, facilitating In 2015, we launched the My Career web platform performance review discussions and evaluating team under CokePort, which is a key platform for Career success in an objective manner. In CCI, performance Management to leverage key opportunities in our diverse assessment processes are implemented for all organization in a more structured and effective manner. employees regardless of gender. The platform provides end-to-end information and a one-stop solution to career in CCI, talent management Learning and Development and TDF processes. We encourage all of our employees Capability development, both at the individual and the to take charge of their career and to get support from organizational level, is a top priority for CCI. Therefore, tools and resources offered in CCI. we create an environment where learning and development is highly valued. Performance Management CCI’s performance management system ensures that we remain able to deliver successful results by improving performance and developing the capabilities of both teams and individuals. The process includes the following steps: Employee starts to make a self-evaluation against both his/ her business and development objectives. Employee and his/her immediate manager conduct a year-end performance evaluation meeting. This year we have added a new step, which is called Waiting for Review, to ensure that the managers calibrate their teams’ rating. Afterwards, the immediate manager shares the ratings with the employee. The ratings can be displayed for the employees’ examination and the employee signs his/her own form in the system. We continue to use SuccessFactors as our HR technology platform. In 2015, we relaunched SuccessFactors and renamed it as MyCareer. The platform includes 49 In 2015, CCI employees participated in many people Training management and leadership capability development In 2015, more emphasis and focus was put on programs. These include: measuring how training programs have been impacting • iLead2020 Our award winning flagship program on employees’ capabilities and to measure ROI, in order to leadership, continued in Pakistan and Turkey. To date, prepare blended learning solutions on virtual platforms more than 330 senior and mid-level leaders have for greater accessibility and reach. participated in the program from all CCI countries. we – Employees The amount of training hours has increased from 69,949 • Manager On Board (MOB) – Our in-house developed man-hours in 2014 to 75,980 in 2015 in the four countries program for our new managers focusing on creating of operation, and to 330,885 man-hours including a strong foundation in people management skills, Pakistan. The reason for the very high amount of training was launched in 2015. More than 130 new managers hours in Pakistan is that in 2015, many new policies from Azerbaijan, Jordan, Pakistan and Turkmenistan were launched which resulted in the necessity of holding attended MOB in 2015. The program will be launched additional training sessions to educate employees. In in the remaining CCI countries in 2016. Turkey, the total training hours dropped in 2015, since • Supervisor on Board (SOB) – Our tailor-made program a large portion of our employees in Turkey had already for first line supervisors aimed at building knowledge received comprehensive training in 2014. Detailed data on fundamentals of managing teams. More than on average hours of training per employee in the five 310 first line managers (supervisors) from Azerbaijan, countries of operation is provided in the Performance Pakistan and Turkmenistan attended SOB in 2015. Indicators section of the report. The program will be launched in the remaining CCI countries in 2016. Total Training 2013 2014 2015 Hours (man-hours) Our iLead2020 program received a CUBIC award Turkey – Group Office 6,255 1,384 from the International Quality and Productivity 56,429 Center (IQPC) in the Learning Leader of the Year Turkey – Operations* 19,540 9,596 category and Excellence in Practice award from the Jordan 10,788 13,916 26,160 Association for Talent Development (ATD). Kazakhstan 10,091 24,757 25,642 Azerbaijan 4,145 5,481 13,198 Pakistan n/a n/a 254,885 TOTAL 81,453 69,949 330,865 * Turkey operations include plants and sales offices. Compensation and Benefits Furthermore, in 2015, functional capability development In CCI, we focus not only on providing marketprograms continued to leverage employees’ technical competitive compensation and benefits in order to knowledge and support them in their functional roles attract and retain best people, but also on recognizing using digital platforms, on-the-job learning and in-class and incentivizing performances to foster an engaging training. organizational culture. We regularly benchmark our More than 150 HR professionals from all CCI countries reward programs against leading companies in participated in the second module of HR Capability countries where we operate, modifying accordingly to Development program. 23 finance professionals ensure that we remain competitive to meet the needs of graduated from Finance Leader Certification program our employees as well as those of the business. and 92 finance professionals enrolled in it. In line with our total reward objectives: Commercial teams have various development • We focus on market competitiveness in order to attract programs which prioritize the field sales force, ranging and retain the best talent. We remain market sensitive from e-learning simulations to one-month on-the-job in all the regions where we operate, employing both training programs such as the Sales Force Capability global and local consultancies in order to secure Development and Field Sales Coaching. accurate market data to base our policies on. 50 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 • We focus on total rewards in order to provide a From base salary increases to variable pay programs, holistic view of CCI’s offerings and to foster employee reward programs are designed with performanceengagement. This includes focusing our policies related conditions. We focus on cost management in beyond base salary and even beyond remuneration. order to ensure financial feasibility and sustainability of • We focus on pay for performance in order to our business. concentrate employees’ efforts on CCI’s objectives. Benefits Provided to Full-time Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Pakistan we – Employees Employees in 2015 Private health insurance Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Private life insurance Yes Yes No No Yes Individual pension funds Yes No No No No Company products Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Seniority service awards Yes No Yes Yes Yes Employee Engagement not to join) unions and to establish a union without fear of retaliation, threat or harassment. CCI is committed to Our vision for 2025 is to be the best FMCG company constructive dialogue with employees who are members across all our markets. The most valuable asset we have of legally recognized trade unions. Only employees of in this challenging journey is our people. Our aim is to Mahmudiye and Hazar plants in Turkey are covered be a “great place to work” for all of our employees. With by an ongoing collective bargaining agreement. The this aim, we have been conducting engagement surveys unionization ratio of the Mahmudiye and Hazar plants since 2008 to get our employees’ feedback on our is 74%. The collective bargaining agreement covering all strengths and improvement areas. other plants in Turkey ended on 31 March 2012. Our last survey, conducted in 2014, had a very similar score to the global average engagement score of high The jurisdiction dispute of two different unions proceeded performing companies. Employee responses in 2015 to court, thereby disrupting the collective bargaining identified our strengths as involvement and innovation, process. These judicial proceedings were still ongoing as culture and values, and safety and work environment; of 31 December 2015. meanwhile our improvement areas as efficiency, reward In addition to CCI Turkey, CCI Pakistan also employs and recognition, and career development. We have unionized employees. been focusing on these areas and have already taken Employee representation in CCI Turkey is ensured with necessary action. Feedback is our strongest input in the following committees: improving our people processes and work environment a) The Occupational Health and Safety Committee; and to build a One Team culture. We plan to conduct our b) The Meal and Cafeteria Service Quality next survey in the first half of 2016. Improvement Committee; Union Rights and Employee Representation c) The Disciplinary Board; and In CCI, we respect the rights of our employees to join (or d) The Accident Evaluation Committee. Percentage of Employees Covered by Collective Number of Unionized Percentage** (%) Bargaining Agreements Employees Turkey – Operations* 2013 38 4.1 2014 41 4.3 2015 52 6.2 Pakistan 2013 2,156 100.0 2014 1,881 100.0 2015 1,470 100.0 * Turkey operations include plants and sales offices. ** The percentage is calculated for the blue-collar employees, not including white-collar employees. 51 Internal Communication Channels • Ensure that OHS is an integral part of our business and In CCI, we use various channels for internal is actively supported through management leadership communication to keep our employees informed and commitment; and engaged. Our corporate communications portal, • Protect the company from any legal challenges CokePort, serves users simultaneously in Azerbaijan, by complying with (at a minimum) local legal Kazakhstan, Jordan, Pakistan and Turkey as a safe and requirements and adopting industry best practices to user-friendly working platform. CokePort also helps our establish higher standards than the minimum legal we – Employees operational information to flow smoothly. requirements; and • Protect all other resources and assets of the company In-house publications such as the monthly CCI News from any losses that may be caused by work-related Line and CCI Newsletter, as well as the 2020 Magazine, risks and hazards. issued bi-monthly for our Turkey operations, are important media for keeping our employees informed about recent developments and plans for the future. OHS Golden Rules We believe that our people are our most valuable We have a simple yet comprehensive framework, asset. Providing a safe and healthy workplace and CCIdea, for creating and harvesting new ideas in our a sustainable environment is one of our primary daily operations in CCI. Our employees share their ideas responsibilities and something that is fundamental through this platform, which is an important part of CCI’s to our success. This belief is part of our corporate working culture. culture and this policy applies to all CCI operations. With the aim of integrating social responsibility into Based on industry research and experience, CCI our company culture and encouraging employee developed and put into practice the 12 Golden volunteerism in support of community development Safety Rules to focus all its employees’ attention on programs, in 2013 we launched the CCI Volunteers common causes of major accidents and serious initiative and started establishing Employee and Family injuries. These rules are: Volunteering Clubs in our countries of operation. These • Safety first clubs also create a platform for our employees to • Always learn emergency procedures and improve internal communication. participate in health and safety trainings • Always fasten your seatbelts Occupational Health and Safety • Never exceed speed limits (OHS) • Never use a phone while driving a vehicle or operating machinery A safe and healthy workplace is both a fundamental • Never drive or operate a machine while fatigued right for every person and a business imperative. In or under the influence of alcohol or drugs line with our Workplace Rights Policy (WRP), we take • Always isolate powered systems responsibility for maintaining a productive and safe • Always work at height safely workplace by, among other things, working towards • Always obtain work permits for hazardous works minimizing the risk of accident, injury and exposure to • Always use appropriate Personal Protective health hazards for all of our employees, contract workers Equipment (PPE) and visitors to our operations. Our ultimate goal with • Always control and manage contractors effectively respect to OHS is to achieve our ultimate goal “zero • Always manage change and design processes OHS incidents” in all of our operations. effectively and assess risks While the scope of this report is limited to five countries of operation, our OHS approach, policy and management, as with any other CCI sustainability approach, applies to OHS Management all CCI countries of operation. The Coca-Cola Operating Requirements (KORE) define OHS Policy the policies, standards and requirements for managing safety (as well as environment and quality) throughout Our Environment and OHS Policy specifically seeks to: our operations. Additionally, all our plants in the five • Protect the most valuable and important resource of countries of operation covered in this report have OHSAS our company – our human capital – from any OHS 18001 Management System certification. The exception risks or hazards; is our newly established plant in Astana, Kazakhstan, • Protect the environment and minimize the impact of where we plan to obtain this certification in 2016. OHS CCI’s operations on the environment while ensuring a issues are also handled within the context of collective sustainable business; bargaining agreements signed with labor unions. 52 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 KPIs related to health and safety are tracked, measured with the involvement of the management, individuals and reported by all CCI country operations on a monthly and teams “hand in hand”. basis. Based on the KPIs, the OHS performance of our plants and of CCI as a whole is evaluated periodically. Hand in Hand Safety Management System consists of Moreover, all CCI countries of operation report “near seven steps. Our primary objective is to comply with legal miss” cases in order to reduce the number of accidents safety regulations and international safety standards. and spread the health and safety culture among their Moreover, we aim to promote visual leadership and employees. leading by example by highlighting both unsafe we – Employees conditions and unsafe acts, transform safety awareness Leadership is crucial in achieving OHS targets and OHS is and risk perception from individual to collective, and help a priority area for our plant managers. While managers all employees adopt a safe and healthier way of living. make sure that the rules are properly applied, it is the responsibility of all our employees to behave safely in our offices, plants and on the road. In CCI, every employee Steps of Hand in Hand Safety Management has the right and obligation to stop any operation that is System: deemed a potential risk. 1 Conducting corrective and preventive actions during and after accident investigations In 2015, we organized our second Health and Safety 2 Ensuring compliance with legal regulations and Summit, a four-day workshop with 13 participants standards including OHS managers of all CCI countries. We plan 3 International Standards Ensuring compliance with to organize this summit regularly. During the summit corporate standards we introduced the participants, both theoretically and 4 Top management being a role model and supervision by top management on practices (Country H&S Steering practically, CCI’s new health and safety program called Committee) Hand in Hand Safety in our Ankara Plant in Turkey. 5 Ensuring active participation of all employees by identified applications and methods (Location H&S In 2015, we implemented a number of initiatives on OHS Steering Committee) issues and worked hard to make OHS an integral part 6 CCI being a single team and achievement of a of our daily operations and business culture. Below are sustainable “zero accident” performance in which the some examples of the initiatives that were taken in 2015 occupational safety culture is internalized to reach our targets. 7 Supporting wellbeing and active life style for the sake of preventing non-occupational accidents and healthier OHS Audits employees CCI’s Internal Audit department carries out workplace health audits in our operations. In 2015, the internal audit team visited and audited CCI’s operations in Azerbaijan, Jordan, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan. Additionally, Workplace Health and Safety Audits were realized in CCI Turkey by Anadolu Group’s Human Resources Department with the support of an independent audit firm. Hand in Hand Safety Program According to the Employees criterion of the EFQM Excellence Model, excellent organizations provide a safe and healthy working environment for their employees. As a company that follows this model, in the beginning of 2016 we launched an all-encompassing program called Hand in Hand Safety to reach our ultimate goal of “zero accident”. The motto of Hand in Hand Safety is “achieving zero accident is not a result of chance, but of choice”. In order to achieve our goal of “zero accident” and sustain it over the years, we need to make sure that the OHS culture is internalized by everybody. We believe we can create a safe working environment only with the support of top management and the active involvement of individuals and teams. In other words, we can only reach our target 53 OHS Training employees’ driving behavior. We continued to provide defensive driving training in 2015 in order to increase road OHS training plays an important role in creating a safety awareness and decrease the number of vehicle long-lasting company culture to create a zero-accident crash accidents. In 2015, a total of 193 accidents involving working environment. Employees, regardless of gender, CCI-owned vehicles took place in Turkey, Kazakhstan, are provided with targeted OHS training based on their Jordan, Pakistan and Azerbaijan; a significant reduction functions. We also provide periodic refresher training for all from 308 in 2014 for these five countries of operation. our employees and contractors that work on our behalf. We achieved this improvement mostly through effective we – Employees In 2015, we continued to teach our new employees our defensive driving training provided to vehicle drivers. OHS Golden Rules in every CCI location. The OHS Golden Rules guide our efforts to put our policy into practice in Distributor Safety our offices, plants and on the road. We communicate the In 2015, we launched the Distributor Safety program OHS Golden Rules extensively across our operations. and started its implementation in Azerbaijan, Jordan, In 2015, we provided 40,900 man-hours of OHS training Kazakhstan, Turkey and Pakistan. Through the program, to our employees in the five countries of operation. we reached 345 distributors and their 5,869 employees. The main topics of the training sessions included site In 2016, we will continue with the implementation of the orientation, first aid, confined space, working at height, program by including more distributors. emergency response, OHS Golden Rules, defensive We implement the Distributor Safety program in four driving and forklift safety. steps. We start by identifying the distributors that are of Focus on Road Safety relevance. Then we ask them to nominate and assign a capable employee from their company to take part As a company with extensive distribution operations, in the program as their OHS representative. We then route-to-market (RTM) safety remains our single biggest prepare and share with the distributors a detailed risk safety challenge. A very significant portion of the safety assessment that covers all distributor activities. The next risks to our employees arise outside the plants, e.g., on step is the training of the OHS representatives on the KORE the roads while distributing our products. Driving safely requirements and OHS Golden Rules by CCI country H&S to eliminate traffic accidents is therefore a priority area. supervisors. The distributor OHS representatives then train Root cause analysis shows that unsafe behavior is the their own colleagues (on average 12 hours per employee). number one cause of these road accidents. We therefore After the training and documentation phase is completed, put substantial effort into continuous improvement of our we move on to the compliance and monitoring phase. OHS Training Total Hours of OHS Training (man-hours) Hours of OHS Training Per Employee 2013 2014 2014 2013 2014 2014 Turkey 9,268 17,751 12,062 2.8 7.1 5.1 Jordan 1,043 1,562 679 1.3 3.9 1.7 Kazakhstan 4,370 2,118 2,235 0.7 2.5 2.4 Azerbaijan 916 1,218 3,198 0.7 3.1 9.1 Pakistan n/a 15,826 22,760 n/a 3.8 6.4 Overall 15,597 38,475 40,934 3.6 4.6 5.4 Distributor Safety Program Coverage in 2015 Countries Number of Distributors Number of Employees Trained on H&S Total Hours of Training Turkey 99 2,975 35,700 Jordan 7 60 720 Kazakhstan 12 357 4,284 Azerbaijan 3 97 1,164 Pakistan 224 2,380 10,710 TOTAL 345 5,869 52,578 54 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Contractor Safety Management Program parties. Moreover, we also created a unique Contractor Pre-Qualification process as part of the program. Our Ensuring that our contractors comply with our safety objective with the Contractor Pre-Qualification Process is standards is an important goal for us. Our detailed to verify that the contractor has the technical competency analysis shows that 40% (30/74) of our lost time incidents and the capability to perform the proposed type of work and medical treatment cases result from contractor safely before the work starts onsite. It is mandatory that activities. Besides, in most cases, contractors conduct all potential contractors undergo the pre-qualification work that is classified as “dangerous/hazardous” in terms process. we – Employees of safety (i.e. confined space entries etc.), which makes the management of this process critical for us. OHS Performance In 2016, we will start the implementation of our In CCI, we follow a systematic approach for OHS Contractor Safety Management Program. This program and undertake a wide range of initiatives to improve will ensure a systematic approach for us in all countries our OHS performance. We monitor and report the of operation. It will help to enhance contractor safety OHS performance data of both our employees and performance and ensure that we have capable contractors. The data on the OHS performance indicators contractors on site from the beginning. of our five countries of operation is provided in the Performance Indicators section of this report. As part of the program, we identified the principles and phases of contractor safety management under In 2015, there was no report of any fatal accident in six key elements: Contractor Pre-Qualification, Contract any CCI operation. The LTIR was realized as 0.49 in the Definition and Award, Pre-Commencement, Contractor five countries of operation, showing a slight increase Implementation, Handover and Acceptance, Close compared to the 2014 value of 0.47. In all 10 countries of out and Reviews. We identified the steps that should operation LTIR value decreased from 0.59 in 2014 to 0.52 be covered under each phase and the responsible in 2015, indicating an improvement in our performance. Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) 2012 2013 2014 2015 Turkey 0.90 0.55 0.67 0.68 Jordan 2.62 1.56 1.54 1.42 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0.39 0.17 0 0 Pakistan n/a n/a 0.27 0.37 OVERALL* n/a 0.55 0.47 0.49 * The figure for 2013 for “Overall” does not include Pakistan, while for 2014 and 2015 Pakistan is covered. 55 we Community We strive to build stronger communities where we operate. Goals and Commitments Community Development Volunteerism Economic Impact Building Stronger Communities In addition to financial and in-kind support to community development projects, we make substantial contribution As CCI, we strive to build stronger communities where to the economies of the countries where we operate; we operate. In collaboration with local and international both directly through hiring, and indirectly through local partners, we develop, implement and support projects procurement. to respond to local social needs. We focus our efforts on women’s empowerment, youth development, and As CCI Turkey, in 2015, we donated TL 500,000 to public environmental protection, which are critical issues in schools that are part of our program, we Community our countries of operation. We encourage and support and to other foundations. In addition, we continued to our employees in initiating and actively taking part in support The Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation in Turkey community development projects in areas such as in its efforts to promote active lifestyle and protect the education, environmental protection and humanitarian aid. environment. Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2015 Goals Performance in 2015 Status 2016 Goals Community To initiate a project on The program entitled My Sister O To implement the second phase of the Development/ women's empowerment was conducted in Kayseri and program by expanding it to five cities and to Women’s together with TCCC, in Malatya in 2015. The first phase of reach in total 1,000 women in total. Empowerment partnership with Boğaziçi the program was completed by the University, the Union of end of May 2016 and 900 women Chambers and Commodity participated in the training sessions Exchanges in Turkey, in seven provinces. targeting to reach 1,000 women. To train 380 women 310 women benefited from the P To expand the program to 10 communities, under the UNDP Women’s program. improve education and job opportunities for Empowerment program in 300 women and to reach 100 young people Azerbaijan. (including 15 young facilitators). To initiate an More than 2,000 women received A To train at least 2,000 women and to allocate entrepreneurship program training. Grants were allocated to grants to 10 applicants. for women in Kazakhstan nine women who applied for the and to allocate grants to at women entrepreneurship program. least 10 applicants. --New In Pakistan, to help set up 10 Tabeer stores within the scope of the project Zarya that provides micro finance opportunity to disadvantaged women to set up small grocery stores as a mode of income. Community To provide safe drinking We improved access to clean A No new target. Development/ water to at least 20,000 and safe drinking water for 4,000 Environment people from rural areas in children and more than 25,000 Kazakhstan. rural inhabitants by installing water filters in Kazakhstan. To reach more than 10,000 We reached more than 10,000 A No new target. youth in Kazakhstan to people in Kazakhstan through the raise awareness about Eco-cross project. separate waste collection. --New To conduct a project to demonstrate efficient irrigation technologies in the Kyzylorda region of Kazakhstan and to reach 70,000 farmers. A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved 57 Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2015 Goals Performance in 2015 Status 2016 Goals Community To plant 20,000 trees We planted 22,000 trees through A To plant 15,000 trees through the program in Development/ through the program Plant the program in Azerbaijan. Azerbaijan. Environment a Tree, Give a Gift to Life in Azerbaijan. we Community To provide clean drinking In 2015, we installed eight filtration O To provide clean drinking water to 500,000 water to 500,000 people by plants in Pakistan and provided people in total in Pakistan through the project installing 15 filtration plants clean drinking water to 160,000 until the end of 2016. in Pakistan through the people through the project. Paani – Safe Water project until the end of 2016. Volunteerism To continue conducting CCI employees continued to A To launch an idea competition and to fund social development develop and execute social the projects initiated and developed by CCI activities and projects in the responsibility projects in their local employees. local communities where communities. At least one project we have plants. or activity was conducted in every plant. To engage 500 participants We engaged around 600 A No new target. in volunteer projects in participants in our volunteer Azerbaijan. projects, 150 of them being CCI Azerbaijan employees and their family members. A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved Community Development Studies show that women do 66% of the world’s labor, yet earn only 10% of the world’s income. Women We care about the needs of the local communities invest a sizable portion of the income they earn on the where we operate. We identify community challenges health and education of their children and in their local and needs, and develop and implement projects to economies, creating a tremendous economic impact*. address them in partnership and collaboration with In recognition of both the challenges faced by women both local and international partners. We encourage our and their economic potential, in 2010 TCCC launched employees and stakeholders to take an active role in 5by20, its global commitment to enable the economic these projects through volunteering. empowerment of five million women entrepreneurs In Turkey, on behalf of CCI, the Anadolu Foundation across TCCC’s value chain by 2020. conducts projects on community development focusing Through 5by20, TCCC addresses the most common on women empowerment and youth employment; while barriers that women face when trying to succeed in The Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation conducts projects on the marketplace. As a bottling partner of TCCC and environmental protection and active healthy living. observing similar needs, barriers and gaps in our Women’s Economic Empowerment countries of operation, we contribute to this global commitment. Our efforts focus on offering women access Unleashing the entrepreneurial potential of women is to business skills training courses, financial services and one of the most powerful and enduring ways to help connections with peers or mentors. CCI also became a families and communities prosper. There is vast evidence signatory to the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) showing that empowerment and achieving equality for in March 2015. women has both immediate direct benefits for women and larger effects that benefit the society in a broader sense. * Sources: Gender Equity: The Big Picture, UNICEF, 2007 and Women Empowered: Inspiring Change in the Emerging World, Phil Borges, 2007. 58 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Azerbaijan Throughout 2014 and 2015, the program focused on the development of female entrepreneurship in rural areas Women’s Club: Inspired by CCI’s goal of encouraging using green technologies. In 2015, more than 2,000 women’s leadership and empowering women in the women received training on business-related topics such workplace and community, CCI Azerbaijan established as how to open and run small businesses. Nine grants its Women’s Club comprised of the company’s female were awarded to women who opened their own small employees. In 2015, various internal training sessions on businesses. As of 2015 year-end, the program provided personal and professional development were conducted we Community more than 60 business skills training sessions and green for female employees. technologies opportunities to around 5,400 women in UNDP Women’s Empowerment Program: CCI the villages of Almaty and Akmola regions. Additionally, Azerbaijan signed an agreement with the United Nations 21 grants were awarded to the best business plans and Development Program (UNDP) Azerbaijan in 2014 to business ideas proposed by the participants since 2013. sponsor Economic and Social Empowerment of Young Women, a project aimed at creating opportunities Pakistan for women and youth to fully participate in the local CCI Pakistan initiated the project Zarya with the objective economic and social life. of empowering women in the workplace and society. The program’s activities included training women As the first leg of Zarya, the Zeenat Gari project was on subjects such as business development and launched to provide microfinance opportunities to effective communication and presentation skills; disadvantaged women in Pakistan. as well as establishment of a Women’s Resource The project offers women from disadvantaged sections Centre and various awareness raising activities of the society an opportunity to purchase rickshaws including a workshop and a campaign to eliminate and use them as a means for earning a livelihood. gender stereotyping. Local executive authorities were This unique project helps women to make a living by also trained on developing policies on economic driving rickshaws and gives them an opportunity to empowerment and community-based activism of young become financially independent. The project is realized women. The program also provided in-kind contribution in collaboration with the local NGO Seed Out. In the first to disabled women willing to start their own businesses. phase of the project, CCI Pakistan has impacted the lives As of 2015 year-end, about 310 women benefited from of five women in Lahore. All five women belong tto lowthe program, which will continue in 2016. income families and have a pressing need to support their households financially. Kazakhstan In 2016, CCI Pakistan will further expand the project Launched in 2013, The Coca-Cola Belestery program Zarya and launch the second leg of the project aims to develop entrepreneurship among women called Tabeer Stores. Tabeer Stores too will provide in Kazakhstan. Our partners in the program are the microfinance to disadvantaged women in order to set up Coalition for Green Economy and Development of and run small grocery stores as a mode of income. 10 G-global, and the Social Dynamics Public Fund. The Tabeer stores will be established in 2016. program provides business skills training and technical support to women in Almaty and Astana on how to start Turkey and effectively run a business. My Sister program aims to help women improve their individual and social lives by creating platforms where they can improve their business skills and gain competences, and by offering training and consultancy support to women in order to boost their participation in economic life. The program is conducted by TCCC and Boğaziçi University, with the support of the Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey, governorships, and municipalities in the project cities. The goal is to reach 1,000 women in the target cites of Kayseri, Malatya, Gaziantep, Trabzon, Adana, İzmir and Sakarya. The first phase of the program was completed by the end of May 2016, where 900 women participated in the training sessions in seven provinces. 59 While still trailing male literacy rates, female literacy rates the program, 15 new start-ups and 340 new jobs have in Turkey have grown substantially to above 90% in 2012. been created. Illiteracy is particularly prevalent among rural women, who are often not sent to school as girls. Half of the girls Jordan aged between 15 and 19 are neither in the education As the global sponsor of Startup Weekend, CCI Jordan system nor in the workforce. Furthermore women’s supported Startup Weekend Amman, which is a 54-hour employment has decreased since 2000 in Turkey, and event where developers, designers, marketers, product we Community the participation of women in the workforce lags behind managers and start-up enthusiasts come together to share western countries. One of the main reasons for this is ideas, form teams, build products and launch start-ups. 22 the increased migration of rural women, who would competing teams and 130 people attended the event. otherwise have been employed in the agriculture sector. CCI Jordan also signed a five-year partnership The project offers personal development and business agreement with the University of Jordan, which envisions skills training to women aged between 18 and 55. Both the construction of a fully equipped study hall in the young women who are secondary school dropouts and university’s library that would benefit 46,000 students. In older women who migrated from rural areas to cities lack addition, part of the profits earned from the water sold business skills and knowledge that is necessary to succeed inside the campus will be allocated to provide financial in business. The project will create opportunities that would assistance to students in need. help women strengthen their position in social life and In November 2015, CCI Jordan supported an advanced equip them to assume effective roles in economic life. training program by Generations For Peace (GFP), a leading global non-profit organization founded by HRH Prince Youth Development Faysal Al Hussein. The GFP is dedicated to sustainable The dynamic growth in CCI’s countries of operation peace building and conflict transformation through sport, requires a new generation of entrepreneurs, a arts, advocacy, dialogue and empowerment. The event new mindset, new approaches and new skills was organized in the King Hussein Youth City with more that will drive the economy and improve the wellthan 120 trainees from 10 countries. being of communities. Development and economic empowerment of youth is a key factor in building Kazakhstan stronger societies. Together with local partners, we Change the World Around You! is a competition program encourage and support entrepreneurship among youth organized by the University of Central Asia’s School of through education and skill-building. Professional and Continuing Education in collaboration with TCCC, with the key objective of empowering young Azerbaijan people to contribute to Kazakhstan’s socio-economic In 2013, TCCC launched its Youth Inc. program with the development and reduce youth unemployment. It is open objective to help develop a new generation of young to all students in Kazakhstan, mainly of ages between 19 entrepreneurs who would establish and run successful and 28, who aspire to become social entrepreneurs. The businesses and become future leaders of the private program’s shortlisted applicants are invited to participate sector in Azerbaijan. The program is supported by in training sessions on how to formulate a business idea, CCI Azerbaijan and organized in partnership with write a business plan and present it. The participants are Azerbaijan’s Ministry of Youth and Sports, and the able to develop solutions to a number of social issues in Debates in Civil Society Public Union. the country through entrepreneurship. Consisting of five stages, the program is designed to In 2015, four winners were selected based on the spread over five years. During the first three stages, more sustainability, feasibility, originality and social importance than 5,500 young people participated in training courses of their project ideas; and received their awards at the on various elements of business management, such ceremony held at the International Academy of Business as how to start a business, how to develop a business in Almaty. The winning projects were: case and how to develop marketing strategies. Once 1) A dance and art studio for children, including orphans they complete the training courses, young entrepreneurs in Almaty; get exposed to real business management practices 2) An innovative mobile application to measure blood in selected companies, they get to meet and talk to sugar levels of individuals with diabetes; successful entrepreneurs, and then become ready to 3) A website to support yard playgrounds in Almaty and access the initial funds to start their businesses. In 2015, to promote physical activities for children and young 15 youth companies received support, 8 start-ups were people; and launched and about 140 young people got full-time 4) Constructing greenhouses in Taldykorgan to provide employment in supported start-ups. Since the launch of employment opportunities for orphans and retired people. 60 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 The Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation Sister program focuses on the social and economic empowerment of women. (Please see the World and In Turkey, CCI supports the efforts of The Coca-Cola Life Me sections of the report, and visit Plus Foundation, which was founded in 2009 in Turkey. It www.hayataarti.org for detailed information on has been conducting projects in partnership with about these initiatives.) 135 institutions including NGOs, universities and public agencies in order to have an impact at the national level. we Community The foundation focuses on public benefit and enables stakeholder participation to ensure environmental and social sustainability in all of its projects. It has conducted more than 60 projects in more than 50 cities in Turkey, reaching more than 1,000,000 people and investing close to TL 30 million in social and environmental development since 2009. The Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation contributes to the sustainability of communities and the environment via three main initiatives: Life Plus Environment Program, Let’s Play and My Sister. The recently launched My The Anadolu Foundation to create a sharing and learning platform between scholars and older generations. Through the The Anadolu Foundation was established by the foundation’s Young Social Entrepreneurs project, founders of Anadolu Group in 1979 with the aim of which received funding from the Financial Support creating permanent achievements that would serve for Children and Youth program of the Istanbul for generations in areas where there is a need in Development Agency, young entrepreneurs have the the society. The foundation’s mission is to make a possibility to develop their capacities and develop difference by improving people’s quality of life through joint projects with universities, local governments and supporting development in education, health and NGOs. The My Dear Teacher project, conducted by the social issues. The funds of the foundation are raised foundation on a national scale, offers the possibility entirely from donations of Anadolu Group companies, for youth and teachers to develop sustainable which donate 1-5% of their annual earnings to the solutions for their communities. foundation. For more information and to see the Annual Report of In tandem with this mission and vision, the foundation the Anadolu Foundation, please visit has established more than 50 permanent buildings in www.anadoluvakfi.org.tr/en. Turkey, including schools, dormitories, sports facilities, university buildings, hospitals and community healthcare centers and provided scholarships to more than 20,000 students. In the field of health, the foundation established the Anadolu Health Center in partnership with Johns Hopkins Medicine where the foundation has so far offered the patients in need approximately 100,000 physical examinations, 8,000 operations and 22,000 days of in-patient treatment free of charge. Through the project Healthy Children, Happy Future, the foundation provided free physical examinations to 2,328 children. The foundation has also been focusing on approaches and initiatives on strategic community development. A mentoring program was launched 61 Environmental Protection supply and sanitation systems in nine rural areas in five regions of Kazakhstan. Since its launch in 2014, about It is essential for us to protect and enhance the environment 2,700 communities in four villages of the Aralsk region where we operate. We work with local communities and of Kazakhstan were provided with safe drinking water other local stakeholders on activities related to safe and through improvement of the water supply system and sufficient water supply, local cleanup and reforestation. installation of water filters. Furthermore, joint projects Azerbaijan touched the lives of 118,000 inhabitants in nine rural we Community areas through the introduction of efficient water use. Plant a Tree, Give a Gift to Life: In order to achieve Hundreds of farmers were informed about different its water replenishment targets and contribute to the water-saving technologies in agriculture, which in turn environmental well-being of Azerbaijan, TCCC and ADA has resulted in a water savings of about 1.7 million m3. University launched a multi-annual project in Azerbaijan The program will continue in 2016. entitled Plant a Tree, Give a Gift to Life. The joint campaign aims to plant 100,000 trees, thus promoting massive afforestation and reforestation in designated areas of the country in order to preserve and replenish freshwater resources in Azerbaijan. In 2015, about 22,000 trees were planted in Baku and other regions of the country, in addition to the 8,000 trees that were planted in 2014. Several national sports federations such as the Cycling Federation were invited to support the tree-planting campaign. The project is expected to be completed in 2020. Jordan Eco-cross: CCI Kazakhstan launched the EcoGreen Amman 2020: CCI Jordan participated in one of cross project in 2015, which aims to contribute to the sub projects of Green Amman 2020 in collaboration environmental protection in the country by encouraging with the Greater Amman Municipality and Abella the separation of waste into different elements during Foundation for organizing youth activities. The first phase collection. The project involves six universities, where of the project included planting of 200 trees in order more than 10,000 volunteers are engaged to form to achieve the main objective of turning Amman into a eco-teams. The main objective of the eco-teams is to green city. 150 volunteers participated in the first phase motivate university students to collect plastic and paper of the project. waste separately. The project will continue in 2016 where teams will continue to compete with each other on the International Day of Recycling: In November 2015, CCI amount of plastic waste they collect, while also working Jordan organized an event for the International Day on engaging more students and citizens. of Recycling in Aqaba City. The event aimed to raise awareness about recycling and its benefits to maintain a healthy environment and was attended by more than 250 students. Dead Sea Environmental Cleanup and Awareness Campaign: CCI Jordan signed a three-year partnership agreement with the Jordanian Dead Sea Friends Association. During the first phase, CCI Jordan placed 30 trashcans with an awareness message around a public beach in the Dead Sea area that hosts approximately 2,000 locals and tourists weekly. During the second phase, volunteers will be involved in awareness and cleaning campaigns in the campaign area. Pakistan CCI Pakistan launched the Paani Safe Water project Kazakhstan to address the critical issue of access to safe drinking Water Stewardship Program: Collaboration between water in disadvantaged communities. The project so far the UNDP and TCCC in a new global initiative and the has provided safe drinking water to over 160,000 people Water Stewardship Program in Kazakhstan has resulted across Pakistan and aims to reach to over 500,000 in the improvement of both potable and irrigation water people across Pakistan by the end of 2016. 62 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 the Caspian Sea with the participation of its employees and representatives of governmental and nongovernmental organizations. Volunteering by Women’s Club: In 2015, among other activities, the Women’s Club held an event on the International Day for Protection of Children with the participation of around 100 employee children. The club we Community members also participated in a charity event organized by the children’s shelter Ümid Yeri. During the initial phase of the project, two filtration plants were installed with the contribution of CCI Pakistan, in partnership with Rotary International and the Clean Water Trust. In 2015, CCI Pakistan signed a partnership agreement with WWF-Pakistan for the project, and together they installed eight filtration plants with intensive community outreach and mobilization. Each filtration plant can purify 2,000 liters of water per hour and provides safe drinking water to approximately 20,000 people every day. In 2016, seven more filtration plants will be installed across Pakistan. Jordan Dead Sea Cleaning Campaign: Volunteers from CCI Turkey Jordan participated in the Dead Sea Cleaning Campaign In Turkey, CCI supports The Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation in 2015. The event’s objective was to clean a main street in developing and implementing programs to protect the between the two very important touristic areas in the Dead environment. In 2015, the foundation continued to run the Sea region. The event was organized in collaboration with Life Plus Environment Program, which aims to foster a new the Dead Sea Friends Association. More than 80 students approach to land and water management considering the from the Middle East University and seven volunteers from effects of climate change and decreasing water resources. CCI Jordan participated in the event. Under the Life Plus Environment Program, two major Together Against Hunger Campaign: In collaboration projects have been launched: Agriculture of the Future with the Jordanian Food Bank, CCI Jordan successfully and Night Irrigation in Harran. Through the program, 3.6 completed another food aid campaign during 2015 to million liters of water in 20 million m2 of agricultural land support disadvantaged families in Jordan. 4,000 meals was saved, and 200,000 saplings were planted as part and 800 food packages were delivered to 800 families, of a windbreak system in Konya basin. The program mostly refugees, based in Amman, Aqaba, Jarash and has reached 1,500 people, including farmers, NGO Mafraq, with the active participation of 40 volunteers representatives, academicians and the local community. from CCI Jordan. The campaign was also promoted by (For detailed information on these two projects, please the local print media and TV channels to encourage see the World section of the report.) more Jordanians to volunteer and participate in the campaign. Volunteerism School Adoption Project: As a part of the INJAZ School We launched the CCI Volunteers initiative in 2013 and Adoption Project, CCI Jordan adopted Om Ayman School since then it has spread to various countries of operation in Madaba, a secondary school with 1,400 students. The where Employee and Families Volunteering Clubs have school was supported by training sessions on several been established. Through the CCI Volunteers Initiative, topics and skills such as how to plan a career and how we support community initiatives and support our to start a small business. More than 30 volunteers from employees to gain relevant skills and experience. CCI Jordan participated in the weekly training sessions. The second part of the adoption program focused on Azerbaijan enhancing the learning environment of the students Coastal Cleanup: CCI Azerbaijan organized the Sixth by improving school infrastructure and providing new Annual Coastal Cleanup Day to clear the coastal line of learning materials. 63 Kazakhstan volunteer events were organized, some of which were: supporting primary schools in underdeveloped regions, Volunteers of CCI Kazakhstan touched the lives of more contributing to the social development of children than 500 children, including orphans, children with through the Social Services and Child Protection Agency, disabilities and children from disadvantaged families. supporting disabled young people in integration to social Volunteers visited the children, gave them special gift life, giving applied training at vocational high schools, sets and bought them school uniforms. visiting the elderly at nursery homes, donating blood, we Community and increasing environmental awareness. Economic Impact CCI creates both direct and indirect economic impact in its operating countries. To measure our economic contribution, we conduct economic impact assessment studies. The Economic Impact of Coca-Cola in Pakistan An independent economic impact study conducted for CCI Pakistan showed that the company has an output multiplier of 4.9, which means that an injection of PKR 10 billion by the company generates PKR 49 billion in the Pakistani economy. CCI Pakistan directly employs over 5,000 people and indirectly employs over 70,000 people through its value chain. A diverse range of sectors benefit from the production and distribution of Coca-Cola Pakistan products, including the plastic, motor-vehicles, electricity, Blood Donation Campaign: In collaboration with business services, trade, food and agriculture. According the Sundas Foundation, CCI Pakistan organized a to the study, CCI’s tax multiplier in Pakistan is 1.65, and blood donation campaign across its operations to in the last five years the company has paid over PKR 61 collect over 226 units of blood. The campaign was billion in taxes. launched with an event at CCI Pakistan headquarters with active participation from all employees. A lecture The Economic Impact of Coca-Cola in covering the importance of a healthy and balanced Turkey diet, the importance of blood donation, protection from • Every TL 1 of value created by the Coca-Cola system in contagious diseases, and the significance of blood Turkey actually results in a contribution of TL 6.8 for the screening before transferring blood was delivered by Turkish economy. medical specialists. Fitness instructors also coached employees on how to stay fit. • The Coca-Cola system employs 3,000 people and indirectly creates employment for 30,000 people. World Environment Day: CCI Pakistan joined hands • Each employee contributes per hour with TL 132 to the with WWF on 5 June to celebrate the World Environment GDP. Day. 80 employees actively participated in the event by cleaning the Karachi beach and planting mangroves in • In the last 10 years, it contributed TL 2.7 billion to the WWF’s Wetland Centre at Sandspit Beach. The day also Turkish economy through direct and indirect taxes. offered employees an opportunity to learn more about • The Coca-Cola system is also a driving force in Turkey’s environmental issues and participate in team building agriculture industry; it generated income for 145,000 exercises. farmers through its beet sugar, corn sugar, and juice concentrate purchases. Coca-Cola Turkey’s trade with Turkey the local retailers created TL 2.5 billion of added value. In 2015, Employee and Families Volunteering Clubs continued to conduct social responsibility projects and Note: Overall impact calculation methodology including bottom-up calculations community welfare activities based on the local needs with targeted Input / Output multipliers” was used during the study, which was of the communities where our plants are located. 15 conducted and published by Mckinsey in 2014.) 64 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 The Economic Impact of Coca-Cola in Turkey Every TL 1 generated by the Coca-Cola system in Turkey we Community 1 TL yields TL 6.8 in the economy. 6.8 TL Coca-Cola Turkey System Coca-Cola Turkey + Coca-Cola İçecek Enables TL 2.5 billion Generated income for value added in the retail business, 145,000 farmers. supporting the industry. Coca-Cola Global Sistemi’nin The Coca-Cola Türkiye’de yarattığı 1 TL, 1 TL system ekonomiye 6.8 TL kazandırıyor. enables a direct, indirect and induced employment impact of 1 = Represents 1,000 people. 6.8 TL 30,000 people. Coca-Cola Turkey System Coca-Cola Turkey + Coca-Cola İçecek 65 world Our approach is based on the hierarchy of prevention, reduction, reuse and recycle. Environmental Management Goals and Commitments Energy Efficiency and Climate Protection Water Management Sustainable Packaging and Waste Protecting the Environment five countries of operation. SOx, NOx, dust, CO and CO2 values are measured and reported to the regulatory In a world where populations are growing, natural authorities periodically. According to the materiality resources are stressed, communities are forced to do analysis we conducted in 2014-2015, atmospheric more with less and our consumers’ expectations are emissions and wastewater discharge data from our increasing; we understand that sustainability is core to plants are evaluated as “low to medium” importance, our business continuity and long-term value creation. also given the sector in which we operate. We report this Our environmental approach is based on the hierarchy information and our detailed performance results on our of prevention, reduction, reuse and recycle. Minimizing website. In 2015, there was no legal non-compliance in our environmental impact by minimizing our natural any of our plants related to atmospheric emissions. resources consumption, generating less waste and reducing our total carbon footprint are among our main CCI Turkey plants are exempt from environmental world priorities. This approach is essential for the sustainability impact assessment (EIA) that is commonly required by of our business, as well as for the sustainability and environmental legislation for planned (infrastructure) welfare of the communities in which we operate. projects in Turkey. We fully implement TCCC’s In line with our environmental approach, we focus on three environmental policy and support projects conducted key areas: by The Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation that focus on the • Energy Efficiency and Climate Protection conservation of eco-systems. (For further details, please • Water Stewardship see the water section of the report.) • Sustainable Packaging and Waste Governance Environmental Management We have a sustainability governance structure in place to We are guided first and foremost by legal requirements, manage our key environmental aspects systematically. and then by TCCC standards and industrial practices in The Operational Sustainability Group, which reports to the managing our environmental aspects. We also engage CCI Sustainability Steering Committee, is responsible for with our stakeholders to learn about their expectations, setting annual targets, reviewing quarterly performance and we try hard to respond to their expectations on KPIs and approving data for disclosure. Within this regarding minimizing our environmental impact. group, we established two working groups to manage and report on environmental aspects: the Turkey Water In all of our operations, we establish environmental and Environment Working Group, and the Turkey Climate management systems in order to monitor and improve Change and Energy Working Group. Environmental our environmental performance. As of 2015 year-end, all coordinators of the Water and Environment Working CCI plants, except for those in South Iraq and Tajikistan Group are responsible for implementing the requirements (planned for 2016), hold the ISO 14001 Environmental of ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems, Management System Certificate. tracking performance and environmental KPIs against In addition to our three key areas, namely energy use legal requirements and TCCC standards. and greenhouse gas (GHG) emission, water use, and packaging and waste, we also monitor and manage Training our atmospheric emissions and wastewater discharge We believe that creating environmental awareness in our quality in line with the national regulations of the workplace plays an important role in helping us achieve countries where we operate and TCCC standards. All our ambitious environmental targets. In 2015, we provided CCI plants, except water bottling plants, are required 5,185 man-hours of environmental training to our to obtain emission and wastewater discharge permits employees in Azerbaijan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Pakistan according to the Air Pollution Control Regulation in the and Turkey. Hours of Environmental Training 2013 2014 2015 Turkey 2,490 3,342 2,590 Jordan 80 34 56 Kazakhstan 63 98 344 Azerbaijan 79 224 224 Pakistan n/a n/a 1,971 TOTAL 2,712 3,698 5,185 67 Key Performance Data We closely monitor four KPIs related to our three focus areas. The table below provides the results for 2015 and our targets for 2020. Country Year Key Performance Indicators Energy Use Ratio* GHG Ratio** Water Use Ratio Total Waste (MJ/L) (g CO2-e/L) (L/L) Recycling Rate (%) Turkey 2015 0.27 27.68 1.44 96 2020 Target 0.28 28.54 1.31 98 world Jordan 2015 0.33 49.31 1.89 94 2020 Target 0.30 50.00 1.50 95 Kazakhstan 2015 0.41 49.44 1.47 93 2020 Target 0.38 45.00 1.47 96 Azerbaijan 2015 0.37 64.58 1.85 96 2020 Target 0.32 55.00 1.79 98 Pakistan 2015 0.48 41.82 2.03 71 2020 Target 0.43 tbd tbd tbd * Refers only to filling (core) operations in the plants, and excludes energy use for preform injection and CO2 production processes in plants in Turkey, Pakistan, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. ** This figure refers to GHG emissions of CCI plants, excluding emissions from sales and fleet operations, divided by total production in liters. Note: For a more detailed description of these KPIs, please see the Reporting Guidance section of the report. Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2015 Goals Performance in 2015 Status 2016 Goals Energy To achieve the following We achieved: To achieve the following energy use ratios: Efficiency energy use ratios: 0.26* MJ/L for Turkey 0.27* MJ/L for Turkey1 N 0.26 MJ/L for Turkey 0.39 MJ/L for Jordan 0.33 MJ/L for Jordan A 0.32 MJ/L for Jordan 0.31 MJ/L for Kazakhstan 0.41 MJ/L for Kazakhstan2 N 0.72 MJ/L for Kazakhstan 0.39 MJ/L for Azerbaijan 0.37 MJ/L for Azerbaijan A 0.37 MJ/L for Azerbaijan 0.48* MJ/L in Pakistan New 0.43 MJ/L in Pakistan To initiate extended piloting Energy Excellence & Behavioral A To explore the opportunities to roll out the of Energy Excellence & Energy Efficiency program was program in other plants with the lessons learned Behavioral Energy Efficiency successfully initiated in our Bursa, from the pilot implementation. program in our Bursa, İzmir İzmir and Çorlu plants in Turkey. and Çorlu plants in Turkey. Climate To achieve in plants a carbon We achieved: To achieve in plants a carbon emissions ratio of: Protection emissions ratio of: 27.5 CO2 g/L in Turkey 27.7 CO2 g/L in Turkey1 P 27.5 CO2 g/L in Turkey 52.0 CO2 g/L in Jordan 49.3 CO2 g/L in Jordan A 48.0 CO2 g/L in Jordan 45.0 CO2 g/L in Kazakhstan 49.4 CO2 g/L in Kazakhstan2 N 68.0 CO2 g/L in Kazakhstan2 70.0 CO2 g/L in Azerbaijan 64.6 CO2 g/L in Azerbaijan A 65.0 CO2 g/L in Azerbaijan 41.8 CO2 g/L in Pakistan New 38.0 CO2 g/L in Pakistan To ensure that 100% of all new We could not achieve our target since N To ensure that 100% of all new cooler equipment cooler equipment purchased commercially feasible and suitable purchased is HFC-free by the end of 2017. is HFC-free by the end of 2015 alternatives were not available. We (depending on the availability will continue supporting our suppliers of the coolers). to help them develop feasible alternatives. 1: Energy use ratio was realized slightly above the target due to high crystal sugar use. 2: Energy use ratio and GHG ratio were realized above the target due to the start up of new Astana plant. For the same reason, 2016 goal is higher than the 2015 performance value. * This figure has received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm EY. 68 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2015 Goals Performance in 2015 Status 2016 Goals Climate To increase our EMDWe increased our EMD-equipped O To increase our EMD-equipped coolers to 89% Protection equipped coolers to 89% of coolers from 84% to 87% of the total of the total in Turkey. the total in 2016 in Turkey. in Turkey. Water To achieve a water use We achieved: To achieve a water use ratio of: Management ratio of: and 1.36 L/L in Turkey 1.44* L/L in Turkey3 N 1.40 L/L in Turkey Stewardship 1.90 L/L in Jordan 1.89 L/L in Jordan A 1.85 L/L in Jordan 1.54 L/L in Kazakhstan 1.47 L/L in Kazakhstan 1.50 L/L in Kazakhstan world A 1.81 L/L in Azerbaijan 1.85 L/L in Azerbaijan4 N 1.84 L/L in Azerbaijan 2.03* L/L in Pakistan New 1.89 L/L in Pakistan To conduct the second The second SVA study was A To conduct the second SVA study in our Bursa, SVA study in our Ankara, conducted in the Ankara, Mersin, Elazığ, Mahmudiye, Köyceğiz, Almaty and Mersin, Bakü, Lahore and Bakü, Lahore and Rahim Yar Khan Amman plants. Rahim Yar Khan plants. plants. To submit our second CDP We submitted our second CDP O Continuous Water Program report. Water Program report. Packaging and To achieve a total waste We achieved: To achieve a total waste ratio of: Waste ratio of: 4.5 g/L in Turkey 5.09 g/L in Turkey5 N 4.9 g/L in Turkey 13.0 g/L in Jordan 2.46 g/L in Jordan A 2.2 g/L in Jordan 1.6 g/L in Kazakhstan 1.96 g/L in Kazakhstan6 N 2.2 g/L in Kazakhstan 1.0 g/L in Azerbaijan 1.23 g/L in Azerbaijan7 N 1.2 g/L in Azerbaijan 9.66 g/L in Pakistan New 11.1 g/L in Pakistan To conduct a benchmark We conducted a benchmark study A To continue assessing opportunities to reduce study covering all CCI and shared the results among all resin and glass used in the packaging we use. countries of operation to plants to increase awareness about map the amount of resin lightweight applications. To conduct feasibility studies for implementing used for all sizes of bottles Lightweight projects in Pakistan. and to share among the plants any best practices of lightweight applications. To start Lightweight We started Lightweight projects in A projects in Jordan. Jordan. To produce all 330 ml and We produced all (28.5 million) 330 P 1 L Damla water bottles in ml Damla water bottles in Turkey Turkey using PlantBottle using PlantBottle resin. resin. To reduce the weight of We reduced the weight of 200 ml A To produce all 1 L Damla water bottles in Turkey 200 ml OWB from 150 g to OWB to 140 g in Turkey and saved using PlantBottle resin. 140 g in Turkey. 52 tons of glass. To reduce the weight of We reduced the weight of 200 ml A 200 ml RGB from 230 g to RGB from 230 g to 185 g in Turkey 185 g in Turkey. and saved 820 tons of glass. Environmental 100% compliance with We received a fine for a plant in N 100% compliance with legal environmental limits Compliance** legal environmental limits Turkey regarding waste water and TCCC’s standards. and TCCC’s standards. quality. The fine is less than USD 200,000. 3: WUR was realized above the target due to the changes in sanitation standards and higher consumption of crystal sugar. 4: WUR was realized above the target due to the decrease in production volume. 5: TWR as realized above the target since waste is recorded only when it is collected from the plant and some types of waste are only collected and thus recorded as waste during certain periods. 6: TWR was realized above the target due to the start up of new Astana plant. 7: TWR was realized above the target due to the decrease in the production volume. ** Environmental compliance in air emissions, wastewater discharge, noise, waste management, environmental reporting etc. Note: A new plant became operational in Astana, Kazakhstan in 2015, therefore the target values for 2016 are higher than the values realized in 2015. A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved 69 Energy Efficiency and Climate Focus Areas According to a recent study conducted by TCCC, Protection ingredients and packaging account for around 48% There is a scientific consensus that global climate change of the total GHG footprint of the products, while is occurring and that human-caused GHG emissions are manufacturing, distribution and refrigeration account a contributing factor. The implications of climate change for 11%, 9%, and 32% respectively. In other words, for our planet are profound and wide-ranging, with 80% of the GHG footprint in the product value chain potential negative impacts on public health, energy and is embedded in the things that we purchase. As CCI, water sources, agriculture and biodiversity. we focus our GHG emission reduction efforts on the We recognize that climate change may have mediumvalue chain processes where we have the most control, namely manufacturing, distribution, cooling, and to a world term direct and indirect implications for our business, our supply chain and communities. These potential effects lesser degree packaging. bring on the need to take immediate action. Burning fossil fuels for energy (electricity, heat and transportation) The focus areas of our energy efficiency and is one of the largest sources of human-caused GHG climate protection strategy are: emissions. Therefore energy efficiency and climate • Increasing the energy efficiency of our plants and protection is a priority area in our sustainability strategy. offices, thereby reducing GHG emissions; We strive to reduce our energy consumption and GHG • Reducing logistics-based emissions with effective emissions both to achieve better financial performance fleet and fuel management and optimization and to contribute to the efforts to tackle the issue of practices; global climate change. • Reducing indirect emissions by focusing on We set reduction targets for energy use and GHG climate-friendly (low GWP and energy-efficient) emissions every year, and track the performance of refrigeration alternatives; our operations. We also systematically seek measures • Increasing awareness on climate protection to reduce our energy consumption and related GHG by collaborating with our distributors, dealers, emissions in our value chain (packaging, manufacturing, suppliers and other stakeholders; transportation and cooling processes) and implement • Calculating, verifying and reporting accurate GHG reduction programs, while improving operational data on the carbon footprint of our operations; efficiency and quality in order to achieve our goals. • Calculating the product carbon footprint; Moreover, we support or take part in national and • Researching and investing in clean and international efforts for climate protection. renewable energy where possible; • Promoting climate protection awareness; • Constructing our new plants in line with green building standards; and • Developing and making available integrated communication platforms including audio-visual telecommunications, which helps reduce the number of business trips. Governance The Energy and Climate Protection Work Group in Turkey is responsible for, among other things, preparing strategies and road maps with regard to energy use reduction and climate protection; submitting these strategies and their budgets to top management for approval; and collecting and reporting data on GHG emissions. The Work Group consists of energy managers from plants, as well as representatives from CCI’s Corporate Affairs, Purchasing, Logistics, Cooling Equipment and Administrative Affairs; along with TCCC’s Public Affairs and Environment and Occupational Health functions. 70 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 In 2015, Energy and Climate Protection Work Group held • optimization of equipment (e.g. boilers for optimal four meetings. It provided support for the preparation of combustion); CCI’s 2015 CDP Report, calculated 2015 GHG emissions • reducing blowing pressure; and energy savings, shared good practices on energy, • investing in more energy-efficient equipment; implemented the Behavioral Energy Efficiency Program, • heat recovery; and revised the targets for energy and GHG goals, explored • exploring and analyzing renewable energy investments investment opportunities to reduce GHG emissions, by implementing pilot projects. attended meetings regarding the results of COP21 UN Climate Change Conference in Paris and the meetings Management organized by TUSIAD Climate Change & Environment Processes related to energy consumption are managed Work Group. It also prepared a summary report on its within the framework of CCI’s Energy Management 2015 activities for the top management. System, in accordance with the ISO 14001 Environmental world Management System, the ISO 50001 Energy Management Since 2011, we have System, the OE model and our corporate KPIs related to been submitting annually operational plans. comprehensive reports As of 2015 year-end, our plants in Turkey and Kazakhstan to the CDP Climate Change Program on our climate change strategy were certified according to the ISO 50001 Energy and GHG emissions. Our CDP Climate Change Management System Standard. We plan to obtain this Reports can reached on certification for our Jordan and Azerbaijan operations by www.cdp.net. 2017. We continue to lay the foundations for robust energy management systems in our other countries of operation. CCI’s senior management monitors and evaluates Manufacturing the performance results related to energy use. Energy As CCI, we focus our climate protection efforts on the coordinators implement the Energy Management System value chain processes where we have the most control, in our Turkey plants. such as manufacturing. In our plants, we conduct bottling operations that essentially consist of mixing the Energy Use beverage ingredients and filling them into cans and In our plants, the main energy sources are electricity, bottles. In some of our plants, we also have processes natural gas, LPG and diesel. We report the energy use such as washing reusable glass bottles, blowing PET of our plants in two categories. The first category is the resins to form bottles and electricity generation. energy use for “core” operations, namely bottling, while the second category includes all the other processes in the Our Strategy plants. For the purpose of making benchmarking among Our energy efficiency strategy in our plants includes: plants possible, the figures for energy use ratios (EURs) are • conducting OE projects to identify potential measures for calculated based only on the “core” operations values. For efficiency increase; detailed data on both core and total energy use, please • increasing line productivity; see the Performance Indicators section of the report. Energy Use Ratio (EUR) (MJ/L) Jordan Pakistan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Turkey 1.12 0.41 0.41 0.33 n/a 0.52* 0.48* n/a 0.44 0.40 0.41 0.72 0.67 0.41 0.39 0.37 0.26 0.26 0.26* 0.27* 2006 2013* 2014 2015 * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. 71 In our Jordan, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan plants, we managed to reduce our EUR compared to 2006. In Turkey, energy-efficiency has been a top priority for all plants, where major improvement measures have already been taken. Additionally, due to the increase in production volume and the increase in natural gas consumption linked to the use of crystal sugar during production in Turkey, the EUR values show a steady trend. Improvements in Core EURs Between 2006 and 2015 (MJ/L) 0.26 world 2006 Turkey 2015 0.27 2006 1.12 Jordan 2015 0.33 2006 0.72 Kazakhstan 2015 0.41 2006 0.67 Azerbaijan 2015 0.37 2014 0.52 Pakistan 2015 0.48 2006 0.49 TCCC 2014 0.42 0 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00 * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. Note: TCCC figure is the average EUR value for all bottlers within the Coca-Cola system. Energy Excellence and Behavioral Energy The Behavioral Energy Efficiency program (Energy Efficiency Program Excellence), launched in 2015 in Turkey, aligns with and builds upon the Top 10 Energy Saving Challenge program In line with TCCC’s goal of “reducing the carbon footprint with a focus on staff awareness and cultural change. The of the drink in your hand by 25% by 2020”, as CCI, we approach examines how people interact with systems continue our efforts to improve energy-efficiency in our and technology, and how the existing systems, policies plants. For example in January 2011, TCCC and WWF and procedures and anything else including personal launched the Top 10 Energy Saving Challenge program habits and perceptions at the site influence people’s to encourage and support TCCC’s bottling partners to behaviors. The program aims to create a savings of up deliver key actions that have the greatest potential to to 10%, often through simple actions that require little achieve energy savings in bottling plants. Plants that to no investment. The essential underlying principle is successfully completed this program moved on to the to achieve a “whole organization” approach to energy Second Top 10 Energy Saving Challenge. Including CCI excellence, spreading ownership and accountability for plants, numerous bottling partners have begun to realize energy management to the entire organization. substantial cost, energy and carbon emission savings from these actions. 72 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 The pilot phase of the program was successfully implement projects to reduce our energy consumption completed in three plants in Turkey. The plants expect and decrease our GHG emissions. to see around 5% reduction in their overall electricity Through the efficiency projects conducted in our consumption. In addition to quantitative results, some Azerbaijan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Pakistan and Turkey other benefits of the program include employees plants, we achieved a total annual energy savings of 54 becoming more aware of energy usage and spillage, million MJ in 2014 and 27.2 million MJ in 2015. The total and the more effective usage of internal suggestion, energy savings resulted in a reduction of 2,378 tons of reporting and monitoring CO2 emissions in 2015. Details are shown in the table systems. In 2016, we will look into below. The total amount of energy-efficiency investments the possibility of implementing in Turkey reached close to USD 790,300 (including the program in other plants, world investments by cooler, sales and fleet departments). based on the learnings from the pilot implementation. Below are some examples for the energy efficiency and GHG reduction projects realized in 2015: Another noteworthy impact of the Energy Excellence • In Turkey, we installed the flash steam recovery system in program was the Share & Gain initiative started our condensate collection system and saved a significant by employees in our İzmir plant, which focuses on amount of natural gas. achieving energy efficiency at home. Informative • In Azerbaijan, the plant stopped using diesel fuel and bulletins were prepared on four main subjects: electricity switched to natural gas, which will help reduce the GHG efficiency, heating-cooling, water efficiency and waste emissions compared to diesel combustion. management. A platform was established to encourage • In Pakistan, steam jackets on valves were insulated, employees to share their best practices. More than 50 an extensive leakage detection survey was conducted, best practices were shared during the first month. where 177 leaking points were identified and addressed. We make use of a photovoltaic solar system and a wind Energy and GHG Emissions Reduction turbine to provide energy to one of the production lines in Within the scope of the efficiency projects and the OE our İzmir plant in Turkey. Other plants in Turkey are regularly Program conducted in CCI plants, we identify and assessing the feasibility of renewable energy investments. Energy Saved and GHG 2014 2015 Emissions Reduced due to Efficiency Projects in Energy GHG Emissions Energy GHG Emissions Monetary Plants (Million MJ) (tons of CO2) (Million MJ) (tons of CO2) Saving (USD) Turkey 28.4 1,890 11.7 1,402 247,886 Jordan 4.7 515 2.5 200 40,869 Kazakhstan 9.0 1,499 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0.8 59 0.2 28 2,655 Pakistan 11.1 674 12.8 1,168 387,455 TOTAL 54.0 4,637 27.2 2,378 678,865 Transport and Distribution Our Strategy We transport millions of goods and products from our • Minimizing the daily number of vehicle movements suppliers to our plants, and from our plants to our and the daily kilometers driven in our sales and customers and distributors. Our extensive logistics distribution operations; and network means that the sales and distribution of our • Preferring vehicles with lower fuel consumption and products together form the largest part of our operations. carbon emissions. As such, optimization of distribution is crucial to our We continuously seek opportunities to increase our fuel business performance. In addition, according to a TCCC efficiency and decrease our GHG emissions by minimizing study, fleet and distribution account for about 9% of the the daily number of vehicle movements and the daily total GHG emissions of the value chain. kilometers driven. In this context, we developed the Route Optimization Project in 2013 and we are further improving route planning for our sales and distribution teams. 73 In line with our strategy to reduce the daily kilometers amount of energy consumed per refrigerator and driven, in 2013 we started using a technological platform switching to HFC-free cooling equipment that contain called Road Net in our Turkey operations. As of 2015, our refrigerants with low global warming potential are 64 distributors and five direct distribution points use this important elements of our 2020 energy management platform in Turkey. Additionally, we signed an agreement and climate protection targets. to use this route optimization software in Kazakhstan and Jordan. We will start the software installation process for Existing Equipment these countries of operation in 2016. According to our Our policy is to buy new equipment when a cooler can estimates, using Road Net in Turkey resulted in a reduction no longer be refurbished economically. 75% of all the of 1.35 million km driven and approximately 1,050 tons equipment we placed in the market in 2015 in Turkey is of CO2 emissions, as well as allowing a savings of USD refurbished equipment. We fit existing cooling equipment world 650,000 in fuel costs. with energy-efficient technologies (EMDs and LED lights). Any equipment that cannot be refurbished is collected Cooling Practices and disposed of safely. In 2015, about 34,577 pieces of For the consumers to enjoy the best experience, it is old cooling equipment (weighing approximately 2,418 important to serve most of our products cold. We have tons), compared to about 25,950 pieces in 2014, was around 301,000 pieces of cooling equipment in Turkey disposed of properly by our Turkey operations. alone and a total of about 795,000 in the five countries of operation. Cooler equipment is owned by our sales New Equipment operations and operated by our customers on their We work with our suppliers to develop alternative premises. technologies for commercially viable, climate-friendly (HFC-free) refrigerant gases. In addition, to save energy, Our Strategy we stopped buying large, open-fronted units (OFUs) in • Preferring more efficient equipment for new purchases; Turkey since 2014. • Switching to HFC-free equipment containing refrigerants with low global warming potential; Energy Management Device (EMD) Program • Fitting existing equipment with energy-efficient Since 2009, we have been working on our EMD Program technology; and to reduce GHG emissions resulting from electricity • Working with suppliers and other partners to innovate consumed by our cooling equipment. Coolers equipped and develop climate-friendly cooling technologies. with EMDs use about 42% less energy than conventional models. As a commitment within our EMD Program, According to a study conducted by TCCC, cooling we purchase new coolers that are larger than 250 liters equipment is a large source of GHG emissions in the and equipped with an EMD. In addition, we convert our value chain, including ingredients and packaging it customers’ non-EMD coolers to EMD-fitted coolers. accounts for about 32% of the total. The GHG emissions result from electricity consumption by coolers as well The table below provides a country-based overview of as from leaking refrigerants. Therefore, reducing the the ratio of coolers that are EMD-equipped. Climate-friendly Cooling Practices in Turkey 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of coolers with LED lighting system 29,000 75,000 85,000 110,556 Percentage of coolers with LED lighting system (%) 8 19 22 32 Percentage of HFC-free coolers (%) 40 57 59 60 Percentage of EMD-equipped coolers (%) 59 77 84 87 EMD-Equipped Coolers (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Turkey 35 59 77 84 87 Jordan 5 5 5 5 5 Kazakhstan 12 19 29 29 39 Azerbaijan 50 50 50 50 50 Pakistan n/a n/a n/a n/a 0.3 74 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 In 2015, thanks to the EMD program, we managed to The HFC-free coolers currently available in the market save approximately 428 million kWh electricity in the produce a high-level of noise, which makes them five countries of operation, resulting in a CO2 reduction undesirable for our customers. We are collaborating with of approximately 184,000 tons (equal to the amount our suppliers to overcome this problem. of CO2 that 15.3 million trees annually extract from the Since the launch of the HFC-free Program in 2009, we atmosphere). increased the percentage of our HFC-free coolers in In Turkey alone, in 2015 we reduced our energy Turkey from 0% to 60% by the end of 2015. Between consumption from refrigeration by approximately 402 2009 and 2015 we achieved a cumulative CO2 emission million kWh and our CO2 emissions by approximately reduction of 1,203 tons. In 2015, we achieved a CO2 172,000 tons. These results placed CCI among bottlers emission reduction of 145 tons with HFC-free coolers, world that are closest to realizing the 2015 refrigerator inventory and a total of 764 tons CO2 between 2013 and 2015. goals within the Coca-Cola system. We will continue our efforts to reduce CO2 emissions resulting from our Our Carbon Footprint coolers. Since the launch of the program in 2009 until the While advancing towards our 2025 growth targets, we end of 2015, the cumulative energy savings in Turkey has also take firm steps to track and minimize our carbon added up to 1,543 million kWh, equaling to 696,000 tons footprint, a measure that is essential for the sustainability of CO2 emissions. (Please see the Performance Indicators of the environment, as well as our business. In 2015, we section of the report for detailed data on energy savings managed to reduce our total Scope 1 emissions from and avoided GHG emissions.) 111,787 tons in 2014 to 104,635 tons in 2015. Our Scope 2 emissions increased slightly, from 111,394 tons in 2014 More Efficient Lighting to 115,932 tons in 2015. Overall Scope 3 emissions from To reduce the electricity consumption of coolers, in addition coolers slightly decreased when compared to last year’s to using EMDs, we have been switching to LED lighting emissions due to the decrease in IEA factors of Turkey, systems, which reduce in-equipment lighting by 80%. As Pakistan, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan and decrease in of 2015 year-end, approximately 115,000 of our coolers in Kazakhstan’s cooler inventory in 2015. Turkey were equipped with LED lighting systems. HFC-Free Coolers Together with its bottling partners, TCCC established a goal which states that 100% of its new cold-drink equipment will be HFC-free by the end of 2015. Hydroflorocarbons (HFCs) used as refrigerants in coolers are known to contribute to global climate change. Compared to HFC versions, the global warming potential of HFC-free coolers is at least one thousand times lower. Refrigerants contained in cooling equipment may slowly leak into the atmosphere during use or may leak completely if the equipment is not properly disposed of at the end of its life cycle. As CCI, we ensure that coolers are properly emptied of any gases that may remain before disposal. Meanwhile, a commercially viable HFC-free solution was not available for CCI in 2015. Therefore, we could not yet reach our goal of 100% HFC-free cooler equipment. HFC-free Cooling GHG Emission Annual CO2 Equipment Reduction Extraction HFC-free Program in Turkey (%) (ton CO2) (Number of Trees) 2013 57 320 26,700 2014 59 299 24,900 2015 60 145 12,000 2013-2015 (Cumulative) 764 63,600 75 A table providing a detailed overview of our GHG emissions for the five countries of operation is provided in the Performance Indicators section of the report. In addition to monitoring total emissions for each country of operation, we also monitor our GHG emissions ratio, which represents grams of CO2-e per liter of product produced. This ratio includes all Scope 1 and 2 emissions as included in the table above. In Azerbaijan, the GHG emissions ratio has increased due to the launch of “hot fill” operations, which consume more energy and crystal sugar. GHG Emissions Ratio (g CO2-e/L) 2012 2013 2014 2015 Turkey 28.52 28.47 27.92 27.68 world Jordan 55.31 54.76 55.89 49.31 Kazakhstan 41.07 39.22 49.85 49.44 Azerbaijan 62.55 69.38 71.82 64.58 Pakistan n/a n/a n/a 41.82 TCCC 37.81 37.10 36.89 n/a GHG Emissions Reductions in Turkey In 2015, due to various successfully implemented projects, we achieved a GHG emissions reduction of 176,987 tons of CO2-e in Turkey. Emissions Savings in Scope Amount Turkey (tons of CO2-e) 2014 2015 Product Scope 1 366 2,075 distribution fleet improvement Fugitive Scope 1 299 145 emissions reductions in coolers Reduce the CO2 Emissions Embedded in the Energy Scope 1+2 2,030 1,402 efficiency and Drink in Your Hand by 25% by 2020 low-carbon The Coca-Cola system launched a global initiative in projects in plants 2013 called “Reduce the CO2 emissions embedded in the drink in your hand by 25% by 2020” aimed Route Scope 3 1,050 1,050 at reducing GHG emissions across its entire value optimization chain. In CCI, we are aligning our climate protection target with this overall target in order to achieve comprehensive carbon footprint reductions across Cooler EMD Scope 3 175,000 172,315 our manufacturing processes, packaging formats, improvement delivery fleet, refrigeration equipment and ingredient sourcing. This is a comprehensive approach, since the goal covers Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. Our Total 178,745 176,987 goal for Turkey operations is to achieve 144.7 g CO2/l GHG emissions by 2020 covering manufacturing, fleet and cooler functions. 76 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 GHG Emissions in Turkey For four consecutive years we have had our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions related to our Turkey operations externally verified by a third-party auditing company, SGS, in line with the requirements of the ISO 14064-3. Our carbon footprint calculations cover emissions from our plants, cooler equipment fugitives, and vehicle fleet in Turkey, and follow the requirements of ISO 14064-1. GHG Emissions in Turkey (tons of CO2-e) world 1,314 19,555 62,877 328,628 37,415 14,517 2013 15,145 9,668 Scope 1 Scope 1+2 Scope 3 Scope 1+2+3 TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL 49,217 112,094 377,025 489,119 1,157 4,733 321,162 33,385 14,283 61,359 2014 16,012 17,123 Scope 1 Scope 1+2 Scope 3 Scope 1+2+3 TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL 47,418 108,777 360,437 469,214 1,621 5,241 299,264 16,218 60,370 38,533 2015 9,378 26,566 Scope 1 Scope 1+2 Scope 3 Scope 1+2+3 TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL 52,162 112,532 344,659 457,191 0 100,000 200,000 300,000 400,000 500,000 Scope 1 Stationary combustion emissions Scope 3 Cooler Scope 1 Fleet emissions Scope 3 Employee commuting Scope 1 Fugitive emissions (CO2 production process, Scope 3 Business travel coolers, cooling systems and fire extinguishers) Scope 3 Downstream transportation Scope 2 Emissions (electricity) 77 Water Management and every opportunity to reduce the amount of water we use in line with our water management policy and strategy. Stewardship We reuse and recycle water in our plants to reduce Water is the main ingredient in our products, therefore the consumption of fresh water, treat it via wastewater both its quality as well as quantity is crucial for the treatment facilities and replenish it through community success and continuity of our business. We also need projects. At the local level, we conduct source water to carry out our own manufacturing processes. vulnerability assessments (SVAs) and implement the Moreover, water is a key resource for our suppliers, resulting plans to protect water catchment basins in the which is necessary to grow the agricultural products that regions where our plants are located. we use as ingredients. As our business volume increases, our overall goal is “to world A sufficient quantity of safe, accessible water is essential produce more beverages by consuming less water”. to the welfare and good health of communities, critical to ecosystems and key to our business success. We have Our Strategy a particular interest in protecting the water sources that We fully support TCCC’s ultimate goal of “replenishing every sustain communities. The communities that host our drop of water used”. As a bottling partner, we implement bottling plants are also our consumer bases; we sell our TCCC’s global water strategy, which focuses on: products where we make them. If those communities stay • Improving our overall water-use efficiency; strong, our business will stay strong. If the watersheds • Managing wastewater and stormwater discharge in we share with them are preserved, those communities our plants (striving for 100% compliance in wastewater and our business can thrive. Therefore, in addition to the treatment); ethical and ecological imperatives that drive our water • Mitigating risk for communities and for our business by stewardship, we also have a vested business interest in partnering with governments, NGOs and communities preserving and improving local water sources. to assess, understand and chart effective, long-term As the global demand for water rises due to increasing water stress solutions, and implementing source water population, economic development and the impact of protection plans; climate change, water supplies are acutely stressed and • Replenishing the water we use back to communities increasingly threatened. It is therefore critical that we use and nature. CCI’s Water Strategy Manufacturing System Reduce, Risk Source Reuse, Sales Replenish Source Water Water Volume Equal to Sales Protection Recycle Volume Water Use Ratio • Water source sustainability Community Water Partnerships • Industrial development & • Watershed Protection/Restoration population growth • Water for Productive Use • Economical • Water Access • Social • Natural (events) Wastewater Treatment Return 100% Compliance 78 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Governance water in Turkey is 112 billion m3, of which 32 billion m3 The Water and Environment Work Group in Turkey is dedicated to agricultural use (irrigation), 7 billion m3 is responsible for, among other tasks, preparing is used as drinking water and five billion m3 is used in strategies and road maps with regard to water and industry. CCI Turkey accounts for 0.0038 billion m3, or the environment. They conduct risk assessments on only 0.076% of Turkey’s industrial water usage. (Source: water and climate change, and submit reports on these www.dsi.gov.tr/toprak-ve-su-kaynaklari) risks, their recommended strategies and budgets to Approximately 81% of our water comes from wells, 11% top management for approval. They also collect and comes from spring water (spring water is used only in report data on water use and total waste. The work Turkey) and 8% comes from municipal water systems. group consists of representatives from our plants, as well as managers responsible for purchasing, logistics, In 2014, the total water consumption in the five countries administrative affairs, corporate affairs from CCI and of operation amounted to 8,502,396 m3, and in 2015 to world TCCC. In 2015, the work group reviewed and updated 8,215,227 m3, which indicates a decrease. Detailed data the water risk assessment for Turkey, supported the data on the total water consumption for the last three years collection and verification process and contributed to the for the five countries of operation is provided in a table in preparation of the report submitted to the CDP Water the Performance Indicators section of the report. Program. Water Efficiency In 2015, we submitted our second detailed annual Parallel to the growth of our business and our production report to the CDP Water Program, describing our volume, our related water consumption increases. water strategy, disclosing our SVA study summary Thanks to OE and efficiency projects in our plants, we update, the results of water risk assessments, and manage to reduce the amount of water we consume per the data on our water withdrawal, discharge and liter of product. consumption. We will submit our third report the CDP Water Program in June 2016. In our countries of operation, we monitor our water efficiency through WUR, which indicates how much water is used for producing one liter of product. We also Water Consumption set water use reduction targets based on this KPI and Water is the main ingredient in our products. Our use of keep close track of our performance. water resources is relatively high in the regions where In line with TCCC’s goal of improving the Coca-Cola our plants are located, but relatively insignificant in the system’s water efficiency by 25% by 2020 (taking 2010 countries where we operate. We work hard to minimize as base value), we will continue to improve our WUR. our impact by setting ambitious targets to preserve and As can be seen from the graph below, we managed to replenish water resources in our areas of operation. reduce our WURs compared to 2006. Moreover, in all of According to a study conducted by Turkey’s State these countries, the WUR value is lower than the average Hydraulic Works, the amount of annual total usable within the Coca-Cola system. Water Use Ratio (L/L) Jordan Pakistan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Turkey 3.44 n/a 2.06 2.00 2.04 1.89 2.10 n/a n/a 2.40* 2.03* 2.10 1.76 1.65 1.55 1.47 1.74 1.90 1.92 1.82 1.85 1.39 1.41 1.41* 1.44* 2006 2012* 2013* 2014 2015 *These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. 79 Improvements in WURs Between 2006 and 2015 2006 1.74 Turkey 2015 1.44* 2006 3.44 Jordan world 2015 1.89 2006 2.10 Kazakhstan 2015 1.47 2006 2.10 Azerbaijan 2015 1.85 Pakistan 2015 2.03* 2006 2.56 TCCC 2014 2.03 0 0.50 1.00 1.50 2.00 2.50 3.00 3.50 * This figure has received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. We achieved approximately 5.1% reduction in water Water Minimization Workshop consumption from 2014 to 2015 in the five countries of Within the framework of the CCI Capability Development operation. Program, we provided training to CCI country In 2015, we saved about 177,000 m3 of water in the five representatives on various topics including water countries of operation, where the total water efficiency use minimization. Representatives from CCI countries investments amounted to approximately USD 100,000 (of came together for a one-day workshop to discuss the which USD 40,000 was in Turkey). importance of water in our operations, technical measures to reduce water consumption and our water use targets. Some of the achievements in our Turkish plants in 2015 include: • We achieved approximately 18% of water savings per liter of product resulting from efficiency projects implemented from 2006 to 2015. • We saved approximately 80,000 m3 of water through projects focusing on reuse and recycling in our plants. For example, our Ankara Plant installed a new generation bottle washer by making an investment of approximately USD 1.5 million, thereby reducing its annual water consumption by 5,000 m3. Our Çorlu Plant recycled 15,000 m3 of water thanks to its bottle washer water reuse system. 80 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Water Assessment Case Study: In January 2015, students from Virginia We have been conducting local source water Tech University’s Center for Leadership in Global Sustainability conducted a study to identify the primary assessments (SVA) since the end of 2009 for our plants factors leading to CCI’s successful leadership in and have been developing a source water protection industrial water efficiency, taking our İzmir Plant as plan (SWPP) to mitigate water-related risks to our a case study. In the study, the students concluded: business and to the communities we serve. SVAs allow “CCI is committed to reducing water consumption us to assess vulnerabilities to community sources of not only for economic benefits, but also for the water and help us to determine the potential impact of long-term sustainability of their business in the face our water usage and wastewater discharge. of water scarcity. CCI has managed to make water conservation relevant to all employees at all levels of Within the scope of SVA studies, the following issues are the business. In doing so they created and now foster considered: world a culture of innovation and sustainability”. • The conceptual hydrologic model for the watershed and groundwater basin; • The sustainability and continuity of water supplies; • Potential internal and external risk factors that affect raw water quality and quantity; and • Historical issues with water quantity and quality. An SVA study entails conducting an analysis of water basins and sub-basins around our plants. It includes the topographical, geological, hydro-geological and hydrological assessment of the study areas, as well as identification of any risks to the quality and quantity Case: Water Mapping Study in Our İzmir of water resources within these areas. It also includes Plant processes such as field surveys, stakeholder analyses, Since 2014, we are actively using the water map we interviews with plant authorities or site representatives, developed in our İzmir plant to better identify opportunities interviews with local and national authorities, and to improve our water use performance. On this map, desktop studies. We evaluate the results of these studies, we plotted water meters and monitored the daily water develop SWPPs based on the results, and take actions in consumption at each point. The map allows us to identify each plant. any problems that may occur at a specific production An expert water consultancy company conducts the location and immediately take corrective actions. Within SVAs with the participation of CCI Water Resource the framework of this project, we installed additional water Management Teams. Based on the information gathered meters and started reporting to the top management from the assessment studies, various practices are put in on the daily performance data obtained from the water place to avoid contamination, prevent decrease in water map. In 2015, with the help of our employees we identified quality arising from contamination by pesticides, and opportunities to eliminate water leakages. encourage water usage minimization and recycling. Water Preservation and Replenishment SVA studies are conducted every five years in all CCI The water we use in our products and our production plants. As of December 31, 2014, all CCI plants had processes is drawn from local water sources. Because completed their SVA studies in all countries of operation. we make our beverages in the communities and In 2015, second SVA studies were conducted in our ecosystems where we operate, we share this precious Ankara, Mersin, Baku, Lahore and Rahim Yar Khan resource with other stakeholders. In order to source the Plants. CCI plants in the five countries of operation have water responsibly and manage the risks for our business also developed SWPPs and have begun implementing and communities, we are implementing a water improvement measures. Our Turkey plants will complete stewardship program. a second SVA study cycle in 2016, and all CCI operations Through this program we assess the vulnerabilities will do so by 2019, including our Iraq operations and regarding the quality and the quantity of our community two plants newly opened in Kazakhstan and Tajikistan. water sources, determine the potential impact of SWPPs are revised after the SVA studies according to our water use and discharge of treated wastewater, new risks and opportunities. All our plants have revised and then address potential issues in a source water their SWPPs and shared them with TCCC. protection plan. 81 TCCC’s Replenishment Goal The Coca-Cola system returned an estimated 191.9 The Coca-Cola system aims to safely return to billion liters of water to nature and communities in communities and the nature the amount of water that 2015 – the equivalent of 115% of the water used in is equal to what is used as an ingredient in its finished Coca-Cola’s finished beverages in the same year. The beverages and during their production. This is called Coca-Cola system achieved its water replenishment “water neutrality” and it is defined as: goal through 248 community water partnership projects in 71 countries and since 2004 returned in 1) Returning the water we use back to the total an estimated 337.7 billion liters of water. communities we serve by treating all wastewater and In 2015, water replenishment rate in Turkey reached giving it back to the environment at a level of purity world 150% (from 58% in 2014), equal to about 4.27 billion that supports aquatic life. liters of water. In TCCC’s Eurasia region (which 2) Replenishing an amount of water equivalent to our includes CCI’s Turkey, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and product volume through locally relevant water and Turkmenistan operations, but excludes Jordan), the sanitation projects. replenishment rate has increased to 69%. The Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation Plus Foundation, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock, and the Nature Conservation Center. Life Plus Environment Program We want to play our part in building thriving Biodiversity Conservation Aspect of the Project communities in partnership with governments, NGOs Conventional nature conservation activities focus on and universities. Turkey is considered a “nearly waterconservation of certain species or their ecosystems. scarce” country, with an average allowance of only The new approaches, such as ecosystem and 1,520 m3 of water per person, and more than 70% of biodiversity conservation, take into account the the country’s fresh water is being used in agriculture. multi-sector nature of conservation practices and In this sense, water saving in irrigated farming will aim at sustainable use and conservation of natural create value for communities and the environment. resources. The Agriculture of the Future Project aims The Life Plus Environment Program aims to foster a at promoting the “ecosystem services” approach in new approach to land and water management in line agricultural practices in order to conserve agricultural with adaptation to climate change and decreasing ecosystems and biodiversity without reducing water resources. the prosperity of the communities. The project’s Two projects have been conducted under the Life ecosystem services and biodiversity monitoring Plus Environment Program: Agriculture of the Future activities are summarized below. and Harran Night Irrigation. The Program has so far saved 3.6 million liters of water on 20 million m2 of agricultural land. Some 200,000 saplings were also planted as windbreakers in the Konya basin, and the program has reached 1,500 people, including farmers, NGO representatives, academicians and the local community. The water replenishment project in Konya initiated by Coca-Cola has a budget of USD 1.5 million distributed over three years, from 2014 to 2016. Agriculture of the Future Project This project has two objectives. The first is to improve the water-holding capacity of soil, ensuring efficient use of land and water. The second is to increase the capacity to use “ecosystem services” in agriculture through direct seeding and windbreaks. The project was realized in partnership with The Coca-Cola Life 82 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Ecosystem Services Approach in the Project in high temperatures, which increases evaporation. Natural ecosystems that directly or indirectly provide In order to reduce the amount of water lost by various benefits for human welfare are called evaporation, it is important to do irrigation in the early ecosystem services. Agriculture is a dominant human hours of the day, in the evening or at night, rather activity, and agricultural land covers nearly 40% of than daytime. Reducing water loss will also minimize the world’s total land area. The ecosystem services environmental problems caused by over-irrigation, used by agricultural production can be provisioning such as salination, fungal diseases and pollution. (freshwater, genetic biodiversity etc.), supporting (soil With the implementation of this project, 1.5 billion liters structure and fertility) or regulating services (climate of water were saved in Harran. In addition, farmers regulation, pollination, biological control etc.). In world achieved a 15% yield increase. the Agriculture of the Future Project, the aim is to integrate the Ecosystem Approach – a strategy for sustainable management of land, water and living resources – into agricultural activities. The Ecosystem Approach provides tools to minimize the conflicts between nature conservation and economic activities, thus enhancing the sustainability of socio-ecological systems. The project is the first of its kind to use such a comprehensive approach in handling socio-economic activities and environmental values together. Harran Night Irrigation Project Harran Plain is one of the agricultural production centers of Turkey. In summer months, irrigation is done Wastewater Management and allowed maximum discharge values set by TCCC are Reclamation much lower (stringent) than the limits established by local authorities. Within the scope of ISO 14001 Environmental Our wastewater management approach is based on Management Systems certification, all CCI plants are the ambitious goal of “zero wastewater generation”. regularly audited by third parties regarding their compliance Moreover, one of the two goals of our replenishment with wastewater discharge requirements. strategy is “returning the water we use to make our beverages back to community after we have treated Wastewater Discharge Between 2006 and it”. In other words, we return wastewater back to the communities and nature after treatment, which is the 2015 basis of our wastewater management program. Next to monitoring and managing the quality of the wastewater we discharge, we also monitor the amount Our Strategy of wastewater discharged per liter of product. Since • We implement measures to reduce the amount of 2006, we managed to decrease our water discharge wastewater generated. These measures include, ratio in the four countries of operation. In Azerbaijan the among others, use of reverse osmosis, reusing treated ratio increased slightly in 2015 compared to last year due wastewater as irrigation water and reusing final rinse to reduction in production volume. water for floor washing. • We adopt processes and technologies for wastewater Wastewater 2006 2014 2015 treatment, where we strive, at a minimum, for Discharge (L/L) compliance with the local discharge requirements. Turkey 0.39 0.41 0.39 In addition to respecting national and local laws regulating Jordan 2.43 1.04 0.89 quality limits for wastewater discharge in all of the countries Kazakhstan 0.87 0.42 0.36 where we operate, we track our compliance with TCCC’s Azerbaijan 1.16 0.94 0.97 requirements for treated wastewater quality. (Please Pakistan n/a 1.35* 1.01 see the Performance Indicators section of the report for an overview of these requirements.) In many cases, the * Due to a change in the methodology, the 2014 data was revised from 0.56. 83 Sustainable Packaging and Our Sustainable Packaging Strategy Waste For us it is important to deliver beverages that meet REDUCE PET and Glass Lightweight the quality expectations of our consumers in the most sustainable way possible. We make progress toward this objective by using lighter packaging, using recycled REUSE Returnable Glass Bottles and renewable materials, and engaging consumers to join us on the journey. This helps conserve not only RECYCLE Post-Consumer Material Collection resources, but also energy. By conserving energy and resources such as polyethylene terephthalate (PET) world resin and glass, we reduce our total carbon footprint. RENEW PlantBottle Meanwhile, our business also benefits through reduced operational costs. As waste management is one of our key environmental priorities, we set annual targets and continuously Reducing Materials Used in Product monitor total waste ratios and total waste recycling rates Packaging in our plants. We safely dispose of the waste that we In line with our strategy of reducing the amount of cannot avoid. Our ultimate goal is to recover 100% of the natural resources used in packaging, we have been hazardous and non-hazardous waste resulting from our testing the use of the minimal amount of resin and glass, operations. We also support programs that encourage while making sure that we do not undermine the safe consumers to recycle used beverage packaging. transport of our products. Our Strategy Plastic Three fundamental principles define our approach to Our first use of the lightweight PET bottle was in 2008 sustainable packaging: in our İzmir Plant, where we reduced the length of the • Reduce – Continuously reducing the amount of raw bottleneck. Since then, we have continued to reduce the materials and energy used in the manufacturing of amount of resin in PET bottles through Lightweight and packaging, and using recycled materials as much as Short Neck projects applied to various bottle sizes in our food safety principles and technology allow Turkey, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan plants. In 2015, we • Reuse and Recycle – Working together with various conducted a benchmark study covering all CCI countries of stakeholders to establish an environmentally friendly operation to map the amount of resin used for all sizes of and economically sustainable infrastructure for postbottles and to share among the plants any best practices consumer packaging recovery and recycling of lightweight applications. Thanks to this study, in 2015, our Jordan operations started implementing Lightweight • Renewable – Exploring and testing alternative, projects and CCI Pakistan started testing alternatives. renewable materials such as PlantBottle. As illustrated in the table below, in 2015, we saved a total of 2,212 tons of resin in the four countries of operation through our Lightweight projects. Resin Savings Saving (ton)* Cumulative due to Saving (ton) Lightweight Projects 2014 2015 2014 and 2015 Turkey 1,471 1,494 3,965 Jordan 0 101 101 Kazakhstan 1,875 150 2,025 Azerbaijan 481 467 948 TOTAL 3,827 2,212 6,039 * Resin saving for our own production due to Lightweight and Short Neck projects 84 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Glass to use recycled plastic for PET bottles in some countries, Since 2010, we have been implementing Lightweight in Turkey it is not legally allowed to use recycled plastic in packaging material that comes in direct contact with food. projects to reduce the amount of glass used by our suppliers. Among the five countries of operation, In Kazakhstan, one of the priority countries for setting up one way bottles (OWB) are only used in Turkey and a recycling scheme, we started stakeholder engagement Kazakhstan; and returnable glass bottles (RGB) in efforts to create a common vision for recycling in the Jordan, Pakistan and Turkey. In 2015, we reduced the country. As a result of continuous communication with glass weight of 200 ml RGB in our Turkey plants from business interest groups and the government, there 230 g to 185 g, and achieved a saving of 820 tons of was an agreement to create an industry-led packaging glass. In 2014, learning from our success in Kazakhstan, recycling system. To support this position and provide an we reduced the weight of 200 ml OWBs from 150 g to world industry proposal, a research was initiated to collect the 140 g in Turkey and saved 52 tons of glass in 2015. necessary field data, and to conduct economic impact evaluation and risks assessment. The research will be Labels completed in 2016. In 2015, we started working with our label suppliers in Turkey to develop and use lighter labels for bottles with Renewable Packaging Material large surfaces (e.g., the 1 L and 2.5 L bottles). Per label, Considering that about 60 we reduced density by approximately 12% and thickness percent of TCCC’s beverage by 9%. volume is currently offered in PET plastic packaging, Recycling and Reuse of Packaging and that in some countries Materials it is not legally allowed to use recycled plastic, Our recycling efforts include several initiatives, such as TCCC invests in alternative encouraging our customers to use returnable bottles and technologies to reduce the helping authorized business partners collect packaging environmental footprint of waste. its value chain caused by In Turkey, a legislation is in force mandating recycling of PET use. post-consumer packaging waste. The system in Turkey Developed by TCCC, is based on the concept of extended producer’s liability. PlantBottle packaging During the reporting period, the recycling rate in Turkey replaces the fossil-fuel-based materials traditionally used for plastic, glass, metal and aluminum packaging waste to make PET plastic with renewable substitutes made from was 48%. We achieved this rate with the help of our plants. The key difference between PlantBottle packaging authorized business partner, the Çevko Foundation. and traditional PET plastic bottles is that, instead of using We aim to achieve a 60% post-consumer packaging petroleum and other fossil fuels to produce a key ingredient recycling rate in Turkey by 2020. in the plastic, PlantBottle packaging uses materials that are up to 30% plant-based. PlantBottle packaging uses patented technology that converts natural sugar found in Post-consumer Packaging Recycling Rate in plants into the ingredients for making PET plastic bottles. Turkey (%) The packaging looks, functions and recycles like traditional 2013 42 PET but has a lighter footprint on the planet and its scarce resources. 2014 44 In 2013, we conducted several trials in our plants using 2015 48 PlantBottle. After obtaining legal permits in 2014, we started to produce 330 ml Damla water bottles in Turkey using 2020 Target 60 PlantBottle resin. In 2015, we used about 7,600 tons of PlantBottle resin that is equal to about 3% of our total resin usage. We will start producing 1 liter Damla water bottles using PlantBottle resin in 2016. We purchase glass and aluminum packages produced from recycled material from our suppliers. In Turkey, the Detailed information about PlantBottle can be found on: percentage of recycled material in our glass is about www.coca-colacompany.com/stories/plant-bottle20-25% and in aluminum about 50%. While it is possible basics and www.damlasu.com.tr. 85 Waste Management actions to improve our waste recycling rate regularly. We managed to improve our performance compared to In addition to our efforts to support initiatives to recycle 2006 in all countries of operation, except Kazakhstan. In post-consumer packaging waste, we also manage the Kazakhstan we changed the accounting procedure for waste that is generated by our plants. These include waste. Currently, solid waste is weighed instead of being waste due to production, construction, food services calculated using coefficients. In addition, we now have and other activities. We are committed to minimizing more precise data. As a result, our waste recycling rate the amount of waste we dispose of and its impact on for 2015 is lower than that of 2006. In 2015, we report the environment, as well as to ensuring that all waste is this data for CCI Pakistan for the first time. handled safely and in compliance with relevant legislation. Waste management is a vital part of the ISO 14001 world Environmental Management System established in our Improvements in Total Waste Recycling plants and it is carried out in accordance with CCI’s Rate Between 2006 and 2015 Environmental Policy, local environmental legislation and TCCC’s KORE EOSH requirements. 2006 90.99 Turkey Our Strategy 2015 95.57 Our approach to waste management focuses on the hierarchy of “prevention, reduction, reuse, recycle and 2006 81.60 recover”. In line with our approach, we set targets and Jordan 2015 94.10 conduct efficiency and OE projects in order to minimize waste generation and maximize recycling values. We 2006 94.67 collaborate with suppliers in order to recycle waste. Kazakhstan 2015 93.00 Our ultimate goal is to achieve “zero waste to landfill” in one of our plants in Turkey by 2020. 2006 75.55 Azerbaijan Our Approach 2015 95.60 All waste that can be reused is reused, and that which can be recycled and recovered is delivered to licensed Pakistan 2015 70.54 companies for these purposes. Waste that cannot be recycled or recovered is sorted according to specific, legally 0 50 100 defined categories and delivered to licensed disposal facilities or municipalities to be used as landfill or to be incinerated. According to our waste management standard, all waste Total Waste Ratio disposal sites are evaluated before use, and periodically thereafter, to verify and document site acceptability. Total waste ratio is one of the KPIs for our environmental performance. It is an indicator that shows the amount of For detailed data on waste please see the Performance waste we generate per liter of product produced. Since Indicators section of the report, and for key definitions on 2006, in some countries we managed to improve our total waste please see the Reporting Guidance section. waste ratio performance. In 2015, we started reporting this data for Pakistan. The ratio may increase in a particular Total Waste Recycling Rate year since we record waste when it is actually “collected To reach our ultimate goal of “achieving zero waste from the plant”; and some types of waste such as wooden production”, we strive for reusing and recycling all the pallets and 19 liter water bottles are collected and thus waste produced from our sites. We monitor and take recorded as waste only during certain periods. Total Waste Ratio (g/L) 2006 2013* 2014 2015 Turkey 3.74 4.99 4.77 5.09 Jordan 15.72 6.44 3.29 2.46 Kazakhstan 4.14 1.59 1.82 1.96 Azerbaijan 0.65 1.28 2.06 1.23 Pakistan n/a n/a n/a 9.66 * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. 86 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Performance Indicators This section contains additional data on CCI’s sustainability performance. Performance Indicators Sustainability Across The Value Chain Materials Used in Products (tons) Concentrate & beverage base Sugar CO2 Turkey 2013 40,951 230,222 24,255 2014 42,169 217,892 23,508 2015 44,095 227,812 27,072 Jordan 2013 190 7,293 997 2014 213 8,040 1,151 2015 229 8,744 1,094 Kazakhstan 2013 5,115 48,890 4,588 2014 4,672 66,914 4,815 2015 4,580 49,885 5,518 Azerbaijan 2013 1,809 17,555 2,706 2014 1,878 18,954 2,954 2015 1,520 17,085 2,565 Pakistan 2015 63,500 158,838 16,069 Packaging Steel PE PET Glass Aseptic Carton Aluminum Plastic Materials Used crown closure preform carton cans & shrink & (tons) and packaging cans end stretch resin Turkey 2013 945 4,112 55,369 25,664 4,580 8,481 10,866 6,667 2014 987 3,419 43,168 27,941 4,958 7,692 11,304 5,853 2015 1,259 3,986 46,274 39,414 5,131 9,742 12,533 6,689 Jordan 2013 62 105 1,056 7,005 0 262 1,076 237 2014 49 121 1,247 4,942 0 317 1,293 274 2015 45 129 1,234 1,272 0 220 1,719 289 Kazakhstan 2013 69 1,263 16,305 6,124 694 1,329 339 1,878 2014 32 1,411 17,418 3,974 663 1,685 361 1,889 2015 44 1,367 17,464 3,674 581 1,696 325 2,050 Azerbaijan 2013 0 817 9,939 0 0 786 0 850 2014 0 896 7,171 0 0 570 0 855 2015 0 528 6,776 0 0 384 0 737 Pakistan 2015 2,100 2,370 43,783 21,762 n/a 4,263 571 4,161 87 we – Employees Employee Profile Performance Indicators Number of Employees 2013 2014 2015 Turkey – Group Office 166 143 2,773 Turkey – Operations 2,342 2,219 Jordan 409 397 404 Kazakhstan 749 845 950 Azerbaijan 373 390 352 Pakistan 4,491 4,175 3,564 Iraq 1,349 1,137 1,085 Turkmenistan 348 419 339 Syria 9 9 7 Tajikistan 48 77 125 Kyrgyzstan 366 384 355 Total CCI Employees 10,915 10,341 9,543 Employees by Country Male Female Gender, Employment Type (%) 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Blue Collar Turkey – Group Office 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 98.8 1.2 Turkey – Operations* 98.5 98.5 1.5 1.5 Jordan 100.0 99.5 100.0 0.0 0.5 0.0 Kazakhstan 99.3 98.8 99.2 0.7 1.2 0.8 Azerbaijan 97.5 97.4 97.1 2.5 2.6 2.9 Pakistan** n/a 99.2 99.2 n/a 0.8 0.8 White Collar Turkey – Group Office 58.4 55,9 41.6 44.1 76.6 23.4 Turkey – Operations* 77.1 78.3 22.9 21.7 Jordan 91.8 90.4 89.4 8.2 9.6 10.6 Kazakhstan 75.2 77.7 76.7 24.8 22.3 23.3 Azerbaijan 77.7 78.2 81.1 22.3 21.8 18.9 Pakistan** n/a 93.2 90.8 n/a 6.8 9.2 * Turkey operations include plants and sales offices. Since 2014, we report the data for Turkey employee profile in two separate categories: Group office and operations. ** The blue-collar/white-collar distinction is based on permanent employees since Pakistan does not have this information for its temporary workers. 88 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Employees by Gender, Employment Type Male Female Male and Contract (Number) Country 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Performance Indicators Blue Collar Turkey – Group Office 0 0 0 0 0 0 873 11 884 Turkey – Operations* 851 830 13 13 864 843 Jordan 190 199 197 0 1 0 190 200 197 Kazakhstan 299 335 376 2 4 3 301 339 379 Azerbaijan 193 188 136 5 5 4 198 193 140 Pakistan n/a 1,866 1,535 n/a 15 14 n/a 1,881 1,549 White Collar Turkey – Group Office 97 80 69 63 166 143 1,447 442 1,889 Turkey – Operations* 1,140 1,078 338 298 1,478 1,376 Jordan 201 178 185 18 19 22 219 197 207 Kazakhstan 337 393 438 111 113 133 448 506 571 Azerbaijan 136 154 172 39 43 40 175 197 212 Pakistan n/a 2,008 1,830 n/a 147 185 n/a 2,155 2,015 Permanent Turkey – Group Office 97 80 69 63 166 143 2,319 451 2,770 Turkey – Operations* 1,990 1,908 347 309 2,337 2,217 Jordan 389 349 377 18 19 22 407 368 399 Kazakhstan 636 726 814 113 117 136 749 843 950 Azerbaijan 329 342 307 44 48 44 373 390 351 Pakistan n/a 3,874 3,287 n/a 162 198 n/a 4,036 3,485 Temporary Turkey – Group Office 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 2 3 Turkey – Operations* 1 0 4 2 5 2 Jordan 2 28 5 0 1 0 2 29 5 Kazakhstan 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 Azerbaijan 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 Pakistan** n/a 136 78 n/a 3 1 n/a 139 79 * Turkey operations include plants and sales offices. ** The blue-collar/white-collar distinction is based on permanent employees since Pakistan does not have this information for its temporary workers. Number of Outsourced Outsource-Core jobs (*) Outsource-Auxiliary jobs (**) Employees 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Turkey – Group Office 0 0 0 0 902 673 Turkey – Operations 896 857 0 227 Jordan 7 0 0 53 55 48 Kazakhstan 0 0 8 86 106 108 Azerbaijan 164 153 0 33 42 44 Pakistan n/a 806 409 n/a 865 885 * Outsource-Core Jobs: Employees who are on the payroll of a third-party company and whose jobs are directly related to our own business (e.g., jobs in merchandising, sales, warehouse operations, production etc.) ** Outsource-Auxiliary Jobs: Employees who are on the payroll of a third-party company and whose jobs are not directly related to our own business (e.g., jobs in security, gardening, health services etc.) 89 Percentage of Employees by Under 30 Between 30-50 Above 50 Age (%) 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Senior Turkey – Group Office 0.0 0.0 77.8 60.0 22.2 40.0 Management 0.0 80.0 20.0 Performance Indicators Turkey – Operations 0.0 0.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 Jordan 0.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Kazakhstan 4.0 0.0 0.0 76.0 76.0 75.0 20.0 24.0 25.0 Azerbaijan 0.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Pakistan n/a n/a 0.0 n/a n/a 90.0 n/a n/a 10.0 Other Turkey – Group Office 9.6 11.9 87.3 81.8 3.2 6.3 Employees 27.1 71.4 11.5 Turkey – Operations 23.5 23.3 74.6 75.1 1.8 1.6 Jordan 35.3 30.9 38.2 60.0 62.4 56.0 4.7 6.7 5.8 Kazakhstan 49.9 40.4 36.3 43.1 52.1 56.5 7.0 7.5 7.2 Azerbaijan 42.5 40.3 36.1 46.0 48.7 53.2 11.6 11.0 10.7 Pakistan n/a n/a 33.3 n/a n/a 62.7 n/a n/a 4.0 Number and Percentage (%) Male Female of Employees by Gender Countries 2013 2014 2015 2015 (%) 2013 2014 2015 2015 (%) Senior Turkey – Group Office 7 8 80.0 2 2 20.0 Management 10 4 Turkey – Operations 5 7 87.5 2 1 12.5 Jordan 4 5 6 100.0 0 1 0 0.0 Kazakhstan 18 18 4 50.0 7 7 4 50.0 Azerbaijan 3 3 3 50.0 3 3 3 50.0 Pakistan n/a n/a 7 70.0 n/a n/a 3 30.0 Other Turkey – Group Office 91 72 54.1 66 61 45.9 Employees 2,310 449 Turkey – Operations 1,986 1,901 86.0 349 310 14.0 Jordan 387 372 376 94.5 18 19 22 5.5 Kazakhstan 618 710 810 86.0 106 110 132 14.0 Azerbaijan 326 339 305 88.2 41 45 41 11.8 Pakistan n/a n/a 3,358 94.5 n/a n/a 196 5.5 Note: 2013 Turkey figures include senior managers of CCI Group office and CCI Turkey operations. Training Average Hours of Training Per Employee 2013 2014 2015 Turkey – Group Office 37.7 9.7 20.3 Turkey – Operations* 8.3 4.3 Jordan 26.4 35.1 64.8 Kazakhstan 13.5 29.3 27.0 Azerbaijan 11.1 14.1 37.5 Pakistan n/a n/a 71.5 TOTAL 18.9 16.9 43.4 * Turkey operations include plants and sales offices. 90 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 New Employee Hires Total Number and Rate of New Male Female Employee Hires Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Performance Indicators 2013 Turkey – Group Office 179 7.7 95 21.0 Turkey – Operations Jordan 136 34.8 5 27.8 Kazakhstan 188 29.6 28 24.8 Azerbaijan 82 24.9 1 2.3 2014 Turkey – Group Office 1 1.0 1 1.5 Turkey – Operations 135 6.8 44 12.5 Jordan 49 13.0 6 30.0 Kazakhstan 206 28.3 29 24.8 Azerbaijan 43 12.6 8 16.7 2015 Turkey – Group Office 4 5.0 3 4.8 Turkey – Operations 172 9.0 32 10.3 Jordan 156 40.8 6 27.3 Kazakhstan 241 29.6 41 30.1 Azerbaijan 41 13.3 6 13.6 Pakistan 79 2.3 49 24.6 Note: “Employee turnover” refers to CCI employees who leave the organization voluntarily or due to dismissal, retirement, or death in service. Note: “New Employee hires” refers to new CCI employees joining the organization for the first time. Note: For CCI, “age group” is not material data. Therefore this data is not provided in the table above. Employee Turnover Total Number and Rates of Male Female Employee Turnover Total Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Turnover (%) 2013 Turkey – Group Office 205 8.8 41 9.1 8.9 Turkey – Operations Jordan 40 10.2 3 16.7 10.5 Kazakhstan 109 17.1 19 16.8 17.1 Azerbaijan 25 7.6 5 11.4 8.0 2014 Turkey – Group Office 11 11.3 10 14.5 12.7 Turkey – Operations 342 17.2 64 18.2 17.3 Jordan 49 13.0 6 30.0 13.9 Kazakhstan 109 15.0 18 15.4 15.0 Azerbaijan 30 8.8 4 8.3 8.7 2015 Turkey – Group Office 13 16.3 4 6.3 11.9 Turkey – Operations 270 14.2 73 23.5 15.5 Jordan 53 13.9 3 13.6 13.9 Kazakhstan 145 17.8 24 17.6 17.8 Azerbaijan 26 8.4 6 13.6 9.1 Pakistan 163 4.8 42 21.1 5.8 91 Local Employment Local Employment in Local Senior Management Local White Collar Local Blue Collar International Operations Employment Rate (%) Employment Rate (%) Employment Rate (%) 2013 Turkey 90.0 99.6 100.0 Performance Indicators Jordan 60.0 97.0 99.0 Kazakhstan 50.0 98.9 100.0 Azerbaijan 16.7 96.0 100.0 Turkey – Group Office 100.0 97.0 0.0 2014 Turkey – Operations 90.0 99.8 100.0 Jordan 67.0 100.0 100.0 Kazakhstan 50.0 99.2 100.0 Azerbaijan 16.7 96.0 100.0 Turkey – Group Office 100.0 89.5 0.0 2015 Turkey – Operations 87.5 99.9 100.0 Jordan 33.3 100.0 100.0 Kazakhstan 62.5 99.5 100.0 Azerbaijan 16.7 97.2 100.0 Pakistan 90.0 100.0 100.0 Note: “Local” means from the country in question. Employee Breakdown by Seniority (Years of Service) Employee Breakdown by Seniority (%) 2013 2014 2015 0 – 5 Years Turkey – Group Office 53.0 54 53.8 Turkey – Operations 43.3 40 Jordan 55.0 53.2 55 Kazakhstan 61.3 60.0 63 Azerbaijan 58.5 55.1 56 Pakistan n/a n/a 54 6 – 10 Years Turkey – Group Office 32.0 31 24.5 Turkey – Operations 32.4 31 Jordan 14.9 15.9 16 Kazakhstan 27.8 26.6 23 Azerbaijan 27.9 32.3 28 Pakistan n/a n/a 33 11 – 15 Years Turkey – Group Office 4.0 3 10.0 Turkey – Operations 6.9 11 Jordan 18.3 14.6 11 Kazakhstan 5.3 7.9 8 Azerbaijan 4.6 3.3 5 Pakistan n/a n/a 5 16 – 20 Years Turkey – Group Office 5.0 6 9.4 Turkey – Operations 13.9 13 Jordan 11.7 10.6 12 Kazakhstan 5.7 4.7 5 Azerbaijan 9.1 10.5 10 Pakistan n/a n/a 5 20+ Years Turkey – Group Office 6.0 6 2.3 Turkey – Operations 3.5 5 Jordan 0.0 5.8 5 Kazakhstan 0.0 0.7 1 Azerbaijan 0.0 0.0 1 Pakistan n/a n/a 0 Note: Figures as of December 31 in 2013, 2014 and 2015. Note: 2013 Turkey figures include employees of CCI Turkey Operations and CCI Group Office. 92 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 OHS Performance Indicators OHS Performance Lost Time Incidents Lost Time Incidents Number of Fatalities Indicators (workdays lost) (Number) Performance Indicators Employee Contractor Total Contractor Total Employee Contractor Total 2012 Turkey 240 204 444 29 22 51 0 0 0 Jordan 186 56 242 12 0 12 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 2 2 0 0 0 2013 Turkey 208 79 287 21 12 33 0 0 0 Jordan 140 20 160 10 0 10 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 21 21 0 1 1 0 0 0 OVERALL 348 120 468 31 13 44 0 0 0 2014 Turkey 648 94 742 30 7 37 0 0 0 Jordan 146 0 146 9 0 9 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 OVERALL 794 94 888 39 7 46 0 0 0 (Excluding Pakistan) Pakistan 156 28 184 10 4 14 1 0 1 2015 Turkey 146 292 438 15 15 30 0 0 0 Jordan 118 0 118 8 0 8 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Pakistan 174 0 174 7 10 17 0 0 0 OVERALL 438 292 730 30 25 55 0 0 0 Note: For 2014, Pakistan data is provided separately to make it easier to compare the data. In 2015, data for Pakistan is also included. 93 OHS Performance LTIR LTISR Total Vehicle Vehicle Accident Performance Indicators Indicators Accident Rate 2012 Turkey 0.90 7.84 250 15.33 Jordan 2.62 52.78 34 19.40 Kazakhstan 0 0 5 1.47 Azerbaijan 0.39 8.34 22 13.70 2013 Turkey 0.55 4.75 241 13.87 Jordan 1.56 27.67 54 23.80 Kazakhstan 0 0 8 2.93 Azerbaijan 0.17 3.58 6 3.40 OVERALL 0.55 5.90 309 12.97 2014 Turkey 0.67 8.83 164 14.22 Jordan 1.54 24.91 50 22.02 Kazakhstan 0 0 27 9.89 Azerbaijan 0 0 8 4.28 OVERALL 0.62 3.15 249 13.68 (Excluding Pakistan) Pakistan 0.27 11.87 n/a* n/a* 2015 Turkey 0.68 9.5 101 10.44 Jordan 1.42 20.93 74 32.60 Kazakhstan 0 0 2 0.73 Azerbaijan 0 0 3 1.74 Pakistan 0.37 3.77 13 2.51 OVERALL 0.49 6.63 193 8.97 * In 2014 and 2015 vehicle accident data for Pakistan was not prepared on a consistent basis among the plants. Note: For 2014, Pakistan data is provided separately to make it easier to compare the consolidated data. In 2015, data for Pakistan is also included. 94 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 world Energy Management and Climate Protection Energy Use in Core Fuel Plant Purchased Energy Performance Indicators Operations (Million TOTAL MJ) * Heavy Diesel LPG Natural Electricity Steam fuel oil gas** Turkey 2012 0 4.38 58.09 254.51 403.93 0 720.91 2013 0 3.23 59.62 255.56 391.25 0 709.66 2014 0 1.75 55.69 269.10 385.69 0 712.23 2015 0 4.07 51.95 281.96 404.47 0 742.45 Jordan 2012 0 12.59 3.53 0 20.39 0 36.51 2013 0 7.45 4.66 0 19.27 0 31.38 2014 5.28 3.41 4.00 0 22.60 0 35.29 2015 4.22 1.01 2.81 0 23.41 0 31.45 Kazakhstan 2012 0 0 13.33 0 52.16 46.56 112.05 2013 0 0.54 13.90 106.65 50.20 54.63 225.92 2014 0 0.41 16.49 93.06 61.08 63.59 230.63 2015 0 0.38 14.15 82.36 71.62 60.74 229.25 Azerbaijan 2012 1.30 0 5.79 30.06 46.79 0 83.94 2013 1.07 0.96 5.87 29.70 55.87 0 93.47 2014 0 0.71 7.34 29.30 60.49 0 97.84 2015 0 0.39 7.25 21.70 48.27 0 77.61 Pakistan 2014 0 180.20 21.50 11.00 85.50 0 298.20 2015 0 345.83 50.08 46.39 229.22 0 671.53 TOTAL 2012 1.30 16.97 80.74 284.57 523.27 46.56 953.41 2013 1.07 12.18 84.05 391.91 516.59 54.63 1,060.43 2014 5.28 186.48 105.03 402.46 615.36 63.59 1,374.20 2015 4.22 351.68 126.24 432.41 776.99 60.74 1,752.28 Note: These figures exclude energy use for preform injection and CO2 production processes in plants in Turkey, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. Energy use for the electricity manufacturing process, which is present only in our Kazakhstan plant, is excluded from 2012 data, but included in 2013 and 2014 data. The energy metric used in Pakistan is the Total EUR and not the Core EUR. However, for benchmarking purposes against other international plants it is included in the table above. Pakistan Core EUR has increased in 2015 due to a change in calculation methodology: 2015 relates to all six plants while 2014 relates only to the largest plant, Lahore. * The figures for 2012 and 2013 in the four countries of operation and the figures for 2014 and 2015 in Turkey and Pakistan have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. ** The increase in natural gas consumption from 2012 is due to a change in the methodology used: in 2012, fuels used to generate on-site electricity were reported within total energy consumption, whereas starting with 2013 energy consumption from on-site electricity generation was allocated to “core operations.” 95 Total Energy Use Fuel Plant Purchased Energy TOTAL (Million MJ) * Heavy Diesel LPG Natural Electricity Steam fuel oil gas Turkey 2012 0 4.56 58.09 272.85 503.53 0 839.03 Performance Indicators 2013 0 3.23 59.64 273.13 482.22 0 818.22 2014 0 2.01 55.69 284.11 466.83 0 808.64 2015 0 4.16 51.95 297.53 492.90 0 846.54 Jordan 2012 0 12.59 3.53 0 20.39 0 36.51 2013 0 7.45 4.66 0 19.27 0 31.38 2014 5.28 3.41 4.00 0 22.60 0 35.29 2015 4.22 1.01 2.81 0 23.41 0 31.45 Kazakhstan 2012 0 0.16 13.33 134.59 83.42 46.56 278.06 2013 0 0.54 13.90 184.19 96.04 54.63 349.30 2014 0 0.41 16.49 188.45 110.62 63.59 379.56 2015 0 0.38 14.15 172.11 111.72 60.74 359.10 Azerbaijan 2012 1.30 47.76 5.79 30.06 76.24 0 161.15 2013 1.07 49.52 5.87 29.70 84.30 0 170.46 2014 0 54.70 7.34 29.30 88.90 0 180.24 2015 0 0.39 7.25 75.58 71.61 0 154.83 Pakistan 2014 0 434.85 45.81 57.81 233.57 0 772.04 2015 0 366.47 50.08 46.39 268.41 0 731.35 TOTAL 2012 1.30 65.07 80.74 437.50 683.58 46.56 1,314.75 2013 1.07 60.74 84.07 487.02 681.83 54.63 1,369.36 2014 5.28 495.38 129.33 559.64 922.52 63.59 2,175.77 2015 4.22 372.41 126.24 591.61 968.05 60.74 2,123.27 Note: This table includes data on energy use for all processes in the plants. * The figures for 2012 and 2013 in the four countries of operation and the figures of 2014 in Turkey have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm. CCI uses two main KPIs to measure energy intensity: 1. Energy Use Ratio (MJ/L), which relate only to the core process (filling), so that the energy efficiency of the core process can be compared between plants. (For more information please see Reporting Guidance section of the report.) 2. Total Energy Use Ratio (MJ/L), which is the total absolute energy consumption (in MJ) from the plant divided by total production (in liters). Total Energy Use Ratio (MJ/L) 2012* 2013* 2014 2015 Turkey 0.30 0.30 0.30* 0.30* Jordan 0.47 0.41 0.41 0.33 Kazakhstan 0.69 0.68 0.64 0.65 Azerbaijan 0.74 0.75 0.72 0.74 Pakistan n/a n/a 0.59* 0.52* * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. 96 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 GHG Emissions (tons of CO2-e) 2013 2014 2015 Turkey Scope 1 49,217* 47,418* 52,162* Scope 2 62,877* 61,359* 60,397* Performance Indicators Scope 3** 328,628 321,162 299,264 Jordan Scope 1 786 866 535 Scope 2 3,412 3,990 4,673 Scope 3** 27,073 27,202 28,062 Kazakhstan Scope 1 9,597 18,734 13,942 Scope 2 10,553 10,133 13,420 Scope 3** 34,836 42,998 36,902 Azerbaijan Scope 1 5,335 9,215 6,797 Scope 2 10,399 8,817 6,789 Scope 3** 12,716 14,092 14,438 Pakistan Scope 1 n/a 35,554 31,199 Scope 2 n/a 27,095 30,653 Scope 3** n/a n/a 237,843 TOTAL Scope 1 64,935 111,787 104,635 Scope 2 87,241 111,394 115,932 Scope 3** 403,253 405,454 616,509 OVERALL TOTAL 555,429 628,635 837,076 * Data on Turkey for 2013, 2014 and 2015 are verified by SGS according to the requirements of ISO 14064-1. ** Scope 3 emission includes emissions resulting due to energy consumption by coolers. Note: Scope 1 and Scope 2 data in the table above include emissions from all processes, including filling, preform injection, CO2 production and electricity production (only in Kazakhstan) in our plants. In all CCI countries except Turkey, emissions from fleet and fugitive emissions are excluded. Energy and Emission Reductions due to Energy Saving GHG Emissions Annual CO2 EMD Program in Turkey. (million kWh) Avoided (ton CO2) Extraction (tree) 2014 381 175,000 14.6 million 2015* 402 172,315 14.4 million * The CO2 coefficient used in 2015 is different from that of 2014. Therefore, although the amount of energy saved has increased compared to 2014, the amount of GHG emissions avoided has decreased. Energy and Emission Reductions due to EMD Energy Saving GHG Emissions Annual CO2 Program in the Five Countries of Operation. (million kWh) Avoided (ton CO2) Extraction (tree) 2014 402 185,000 15.4 million 2015* 428 184,000 15.3 million * The CO2 coefficient used in 2015 is different from that of 2014. Therefore, although the amount of energy saved has increased compared to 2014, the amount of GHG emissions avoided compared to 2014 is lower. 97 Water Management Water Use Ratio (L/L) 2012* 2013* 2014 2015 Turkey 1.39 1.41 1.41* 1.44* Jordan 2.06 2.00 2.04 1.89 Performance Indicators Kazakhstan 1.76 1.65 1.55 1.47 Azerbaijan 1.90 1.92 1.82 1.85 Pakistan n/a n/a 2.40* 2.03* * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. Total Water Consumption by Region (m3) 2013* 2014 2015 Turkey 3,912,240 3,832,252* 4,000,719* Jordan 153,656 177,081 180,232 Kazakhstan 849,980 896,218 816,221 Azerbaijan 436,075 457,873 388,103 Pakistan n/a 3,138,972* 2,829,952* TOTAL 5,351,951 8,502,396 8,215,227 * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. Note: Water withdrawal figures are estimated to be the same as the water consumption figures. Volume of Water Recycled and Reused (m3) 2012 2013 2014 2015 Turkey 114,582 284,782 40,337 80,000 Jordan 10,942 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 6,758 5,580 5,942 5,191 Pakistan n/a n/a n/a 68,216 TOTAL 132,282 290,362 46,279 153,407 Percentage of Water Recycled and Reused * (%) 2013 2014 2015 Turkey 7.3 1.1 2.0 Jordan 0.0 0.0 0 Kazakhstan 0.0 0.0 0 Azerbaijan 1.3 1.3 1.3 Pakistan n/a n/a 2.4 TOTAL 5.4 0.9 1.9 * Percentage is calculated based on the water consumption figures. In 2015, we discharged a total of about 2.99 million m3 of wastewater. Water Discharge by Destination (m3) Destination 2015 Turkey Surface water 421.941 Organized Industrial Zone 181.205 Municipal sewage system 489.190 Jordan Surface water 0 Municipal sewage system 84.771 Kazakhstan Surface water 0 Municipal sewage system 198.552 Azerbaijan Surface water 0 Municipal sewage system 204.397 Pakistan Surface water 156.553 Organized Industrial Zone 519.763 Municipal sewage system 735.906 TOTAL Surface water 578.494 Organized Industrial Zone 700.968 Municipal sewage system 1.712.816 98 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 The Coca-Cola Company Requirements for Treated Wastewater Quality* Water Quality Parameters Maximum Allowable Limit Values 5-Day Biological Oxygen Demand < 50 mg/l pH Level 6.5-8** Performance Indicators Total Suspended Solids < 50 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids < 2,000 mg/l Total Nitrogen < 5 mg/l Total Phosphorus < 2 mg/l * These are six of the 20 water quality parameters established for the Coca-Cola system. ** Depends on receiving stream water conditions. These values indicate the maximum allowable limit values unless applicable legal requirements are more stringent. Sustainable Packaging and Waste Total Weight of Waste by Type and Turkey* Jordan Kazakhstan* Azerbaijan Pakistan Disposal Method (Tons) 2013 Hazardous Reuse 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.0 n/a Recycle 15.4 0.0 0.2 0.0 n/a Landfill 7.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 n/a Incineration 8.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 n/a Recovery 609.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 n/a TOTAL 640.8 0.0 1.0 0.0 n/a Non-Hazardous Reuse 6.3 0.0 650.6 77.0 n/a Recycle 12,510.0 467.5 85.9 212.6 n/a Landfill 520.7 26.2 79.1 1.2 n/a Recovery 132.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 n/a TOTAL 13,169.6 493.7 816.6 290.8 n/a TOTAL 13,810.4 493.7 817.6 290.8 n/a 2014 Hazardous Reuse 2.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.0 Recycle 69.4 0.0 1.5 0.0 2.6 Landfill 5.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 28.0 Incineration 8.2 0.0 0.4 0.0 122.8 Recovery 415.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 501.7 0.0 1.9 0.0 157.4 Non-Hazardous Reuse 0.0 0.0 204.9 0.0 6,221.0 Recycle 12,032.5 260.3 757.8 486.0 10,630.0 Landfill 407.6 0.0 89.2 31.0 422.0 Recovery 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 12,440.1 260.3 1,051.9 517.0 17,273.0 TOTAL 12,941.8 260.3 1,053.8 517.0 17,430.4 2015 Hazardous Reuse 0 0 0 0 0 Recycle 18,671 0 17.1 0 0 Landfill 4,259 0 0 13.5 24.1 Incineration 18,560 0 0.4 0 324.0 Recovery 2,045 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 41,924 0 17.5 13.5 348.1 Non-Hazardous Reuse 0 0 173.5 0 3,303.7 Recycle 7,661,688 225.3 823.6 241.1 9,511.9 Landfill 283,008 0 71.6 17.4 320.7 Recovery 144,840 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 8,089,536 225.3 1,068.7 258.5 13,136.3 TOTAL 8,131,461 225.3 1,086.2 272.0 13,484.4 * 2013 figures for Turkey and Kazakhstan have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. 99 Glossary Bottler: A business that buys concentrates, beverage Leased Vehicles: “Distribution” or “all other” vehicles bases, or syrups made available by TCCC and then leased by CCI. Rental cars for business travel would be manufactures, packages, merchandises and distributes included here only if the rental period coincided with the the final branded beverages to customers and vending entire reporting period. partners, who then sell those products to consumers. LTI: Lost Time Incident: a work incident or occupational CDP: CDP is an international, not-for-profit organization illness, including incidents involving death, which results Glossary providing the only global system for companies and in one or more days off work. cities to measure, disclose, manage and share vital LTIR: Lost Time Incident Rate: (number of lost time environmental information. incidents / occupational illnesses) x 200,000 / (total CokePort: CCI’s intranet portal. hours worked during reporting period) Concentrate: A product manufactured by TCCC or any LTISR: Lost Time Incident Severity Rate: (number of days other beverage company and sold to bottlers to prepare lost due to occupational incidents) x 200,000 / (total finished beverages by adding sweeteners and/or water. hours worked during reporting period) Crash: Any collision in which a CCI vehicle is involved OWB: One Way Bottle (whether in motion, temporarily stopped or parked) PET Blowing process: A manufacturing process whereby that results in personal injury and/or material property PET bottles are formed from preforms. damage, regardless of who was hurt, what property was Preform: An intermediate product used in the production damaged, who was responsible, whether the incident of PET bottles. was preventable, and/or whether the incident was legally required to be reported. Preform injection process: The manufacturing processes for preforms. Equivalent Carbon Dioxide (CO2-e): A measure that describes how much global warming a given type RGB: Returnable Glass Bottle and amount of greenhouse gas may cause, using TCCC: The Coca-Cola Company the functionally equivalent amount or concentration of The Coca-Cola system: The term used to describe carbon dioxide as a reference. the corporate network, consisting of The Coca-Cola Guideline Daily Amounts (GDAs): A guide to how much Company (TCCC) and more than 250 bottling partners energy and nutrients are present in a portion of a food around the world. or beverage, and what each amount represents as a Unit Case: A unit of measurement equal to 5.678 liters, percentage of a person’s daily dietary needs. or 24 8-ounce (US) servings. ISAE 3000 (Revised): The International Standard on Vehicle Accident Rate: (number of accidents x total Assurance Engagements developed by the International number of vehicles) / 100 vehicles Federation of Accountants. Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED): A green building tool that addresses the entire lifecycle of a building and recognizes best-in-class building strategies. 100 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 CCI Reporting Guidance (RG) CCI Reporting Guidance (RG) This document provides guidance on the General Reporting Principles indicators included in the 2015 CCI sustainability In preparing this guidance document, consideration has report, some of which have been externally been given to the following principles: assured for the current or a prior period. • Information Preparation – to highlight the primary principles of relevance and reliability of information; Indicators that have been externally assured for this and year’s report are marked with an asterisk in the report. • Information Reporting – to highlight the primary Other indicators covered in this sustainability report are principles of comparability, consistency (especially with reported in line with the G4 Guidelines of the Global regard to other data, including that of previous years), Reporting Initiative (GRI) and are listed on pages 106-112. understandability and transparency in order to provide The data within the scope of this guidance document is clarity to users. for the financial year ending on December 31, 2015 and concerns the relevant operations in Azerbaijan, Jordan, Key Definitions Kazakhstan, Turkey and Pakistan. The referral to “The For the purpose of this report, the following definitions Company” covers these five countries, unless stated apply: otherwise. PLANT: All on-site facilities, including production 2015 Assurance Scope buildings, water treatment units, wastewater treatment units, warehouses, laboratories, administration buildings The RG document covers The Company’s data-gathering and technical service operations. and reporting obligations for the indicators listed below. ENERGY: Electricity, natural gas, diesel, gasoline, fuel It is the responsibility of The Company management oil, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and steam. For to ensure that appropriate procedures are in place to the purpose of this report, energy does not include prepare data related to these indicators in line with the alternative forms of fuel, such as bio-waste, biomass, RG in all material respects. bio-diesel, or renewable sources of energy such as • The total energy consumption, energy usage ratio wind or solar energy, which collectively represent an (EUR), total water withdrawal and water usage insignificant share of total energy consumption and ratio (WUR) of The Company’s Turkey and Pakistan carbon emissions. operations were audited according to the ISAE 3000 ENERGY CONSUMPTION: The energy consumed during Standard (Revised).1 the reporting year (January 1 to December 31). Energy • GHG emissions of Turkey operations were verified in consumption data covers energy used in the operation of line with the ISO 14064-3 Standard. on-site industrial facilities and manufacturing processes, including electrical systems, heating, lighting, on-site Legal entities covered fully by this report include: transportation, air circulation and air conditioning (HVAC (G4-17) system). Manufacturing processes refer to the energy Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş., Turkey consumed in the core bottling (filling) operation. Total Coca-Cola Satış ve Dağıtım A.Ş., Turkey energy consumption also includes preform injection for those plants that use this energy-intensive process as Mahmudiye Kaynak Suyu Ltd. Şti., Turkey well as energy used for CO2 production processes in our J.V. Coca-Cola Almaty Bottlers LLP, Kazakhstan plants in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. Azerbaijan Coca-Cola Bottlers Limited LLC., Azerbaijan ENERGY USE RATIO (EUR): MJ of energy consumed The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Jordan Ltd., Jordan per liter of product produced, calculated as the sum Coca-Cola Beverages Pakistan Ltd., Pakistan of all individual energy sources from the filling (core) production processes (in MJ) divided by production For a full list of entities included in CCI’s financial volume (in liters). To allow comparability between statements, please see page 46 of the CCI 2015 Annual different CCI plants: Report, available on: • Energy consumption during preform injection, an http://www.cci.com.tr/UserFiles/Annual_Reports/ energy-intensive process, is excluded from the EUR CCI_Annual_Report_2015.pdf since only a few sites employ this process. Of those CCI operations that fall within the scope of this RG, 1 Please see external opinion statement on page 113. only the Turkish bottling facilities in Ankara and Çorlu, 101 the international operations in Kazakhstan and portion of waste that is not disposed to a landfill or Azerbaijan, and the bottling facility in Lahore, Pakistan incinerated. In the four countries covered by the 2014 employed an operational preform injection process CCI sustainability report, accredited waste contractors CCI Reporting Guidance (RG) during the reporting period. collected tons of waste for recycling and re-use. • Energy consumption for CO2 production processes WASTE DISPOSAL: Waste disposal has followed the in our plants in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan is also GRI G4 EN23 classification. To determine the method excluded from the EUR calculation. of disposal, CCI has used the legal categories laid • Starting in 2013, electricity producing process, which out in the disposal documentation provided by its is present only in Kazakhstan, is included in EUR accredited waste contractors. Based on the disposal calculations. documentation, the categories of waste generated by GHG EMISSIONS: Emissions during the reporting year CCI during the reporting period were recycling, re-use, (January 1 to December 31). The GHGs reported are those recovery, incineration and landfill. Some hazardous currently required by the United Nations Framework waste is sold for use as fuel in processes such as cement Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol. manufacturing. In accordance with the legal categories These GHGs are currently: carbon dioxide (CO2), of accredited waste documentation, this waste is methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons classified as recovery rather than incineration. (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulphur hexafluoride REUSED WASTE: Waste used again for the same or (SF6) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3). Other GHGs, different purposes without re-processing, e.g., wood. including those regulated by the Montreal Protocol, RECYCLED WASTE: Waste that is broken down into are excluded from GHG emissions and analyzed raw materials, changed and reprocessed for use and separately. “GHG emissions” refers to emissions from used for new products. Recyclable materials include all production processes, such as bottling and preform many kinds of glass, paper, metal, plastic, textiles, injection, arising from The Company’s plants in Jordan, and electronics. The composting or other reuse of Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Pakistan. In Turkey, CCI biodegradable waste – such as food or garden waste – has been reporting its GHG emissions more extensively is also considered recycling. Materials to be recycled are since 2012 in accordance with the ISO 14064-1 Standard either brought to a collection center, or picked up from for quantifying and reporting GHG emissions at the the curbside, then sorted, cleaned and reprocessed into organization level. Consequently, GHG emissions new materials bound for manufacturing. reported for Turkey also include CCI’s GHG emissions RECOVERED WASTE: Non-recyclable waste materials from its non-plant buildings, e.g. offices, fleet transport and the extraction therefrom of heat, electricity or energy and fugitive emissions. through a variety of processes, including combustion, Where a plant generates energy on-site, the related gasification, pyrolyzation and anaerobic digestion. For energy consumption is defined as the energy of the example, if waste is incinerated in an incineration plant fuel used for generation (e.g. for on-site, diesel-fired to generate energy, then the waste is “recovered.” If electricity generators, the energy consumption would be there is no use of energy during the process, then the the diesel used rather than the electricity output of the waste is incinerated. There are several ways to recover generator). energy from waste. Anaerobic digestion is a naturally WASTE: Waste generated at a given site includes waste occurring process of decomposition whereby organic due to production, construction, food services or any matter is reduced to a simpler chemical component other activity. Examples of the types of solid waste in the absence of oxygen. “Recovery” also refers to generated by The Company include paper, plastic, incineration or directly controlled burning of municipal corrugated cardboard, metal, glass, sludge from water, solid waste in order to reduce waste and create waste oils, fleet waste (tires, batteries, coolants, oils, energy. Secondary recovered fuel is energy recovered etc.) and damaged ingredients or products, plus all from waste that cannot be reused or recycled through hazardous waste such as solvents, inks and lab waste. mechanical and biological treatment activities. Since Liquid waste disposed of through the wastewater most of the waste is recovered for energy in licensed system is not included in the calculations as such waste facilities before storage, hazardous waste in Turkey is is accounted for in wastewater discharge volume and categorized as “recovery.” wastewater sludge. WASTE STORED ON SITE: Waste stored initially before TOTAL WASTE RATIO (G/L): Grams of total waste the final treatment. Wood waste is treated in different generated per liter of product produced. ways, and the final treatment method is confirmed with WASTE RECYCLING RATE (%): Tons of waste recovered, suppliers and categorized by operations. re-used or recycled divided by total waste generated Methods for reuse, recycle and recovery of hazardous (in tons), i.e. the Waste Recycling Rate represents the waste are confirmed with CCI’s service providers for 102 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 waste management. For our Turkey operations, disposal WASTE EFFLUENT: The total volume of water discharges and treatment methods are decided according to the during the reporting period by discharge and quality, waste disposal codes defined in the Turkish Hazardous including treatment method. This indicator is aligned with CCI Reporting Guidance (RG) Waste Control Regulation. The amount of waste from GRI’s G4-EN22 indicator. coolers and two-way bottles generated by the market is ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE: The monetary value of measured either by weighing it directly or by calculations significant fines (over $ 200,000) and the total number using waste factors recorded after measuring the exact of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with weight of each part of the equipment. national Environmental Laws and Regulations. This LANDFILLED WASTE: Waste sent to landfills (of either a indicator is aligned with GRI’s G4-EN29 indicator. municipality or an accredited company) and disposed of EMPLOYEE NUMBERS: CCI employees working in The by burial. Company’s headquarters, plants and sales offices. WATER: Includes water from all sources, including wells, Employee figures are categorized as permanent, spring water, municipality and collected rainwater. temporary and contractor workers, and these data are recorded as year-end figures. This indicator is aligned WATER CONSUMPTION: All water used during the with GRI’s G4-10 indicator. reporting year (January 1 to December 31). Water consumption data includes water used for production, INJURIES AND LOST DAYS: Type of injury, rates of water treatment, boiler makeup, cooling (contact and injury, lost days and total number of work-related non-contact), cleaning and sanitation, backwashing fatalities, by region. This indicator is aligned with GRI’s filters, irrigation, washing trucks and other vehicles, G4-LA6 indicator. CCI’s main injury metric is the Lost kitchen or canteen, toilets and sinks, and fire control. Time Incident Rate (LTIR), which is number of lost time WATER USE RATIO: Liters of water used per liter of incidents/occupational illnesses multiplied by 200,000 product produced, calculated as total water use (in liters) and then divided by the total number of hours worked divided by production volume (in liters). during the reporting period. WATER WITHDRAWAL: Total volume of water withdrawn TRAINING: Average hours of training carried out during from any source during the reporting year (January 1 the reporting period per employee, categorized in terms to December 31), including ground water, municipality of OHS training, environmental training and total training. water and collected rainwater. This indicator is aligned with GRI’s G4-LA9 indicator. Scope of Reporting The following tables summarize the activities that are currently reported within the scope of this sustainability report for energy consumption, GHG emissions, water consumption and solid waste. Total Energy Consumption Turkey Jordan Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Pakistan Industrial sites where bottling processes are x x x x x conducted, together with secondary operations such as preform injection*, bottle blowing and lift truck operations Technical service operations (e.g. repairing of x x x x x coolers, etc.) Administrative buildings located at industrial sites x x x x x Own transportation of materials and products x x x x x within industrial plant sites (e.g., forklift operations) Data adjustment for preform injection, CO2 Only None CO2 production Only Only production and electricity generation processes for preform and preform preform preform energy consumption figures* process processes process process *Adjustment is made to the EUR (core) to allow comparability between plants by removing certain energy-intensive processes from the EUR, but not from total energy consumption. As explained in the RG, an adjustment is made to the EUR for energy consumption for preform injection processes, electricity generation processes (present only in our Kazakhstan plant) and CO2 production processes (present only in our plants in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan). From 2013 onwards, energy use for electricity generation is included in the EUR data. 103 GHG Emissions as CO2-e Verification Scope for Turkey Industrial sites comprising bottling facilities together with secondary operations such as lift truck operations x CCI Reporting Guidance (RG) Technical service operations x Preform manufacturing, bottle blowing processes x Administrative buildings located at industrial sites x Administrative buildings located away from industrial sites and headquarters x Own transportation of materials and products within industrial plant sites (eg forklift operations) x Own transportation of materials and products out of industrial plant sites x Employees commuting with CCI-owned vehicles and sales fleet operations x Energy used in the cooling of products (off site) x Fugitive emissions from the cooling of products (off site) x Fugitive emissions from the cooling system (on site) x Fugitive emissions from fire extinguishers x Fugitive emissions of CO2 filling process x Fugitive emissions from off-site coolers x Fugitive emissions from on-site coolers x Water Water Consumption Turkey Jordan Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Pakistan Industrial sites comprising bottle facilities x x x x x Technical service operations at the site x x x x x Administrative buildings located at industrial sites x x x x x Waste Waste Generation Turkey Jordan Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Pakistan Industrial sites comprising bottle facilities x x x x x Technical service operations at the site x x x x x Administrative buildings located at industrial sites x x x x x Data Preparation • For natural gas, the unit of supply for most suppliers is invoiced in m3. To calculate the energy use ratio, cubic Energy Consumption meters is converted to MJ with a conversion factor of Energy consumption data are reported for electricity and 37.3, except for in Kazakhstan, where a factor of 34.4 primary fuel sources, including natural gas, diesel, LPG, is used based on the 2015 analyses conducted by an heavy fuel oil and steam. Electricity and natural gas data accredited local laboratory on the natural gas used on site. are obtained from supplier meters and reconciled with • For fuels other than natural gas (diesel and heavy fuel internal meters (when available) and/or service provider oil), energy conversion factors (from liters or kilograms invoices. Diesel, LPG, steam and fuel oil consumption to MJ) are obtained from the calculation tool provided data are obtained from supplier invoices. by TCCC Default Factors. CCI Operations used the following published conversion • For LPG (MJ/L) a conversion factor (net calorific value) of factors: 50.0 was used as part of the GHG verification process in accordance with the requirements of ISO 14064-1. • For electricity, the unit of supply is invoiced in kWh. To calculate energy use ratio, kWh is converted to mega• For diesel (MJ/L) a conversion factor of 39.0 was used. joules (MJ) at a factor of 3.6. • Steam (GKAL): 4,186.8 MJ (Kazakhstan operations only) 104 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 GHG Emissions TCCC Default Factors for CO2 Emissions GHG emissions are calculated by CCI using published Natural gas (MJ): 0.05049 kg CO2 conversion factors. Conversion factors enable an LPG (MJ) : 0.0594 kg CO2 CCI Reporting Guidance (RG) estimate of the amount of GHGs released into the Diesel (MJ, light fuel oil): 0.0704 kg CO2 atmosphere per unit of energy consumed. Different types Heavy Fuel Oil (MJ): 0.0735 kg CO2 (Azerbaijan of energy sources have different conversion factors that operations only) reflect their carbon dioxide intensity. In future periods, Electricity (kWh): For electricity, conversion factors for GHG conversion factors may be updated to reflect changes emissions are obtained from the International Energy to, and/or improvements in, published data. During the Agency (IEA) and shared by TCCC with the entire Cocacurrent period, the following conversion factors were Cola system. used: In this year’s report, we used IEA factors of the year 2013 For fuels such as natural gas, diesel and LPG, conversion (as there is a two-year time gap for IEA to publish the factors are derived from calculation tools based on the factors for a certain year). Combined factors are used for May 2015 version of the GHG Protocol Standards found all operations in the sustainability report. This information on the GHG Protocol website (www.ghgprotocol.org). The is available in the internal document entitled “SDW Fuel Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) used to calculate the Conversion Factors”, which is updated every year by TCCC. emissions of different GHGs in terms of CO2-equivalents For our Kazakhstan operations, since electricity is are taken from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate generated by a co-generation plant at the site, local Change’s Fifth Assessment Report. laboratory analysis results are used for the calculation In 2014 we began using the “GHG emissions from of GHG emissions in these operations. The average transport or mobile sources” tool, version 2.6 of May value of external laboratory analysis results are used to 2015, from the GHG Protocol of the World Resources determine the chemical composition of samples of the Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable natural gas used in the plant. Development to calculate the emission values for Water Consumption employee commuting and business categories. Water consumption data is obtained from internal GHG emissions of Turkey are taken from the report meters where ground water is utilized. Moreover, verified by the auditing firm SGS in line with the ISO separate data on water consumption is obtained from 14064-1 Standard. supplier meters and then reconciled with internal meters (when available) and/or service provider invoices where Extrapolation Method Used for Energy Use the water is supplied by the network. Calculation and Total Energy Consumption Since the period covered by invoices may not always fully Restatements G4-22 align with The Company’s reporting period, adjustments The measuring and reporting of assured environmental are made where necessary in order to align the data inevitably involves a degree of estimation. In consumption data from the invoices with the reporting exceptional circumstances, restatements of data period as agreed with The Company’s verifiers. reported in a prior year may be required. Restatements are considered where the data differs by more than 5% at The Company level. Conversion Factors for CO2 Emissions due to Electricity Consumption kg CO2/kWh 2010 IEA Factors 2011 IEA Factors 2012 IEA Factors 2013 IEA Factors electricity (Used for the 2012 (Used for the 2013 (Used for the 2014 (Used for the 2015 Report) Report Report) Report Turkey 0.445025 0.457314 0.4591454 0.42868 Jordan 0.565506 0.637428 0.6356158 0.63939610 Kazakhstan 0.385311 0.395557 0.4608749 0.43242720 Azerbaijan 0.392798 0.444116 0.4936623 0.46879420 Pakistan Not used. Not used. 0.4176220 0.41617460 105 GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Content Index for “In Accordance option Core.” This report has been developed in accordance with GRI G4 “core” option. The report was submitted to GRI for the Materiality Disclosures Service and GRI has verified that the Disclosures G4-17 to G4-27 were correctly located in both the GRI Content Index below and in the text of the final report. This index table lists our standard and specific disclosures with reference to G4 categories, aspects and indicators, and refers to the pages where these issues are addressed in this report. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principle STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the CEO CEO Message Full 2-3 Not Assured ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization Full CCI Not Assured G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Full 5 Not Assured G4-5 Location of the organization’s Full Istanbul, Turkey Not Assured headquarters G4-6 Number of countries where the Full Out of our 10 Not Assured organization operates, and names of countries of countries where either the organization operation, this report has significant operations contains data for Azerbaijan, Jordan, Kazakhstan Pakistan and Turkey. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Full 2015 CCI Annual Not Assured Report, page 46 G4-8 Markets served CCI At a Glance Full 4-5 Not Assured G4-9 Scale of the organization CCI At a Glance Full 4-5 Not Assured G4-10 Breakdown of workforce we-Employee Full 46 Not Assured Principle 6 Performance 88 Indicators G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered we-Employees Full 51 Not Assured Principles 1, by collective bargaining agreements 2, 3 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply Sustainability Full 22 Not Assured chain Across the Value Chain 106 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principle G4-13 Significant changes during the Full During the reporting Not Assured reporting period regarding the period we opened organization’s size, structure, three new plants in ownership, or its supply chain Multan (Pakistan), GRI G4 Content Index Astana (Kazakhstan) and Dushanbe (Tajikistan). In Pakistan, new Multan plant replaced the existing one and its data is included in this report. Data from the new plant in Astana is not included, since it was still in start-up phase in 2015. Our plant in Tajikistan is not covered in 2015 report. G4-14 Addressing the precautionary world Full 67 Not Assured approach or principle G4-15 External charters, principles or Integrating Full 19 Not Assured initiatives endorsed Sustainability G4-16 Membership of associations and Integrating Full 19 Not Assured advocacy organizations Sustainability IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Report coverage of entities included in CCI Reporting Full 101 Not Assured the consolidated financial statements Guidance Out of 10 countries of operation, this report contains data for Azerbaijan, Jordan, Kazakhstan Pakistan and Turkey. G4-18 Process for defining the report content Integrating Full 16 Not Assured and the aspect boundaries Sustainability G4-19 Material aspects identified Integrating Full 16, 18 Not Assured Sustainability G4-20 For each material Aspect, report Integrating Full 16, 18 Not Assured the Aspect Boundary within the Sustainability All material aspects organization are considered material for all operations G4-21 For each material Aspect, report Integrating Full 16, 18 Not Assured the Aspect Boundary outside the Sustainability organization G4-22 The effect of any restatements of CCI Reporting Full 105 Not Assured information provided in previous Guidance reports G4-23 Significant changes from previous Full 18 Not Assured reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 107 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principle STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by Integrating Full 13, 14, 16 Not Assured the organization Sustainability GRI G4 Content Index G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of Integrating Full 13, 14, 16 Not Assured stakeholders Sustainability G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder Integrating Full 13, 14, 16 Not Assured engagement Sustainability G4-27 Response to key topics and concerns Integrating Full 13, 14, 16 Not Assured raised Sustainability REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period Full 1 January 2015 to 31 Not Assured December 2015 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Full 2014 Not Assured G4-30 Reporting cycle Full Annual Not Assured G4-31 Contact point for questions Full corporate.affairs@cci. Not Assured com.tr G4-32 “In accordance” option, GRI content Full In accordance with Not Assured index and external assurance. “Core” requirements. 106-112 (GRI Content Index) 113-116 (External Assurance) G4-33 Policy and current practice regarding About our Full 1 Not Assured external assurance Report The CCI Board of Directors’ Corporate Governance and Ethics Committee was involved in seeking external assurance for this report. GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance and Ethics structure of the Integrating Full 11-12 Not Assured organization Sustainability Corporate 31-32 Governance and Ethics ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Values, principles, standards and CCI at a Glance Full 5 Not Assured Principle 10 norms of behavior, such as codes of Governance conduct and codes of ethics and Ethics 32 108 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principle GRI G4 Content Index Economic G4-DMA Aspect: Economic Performance CCI At a Glance 5 Not Assured Principle 7 G4-EC2 Risks and opportunities due to climate world Full 70 Not Assured Principle 7 change (also provided in the 2016 CCI CDP Report) G4-DMA Aspect: Indirect Economic Impact we-Community 57 Not Assured G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure we-Community Full 61 Not Assured investments and services supported G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts we-Community Full 64-65 Not Assured including the extent of impacts G4-DMA Aspect: Procurement Practices Sustainability 27-28 Not Assured Across the Value Chain G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local Sustainability Full 28 Not Assured suppliers Across the Value Chain Environmental G4-DMA Aspect: Material world 84 Not Assured Principles 7, 8 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Performance Full 87 Not Assured Principles Indicators 7, 8 G4-EN2 Recycled materials used world Full 84-85 Not Assured Principle 8 G4-DMA Aspect: Energy world 70 Not Assured Principles 7, 8, 9 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the Performance Full 95-96 Assurance Principles organization Indicators statement of 7, 8 EY on page 113 G4-EN5 Energy intensity world Full 71 Assurance Principle 8 statement of EY on page 113 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption world Full 73 Not Assured Principles 8, 9 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements for world Full 73-75 Not Assured Principles products and services 8, 9 G4-DMA Aspect: Water world 78 Not Assured Principles 7, 8 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Performance Full 98 Assurance Principles Indicators statement of 7, 8 EY on page 113 109 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principle G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Performance Full 98 Not Assured Principles recycled and reused Indicators 7, 8 G4-DMA Aspect: Emissions world Full 70, 76 Not Assured Principles 7, GRI G4 Content Index 8, 9 G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) world Full 77 Assurance Principles Performance 97 statement 7, 8 Indicators of SGS on pages 114116 G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Performance Full 97 Assurance Principles Indicators statement 7, 8 of SGS on pages 114116 G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) Performance Partial 97 Not Assured Indicators G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions world Full 76 Not Assured Principle 8 intensity G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions world Full 78 Not Assured Principles 8, 9 G4-DMA Aspect: Effluents and Waste world 83, 85-86 Not Assured Principle 8 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and Performance Full 98 Not Assured Principle 8 destination Indicators G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and Performance Full 99 Not Assured Principle 8 disposal method Indicators G4-DMA Aspect: Product and Services world 84-85 Not Assured Principle 8 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold (and world Full 84-85 Not Assured Principle 8 their packaging materials) that are reclaimed, by category G4-DMA Aspect: Compliance world 67 Not Assured Principles 8, 9 G4-EN29 Fines and sanctions for nonFull We did not have any Not Assured Principles compliance with environmental significant* fines. 8, 9 regulations. G4-DMA Aspect: Transport world 73-74 Not Assured Principle 8 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of world Full 73-74 Not Assured Principle 8 transportation G4-DMA Aspect: Supplier Environmental Sustainability 26-27 Not Assured Principle 8 Assessment across the Value Chain G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were Full All suppliers were Not Assured Principle 8 screened using environmental criteria screened. 110 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principle Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work G4-DMA Aspect: Employment we-Employees 46 Not Assured Principle 6 GRI G4 Content Index G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee Performance Full 91 Not Assured Principle 6 turnover by age group, gender and Indicators region. G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time we-Employees Partial 51 Not Assured employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees. G4-DMA Aspect: Occupational Health and we-Employees 52 Not Assured Safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce we-Employees Partial 52-53 Not Assured represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees G4-LA6 Injuries, lost days, absenteeism and Performance Partial 93-94 Not Assured fatalities Indicators G4-DMA Aspect: Training and Education we-Employees 50 Not Assured Principle 6 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per we-Employees Full 50 Not Assured Principle 6 employee by gender, and by employee category G4-DMA Aspect: Diversity and Equal we-Employees 46-47 Not Assured Principle 6 Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of Governance and Ethics Performance Full 90 Not Assured Principles bodies and breakdown of employees Indicators 1, 6 G4-DMA Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Sustainability 26-27 Not Assured Labor Practices across the Value Chain G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were Full All our suppliers Not Assured Principles screened using labor practices criteria 1, 6 Social: Human Rights G4-DMA Aspect: Freedom of Association and we-Employees 51 Not Assured Principle 3 Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 Supporting right to freedom of Sustainability Full 27 Not Assured Principles 1, association and collective bargaining across the 2, 3 in risk areas Value Chain we-Employees 51 G4-DMA Aspect: Assessment Sustainability 26-27 Not Assured Principle 1 across the Value Chain G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of Partial All our operations Not Assured Principles 1, operations that have been subject are subject to human 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 to human rights reviews or impact rights reviews and assessments audits. 111 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principle G4-DMA Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Sustainability 26-27 Not Assured Principle 2 Assessment across the Value Chain GRI G4 Content Index G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were Full All our suppliers Not Assured Principles 1, screened using human rights criteria 2, 6 Social: Society G4-DMA Aspect: Local Communities we-Community 57-58 Not Assured Principle 1 G4-SO1 Local community engagement, impact we-Community Partial 58-64 Not Assured Principle 1 assessments and development programs G4-DMA Aspect: Anti-Corruption Governance 32-33 Not Assured Principle 10 and Ethics G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of Partial All operations are Not Assured Principle 10 operations assessed for risks related assessed for risks to corruption, and the significant risks related to corruption. identified G4-SO4 Anti-corruption training Governance Full 33 Not Assured Principle 10 and Ethics G4-DMA Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior Governance 31-33 Not Assured and Ethics G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for Full There was no legal Not Assured anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust action for anti-trust and monopoly practices, and their and monopoly outcomes practices. G4-DMA Aspect: Compliance Governance 31-33 Not Assured and Ethics G4-SO8 Fines and sanctions for nonFull We did not have any Not Assured compliance significant* fines. Social: Product Responsibility G4-DMA Aspect: Customer Health and Safety me 35-36 Not Assured G4-PR1 Assessment of health and safety Full 100% of our products. Not Assured Principle 8 impacts of products. G4-DMA Aspect: Product and Service me 36-37 Not Assured Labeling G4-PR3 Product and service information me Full 36-37 Not Assured Principle 8 required by procedures for product and service information and labeling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer Sustainability Full 29 Not Assured satisfaction across the Value Chain * Fines of USD 200,000 are deemed significant by CCI 112 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Independent Assurance Letter Independent Assurance Letter 113 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement 114 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement 115 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement 116 CCI Sustainability Report 2015 Contact CCI Atilla D. Yerlikaya Group Corporate Affairs Director corporate.affairs@cci.com.tr OSB Mah. Deniz Feneri Sokak No: 4 34776 Dudullu Ümraniye İstanbul Tel: +90 216 528 40 00 Fax: +90 216 510 70 12 www.cci.com.tr Reporting Consultant www.3psustainability.com.tr Report Design Mehmet Edeoğlu Legal Disclaimer This sustainability report (the Report) was prepared by CCI within the principles of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and the United Nations Global Compact. This report has been prepared solely for informative purposes and does not aim to form the basis for any investment decision. No information in this report constitutes a proposal or part of a proposal relating to the sale of CCI shares, or an invitation to this kind of sales process, and the publishing of this report does not mean that a legal relationship of this kind has been established. All featured information and related documents are believed to be accurate at the time of this report’s preparation, and all information has been provided in good faith and relies on trustworthy sources. However, CCI does not make any kind of declaration, guarantee or promise in relation to this information. This report is printed on recycled paper. OSB Mah. Deniz Feneri Sokak No: 4 34776 Dudullu Ümraniye İstanbul Tel: +90 216 528 40 00 Fax: +90 216 510 70 12 www.cci.com.tr
