Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 TABLE OF Contents BUSINESS REPORT KEMIRA IN BRIEF 2 CEO STATEMENT 4 THE KEMIRA WAY: Sustainability – a key driver in our business 7 Performance 2015 8 Kemira business model 9 Risks & opportunities 10 Key business activities contributing to 12 sustainable value creation SEGMENTS Pulp & Paper 20 Oil & Mining 24 Municipal & Industrial 28 GRI REPORT All forward-looking statements in this report are based on the management’s current expectations and beliefs about future events, and actual results may differ materially from the expectations and beliefs such statements contain. THE KEMIRA WAY: VALUE CREATION MODEL VISION, VALUES: PP. 2 Governance: Corporate Governance Statement Risks & Strategy and opportunities: recource allocation: pp. 10 pp. 4 Kemira business model: pp. 9 Performance: Future outlook: Financial Statements & Pulp & Paper, pp. 23, Oil & Mining, pp. 27 pp. 8 Municipal & Industrial, pp. 31 Kemira IN BRIEF Kemira is a global chemicals company serving customers in water-intensive industries. We THE AMERICAS 40% EUR 936 million provide expertise, application knowhow and chemicals that 1,578 improve our customers’ water, energy and raw material efficiency. Our focus is on pulp & paper, oil & gas, mining and water treatment. KEMIRA VALUES R&D Regional HQ Atlanta, Atlanta, USA → We drive performance and innovation USA → We are dedicated to customer success → We care for people and the environment → We succeed together VISION The first choice in chemistry for water intensive industries 2 BUSINESS SEGMENTS: →→ REVENUE: EUR 2.4 (2.1) billion PULP & PAPER →→ OPERATIVE EBITDA: EUR 287.3 A leading global bleaching, process and func(252.9) million, 12.1% (11.8%) tional chemical supplier, #1–2 in all regions →→ EARNINGS PER SHARE: EUR 0.47 OIL & MINING →→ EMPLOYEES 4,685 Growing chemical supplier to oil & gas and mining →→ MANUFACTURING NETWORK of 64 industries, #2 in global polyacrylamide polymers (59) sites, products sold in more than 100 countries MUNICIPAL & INDUSTRIAL →→ FINANCIAL TARGETS FOR 2017: EUR Market leader in raw and wastewater treatment 2.7 billion revenue, operative chemicals, #1 in Europe and North America EBITDA margin 15%, < 60% gearing →→ Headquartered in Helsinki, Finland, listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. Kemira headquarters Helsinki, Finland R&D Espoo, Finland ASIA PACIFIC 8% EUR 196 million 536 Regional HQ Shanghai, China R&D Shanghai, China Employees R&D and technology centers EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA 52% EUR 1,241 million 2,571 3 2015 THE first choice IN CHEMISTRY FOR WATER INTENSIVE INDUSTRIES In 2015, Kemira delivered growth and improved operative EBITDA. Our strategy execution is on track, despite of substantial changes in the operating environment, such as the significant drop in crude oil prices and volatile currency exchange rates. Going forward, we aim for continued growth with improved profitability in our three segments: Pulp & Paper, Oil & Mining, and Municipal & Industrial. Our vision is to become The first choice in chemistry for water intensive industries . To live up to this vision, we must excel in all areas of value creation: expertise, innovation, product performance and quality, sustainability and financial performance, customer satisfaction, employee engagement, and more. Our key stakeholders – customers, suppliers, shareholders & lenders and employees – expect long-term sustainable value creation capability from us. STRATEGIC PRIORITIES AND RESOURCE ALLOCATION In 2015, we focused significant efforts on the Pulp & Paper (P&P) segment by executing both a larger scale acquisition of the AkzoNobel paper chemicals business as well as small bolt-on acquisitions. The integration is proceeding well, even exceeding our expectations. We have also continued to focus on organic growth in P&P by investing in capacity, R&D as well as sales and marketing. In addition, the segment continues to strive for improved profitability and is targeting Jari Rosendal I President and CEO two times the market growth with an EBITDA 4 CEO STATEMENT margin in line with the Group target going forward. In 2015, P&P represented 60% of Kemira’s OUR STRATEGY revenue. EXECUTION IS In Oil & Mining (O&M), the market has been very challenging because of the significant drop ON-TRACK: IN 2015, in crude oil prices in 2015. As a consequence, we OUR REVENUE GREW BY modified our main strategic focus, shifting growth 11% AND OPERATIVE efforts from the North American shale market towards the Chemical Enhanced Oil Recovery EBITDA BY 14% (CEOR) application that started to materialize LEADING TO AN faster than we expected. We won our first deals in IMPROVED MARGIN OF CEOR in 2015. Naturally we also keep fighting in the shale markets, getting ready for the next 12.1%. up-cycle. Going into 2016, we will continue to focus resources on CEOR. We expect to return to growth despite the current low oil price levels. we were focusing more on the market. Overall, the The drop in oil prices has also had positive O&M business represents some 15% of Kemira’s impacts through lower raw material costs. Our revenue. business relating to water treatment in the We are very happy with the turnaround in the mining sector showed some modest growth, as Municipal & Industrial (M&I) segment, where we Corporate Kemira's midresponsibility Corporate term financial contribution to responsibility Kemira's strategy targets 2017 Kemira's strategy focus areas VISION Revenue The first choice in chemistry for water Creating value intensive industries EUR 2.7 for Kemira and Sustainable products and solutions billion stakeholders PURPOSE We enable our customers to improve their water, energy and raw material Responsible efficiency supply chain Improving Responsible STRATEGIC FOCUS operational manufacturing • We focus on chemistries for pulp efficiency & paper, oil & gas, mining and water Responsibility Operative towards employees treatment • We target above-the-market growth EBITDA • We leverage innovation driven growth in mature markets and expand in 15% Ensuring Responsible business practises selected emerging markets compliance and • We invest in innovation, expertise managing risk Responsibility towards and competencies the communities where we operate 5 2015 are back on the growth trajectory and expect chemical industry average in 2015, EcoVadis steady growth and cash flow generation going rewarded us with their Gold recognition (top 2%), forward. The restructuring activities carried out and in the CDP Nordic Carbon Disclosure Leaderbetween 2012–2014 impacted mostly the M&I ship Index we achieved a disclosure score of 99 business, and the efficiencies are now starting to out of 100 and a performance band B (scale A-E). show. We will continue to focus on profitability The highlights for 2015 also include e.g. a improvement also in the future. In addition, we significant upward trend in our employee engageare looking into developing new, advanced water ment and continued stringent screening of our treatment technologies which we believe will be suppliers’ sustainability performance. This work in-demand in the future. M&I represents some continues, and we still have much room for 25% of our revenue. improvement. We also witnessed a worrying deterioration in our work safety performance, and CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY we have, and continue to address this issue SUPPORTING STRATEGY through increased awareness-raising, reporting IMPLEMENTATION and training. Also the Kemira Carbon Index value Our corporate responsibility work ties closely is not decreasing, due to increased share of with our strategy by helping us create long-term carbon-intensive feedstock required by our sustainable value to Kemira and our stakeholdcurrent product mix. ers, improve our operational efficiency, and ensure compliance and manage risks. Our corpoCHEMISTRY IS AN ENABLER rate responsibility focus areas, targets and KPIs Looking into the future, our focus will be on are designed to drive forward continuous reaching our mid-term targets: EUR 2.7 billion improvement in these areas. revenue with 15% EBITDA margin in 2017. Our Our stakeholders expect high performance chemistry is an enabler in bioeconomy, circular from us in our sustainability work, not only in our economy and resource efficiency. With our vision own operations but throughout the value chain. to become the first choice in chemistry for water We are committed to internationally recognized intensive industries, we aim to proactively push principles, such as the OECD Guidelines for for improvement in all these areas within our Multinational Enterprises, whose fundamentals sphere of influence. are also reflected in our own Kemira Code of Conduct, the United Nations Global Compact and Jari Rosendal the chemical industry’s Responsible Care. President & CEO Our innovations translate to customer benefits by helping them improve their water, energy and raw material efficiency. Sustainability evaluation is encoded in our new product development process, where better sustainability performance compared to products already available on the market is one of the innovation advancement criteria. We are happy to see that our corporate responsibility work has also been recognized by independent third party evaluators: RobecoSAM rated our sustainability performance above the 6 CEO STATEMENT Sustainability – A KEY DRIVER IN OUR BUSINESS BIOBASED ECONOMY Biobased economy looks for solutions that enable replacing non-renewable resources with more biobased materials. For example, at Kemira we are looking for alternative raw materials for our own products. Our customers use our chemistries for example to produce BIOBASED ECONOMY CIRCULAR ECONOMY biogas from organic waste. Wood fiber is extensively used to replace fossil based materials like plastics. Our chemistries help in producing biobased materials more economically and efficiently, and with fewer inputs. CIRCULAR ECONOMY RESOURCE EFFICIENCY Circular economy aims to keep materials in a closed loop and eliminate waste. Our chemistries enable water reuse, phosphorus recovery from wastewater and the recycling of fibers from packaging and paper waste, and extends the use-life of recycled fiber. We also use secondary raw materials (recycled materials and industrial by-products) in our own production. RESOURCE EFFICIENCY OUR INNOVATIONS ARE Our chemistries help in resource efficiency: CONTRIBUTING TO THE achieving the same or improved output by using less resource inputs. TRANSITION TOWARDS A In our Oil & Mining segment, resource effiMORE RESOURCE ciency shows in reduced use of water and energy EFFICIENT SOCIETY. and more efficient use of existing oil reserves with the help of our polymers. 7 2015 PERFORMANCE Financial performance 2015 Revenue (EUR billion) Operative EBITDA (%): Target: 2.7 in 2017 Target: 15% in 2017 2.4 12.1% 11.8% 2.2 2.1 11.3% 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Responsible supply chain Sustainable products and solutions Target: ≥ 90% of supplier 93% 93% Innovation 90% contracts with signed revenue Code of Conduct for target: Suppliers, Distributors 36% 10% of total and Agents as revenue attachment by 2015 2013 2014 2015 2015 in 2016 10% 8% 8% 7% 5% Responsibility towards employees Safety target: 12 13 14 15 16 Achieve zero injuries Number of Total 8.5 7.1 7.2 Recordable Injuries (TRI) 5.8 per million hours, Kemira + contractor, 1 year rolling Responsible manufacturing average. 2012 2013 2014 2015 Climate 100 change target: 88 91 91 80 Engagement target: 87% 84% Kemira Carbon 75% 85% Employee engagement Index ≤ 80 by 69% 70% index at or above the 58% 67% 2020 external industry norm 12 13 14 15 20 by 2015, participation rate 75–85% 2009 2011 2013 2015 ■ Employee engagement index, % (external norm 2015: 68%) Responsiblility towards the ■ Participation rate, % of total employees communities where we operate Community Leadership involvement target: 100% 100% development target : 95% Each Kemira site with 92% ≥ 95% of people over 50 employees managers participated in 46% 71% participates in local 48% global leadership 39% programs at least once in community involvement period 2013–2015 initiatives at least once in (cumulative %) 2013 2014 2015 2015 period 2013–2015 2013 2014 2015 2015 (cumulative %) 8 Business model Equity: EUR 1,193.2 million INPUTS Interest-bearing liabilities: EUR 794 million 4,685 professionals worldwide Cash: EUR 152 million 250 R&D experts in 3 hubs, over Business units in 40 countries, 1,300 patents 64 manufacturing sites Key relationships: customers, suppliers, Total materials purchased: industrial partners for secondary raw →→ 3.3 million tons, 27.5% recycled materials, distributors & agents →→ Total energy purchased (GWh) 4,128 Responsibility for BUSINESS ACTIVITIES employees →→ Workplace safety →→ Employee engagement Differentiation: →→ Leadership development →→ sustainable innovation, expertise, portfolio, performance, capability Responsible supply chain →→ Sustainability in sourcing and supply Product stewardship chain management Responsible business practices Responsible manufacturing →→ Compliance to Kemira Code of Conduct →→ Lowering costs & environmental impacts of our operations OUTPUTS Sustainable products Services and solutions →→ Application support →→ Process control & monitoring →→ Total Chemistry Management →→ Polyacrylamide polymers #1–2 →→ Coagulants #1 Emissions and waste →→ Sizing #1 →→ Scope1 + Scope2 (CO2 eq. tonnes) = 926,000 →→ Chlorate & peroxides #2 →→ Total waste disposal 110,632 tonnes Customers Society →→ Product quality or product yield →→ Purified water, suitable for reuse optimization →→ Process and energy OUTCOMES →→ Sustainable use of biobased materials: recycled fibers efficiency →→ Less water and energy used in →→ Water quality and regulatory industrial processes compliance →→ More efficient extraction and use of →→ Customer Net Promoter Score: 28 Shareholders & lenders non-renewable resources: oil, minerals (industry average 26) →→ EUR 112.9 million paid in dividends and water and interest expenses* →→ Income taxes: EUR 12.3 million* * on cash basis 9 2015 KEMIRA RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES CHANGES IN CHANGES IN LAWS CHANGES IN CHANGES IN RAW MATERIAL CUSTOMER DEMAND AND REGULATIONS COMPETITION COSTS & AVAILABILITY OPPORTUNITY OPPORTUNITY OPPORTUNITY OPPORTUNITY →→ Rising demand for →→ Increased demand for →→ Large customers looking →→ Efficiencies brought by sustainable solutions chemical treatment of for a strategic supplier active price & inventory for packaging & board water due to with a global footprint management and and tissue grades, stricter regulation and and commitment to their forecasting chemistries enabling enforcement line of industry →→ Biobased materials water recycling & →→ Regulatory →→ Sustainability aspects optional for fossil based reuse, and technologies developments expected emphasized in partner materials enabling unconventional to favor recycling and selection oil & gas and enhanced reuse of resources conventional oil recovery RISK RISK RISK RISK →→ Further decline in →→ Regulatory →→ Major competitor or →→ Increased costs impact demand for printing & developments creating customer consolidations profitability graphical paper grades, pressure to replace changing market →→ Dependency on singleleading to mergers and chemicals with position source for raw material mill closures other substances or →→ New standard supply →→ Prolonged/further technologies commodity chemical →→ Breaks or disturbances slowdown in oil, gas and →→ Bans/restrictions on producers entering the in the availability of key mining activity due to substances used in market raw materials soft market conditions Kemira’s production →→ Shift in demand toward →→ Increases in production water treatment and transportation costs technologies with lower chemical consumption →→ Unforeseen customer production slowdowns MANAGEMENT APPROACH MANAGEMENT APPROACH MANAGEMENT APPROACH MANAGEMENT APPROACH →→ Systematic monitoring →→ Proactive follow-up →→ Regular strategy reviews →→ Comprehensive, of market development & participation in to reflect changes in strategic approach to →→ Focus on improved regulatory discussions competitive situation sourcing sustainability of relating to chemical →→ Close follow-up of →→ Strategic purchase products and solutions substances, water competitive activity contracts, backward treatment and circular integration, tracking →→ Customer intimacy and →→ Investments in economy of prices of key raw innovation competencies & →→ Active evaluation of capabilities materials →→ Geographic and alternatives to debated →→ Captive manufacturing customer-industry →→ Differentiation and substances of critical raw materials diversity customer intimacy →→ Focus on R&D: →→ Strategic investment →→ Comprehensive & →→ Participation in market innovations enabling in energy-generating diversified portfolio consolidation and active more efficient use of companies & hedging →→ Flexible manufacturing M&A monitoring resources and recycling a portion of the energy network with and electricity spend competitive scale →→ Active communications about the benefits of Kemira’s technologies 10 COMPETITION POTENTIAL FOR HAZARD & INNOVATION GEOPOLITICAL FOR KEY TALENT REPUTATIONAL DAMAGE CAPABILITY CHANGES OPPORTUNITY OPPORTUNITY OPPORTUNITY OPPORTUNITY →→ Attractive employer →→ Ability to demonstrate →→ Kemira’s ability to →→ New potential status in many areas high performance innovate for resource geographical markets thanks to marketand compliance efficiency, circular become addressable leading knowhow and with standards & economy and people processes expectations gives bioeconomy together advantage over smaller with customers players RISK RISK RISK RISK →→ Key talent attracted by →→ For example, process →→ New disruptive →→ Business interference value chain players safety incidents, technologies or other adverse machinery breakdowns, →→ Slow product portfolio consequences through environmental as well renewal, lack of political actions or as employee health and differentiation economic uncertainties safety incidents and the in countries strategically consequent financial important to Kemira losses & brand damage →→ Unauthorized IT system access by malicious intruders causing physical damage or other financial loss MANAGEMENT APPROACH MANAGEMENT APPROACH MANAGEMENT APPROACH MANAGEMENT APPROACH →→ Continuous →→ Systematic focus on →→ Customer intimacy and →→ Continuous monitoring identification of high achieving set targets, co-creation and consideration of potentials and key certified management →→ Innovation metrics and geopolitical movements competencies for the systems, efficient sustainability checks and changes followed future needs hazard prevention by adequate business →→ Differentiated products →→ Development and programs & reporting, adjustments and technologies, improvement of and competent application knowhow compensation schemes, personnel →→ Monitoring & scouting learning programs, and →→ Several insurance for new technologies career development programs protecting programs the company against →→ Systematic approach financial impacts of and commitment to hazard risks employee engagement →→ Systematic risk analyses →→ Collaboration with and continuous educational institutes, improvement of employer branding procedural, technical and physical protection mechanisms 11 2015 KEY BUSINESS ACTIVITIES CONTRIBUTING TO value SUSTAINABLE CREATION Our approach to corporate responsibility is guided by our value creation model, our stakeholders’ expectations, and our commitments to internationally defined principles. The targets are set together with the Management Board. The Board of Directors acts as the highest governing body and approves the corporate responsibility report. VALUE STAKEHOLDERS’ COMMITMENTS, CREATION MODEL EXPECTATIONS GUIDELINES AND PRINCIPLES →→ Vision →→ Customers →→ Kemira Code of Conduct →→ Strategy →→ Investors & lenders →→ UN Global compact →→ Business model →→ Employees →→ Responsible Care →→ Focus areas →→ Targets →→ KPI’s Responsible business practises Sustainable products Responsibility towards Responsible Responsible Responsibility towards and solutions employees supply chain manufacturing the communities where we operate 12 RISK, COMPLIANCE, RESILIENCY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES bribery and human rights, and provide more In order to ensure business continuity and reach detailed policies on specific topics. our strategic goals, we must secure the trust of Our greatest human rights risks relate to the our stakeholders. Our focus on responsible health and safety of handling hazardous materibusiness practices aims at protecting the Kemira als, our upstream and downstream business brand from damage and potential consequent relations, and expansion into emerging markets. financial losses by ensuring we comply with Kemira conducted an eLearning on human rights regulatory requirements and high ethical standin 2015. The training was completed by 80% of ards. the target group of 2,850 persons. The Kemira Compliance Program and its core Our employees are encouraged to raise any instrument, Kemira Code of Conduct, drive compliance issues via multiple channels, includresponsible business practices throughout our ing an anonymous 24/7 hotline. Kemira Ethics organization and beyond – obliging also our and Compliance ensures that all reported issues business partners to commit to responsible are addressed with due care. business conduct, respect for human rights and Our Risk Management focuses on systematic environmental responsibility. In addition to the and proactive identification, analysis and manCode, we regularly train our own employees on agement of various risks related to Kemira's e.g. competition law, insider information, antibusiness, such as strategic, operational, hazard and financial risks. More information about risks on pp. 10. PULP & PAPER PRODUCT SHOWCASE STRONGER BOARD USING LESS FIBERS Kemira FennoBond™ Maintain stiffness and strength at 1 lower basis weight. Enables usage of lower quality furnishes with 2 maintained strength properties. Savings through yield advantage and 3 raw material efficiency. Improved sheet Allows the use Energy Improved productivity characteristics of lower quality savings. and increased (strength, stiffness). fibers. machine speed. 13 2015 INNOVATION Sustainable PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS Our strategy is to increase Kemira’s differentiated product line revenue to 60% in 2016 (51% in 2015), and most of our R&D efforts are focused on this. Our innovation capability is measured through an innovation sales target*. The sustainability of our new products is a key aspect in the development work: we prioritize solutions that have improved sustainability performance compared to those already available on the market. All our New Product Development projects apply sustainability checks at each development stage. We are actively looking for alternative biobased raw materials and we focus on applications where product biodegradability brings additional value – e.g. in wastewater treatment and packaging and board. Many customers are focusing on the recyclability of their final product. KEMIRA’S SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE WAS ABOVE INDUSTRY AVERAGE ACCORDING TO ECOVADIS *10% of sales revenue by end 2016, including new chemistries, product AND ROBECOSAM upgrades and tailored chemistries ASSESSMENTS IN 2015. sold into new applications, developed and launched within the last 5 years. 14 PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP on the safety and sustainability in the value chain At Kemira, the concept of product stewardship are the greatest. goes beyond regulatory compliance, which in This approach is also an integral element of itself sets tight controls on the manufacture and the global chemical industry’s Responsible Care® sale of chemicals. A proactive approach is initiative, which Kemira is committed to. strategic to us, since it allows us to address We perform stringent safety assessments on changing requirements and stakeholder expecour products and provide information on their tations and adjust our offerings ahead or at par safe use. We ensure that health and environmenwith the competition. tal matters as well as regulatory requirements are One of the key principles of product stewardthoroughly considered in New Product Developship for chemicals focuses on efficient risk ment projects. assessment: identifying the intrinsic properties We have screened our current portfolio for of the substance, the use conditions and the priority substances that are subject to future potential exposure to that chemical. This analyregulatory restrictions or associated with particusis helps us to focus our product and process lar concerns. Management plans are prepared for development efforts in areas where our impacts these substances. INNOVATION PARTNER We are an innovation partner for our customers. KEMIRA REVENUE SPLIT Many of our customers are sustainability leaders BY CUSTOMER BENEFIT: in their business sectors and only work with partners with similar high standards and commit→→ Product quality, property or ments. This makes the continuous improvement product yield of our sustainability performance of strategic optimization: 50% importance to us, and at best, gives us competi→→ Process or energy tive advantage through products that enable cost efficiency: 20% and resource savings in customer processes (e.g. →→ Water quality or regulatory water, energy, fiber). compliance related to Kemira holds over 1,300 patents. In 2015, our wastewater and sludge innovation sales were EUR 189 million (8%). treatment: 30% 15 2015 Responsibility TOWARDS EMPLOYEES WE EMPLOY APPROXIMATELY 4,685 PROFESSIONALS AROUND THE WORLD. Attracting, engaging and retaining key talent is of strategic importance to Kemira in order to be competitive. Safety at the workplace and strong employee engagement are the cornerstones of our people management approach. 16 SAFETY LEADERSHIP AND PERFORMANCE Safety is of first priority in all our operations Skilled leaders and employees are key to the because of the nature of our industry and potensuccessful execution of Kemira’s strategy. Our tial impacts on costs, stakeholder relations and performance management process consists of reputation. In 2015, we saw a rise in the number Performance and Development Discussions (PDD) of reported injuries, TRI (Total Recordable Injuries and performance evaluation, supported by online per million work hours). In addition to continuous management tools. Kemira is actively encouragdiligent safety work, intensive campaigning and ing leadership development through job-rotation awareness-building was started to address the and on-the-job-learning. issue. At the end of the year, the TRI level stood at 7.2 (2014: 5.8). We are taking this very seriously DIVERSITY and continue to work on our safety performance In our recruitment decisions, we do not apply long-term to protect our most valuable asset: gender and/or minority quotas or similar but aim people. at finding the best professional knowhow for each position. The Kemira Code of Conduct obliges us ENGAGEMENT to respect the principle of equal opportunity and Employee engagement at Kemira has been treatment without regard to age, race, birth, addressed through systematic action-planning gender, creed, political persuasion, social status and execution, supported by strong managerial or origin. The same equal opportunity principle is commitment. Thanks to these efforts, our also highlighted in our Recruitment Policy. employee engagement index is again at the level In 2015, the share of women in Kemira’s total of industry norm, after the drop caused by workforce was 26%, in executive positions 22%, restructuring measures. Our employee survey in Management Board 22%, and in Board of results show that good corporate responsibility Directors 33%. performance is very important to our personnel. COMMUNITY INITIATIVE KEMIRA READING GALLERY LAUNCHED AT NANJING NANHUA EXPERIMENTAL PRIMARY SCHOOL In 2015, Kemira and the Nanhua Experimental Primary school of the Nanjing Chemical Industry Park located in China launched a joint Kemira Reading Gallery to encourage students’ interest in reading. Over 2,800 books were donated by employees and Kemira together. Kemira staff also volunteered to provide environmental education to the students. “We want to build sustainable relationships with our local communities,” says Joe Chan, President of Kemira’s operations in China. “Reading is a good habit with living according to the Kemira value: We care for lifelong benefits for children. This is another way of people and the environment.“ 17 2015 OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Kemira’s business is supply chain intensive. We IN 2015, KEMIRA have over 650 direct material suppliers, most of LAUNCHED A PROGRAM whom come from EMEA and North America. Of these, 160 are core suppliers, who deliver 80% of FOR OPERATIONAL our direct material spend. Our top three direct EXCELLENCE TO DRIVE spend categories are electricity, acrylonitrile and FORWARD THE petroleum solvents and by volume ferrous sulphate, hydrochloric acid and sodium chloride FULFILLMENT OF ITS (salt). In 2015, some 27% of all raw materials GROWTH AND used by Kemira were recycled or industrial PROFITABILITY TARGETS. by-products from external partners. The Municipal & Industrial business utilizes 60–70% secondary raw materials from other industries, participating heavily in local by-product streams. Manufacturing Kemira drives responsibility in the supply chain footprint globally through the Code of Conduct for Suppliers, (64 sites): Distributors and Agents, which all repeat suppliers with a substantial annual spend value are expected to sign. By the end of 2015, 93% of Kemira’s suppliers had signed the Code. Our Supplier Performance Management Program, comprising of supplier Performance Evaluations and Supplier Sustainability Assessments, helps in identifying any possible challenges relating to suppliers’ performance, including sustainability. In 2015, Kemira launched a program for operational excellence, addressing the efficiency and optimization of material and information flows from our suppliers to customers across Kemira. Polyacrylamide polymers and other SOME 27% OF ALL RAW process chemicals (25) MATERIALS USED BY KEMIRA Coagulants (30) IN 2015 WERE RECYCLED OR Bleaching and INDUSTRIAL BY-PRODUCTS pulping (9) FROM EXTERNAL PARTNERS. 18 MANUFACTURING RESPONSIBLE MANUFACTURING environmental harm”, “Zero harm to people”, and Our global manufacturing network consists of 64 “Customer satisfaction”. We take matters of sites. The AkzoNobel paper chemicals business safety extremely seriously in all our operations. acquisition, completed in 2015, brought us six Kemira’s EHSQ management system is based on new manufacturing sites located in Italy, Spain, ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001 standKorea, Thailand, Indonesia and Australia. The site ards. By the end of 2015, Kemira had certified in Italy will be discontinued. 86% of major site locations according to at least We have streamlined our product portfolio and one of these standards. reduced the number of sites in the past few years Energy-efficiency is important to Kemira, as it to lower our operative fixed costs. We have also brings both cost-savings and environmental adopted LEAN manufacturing in order to continubenefits. Many of Kemira’s products are energy ously improve efficiency. intensive to produce, making it of strategic Our Environmental, Health, Safety and Quality importance to constantly improve our energy (EHSQ) vision consists of three elements: “Zero efficiency and manage the risk of purchased electricity. Electricity price risk is mitigated by hedging a portion of the energy and electricity spend, and through strategic investment in energy-generating companies in Finland. Our approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions is based on improving energy efficiency at manufacturing sites and on purchasing energy at lower emission levels. Some 12 sites out of the total of 64 sites consume 90% of energy and account for 95% of our CO2 emissions. A substantial share of our energy management activities are therefore focused on these 12 energy-intensive sites. Kemira has set a long-term target for CO2 emission intensity from our manufacturing operations. The Kemira Carbon Index monitors our CO2 performance from both consolidated and individual manufacturing site perspective. The target is to reduce the value of the Kemira Carbon Index to or below 80 by the end of 2020, in comparison to the Carbon Index value of 100 in baseline year 2012. 19 2015 RESULT 2015 Revenue 1,417 EUR million (60% of Kemira revenue) Operative EBITDA 12.1 % BUSINESS SPECIFICS →→ Strategic commitment to the pulp & paper industry →→ Application-driven STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE: approach Growth above-the-market with →→ Offering adapted to improved profitability regional requirements →→ Innovation partner for the pulp & paper industry How? →→ Commercialize new products →→ Leverage strong market position and APPLICATION KNOW-HOW acquisition synergies →→ Pulp, paper, board and →→ Execute successful investment tissue production projects (e.g. long-term ”chemical →→ P ulping, bleaching, island” bleaching chemical contracts) wet-end and coating →→ Continue to evaluate bolt-on chemistry, water acquisitions treatment →→ Scale up operations in the APAC region SALES CHANNEL →→ Direct sales to pulp & paper producers. #1–2 IN ALL REGIONS →→ Serving all major players in the market globally. 20 Value built in pulp & paper CUSTOMER SEGMENTATION →→ Pulp →→ Packaging & Board →→ Printing & Writing COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE →→ Tissue & Specialties →→ Application know-how →→ Product performance PRODUCTS Most comprehensive product →→ Backward integration into portfolio in the business. key raw materials →→ Comprehensive offering DIFFERENTIATED PRODUCTS →→ Global reach (54%) Polymers, sizing and strength →→ Chemical island concept chemicals, defoamers, dispersants, biocides and other process chemicals CUSTOMER VALUE COMMODITY PRODUCTS (46%) Mainly bleaching & pulping IMPROVED: chemicals →→ Process efficiency →→ End-product MAJOR RAW MATERIALS features & quality Acrylonitrile, olefins, cationic monomer, tall →→ Raw material, energy oil soaps and crude tall oil, electricity, fatty acids, heavy fuel oil/natural gas, maleic and water efficiency: anhydride, sodium chloride, sulfur sustainable innovations 21 2015 THE ONLY BLEACHING, PROCESS AND FUNCTIONAL CHEMICALS PROVIDER WITH A TRULY GLOBAL REACH Growth in pulp & paper chemicals is driven by higher volumes of packaging board and tissue grades. Kemira has unique expertise in applying chemicals and supporting pulp & paper producers to innovate and constantly improve their operational efficiency and end-product quality. We support our customers in biobased economy, enabling production with fewer inputs, less environmental impact and reduced water footprint. INVESTING IN COMPETENCIES & CAPACITIES KEMIRA PULP & PAPER Kemira is committed to innovating for the longGROWTH TARGET: AT term future together with the pulp & paper LEAST TWO TIMES THE industry. The paper chemicals market has long been fragmented with no clear global leader. MARKET GROWTH. Kemira’s investment in competencies and capacities in pulp & paper chemistry makes us the global market leader in bleaching, process and functional chemicals. Kemira’s Pulp & Paper segment continues to focus on delivering growth and improved profitability. AkzoNobel paper chemicals business acquisition strengthens Kemira’s position In May 2015, Kemira acquired the AkzoNobel paper chemicals business, which consists mainly of retention, sizing and strength products, complemented by e.g. coating additives. Revenue of the transferred business is more than EUR 200 million and the number of transferred employees is approximately 350. Several production units were included in the deal, together with several contract manufacturing agreements with AkzoNobel sites. Acquired production sites are located in Italy, Spain, Korea, Thailand, Indonesia and Australia. Going forward, Kemira has also several new sales offices in the APAC region. The acquisition gives us direct access to new markets in APAC and increases the number of experienced sales, service and application personnel. Today, we have better access to locally produced products, larger sales and field service organization and a number of attractive new products, which allow us to catch new opportunities and speed-up Kemira’s growth in APAC. Revenue and cost synergies have started to materialize according to plan. 22 2015 IN BRIEF MARKET OUTLOOK →→ Kemira completes the AkzoNobel paper Pulp & Paper segment is expected to grow chemicals acquisition. at least double the relevant market growth. →→ Kemira acquires certain assets of Soto The market compounded annual growth Industries, LLC, headquartered in Charlotte, rate (CAGR) is estimated to be 1.5%. The North Carolina. Soto specializes in the majority of the growth is expected from the application of scale control products, emerging markets in South America and defoamers, and settling agents for the pulp APAC. Even though the market growth in and paper industry. APAC is expected to slowdown slightly, it is →→ Kemira announces plans to close the acquired still estimated to reach 2.5–3% per annum. manufacturing site in Soave, Italy. There is also an increased demand for pulp →→ Kim Poulsen starts as President of Kemira's chemicals in the Nordics where several Pulp & Paper segment & APAC region and expansion projects are ongoing or member of the Management Board. announced. →→ Throughout the year, Stora Enso and Kemira Thanks to our comprehensive offering, work together on a joint corporate global reach and strong application knowresponsibility initiative on water stewardship how, Kemira is well positioned to serve the in Guangxi Province in Southern China. The industry. construction works addressing water shortages and quality problems in three local villages were finalized in 2015. Chemical, mechanical Packaging, board and recycled pulp and tissue grades 40% 40% Paper grades 20% 23 2015 RESULT 2015 Revenue 350 EUR million (15% of Kemira revenue) Operative EBITDA 9.5 % BUSINESS SPECIFICS →→ Application-driven STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE: approach →→ Focus on fast innovation Growth and expansion to new to solve critical customer applications like Chemical Enhanced Oil challenges Recovery and oil sands. How? →→ Continued faster, industry leading APPLICATION KNOW-HOW innovations with key customers →→ Oil & Gas: drilling & →→ Manufacturing expansion investments cementing, stimulation, with high return on capital employed oil sands, Chemical →→ Targeted bolt-on acquisitions to Enhanced Oil Recovery enable equipment and services and production offering →→ Mining: iron ore, copper, and gold recovery SALES CHANNEL →→ Oil & Gas and process additive applications: sales to operators, pumpers, service companies and other value adding partners. #2 IN GLOBAL →→ Mining: Sales to operators and other value adding partners. POLYACRYLAMIDE →→ Distributors to other industries. PRODUCTION 24 Improving Efficiency & yield in oil & mining CUSTOMER SEGMENTATION COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE →→ Oil & Gas →→ Innovative chemicals & →→ Mining application knowledge →→ Other industries through distributors →→ 2nd largest manufacturer of (excess capacity) polyacrylamides in the world PRODUCTS CUSTOMER VALUE DIFFERENTIATED PRODUCTS (83%) polymers, dispersants & IMPROVED: antiscalants, biocides, emulsifiers, →→ Process efficiency defoamers →→ Yield →→ Cost-efficiency COMMODITY PRODUCTS →→ Water efficiency (17%) coagulants →→ Energy efficiency MAJOR RAW MATERIALS →→ Compliance with Acrylonitrile, acrylic acid, various environmental regulation monomers 25 2015 GROWING CHEMICAL SUPPLIER TO OIL & GAS AND MINING INDUSTRIES Kemira provides a unique combination of application knowhow and innovative chemicals that improves process efficiency and yield in oil, gas and metals recovery. We tailor chemistries for specific process needs, ensuring the customer has the most cost-effective, well performing product for their particular application and field. We assist in extracting oil & gas in a more resource-efficient manner: getting more out of existing resources, and utilizing less water and energy in the process. MARKET DOWNTURN IMPACTS DEMAND The oil and gas chemicals market is competitive and cyclical. In 2015, the sharp decline in oil KEMIRA OIL & MINING prices impacted the overall oil and gas business, GROWTH TARGET: but particularly the oil and gas drilling and stimuDOUBLE-DIGIT GROWTH lation market in North America. Kemira is the leading supplier of friction reducers used in this OVER-THE-CYCLE. activity. In response to the market situation, Oil & Mining segment implemented efficiency improvements, closing one manufacturing site in Longview, Washington and realigned its resources. New growth opportunities were identified in Chemical Enhanced Oil Recovery (CEOR) and oil sands. Going forward, the segment focuses on returning to organic growth even with current low oil price levels and getting ready for the next up-cycle. Kemira's growth in the mining sector has been modest in recent years due to soft market conditions. In 2015, we saw some signs of recovery especially in Southern Africa, and were able to increase our sales volumes with our new differentiated offering focusing on copper and gold mines. 26 2015 IN BRIEF →→ Kemira enters the market for Chemical MARKET OUTLOOK Enhanced Oil Recovery (CEOR), and is awarded Pricing pressures and challenging market a contract by Cairn India Limited for the supply conditions are likely to continue going into of polyacrylamide for its EOR implementation. 2016. Being a technology and value pro→→ Kemira and Chevron’s Energy Technology vider, Kemira is better positioned to Company enter into a Master Collaboration weather the fluctuations than pure comAgreement to develop novel and next modity players in the market. Chemical generation chemistries for a wide array of oil & Enhanced Oil Recovery (CEOR) and uncongas exploration and production activities. ventional oil extraction present longer term →→ Oil & Mining segment continues to gain growth opportunities in Oil & Mining segbusiness in the Canadian oil sands market. ment’s relevant market. →→ Kemira and technology start-up Aqsens join forces for unconventional collaboration to offer innovative on-site liquid analyses for oilfield scale control. →→ The closure of a manufacturing plant in Longview, WA, US is announced. →→ Kemira acquires certain assets of Polymer Services, LLC, specialized in the field application of polymer gel treatments for enhanced or improved oil recovery. Oil & Gas and process Minerals & Metals additives applications applications 80% 20% 27 2015 RESULT 2015 Revenue 606 EUR million (25% of Kemira revenue) Operative EBITDA 13.7 % BUSINESS SPECIFICS →→ Regulation-driven business →→ Local business →→ Raw material backward integration STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE: →→ Large customer base Steady growth and cash flow generation How? →→ Further strengthen the base business APPLICATION KNOW-HOW in raw and waste water treatment →→ Raw water treatment →→ Ensure efficiency & cost and product →→ Waste water treatment leadership through operational and →→ Sludge treatment commercial excellence and innovation →→ Build on top of strong customer base with innovation driven Advanced Water Treatment applications #1 IN EUROPE SALES CHANNEL Municipal Industrial Municipal: mainly direct sales #1 IN NORTH AMERICA 60% 40% Industrial: direct sales & distributors 28 Optimizing the water cycle CUSTOMER SEGMENTATION →→ Fragmented market: →→ Municipal (private & public) →→ Industrial (e.g. food & beverage, chemicals and metals processing) PRODUCTS →→ Only partner able to provide both polymers and coagulants COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE DIFFERENTIATED PRODUCTS →→ Security of supply, speed and (25%) Polymers, antiscalants, logistics flexibility defoamers, biocides →→ Expertise →→ Comprehensive portfolio COMMODITY PRODUCTS →→ Backward integration into other (75%) Coagulants industries' by-products through long-term partnerships SUPPLY CHAIN INTENSIVE: →→ High coverage manufacturing →→ Managing high-volume streams to fragmented customer base network in mature markets MAJOR RAW MATERIALS CUSTOMER VALUE →→ 60–70% secondary input materials: participating in local, fast and flexible byIMPROVED: product streams →→ Water treatment process reliability →→ Acrylonitrile, sulfuric acid, hydrochloric and efficiency: total water cycle acid, aluminium hydrate, iron ore, pickling management liquor, copperas (ferrous sulfate) →→ Regulatory compliance and beyond 29 2015 MARKET LEADER IN RAW AND WASTE WATER TREATMENT CHEMICALS The market for Kemira’s Municipal & Industrial segment is driven by regulation. Kemira helps municipalities, private operators and water-intensive industries in the transition towards circular economy by enabling water reuse and improved water treatment efficiency at every stage of water management. We are the leading chemicals supplier for raw, wastewater and sludge applications in Europe and North America, and the only manufacturer offering a full product portfolio of coagulants, polymers and other, more differentiated water treatment chemicals. This makes our position in the market unique. BACK ON THE GROWTH PATH The Municipal & Industrial segment has gone KEMIRA MUNICIPAL & through a restructuring program in the recent past in order to reduce complexity, costs and INDUSTRIAL GROWTH focus on core business. After the restructuring, TARGET: ANNUAL the segment has kept fixed costs under tight REVENUE GROWTH control and been selective with investments. The business has regained its capability for sustained BETWEEN 2–4%. growth, delivering increased sales volumes in all regions. The growth is enabled by Kemira’s strong expertise and investments into innovation, and tightening regulation. The segment’s competitors in the mature markets consist mainly of smaller local companies. The coagulants market is particularly fragmented and local in nature. Kemira's competitive advantage stems from cost-efficiency in our own operations, application knowledge and flexible manufacturing capability. 30 2015 IN BRIEF MARKET OUTLOOK →→ M&I strengthens its market position Municipal & Industrial segment’s strategic establishing new key customer relationships intent is to grow approximately at the rate around the world, with eg.: Singapore Public of the mature markets, that is, some 2–4% Utilities, Ghana Water, City of Philadelphia, annually, and to further improve profitabilCity of Berlin and City of Rome. ity and maximize cash flow. To reach →→ Kemira celebrates the grand opening of a greater growth figures, stronger regulation large-scale water treatment chemicals plant and enforcement of water treatment – in Tarragona, Spain. especially in emerging markets – is →→ A position paper on circular economy is required. published as a response to a regulatory process initiated by the EU Commission. →→ Kemira provides solutions for sludge deep dewatering for Shanghai Haibin sewage treatment plant, increasing solid content of sludge from 20% to 40–45% →→ Major customer delivery agreements in North America. →→ Growth and profitability improvement in APAC. →→ Improved return on capital employed. Polymers Other 20% 15% Coagulans 65% 31 2015 GRI Report 2015 GRI REPORT TABLE OF 1 FOCUS AREAS OF KEMIRA’S CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTENTS 1.1 Our focus areas 2 1.2 Our guiding principles for corporate 3 responsibility 2 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH 6 2.1 Corporate responsibility at Kemira 6 2.2 Responsible business practices 10 2.3 Sustainable products and solutions 12 2.4 Responsibility towards our employees 16 2.5 Responsible supply chain 19 2.6 Responsible manufacturing 22 2.7 Responsibility towards the local communities 27 3 PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURES 29 3.1 Economic performance indicators 29 3.2 Environmental performance indicators 31 3.3 Social performance indicators 41 3.3.1 Labor practices and decent work 41 3.3.2 Human Rights 48 3.3.3 Society 49 3.3.4 Product responsibility 52 4 REPORTING PRINCIPLES 54 4.1 Reporting framework 54 4.2 Reporting scope 54 4.3 Report profile 57 5 GOVERNANCE 58 6 ASSURANCE REPORT 62 7 GRI CONTENT INDEX 64 2015 1 GRI REPORT 1. FOCUS AREAS OF KEMIRA’S CORPORATE Focus Areas RESPONSIBILITY 1.1 OUR FOCUS AREAS For Kemira, corporate responsibility means integrating trust of our stakeholders and taking responsibility for our environmental and social considerations into all of our impacts along our value chain. business operations. Our business success is not only The priorities for our responsibility work have been based on economic achievements, but also on gaining the defined as our corporate responsibility focus areas. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY FOCUS AREAS Responsible business practises Sustainable products Responsibility towards Responsible Responsible Responsibility towards and solutions employees supply chain manufacturing the communities where we operate The responsibility work managed through focus areas is contributing to Kemira’s strategy executions through long-term sustainable value creating, improved efficiency and ensuring compliance and risk management. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTRIBUTING TO KEMIRA’S STRATEGY KEMIRA’S CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTION TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY KEMIRA’S STRATEGY TARGETS 2017 KEMIRA´S STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS VISION The first choice in chemistry Revenue 2.7 Creating value for water intensive for Kemira and Sustainable products industries EUR and solutions stakeholders billion PURPOSE We enable our customers to Responsible improve their water, energy supply chain and raw material efficiency Improving operational Responsible STRATEGIC FOCUS efficiency manufacturing • We focus on chemistries for pulp & paper, oil & gas, Operative EBITDA Responsibility towards mining and water treatment employees 15% • We target above-themarket growth • We leverage innovation Responsible business driven growth in mature practises markets and expand in Ensuring compliance selected emerging markets and managing risk • We invest in innovation, Responsibility towards the expertise and competencies communities where we operate 2 2015 GRI REPORT 1.2 OUR GUIDING PRINCIPLES FOR • Our external business environment is highly regulated by legislation and industry norms covering business CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Focus Areas conduct, product life-cycle management, and the health, safety and environmental aspects of manufacOur approach to corporate responsibility is guided by our turing. value creation model, our stakeholders’ expectations, and • Our inputs (raw materials) and outputs (products) are our commitments to internationally defined principles. mainly chemicals, including some classified as harmful or hazardous substances. Our manufacturing technoloCommitments, gies rely on chemical reactions transforming our input Stakeholders’ guidelines and materials into products which often require large Value creation model expectations principles amounts of energy. → Vision → Customers → Kemira Code of → Strategy → Investors and Conduct • Our main raw materials tend to have a limited number → Business model lenders → UN Global of large global suppliers. For secondary raw materials → Employees Compact (recycled or industrial byproducts) we rely for local → Responsible Care suppliers or even operate in industrial symbiosis with those suppliers. • We operate a global manufacturing network with 64 OUR VALUE CREATION MODEL DELINEATES OUR MATERIAL plants and business units in 40 countries. Our units are IMPACTS generally small or mid-size, and mainly located in Our vision, strategy and business model narrows down the industrial areas such as chemical parks. Consequently, scope of the impacts our business activities may have on our plants seldom have a dominant position in their the environment, people and society. local communities, for example in terms of employment • Kemira is a global company operating in a business-toor environmental impacts. business environment. We supply chemicals for • Our manufacturing operations are not labor intensive, industrial use in the pulp and paper, oil and gas, mining, but they do require well-trained employees. Our R&D and water treatment sectors. and sales operations require highly qualified profes• Global resource scarcity is an important business driver sionals. for us. Kemira is not directly involved in the utilization of natural resources such as oil, gas, minerals or fibers, The material impacts of our business activities mainly but our customers actively process, extract and refine relate to environmental impact through resource efficiency these resources. in our own operations and throughout our value chain while the most important social impacts relate to safety, employee engagement and ethical business conduct. THE MOST MATERIAL IMPACTS OF KEMIRA BUSINESS ACTIVITIES INDIRECT IMPACT DIRECT IMPACT INDIRECT IMPACT Production of Upstream Kemira’s own Downstream Use of Kemira input materials transportation operations transportation products and energy Economic Economic performance impact Environmental • Emissions • Emissions • Materials and Energy • Emissions • Emissions impact • Supplier • Supplier • Emissions • Supplier • Products and performance performance • Effluents and waste performance services for their for their for their environmental environmental environmental impacts impacts impacts Social • Supplier • Supplier • Labor practices and decent work • Supplier • Product impact performance performance (Employment and Labor Relations, performance responsibility for their labor for their labor Occupational health and safety, for their labor (Customer health practices, human practices, human Training and education, Diversity practices, human and safety; rights and rights and and equal opportunity, Equal rights and Product and ethical business ethical business remuneration for women and men) ethical business service labelling; behaviour behaviour • Human Rights (Non-discrimination, behaviour Marketing Freedom of association and communication; collective bargaining, Human rights Product assessment) compliance) • Societal (Anticorruption, Anticompetitive behavior, Public policy, Local communities) 2015 3 GRI REPORT OUR STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS We regularly review our stakeholders’ expectations and concerns to help us update our sustainability priorities. Our Focus Areas Our key stakeholders are shareholders and lenders, most recent review of our stakeholders’ expectations was customers, employees and suppliers. Other important conducted in spring 2015. Our stakeholders continue to stakeholder groups include the local communities where highlight the importance of topics such as sustainable Kemira operates, regulatory bodies, trade associations, products, safety, employee development, business ethics decision makers and opinion leaders. and compliance, responsibility along the supply chain, and Our key stakeholder groups are persons or organizareductions in environmental impacts both in our own tions whose assessments and decisions relating to Kemira operations and in the value chain. These stakeholder topics are directly affected by our economic, environmental and are addressed through our corporate responsibility focus social performance. areas. • Many of our customers are sustainability leaders in Our approach to stakeholder engagement is based on their respective industrial sectors. Kemira forms part of our active stakeholder relationship management. It their value chains, and we are expected to demonstrate includes activities ranging from information sharing to the same high commitment to sustainable business as active dialogue and collaboration on issues of mutual our customers. interest. More detailed information is provided in the • A significant number of our investors practise Socially following table. Responsible Investing (SRI). Kemira shares are listed on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki, and Finnish investors are our largest shareholders. • Sustainable business conduct is an important employee engagement driver, according to our employee surveys. 4 2015 GRI REPORT MANAGEMENT APPROACH OF STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Basis for identification and Kemira’s approach to Key topics and concerns Focus Areas Kemira stakeholders selection of stakeholders stakeholder engagement raised through stakeholder (G4-24) (G4-25) (G4-26) engagement (G4-27) Kemira’s response (G4-27) Shareholders and • Share of value creation • Regular events like • Alignment of corporate • Kemira’s approach to lenders to investors through Capital Markets Day, responsibility with corporate responsibility dividends and interests roadshows, conference Kemira’s strategy and management payments calls and one-to-one business activities • Transparent reporting and • Expectations for return meetings. Approximately • Potential business risks disclosure (e.g. CDP) on investment, and 200 events of this kind and opportunities related for environmental & were organized in 2015. to corporate responsibility social performance and topics and transparency governance Customers • Our customers are • Direct customer • Product safety • Product stewardship Kemira’s main source of contacts by Kemira sales • Transportation safety • Transportation safety value creation organization • Reduction of programs • Our customers’ • Exhibitions and trade environmental impacts in • Sustainability checks expectations and needs shows customers’ manufacturing in New Product drive Kemira’s product • Product testing and plant and products Development portfolio and service trials models • Customers’ requests regarding Kemira's sustainability performance Employees • A significant share • Employee surveys: Key topics and concerns • Performance and of our value creation Voices@Kemira biennially, based on the Voices 2015 Development discussions is channeled to our and Pulse twice a year survey: • Leadership development, employees through • Performance • Performance skills development and salaries and payments management process management and rewards training programs • Employee well-being and • Kemira European Forum • Visible role modelling of • Documented action-plans capabilities influence our • Town hall meetings Kemira values produced in response to operational performance • Compliance & Ethics the findings of employee and value creation Hotline surveys Suppliers • A significant share • Working closely with core • Our customers expect • Kemira Code of Conduct of our value creation suppliers to help them responsibility throughout for Suppliers, Distributors is channeled to our meet our performance the supply chain. and Agents suppliers through expectations, and take • Business ethics and • Supplier sustainability payments for goods and corrective actions if compliance assessments services needed • Suppliers’ responsibility • Supplier performance and performance management influence Kemira’s value creation capability and reduce our business risks Local communities • A significant share of • Collaboration with local • Safety and environmental • Transparency, regular and our value creation is communities at major risks open dialogue with local channeled to society sites to understand and • Employment communities through tax payments and address their concerns opportunities • Site specific activities, employment • Collaboration with e.g. open door days • The safety and schools and universities • Regular industrial risk environmental assessments performance of our operations may impact local communities’ acceptance Regulatory bodies, • These stakeholders • Participation in the • Resource efficiency • Circular economy position trade associations, have the capability activities of industrial • Safety of shale oil and gas paper decision makers and to influence or make trade associations and enhanced oil recovery • Active participation in opinion leaders political decisions on • Subject-specific dialogue • Chemicals safety CEFIC working groups* environmental issues with regulatory bodies on • Membership of Cleantech including climate national and EU level Finland and Climate change, and on chemical • Managed relationships Leadership Council legislation with selected non-profit organizations * Kemira is a member of the Chemical Industry Federation of Finland (CIFF) and the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC). Kemira’s CEO is a board member in CIFF and in CEFIC. 2015 5 GRI REPORT OUR COMMITMENTS, GUIDELINES AND PRINCIPLES 2 OUR MANAGEMENT Focus Areas The Kemira Code of Conduct and our commitments to the APPROACH UN Global Compact and the Responsible Care program set the standards for the behavior expected throughout the company, and are integral elements of our management approach to corporate responsibility. The Kemira Code of Conduct, which reflects the 2.1 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY principles of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, defines expectations related to responsible AT KEMIRA business covering all of our operations. Our Code of Conduct also reflects the principles of The United Nations Our corporate responsibility management approach Global Compact. We expect our suppliers and other aims to effectively identify, understand and manage business partners to maintain the same high standards of the most significant impacts of our business activioperations, as defined in our Code of Conduct for Suppliers, ties on the environment, people and society. Agents and Distributors. The United Nations Global Compact was signed by For us, corporate responsibility means both being responKemira in 2014 to emphasize our commitment to respect sible throughout our own operations, and contributing to and promote human rights, implement decent work sustainable development all along our value chain. Our practices, reduce our environmental impact and combat management approach to corporate responsibility is corruption. described in more detail for each focus area. Responsible Care is a voluntary initiative launched by the global chemical industry to continuously improve the Key topics for our management environmental, health, safety and security performance of Management approach approach the industry’s products and processes. The Responsible Responsible business Compliance to Kemira Code of Conduct practices Care Global Charter seeks to harmonize, govern and Sustainable products Product stewardship and innovation expand the Responsible Care ethic globally, with a special and solutions focus on product stewardship throughout the supply chain. Responsibility for Employee engagement Kemira Oyj has signed both the Responsible Care initiative employees Leadership development and the Responsible Care Global Charter. Workplace safety Responsible supply chain Sustainability in sourcing and supply chain management Responsible Environmental impacts of our manufacturing operations through energy and water usage and emissions Responsibility towards Safety of our operations the local communities Engagement of our employees for the benefit of Local communities CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TARGET SETTING AND PERFORMANCE Our corporate responsibility focus areas reflect Kemira’s sustainability priorities, which are managed through target setting, and by following the principles of continuous improvement. The related targets and their respective KPIs are reviewed annually, with performance follow-up made on a quarterly basis and reported externally. Our Management Board approves our corporate responsibility targets and KPIs. The Board of Directors is duly informed about these targets and our related performance, and its members also approve this Corporate responsibility section of Kemira’s Annual Report. 6 2015 GRI REPORT OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE IN 2015 Management Approach Focus area KPIs and KPI target values Achievement 2015 Sustainable products and solutions Innovation sales Share of innovation revenue in total revenue 10% → 10% by the end of 2016 10 8% 8% Target on progress 8 7% 6 TARGET 5% 4 2 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Responsibility towards employees Leadership development People managers to participate in global 100 95% leadership programs at least once during Target not achieved the period 2013–2015, cumulative % 80 71% → > 95% by the end of 2015 60 TARGET 46% 39% 40 20 0 2013 2014 2015 2015 Employee engagement Employee Engagement Index 100 87% 84% 85% → Index at or above the industry norm by the 80 69% 70% 75% 67% Target achieved end of 2015 58% 60 40 20 Participation rate in Voices@Kemira 0 → 75–85% by the end of 2015 2009 2011 2013 2015 ■ Engagement Employee Engagement Index: ■ Participation External industry norm 68% in 2015 Occupational health and safety Number of total recordable injuries (TRI) per million hours worked (Kemira + contractors, 10 8.5 Target not achieved 1 year rolling average) 8 7.1 7.2 → Zero injuries 5.8 6 4 2 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 Responsible supply chain Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Share of supplier contracts with signed Distributors and Agents CoC-SDA as attachments 100 93% 93% 90% → 90% by the end of 2015 80 Target achieved 60 TARGET 40 36% 20 0 2013 2014 2015 2015 Responsible manufacturing Climate change Kemira Carbon Index performance → Index ≤ 80 by end of 2020 (baseline year 120 110 105 102 100 Target on progress 2012 = 100) 100 88 91 91 80 80 60 TARGET 40 20 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 Responsibility towards the communities where we operate Participation in local community Kemira sites with over 50 employees to 100% 100% involvement activities participate in local community involvement 100 92% initiatives at least once during the period 80 Target achieved 2013–2015, cumulative % TARGET 60 48% → 100% by the end of 2015 40 20 0 2013 2014 2015 2015 2015 7 GRI REPORT UPDATED CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TARGETS Management Approach We updated our corporate responsibility targets for 2016 onwards based on our materiality analysis and review on stakeholder expectations. Focus area Issue KPI’s and KPI target values Sustainable products & Innovation sales Share of innovation revenue of total revenue, % solutions → 10% in 2016 Responsibility towards Occupational health and safety Number of Total Recordable Injuries (TRI) (per million hours, Kemira + the employees contractor, 1 year rolling average) → Achieve zero injuries Employee engagement Employee engagement index based on Voices@Kemira biennial survey → The index at or above the external industry standard Participation rate in Voices@Kemira → 75% or above Leadership development Leadership development activities provided, average → Two (2) leadership development activities per people manager position during 2016–2020 Responsible supply Direct supplier management Number of onsite audits for suppliers (with lowest sustainability assessment chain score). → 5 suppliers audited every year during 2016–2020, average Responsible Climate change Carbon index manufacturing → Kemira Carbon Index ≤ 80 by the end of 2020 (2012 = 100) RESPONSIBILITIES AND RESOURCES Our corporate responsibility targets are annually reviewed and approved by the Kemira Management Board. Kemira’s Director, Corporate Responsibility, leads the The approved targets are presented to the Board of overall development and management of corporate Directors, who also approve our annual corporate responsiresponsibility activities. bility report. Performance follow-ups in relation to our targets are conducted quarterly, and the results are The Corporate Responsibility function is responsible for: reported to the Management Board and to Kemira’s • managing the company-wide process to identify stakeholders through our interim reporting. corporate responsibility priorities and targets • coaching and supporting the organization • coordinating, monitoring and reporting on activities MONITORING THE EFFECTIVINESS OF OUR related to corporate responsibility MANAGEMENT APPROACH • establishing the processes, tools and metrics to ensure our compliance with relevant external norms and Our approach to reducing Kemira’s impacts on the environstandards, guidelines and expectations ment and society is to a large extent based on the system• engaging in stakeholder dialogue related to corporate atic implementation of our management systems. Our responsibility Environment, Health, Safety and Quality (EHSQ) policy • managing public affairs issues requires all Kemira companies and operations to implement and maintain certified Environmental, Health, Safety Kemira’s segments and functions are responsible for the and Quality management systems. implementation of our corporate responsibility targets. Across our operations in Europe we have implemented This work is supported and coordinated by the Corporate a European Integrated Management System, which brings Responsibility Management Team, which is chaired by our our operational sites, and our existing Enterprise Resource Director, Corporate Responsibility. Planning (ERP) processes, work procedures and responsiMembers of the Corporate Responsibility Management bilities under one integrated management system. Similar Team represent the organizational units that are responsiwork on a multisite management system is under way in ble for the implementation and business integration of our North America. We regularly conduct extensive internal and corporate responsibility targets. The team members are external auditing and/or assurance in order to monitor the responsible for the management and performance followeffectiviness of our management approach. up of target implementation in their respective organizational units. They also make proposals concerning target updates and KPIs to Kemira’s Management Board, as well as for performance reporting purposes. The team has regular monthly meetings with a scheduled annual agenda. 8 2015 GRI REPORT MONITORING THE EFFECTIVINESS OF OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH Monitoring the impacts of business activities Management Approach Economic impacts Environmental impacts Social impacts Internal auditing by Kemira functions Internal Audit • Evaluation of internal controls • Evaluation of internal controls • Reliability of financial reporting • Compliance with applicable laws • Effectiveness and efficiency of and regulations operations Supply Chain Management • Supplier assessment program • Supplier assessment program Environment, Health, Safety and • Management system audits • Management system audits Quality (EHSQ) • Site specific EHS audits • Site specific EHS audits Product Stewardship and • Product regulatory compliance Regulatory Affairs at manufacturing sites and all relevant functions (jointly with internal audit) External auditing by independent service providers External certification partner for • Assessing and auditing • Assessing and auditing EHSQ management system • ISO 14001 environmental • OHSAS 18001 occupational management systems health and safety management systems • ISO 9001 quality management systems External auditor for legal • Legal compliance audits • Legal compliance audits compliance auditing External service provider for • Assessing and auditing financial financial auditing statements External service provider • Assurance of our environmental • Assurance of our social for assuring our corporate responsibility management responsibility management responsibility report according processes and performance processes and performance to GRI G4 EXTERNAL SUSTAINABILITY RATINGS AND ROBECOSAM SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENT RECOGNITIONS Kemira participated in the voluntary RobecoSAM corporate sustainability assessment for the third time in 2015. CDP However, our performance did not qualify us to be included Kemira was recognized in the Nordic in the RobecoSAM Sustainability Yearbook. Our score Climate Disclosure Leadership Index improved to 71 on a scale of 0–100 (from 70 in 2014, and 63 (CDLI) for the third consecutive year. in 2013). Kemira’s sustainability performance is rated Kemira achieved a disclosure score of 99 out of 100, and a clearly above the chemical industry average of 58 (55 in performance band B (on a scale A-E). 2014 and 52 in 2013). Disclosure scores measured on a scale of 0–100 The feedback gained through this process has helped measure the levels of transparency companies demonus to identify both our strengths and areas where we can strate through their responses. The scheme’s performance make further improvement. For example, the 2015 results bands measure how effectively companies address climate indicate that we have improved our performance on risks. To secure a position on CDP’s Nordic Climate DiscloProduct stewardship, while Customer relationship managesure Leadership Index (CDLI) companies must achieve a ment and Human capital development are areas where disclosure score in the top 10% of the Nordic 260 sample further work is required to bring our performance up to the of stocklisted companies. high standards we have achieved for other management practices. ECOVADIS Kemira was rewarded with a Gold recognition level for the company's corporate responsibility performance by EcoVadis, a collaborative platform providing sustainability ratings and performance improvement tools for global supply chains. With a score of 72/100 points, Kemira is in the top 2% of suppliers assessed by Ecovadis – both in all categories and within the chemical sector. In 2014, Kemira achieved Silver level with 58/100 points. 2015 9 GRI REPORT 2.2 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS The Kemira’s Code of Conduct, which is aligned with our values, sets the minimum standards of expected behaviour PRACTICES Management Approach for our employees and business partners. Our internal policies and procedures provide more detailed guidance to As a global company we are committed to conduct steer our daily work and decision making. The related our business in a socially responsible manner policies are regularly reviewed and updated as necessary. throughout our value chain. We fully comply with all Every Kemira employee receives regular training on our applicable laws, regulations, our own policies and Code of Conduct, which is available in 21 languages and ethical standards in all of the societies in which we distributed to all our employees. operate. Our approach involves having clear rules Kemira’s suppliers are meanwhile obliged to follow our and guidance in place, which are easily accessible to Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Distributors and Agents all our employees and business partners. (CoC-SDA) in their business activities with us. This code sets requirements relating to issues including responsible business conduct, respect for human rights and environETHICS AND COMPLIANCE AT KEMIRA mental responsibility. Adherence to these principles is confirmed in writing. Both of these code of conduct The management scope of ethics and compliance at documents can be found at www.kemira.com. Kemira is based on the topics included in the Kemira Code of Conduct. Our management approach is based on activities designed to promote the principles of ethical business behavior. Topics included in the Kemira Code of Conduct COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS • Compliance with the prevailing laws in every country where we do business is an essential principle for us. • We strive to protect the environment, health and safety and to promote quality in all of our businesses. ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND • We aim to promote sustainable development including economic, environmental and social aspects. SAFETY • We follow all applicable laws and regulations on chemical product safety, including those specifying how chemical hazards and information on the safe use of chemicals should be communicated. PEOPLE • We respect and support fundamental human rights, including the principle of equal opportunity and treatment, with no discrimination in relation to age, race, birth, gender, creed, political persuasion, social status or origin. • We do not employ forced or child labour. • We prohibit any kind of harassment at the workplace. • We respect the right of all personnel to establish or join trade unions and other representative organizations. BUSINESS PARTNERS AND • We only deal with reliable business partners who show consideration for the environment and people. We INVESTORS expect all of our business partners and subcontractors to comply with our Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Distributors and Agents. • We strongly support fair competition within the framework of applicable competition laws. • All Kemira employees are expected to comply with all applicable international trade controls and laws designed to combat terrorism, bribery and money laundering. • All Kemira employees must recognize and avoid conflicts of interest, and always disclose any potential or actual conflicts of interest. USE OF COMPANY RESOURCES • All Kemira employees must comply with all applicable laws, rules and Kemira policies relating to inside AND INFORMATION information and insider trading. • All Kemira employees must properly protect Kemira’s assets. • We safeguard the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our proprietary information. 10 2015 GRI REPORT KEMIRA COMPLIANCE PROGRAM KEMIRA GROUP POLICIES Management Approach The Kemira Compliance Program was launched in 2014 to further develop compliance management at Kemira on a LEGAL continuous basis. Key achievements during 2015 include • Business Agreement Policy (2013) the launch of new compliance training modules that • Competition Law Compliance Policy include online training on human rights, competition law (updated 2014) compliance, insider information and bribery. The program is • Gifts, Entertainment and Anti-bribery Policy managed by our Ethics and Compliance function, which (2012) forms part of our Legal function. The program aims to • Policy for Issuing and Maintaining Policies coordinate and enhance our compliance activities and (2012) promote the principles of ethical business behavior. • Group Related Party Policy (2012) • Kemira Subsidiary Governance Policy (2014) • Kemira Oyj Procuration Policy (2013) ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE HOTLINE FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION Kemira’s Ethics and Compliance Hotline was launched in • Capital Investment Policy (2013) 2013 as a 24/7 service that enables employees to report • Cash Management Policy (2012) any non-conformities with our Code of Conduct and other • Credit Management Policy (updated 2014) Kemira policies. Users can report anonymously by either • Acquisition and Divestment Policy (2014) calling the hotline or filling in a web form. Awareness of the • Approval Policy (2013) hotline has been promoted through employee communica• Inventory Policy (2012) tions. The hotline is maintained by an external service • Risk Management Policy (updated 2014) provider to facilitate anonymity. Kemira employees can • Tax Policy (updated 2014) additionally report suspected non-conformities to their • Treasury Policy (updated 2014) own line management or to Kemira's Ethics and Compli• Transfer Pricing Policy (updated 2014) ance or Internal Audit functions. • Global Travel Policy (updated 2015) The email address responsibility(at)kemira.com can also be used by non-employees to report cases of potential ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, SAFETY AND QUALITY misconduct relating to Kemira or our business partners. • EHSQ Policy (2013) This information is available on our website and in the Kemira Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Distributors and R&D AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Agents. • Employee Invention Policy (updated 2014) • Intellectual Property Rights Policy (2014) HUMAN RESOURCES • Compensation Approval Policy (2013) • Recruitment Policy (2013) IT • Information Management Policy (2013) • IT Security Policies (2012) COMMUNICATIONS FOR MORE INFORMATION, SEE THE RESPECTIVE MATERIAL ASPECTS AND GRI-G4 INDICATORS • Communications Policy (2013) Anti-corruption (SO3, SO4, SO5) • Sponsorship and Donation Policy (2013) Public policy (SO6) Anti-competitive behaviour (SO7) Compliance (SO8) (EN29 by EHSQ , PR9 by PSRA) SOURCING & SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Grievance mechanism (EN34, LA16, HR12, SO11) • Logistics and Transportation Policy (2014) Non-discrimination (HR3) Human rights assessments (HR9) • Sourcing & Procurement Policy (updated 2014) 2015 11 GRI REPORT CASE 2.3 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS Management Approach Resource efficiency is at the heart of Kemira’s innovation strategy and customer focus. Our innovation work has particularly enabled us to acquire extensive knowhow on the usage of secondary raw materials and bio-based materials. We innovate together with our customers to improve efficiency in the use of water, energy and raw materials. ISSUE KPI target value Innovation sales Share of innovation revenue of total revenue → 10% by the end of 2016 BUILDING AWARENESS OF HUMAN RIGHTS Kemira conducted a Human Rights Impact AssessGROWTH FROM INNOVATION ment (HRIA) in 2014, in line with the requirements of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and We supply chemicals to the pulp and paper, oil&gas and Human Rights, so as to identify human rights risk mining industries, as well as chemicals used in various areas in our value chain and potential gaps in our industries to treat water, wastewater and sludge. current management approach. To enable us to address identified risk areas linked to our business The use of our products and solutions benefits our customrelationships, our product stewardship, and our ers by: expansion in emerging markets, we need to ensure • Optimizing product quality and yield that our employees have sufficient knowledge of • Enhancing process and energy efficiency human rights and understand how to address any • Ensuring that water quality meets end-use specificapossible violations of human rights. tions and regulatory requirements In early 2015, we surveyed 1,000 of our employees to get a better understanding of the current Our main product lines include polymers, bleaching and level of awareness of human rights across Kemira. pulping chemicals, coagulants, sizing and strength The survey asked employees how well Kemira chemicals, and process chemicals such as defoamers, addresses and shares information on human rights dispersants and biocides. Most of our chemicals are used issues, while also asking them whether they have as process chemicals to enable the conversion, recovery or come across any situations that might relate to extraction of materials, or to facilitate other manufacturing possible human rights violations. The survey results processes. Chemicals that form part of end-products are indicated that we do need to raise awareness about used to enhance specific product features or to enable human rights issues. About 35% of the respondents lower quality secondary materials or less virgin raw said that their level of knowledge about human materials to be used without compromising product rights is not adequate, although 85% felt that quality. Kemira does address human rights issues well, and Kemira currently employs 250 R&D experts, and 65% said that the company shares enough informainnovation sales accounted for 8% of Kemira’s total tion on human rights. revenue in 2015 (8% in 2014). Our objective is for this In response to the findings of the HRIA and indicator to reach 10% by the end of 2016. Innovation sales employee survey we created and launched an online include sales of new products or products sold for new training course to provide our employees with applications launched within the past five years. information on what human rights are, how they should be taken into account in our daily work, and how we should act if we have any concerns about RESOURCE EFFICIENCY AS AN INNOVATION possible violations. DRIVER This training is obligatory for all employees who could face human rights issues in their work. The Innovation drivers for new products include improved completion rate is being tracked by Kemira’s product performance, a reduced environmental footprint in management, and by the end of 2015, it had been the value chain, and safety demands throughout the completed by approximately 80% of the employees product life cycle. Our innovation work also focuses on the concerned. identification and testing of alternative, more sustainable Human rights topics were also highlighted in raw materials, particularly including secondary or bioseveral news items published internally for our based materials. Our open innovation approach has employees during the year. especially been applied to find ways to increase the use of biodegradable products. 12 2015 GRI REPORT CASE Management Approach KEMIRA FENNOCIDE TR44 – HIGHER closure of paper mills’ water circuits tends to worsen EFFICACY AGAINST BIOFILMS problems with biofilm growth. Biocides are frequently added to paper process to In early 2015, Kemira brought to market a new biocide, control microbes in process water and on the surfaces FennoCide TR44 that introduces a highly effective and of paper machines. Our FennoCide TR44 product safe control against microbes adhering to surfaces in contains a specially developed polymer to make the paper machines. FennoCide TR44 destroys biofilms at active substance with biocidic effect more tolerant to lower total amount of active substance than by process water conditions. This means that a higher standard biocide products on market. The use of proportion of added biocidal substances will reach the FennoCide TR44 offers improved safety of chemical machine surfaces and be able to combat microbial film handling in the paper mills and reduces corrosion risk effectively where it tends to grow. As a result, the of paper machines. biofilm growth is more effectively terminated. The uncontrolled growth of bacteria in the wet-end The use of Fennocide TR44 provides either improved of a paper machine can cause significant build-up of performance at a same cost or same performance at a biofilm on machine surfaces. This biofilm growth is lower cost. problematic for the papermaking process, since it can Since the introduction FennoCide TR44 has been result in operational failures, production losses or applied already in 11 paper machines. unacceptable paper quality defects. The increased SUSTAINABILITY REVIEWS IN NEW PRODUCT on Kemira’s operations and on our customers’ operations. DEVELOPMENT The NPD process also aims to identify more sustainable alternatives for raw materials in terms of safety and Sustainability reviews are conducted at every stage of the source. New Product Development (NPD) process. The NPD process The NPD process includes activities across functions starts with an idea generation and collection phase, and and geographical regions. Each NPD project is supported continues with five development stages and decision by cross-functional teams to ensure that sustainability and gates. Successful projects must demonstrate both business related factors are considered at every stage of improved sustainability and business benefits at each the NPD process. R&D has ownership of the project decision gate to justify the project’s continuation and execution whereas the business segments own their ultimately the product launch. individual projects. In 2015, we updated our NPD process Our sustainability evaluations examine the economic, governance model to improve the throughput time of the environmental and social impacts of any new product both innovation projects. 2015 13 GRI REPORT CASE KEY INNOVATION MANAGEMENT ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2015 Management Approach • Our project portfolio has been reviewed to better reflect the drivers for resource efficiency, safety, alternative raw material base and business growth potential. • Our NPD process has been improved by adding further sustainability criteria and introducing quantitative evaluations in addition to qualitative assessments. • NPD projects are now implemented with stronger cross-functional engagement and shorter time-tomarket. • The governance model of the NPD process was updated to enhance the throughput of innovation projects. PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP AT KEMIRA Kemira Oyj is a signatory to Responsible Care, a voluntary KEMIRA KEMCONNECT MAKES PROCESS initiative of the global chemical industry that aims to MANAGEMENT SMARTER continuously improve the environmental, health, safety and security performance of chemical products and processes. Water intensive industries are facing growing Product stewardship is one of the cornerstones of the pressures for cost-efficiency. At the same time, they Responsible Care initiative. need to meet strict environmental standards and Through our Product Stewardship work we strive to monitor their emissions much more rigorously than ensure that our products can be safely used by our stakebefore. holders, and that chemical risks and their impacts are duly Digitalization facilitates new and innovative incorporated into our decision making and operations solutions, such as the Kemira KemConnect that throughout product life cycle management. combines Kemira’s industry and diagnostics Product stewardship goes beyond regulatory compliexpertise with Internet of Things technologies. ance, which itself sets tight controls on the manufacture KemConnect is a full service package connecting and sale of chemicals. Product Stewardship involves the smart devices with applications and proactive responsible and proactive management of the health, customer service. It stores, analyzes and manages safety and environmental aspects of a product throughout process data in real-time within a highly secure its life cycle. It covers activities related to the initial infrastructure. introduction of a product, its evaluation and modification KemConnect covers multiple applications, during the product lifetime, and eventually the product’s including odor and corrosion control, fixation, pitch withdrawal from our product portfolio. control, wastewater and raw water treatment, One of the key principles of product stewardship for sludge handling, corrosion control, microbe control, chemicals relates to efficient risk assessment. It is vital to as well as retention and drainage. It also offers identify the intrinsic properties of a substance, the use solutions for the oil and mining industry through conditions and the potential exposure to that chemical. direct residual analysis of scale inhibitors in oilfield This analysis helps us to focus our product and process waters. development efforts in areas where our positive impacts on KemConnect is easy to use thanks to its robust safety and sustainability along the value chain will be monitoring interface with 24/7 data flow. Costgreatest. efficiency is improved through more accurate Kemira’s customers have their own sustainability dosing and smarter chemical management. More targets and follow several voluntary certification schemes, efficient process management allows better including ecolabelling schemes, which set further expectaprocess runnability and improved end-product tions on our product offerings. Public discussion and quality. KemConnect helps in identifying improveconcerns relating to specific chemicals and their hazards ment opportunities that may have gone unnoticed also affect our approach to product stewardship and before, and assists in troubleshooting and smarter chemical management. Kemira follows all such developdecision-making. ments closely, and we take an active approach to fulfilling With the help of KemConnect, paper mills have the expectations of different stakeholders. been able to lower their wastewater treatment costs, increase biodegradability of untreated PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP COMMUNITY ESTABLISHED wastewater, significantly decrease discharge values We launched Product Stewardship Community in 2015, (measured from wastewater), make sludge handling aiming to increase our organizational awareness of any more cost-efficient, and to improve paper machine regulatory and stakeholder requirements which may runnability. impact our product portfolio, so that we can develop our capabilites to react promptly in response to any new 14 2015 GRI REPORT requirements. The Community is also responsible for developing and executing management plans for substances Management Approach associated with particular concerns and/or future regulatory restrictions that are relevant to our current portfolio. Management plans are prepared for all substances on the Kemira Priority Substance List which is drawn up by the Community and approved by our Operational Excellence BIOBASED ECONOMY CIRCULAR ECONOMY Management Board. PRODUCT REGULATORY COMPLIANCE The manufacturing and sale of chemicals is widely reguRESOURCE EFFICIENCY lated around the world. Chemicals are regulated at multiple levels, including: 1) Regional and country specific inventories and substance registrations e.g. the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) in the USA, the China Existing Chemical KEMIRA´S APPROACH TO CIRCULAR Inventory (IECSC), and the EU’s REACH Regulation ECONOMY (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals). The European Commission presented its Circular 2) Regulations related to hazard communication: includEconomy Strategy in late 2015 with the aim of ing chemical classification, labeling and safety data transforming Europe into a more competitive sheet requirements. resource-efficient economy. As part of the related 3) End use or application specific regulations such as process the Commission conducted a public food contact regulations, biocide regulations and consultation to survey stakeholders’ views on off-shore chemicals notification schemes. barriers and enablers for the circular economy. 4) Operational and site specific requirements related to Kemira participated in this consultation, and we rules and procedures such as environmental permits have now also defined our position on the circular for operations and workplace health and safety economy concept. regulations. Our position paper demonstrates Kemira’s current contribution to the circular economy, as Key activities relating to regulatory compliance in 2015: evidenced in our customer offerings focusing on • We have continued to prepare for the remaining REACH driving resource efficiency, our own operations, and registrations in the European Union, in order to meet our sourcing. Some 25% of the raw materials we our obligations before the end of the third and final procure for our operations originate from recycled transitional registration deadline in 2018. sources or are industrial by-products obtained from • The Korean REACH regulation entered into force in external partners. The position paper provides 2015, and we have initiated preparations for the examples of the need for policies to drive resource relevant registrations in Korea. efficiency in three specific customer solutions: • We have continued to prepare registrations required water recycling and reuse, fiber recovery and reuse, under the EU Biocidal Products Regulation. and phosphorus recovery and reuse. Kemira has • Actions in relation to the United Nations’ Globally also identified other challenges related to the Harmonized System (GHS) for classification and realization of the circular economy in Europe, both labeling of chemicals included: due implementation of in terms of removing obstacles for reusing and new classifications with new safety data sheets and recycling raw materials, and with regard to the use labels in the EU (by 1 June 2015 under Classification, of industrial by-products as raw materials. Labelling and Packaging Regulations for chemical Our Circular economy position paper is available mixtures), in the US (for single substances and mixat www.kemira.com. tures), and in Brazil (for chemical mixtures). • We have fully implemented our own global labelling system, which is integrated with Kemira’s Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system, and has been designed to harmonize labelling practices across our global operations. FOR MORE INFORMATION, SEE THE RESPECTIVE MATERIAL ASPECTS AND GRI-G4 INDICATORS Products and services (EN27, EN28) Customer health and safety (PR1, PR2) Product and service labelling (PR3, PR4) Marketing communication (PR6) Product compliance (PR9) 2015 15 GRI REPORT 2.4 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS TRI RATE Total recordable injuries per million hours worked, covering OUR EMPLOYEES Kemira’s employees and contractors Management Approach 9 8.5 Safety in the workplace and strong employee 8 7.1 7.2 engagement form the cornerstones of our people 7 management approach. Performance management, 6 5.8 competence development and leadership develop5 ment are key elements of our employee engagement 4 work, enabling us to successfully execute our 3 strategy. In addition to structured development 2 programs on-the-job leadership development 1 opportunities have been available to our employees 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 through job-rotation and acquisition integration project. Key performance indicators (KPIs) and By the end of 2015, we reported 7.2 injuries per million ISSUES related targets work hours. Occupational health Number of total recordable injuries (TRI) No fatalities have been associated with Kemira employand safety (per million hours worked, Kemira + contractors, 1 year rolling average) ees since 2005. → Zero injuries Severity from 2012 to 2015 has decreased. In 2015, one Leadership People managers participating in global case caused permanent injury to one employee. However, development leadership programs at least once during the number of small incidents and near misses has the period 2013–2015, cumulative % → > 95% by the end of 2015 increased partly due to more active reporting. Employee engagement Employee Engagement Index Our safety performance improved from 2012 until 2014 → Index at or above the industry norm by but in 2015 there was a decline in safety performance. We the end of 2015 have made a lot of efforts to improve our safety manageParticipation rate in Voices@Kemira ment system including new standards and compliance → 75–85% by the end of 2015 auditing. However, the speed and the effectiveness of implementation was slower than expected. Our measures to improve safety culture have been on activities which are aimed to prevent incidents and mitigate risks, e.g. to SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE encourage near miss reporting, to share lessons learnt from incident reporting and safety training. In 2016, the Kemira’s long-term vision for safety is “Zero harm to focus will expand to improving behaviour based safety and people”. We are committed to develop a strong safety safety will be an obligatory bonus KPI for all Kemira culture through committed management, by having skilled employees. and well-trained employees, and by ensuring that incidents and observations are consistently reported, with improvement actions taken to address the root causes of incidents. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Our Environmental, Health, Safety and Quality (EHSQ) Policy requires that all manufacturing sites are certified in To achieve high standards of organizational performance accordance with OHSAS 18001 management system we need both highly engaged employees and effective standards for Occupational Health and Safety (OHS). By the performance-enabling factors such as clear targets, end of 2015, 86% (75% in 2014) of Kemira’s manufacturing structures and processes. Kemira regularly conducts sites were covered by OHSAS 18001 certification. employee surveys to gather feedback and further develop We measure our safety performance with the help of our culture and ways of working. the TRI indicator (Total Recordable Injuries per million • The Voices@Kemira people survey is a comprehensive hours worked) which includes fatalities, lost time injuries, survey conducted biennially, most recently in spring restricted work cases and medical treatment cases 2015, to measure employee engagement factors and involving both Kemira employees and contractors working other performance-enablement factors. Engagement at our sites and facilities. Contractors’ injuries and working factors measure employees’ emotional connections to hours have been included in our TRI figures since 2014. their jobs, their colleagues, their managers and our whole organisation. Other performance enablement factors measure the extent of employees’ commitment to customer service, product quality and the continuous improvement practices we have in place to achieve exceptional organizational results. • The Pulse survey is a “quick” survey organized twice a year with a focus on engagement factors and aiming to gather feedback on current topics at Kemira. These surveys also help us to monitor our progress on action 16 2015 GRI REPORT plans resulting from the findings of Voices@Kemira sions (PDD) and Performance Evaluations, which are also people surveys. linked with our Talent Management process and our Annual Management Approach Salary Review Process. An online tool is used to document and follow-up on our Performance Management Process VOICES@KEMIRA PEOPLE SURVEY RESULTS IN globally. 2015 • PDD discussions are formal discussions between managers and individual employees. They focus on The Voices@Kemira results in 2015 met our target to have setting, following-up and evaluating performance an employee engagement index at or above the industry targets, while also identifying and agreeing upon norm, and a participation rate of 75–85%. Improved professional development needs and related actions. employee engagement was achieved by carefully creating, Formal PDD discussions provide a valuable structure, implementing and monitoring action plans designed to process and tool for documenting and following-up on address areas for improvement identified in 2013. these issues for each employee. PDD discussions are conducted twice a year with white collar employees, EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT INDEX and once a year with blue collar personnel. • Performance Evaluations form part of the PDD discus100 sions held with white collar employees. They aim to 87 84 85 assess the overall performance of individual employees 80 75 consistently and fairly. The outcomes of performance 69 70 67 58 evaluations provide input for employees’ personal 60 development planning as well as our Annual Salary 40 Review process. 20 The performance management process is facilitated and supported by our Human Resources function while its 0 ownership is a business responsibility, and all of our people 2009 2011 2013 2015 managers have the responsibility to have the individual discussions with people reporting to them. The process ■ Employee engagement index, % covers all Kemira employees globally, and provides trans■ Participation rate, % of total employees parent, fair and consistent performance management independent of their location or organisational position. Other global people processes and the respective In 2015, improved employee engagement continued to be a online tools enable efficient people management, encombonus-generating target for selected members of our passing talent management, learning management, Management Board, who had all been set such targets in recruitment and compensation. Continuous improvements 2014. in our people processes and the respective online tools aim The survey results for 2015 indicate that the topics that to enhance our operational efficiency and enables the most strongly engage our employees relate to sustainabilconsistent application of employment practices across ity, Kemira’s strategy, the future of Kemira, and recognition. Kemira. It is noteworthy that Kemira’s values are also among the most important engagement drivers. Continued efforts are needed to improve communication on actions based on the COMPETENCE DEVELOPMENT AND survey results, and on role modelling of Kemira’s values LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT throughout the organisation. Performance management of employees with low performance was also recognized as a The key principle behind competence development at development area. Kemira is that every employee has the right to develop. During the rest of the year we continued to work on the Managers are responsible for providing their employees basis of the survey results. Action plans have duly been with opportunities to develop, while the company creates prepared and their implementation has started in all related opportunities and supports competence developorganizational units, aiming to address identified development. We expect all of our employees to take an active ment areas and build on identified strengths. approach when developing their competencies. Our aim is to have a strong leadership bench to meet our business needs in relation to executing our strategy PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT and driving our long-term growth. Our global Talent Management process provides a structured way to identify Kemira’s performance management process aligns our employees that have potential to develop for leadership strategic targets with each employees' personal targets, positions. The process also ensures that these employees performance evaluation, competency requirements and have robust development plans to support their leadership development plans. This process is now well established in development. Key leadership development methods Kemira as part of our leadership culture, and it forms the include job-rotation, leadership programs, coaching, backbone of our management system. The process mentoring and leadership assessment centers. The Talent consists of formal Performance and Development Discus2015 17 GRI REPORT Management process is conducted every year, with CASE documentation and follow-up realised in our online tool. Management Approach Our approach to develop competencies and leadership capabilities emphasizes on-the-job learning, as this is one of the most effective ways for employees to develop. We encourage job rotation across the organization through our open job market, which means that all job positions are globally announced. Job rotation across Kemira’s functions and regions increased during 2015. Another widely used on-the-job learning opportunity involves participation in business projects. Our leadership development target has been to have 95% of our people managers participating in one or more of our globally offered development programs at least once during the period 2013–2015. However, the cumulative participation rate remained at 71% by the end of 2015. The reason for our failure to achieve the target relates to a deliberate decision to postpone a significant number of planned leadership programs beyond 2015, due to new business priorities arising from the integration project for the paper chemicals business acquired from AkzoNobel, which represented a significant development opportunity for many of our leaders. Participation in cross-functional and company-wide integration workstreams offered extensive and unique leadership development opportunities for close to hundred managers during 2015. WORKING CONTINUOUSLY TO IMPROVE SAFETY CULTURE Ensuring the safety of our operations is a top priority at Kemira. We aim to achieve a zeroinjury level across the company. Seventeen of our sites have now operated for more than five years without any injuries. Three of these sites share their experiences below. In 2015, our ferric sulphate plant in Prerov in the Czech Republic reached a milestone by operating for ten years without any recorded injuries. The plant’s safety team has put in a lot of hard work to improve safety – starting by finding ways to learn from mistakes and sharing ideas from other people on how to improve safety. The plant then obtained OHSAS 18001 certification, through a process involving strict risk assessments and improved near miss incident reporting. Quarterly safety monitoring sessions are additionally organised at FOR MORE INFORMATION, SEE THE RESPECTIVE Prerov together with a team of consultants with MATERIAL ASPECTS AND GRI-G4 INDICATORS expertise on safety, environmental matters, fire Employment (LA1, LA2) Labor/management Relations (LA4) prevention, electricity, pressure vessels, lifting devices Occupational health and safety (LA6) and transport safety. Training and education (LA9, LA10, LA11) Our paper chemicals plant in Vancouver has not Diversity and equal operation (LA12) Equal remuneration for women and men (LA13) experienced any lost time accidents since 1995 or any Freedom of association and collective bargaining (HR4) recordable injuries since 2009. The plant’s safety 18 2015 GRI REPORT 2.5 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN Management Approach Kemira is committed to manage relationships with our suppliers in a responsible way. We expect our suppliers to comply with our Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Distributors and Agents. Our management approach aims to build a culture of responsibility in our supply chain management, develop responsible business practices along our supply chains, and minimize business disruptions due to potential environmental or social issues. Supplier relationship management is the key management activity we realize to integrate sustainability practices along our supply chain. Key performance indicator (KPI) and ISSUE related target Code of Conduct for Supplier contracts with signed CoC-SDAs Suppliers, Distributors as attachments and Agents to be signed → 90% by the end of 2015 by our suppliers SOURCING AND SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (G4-12) Our Sourcing is globally responsible for strategic spend management, which is organized independently from our operational Supply Chain Management services. • Sourcing activities cover the identification and selection of suppliers, the consequent negotiations and contract management, and the management of supplier relationships. Our supplier selection criteria are based on cost competitiveness, short-term operational excellence and long-term business stability. The culture is based on open communication, which is a selection criteria will be complemented with sustainfeature typical to all of our sites with successful safety ability aspects in 2016. results. The plant’s safety team actively strive to focus • Our Supply Chain Management provides related everyone’s attention on safety issues, make everyone services to all of our business segments, once the aware of risks, and continuously look for safety supplier relationships are established by Sourcing. improvements. There is also a strong emphasis on Supply Chain Management services include customer empowering employees to initiate safety improvements service, logistics, supply chain planning, and procurethemselves. Related practices include morning safety ment. Supply Chain Management is organized in four meetings, behavioural observations and monthly regional units each providing all the services needed workplace inspections by employees. within their respective regions. Our water treatment plant at Ellesmere Port in the UK has worked without any accidents for seven years. The total spend of Kemira's sourcing amounted to about Safety awareness is prioritised throughout the site – EUR 1.8 billion in 2015, including the sourcing categories also when working with customers and contractors. direct materials, energy and logistics, and indirect goods This is important, since an average of 50 tankers or and services. The total number of suppliers in all of our trucks belonging to the plant’s customers or contracsourcing categories globally is about 13,000. Geographitors visit the plant every week. cally about 80% of these suppliers are from Europe, the Open communications regarding safety issues are Middle East, Africa and North America. Kemira has about encouraged among the plant’s staff, with managers 650 direct material and logistics suppliers, of which about taking time to explain to their teams how safety 160 core suppliers account for 80% of our total direct initiatives can reduce risks when they are effectively spend. adopted as part of everyone’s daily work. Managers also highlight the potential impacts of unsafe practices. All of the three sites treat improving safety as a SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT continuous mission that starts again at the beginning of every shift. Supplier relationship management at Kemira is built on four pillars: supplier segmentation, commitment to 2015 19 GRI REPORT responsible business conduct, supplier performance as defined with regard to several criteria, including total evaluation, and our Vendor Value Program. spend, technology and capability fit with Kemira’s needs, Management Approach • Supplier segmentation involves prioritizing our and an additional set of risk factors. suppliers into categories for strategic, critical, volume Supplier Sustainability Assessments are conducted by and base suppliers with regard to supplier value, an external third party company specialized in standardcriticality and risk levels. ized supplier evaluation and auditing, based on the • Our work to ensure commitment to responsible principles of the UN Global Compact and the Responsible business conduct is based on the principle that any Care program. Based on these assessments, suppliers are activities of any Sourcing personnel or anyone within classified into high risk, medium risk or low risk categories. Kemira committing to any spend are governed by the The suppliers invited to participate in such assessments Kemira Code of Conduct. Suppliers are expected to have mainly been direct material suppliers, but some commit to adhere to responsible business conduct by service and logistics providers have also been assessed. signing our Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Distributors We have implemented improvement plans together with and Agents. certain suppliers who were rated in the high risk category. • Our Supplier Performance Evaluation (SPE) program Suppliers with ongoing improvement plans are reassessed was launched in 2012. We conduct supplier perforthe following year. A total of 76 supplier sustainability mance evaluations and rate our suppliers for the assessments have been completed since 2014, including accuracy of price and quantity, delivery compliance and 27 in 2015 and 49 in 2014. quality claims, in order to identify any issues needing improvement. Supplier Sustainability Assessments (SSA) also form part of the SPE program as a tool for LOGISTICS OPERATIONS AND supplier evaluation. TRANSPORTATION SAFETY • Our new Vendor Value Program was launched in 2015 to support our strategic management of supplier relationOur environmental impacts from transport relate mainly to ships. The program aims to develop capabilities that greenhouse gas emissions to air. We take an active will enable the identification, partnering and manageapproach to influence downstream emissions from the ment of strategic and critical suppliers along the transportation and distribution of our products. Kemira various value chains associated with Kemira’s product transports about 6 million tons of cargo per annum. We can lines. reduce the related emissions by optimizing our logistic operations, by selecting favorable transportation modes, through contract negotiations and by auditing our logistics CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SUPPLIERS, service providers. Long-distance transportation of goods DISTRIBUTORS AND AGENTS (COC-SDA) by train or ship typically results in lower emissions per transported ton than short distance transportation by road All our suppliers must follow our Code of Conduct for vehicles. Favorable multimodal transport solutions are also Suppliers, Distributors and Agents in relation to all of their used whenever possible. dealings with Kemira. The CoC-SDA contains requirements We choose to use logistics service providers who are on issues including responsible business conduct, respect committed to use vehicles that comply with the latest for human rights, and environmental responsibility. emission standards and load optimization guidelines. We Kemira’s Sourcing and Procurement policy emphasizes that annually audit our most important Logistic Service Providadherence to these principles is to be confirmed in writing ers (LSP) for each transport mode. Auditing criteria cover by all repeat suppliers with an annual spend value of at issues including transport safety and the usage of low least EUR 200,000 for indirect materials or at least EUR emission vehicles. Some LSPs are also assessed for 500,000 for direct materials. Should a supplier refuse to supplier sustainability as part of our Supplier Performance give such a confirmation, and if Kemira cannot otherwise Evaluation (SPE) program. confirm that the supplier adheres to acceptable ethical It is crucial to actively manage transportation safety to principles, an evaluation is performed by our Sourcing prevent any environmental and social impacts that could personnel to assess whether we need to cease all purresult from spills and traffic accidents. Kemira has chases from such a supplier. Signed CoC-SDAs are regisestablised a cross-functional task force team to improve tered in Kemira’s contract archive. transport safety practices. We also monitor all such Our target has been that by the end of 2015 at least incidents along our supply chains. 90% of repeat suppliers should have signed the CoC-SDA when agreeing purchase contracts. By the end of 2015, 93% of Kemira’s repeat suppliers had signed such CoCSDAs. SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENT FOR MORE INFORMATION, SEE THE RESPECTIVE MATERIAL ASPECTS AND GRI-G4 INDICATORS Supplier assessment (EN32, LA14, HR10, SO9) Supplier Sustainability Assessments are conducted as part Emissions (EN17) – Scope 3 (supply chain) of our Supplier Performance Evaluation program. These Transport (EN30) assessments focus on the most critical and risky suppliers 20 2015 GRI REPORT CASE Management Approach TRANSPORTATION SAFETY – A SHARED RESPONSIBILITY Kemira introduced its global EHS (Environment, • Transportation safety is one focus area to the Health and Safety) Transportation Standard in regional management team. The topic is a regular 2014. It was co-created by Kemira’s regional EHS item in the regional management meetings, where and transportation teams to make sure that it local KPI progress is monitored and new safety covers different local, regional, national and initiatives are discussed and agreed on. international regulations. It also includes the • To ensure that the Global EHS Transportation best practices that existed in each region. Standard and the transport safety program is widely recognized at Kemira, the team trained The purpose of the global EHS Transportation Standard employees in Americas and EMEA in 2014–2015. is to ensure that materials and products are safely The local EHS people, plant managers, supply chain moved independent from the mode of transport being managers as well as the key leaders in R&D, used. This way the company also wants to avoid customer service and sales attended the training damage or injury and minimize the effects of danger, sessions. when its materials and products – dangerous goods in • Each Kemira site/plant was tasked together with particular – are involved in an incident or accident the EHS transport safety team to make initial gap during transportation. assessments to identify key areas for improveBased on our Global EHS Transportation Standard ments. The gap closing is an ongoing process and Kemira´s regional Transport Safety Programs were monitored at the site. developed. These provide detailed guidance to develop • The EHS transport safety team visits local sites and improve local procedures or work instructions on regularly. During these visits the team performs transport safety and security. The team created transportation safety assessments, but even more standardized processes, self-assessment documents important is the counsel and practical support that and checklists for the local use. With these, the they provide to the local teams. These visits also practices and reporting are aligned across regions. help build bridges between different functions and Besides the introduction of the Global EHS Transregions. portation Standard and the regional transport safety • Overall the daily communications between different programs, a number of initiatives started that make it a teams, sites, and regions has improved significantly. shared responsibility and a development area. Best practices from regions are shared more actively than before. 2015 21 GRI REPORT 2.6 RESPONSIBLE Kemira’s EHSQ management systems cover our value chain processes all the way from our suppliers to our customers, MANUFACTURING Management Approach to ensure that all of the environmental, health and safety and quality aspects of our work are well managed. We The main environmental and societal impacts of define KPIs and annual improvement targets at global, Kemira's manufacturing operations relate to greenregional and site level, and conduct monthly KPI monitoring house gas emissions and safety issues. During 2015 and quarterly management reviews on a regional basis. we further enhanced our management system for During 2015 we reviewed the criteria applied in our Environment, Health, Safety and Quality (EHSQ). management reviews and audit program. Our global audit Ensuring the safety of our operations is permanent program has a three-year scheme for internal and external top priority for Kemira. We have also started to auditing. upgrade our Energy Efficiency Enhancement In 2015, audit program covered 77 site locations, which program from E3 to E3plus. included manufacturing sites, major office locations and R&D centers. Certification rate for site locations were 88% Key performance indicator (KPI) and for ISO 9001 and 86% for ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. ISSUE related target Climate change Kemira Carbon Index → an index score of at least 80 by the end of 2020 (baseline year 2012 = 100) CERTIFIED MANUFACTURING SITES, % 100 90 88 86 86 81 83 EHSQ MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 80 76 77 75 76 75 66 69 70 59 Effective Environmental, Health, Safety and Quality 60 55 50 46 management systems are among the highest priorities in 40 all Kemira's operations, since they represent a fundamen30 tal prerequisite for conducting our business. Kemira’s 20 EHSQ Policy requires all Kemira companies and operations 10 to implement and maintain certified EHSQ management 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 systems. Our goal is to continuosly improve customer satisfaction levels, enhance our safety performance, ■ ISO 9001 certification improve our energy efficiency, and reduce harmul environ■ ISO 14001 certification mental impacts and quality failures. ■ OHSAS 18001 certification Total number of manufacturing sites 64 at the end of 2015. Our Helsingborg site in Sweden is additionally certified under ISO 50001. OUR EHSQ VISION IS: • Zero environmental harm through Environmental Excellence Our management system approach is supported by our • Zero harm to people through Health & Safety LEAN manufacturing culture, which aims to achieve Excellence continuous improvements and create more from less, while • Customer Satisfaction through Operational providing increasing value to our customers. Its measures Excellence include the optimization of value chains and flows of information, and improvements in production efficiency. We aim to have all Kemira sites certified to the ISO 9001, SAFETY AT MANUFACTURING SITES ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards by the end of Q1 2017. Major energy consuming sites in the European Union Our safety management work at our manufacturing sites will be certified under ISO 50001 to meet the requirements focuses on workplace safety, process safety, transportation of the EU’s Energy Efficiency Regulation. safety, and industrial risk assessment. Our management systems are certified in line with the OHSAS 18001 standard, Kemira’s EHSQ policy, and our internal safety standards. During 2015 we upgraded our incident and MAIN SCOPE OF MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS non-conformity management tool, complemented our set Customer satisfaction ISO 9001 of internal safety standards, and provided training for our Environmental impact ISO 14001 employees on new EHS standards. Energy efficiency ISO 50001 Minimum requirements related to safety, environment Health and safety OHSAS 18001 and health protection, incident reporting and EHS management are set out in the official Kemira EHS standards approved by our Management Board. Local procedures are developed based on local legislation, regulations and 22 2015 GRI REPORT culture, as well as our own standards. Training on standseno and Sastamala, continued in 2015. Further energy ards is an important part of our safety work. efficiency improvements have been achieved as part of the Management Approach We regularly evaluate environmental and safety risks upgrade projects realised in other production plants. related to our activities in the vicinity of our manufacturing Energy savings achieved through 30 projects realised sites. We conduct industrial risk assessments and emisacross Kemira’s operations during 2015 totaled 7,664 MWh sion monitoring at every manufacturing site, as defined in (1,855 MWh) leading to cost savings of EUR 0.3 million regulatory requirements, the ISO 14001 management (EUR 1.2 million). Cumulative cost savings achieved system and Kemira’s own internal standards through about 430 initiatives completed globally since 2010 now total EUR 8.7 million. RESPONSIBLE ENERGY MANAGEMENT CASE Managing improvements in our energy efficiency and energy sourcing is the best way for us to reduce our energy usage and related costs. Energy costs amount to about 15% of our total operating spend. In 2015, 12 of our 64 sites together consumed 90% of the energy we use, and accounted for 95% of our carbon dioxide emissions. A substantial proportion of our energy management activities is focused on these most energy intensive sites which include six sodium chlorate manufacturing plants in Finland, USA and Uruguay. Sodium chlorate plants are using more than 50% of the electricity we purchase. Electricity prices consequently play an important role in the capacity utilization rates of our chlorate plants. OUR UPGRADED ENERGY EFFICIENCY ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM – E3PLUS During 2015 we initiated the upgrading of our Energy Efficiency Enhancement Program which is now named NEW INNOVATIONS TO IMPROVE ENERGY E3plus. This upgraded program will continue the energy EFFICIENCY IN CHLORATE PRODUCTION efficiency improvement work and activities started in 2010. The program aims to reduce the overall specific energy Kemira is one of the largest global producers of consumption of all our sites (measured as kWh per ton of sodium chlorate, which is used in the forest product) and thereby reducing our energy cost. industry to bleach pulp. Our production sites in Finland, USA, Uruguay and the new one in Brazil, The key focus areas of E3plus program are: use manufacturing processes based on our own • global alignment of energy efficiency management patented electrolysis cell technology. In Finland, across all Kemira sites Kemira produces sodium chlorate in Sastamala, • energy efficiency reviews conducted to identify improveJoutseno and Kuusankoski. ment projects and support their implementation The sodium chlorate production process is • further development of our energy efficiency managehighly energy intensive. In order to improve effiment system facilitating ISO 50001 certification ciency and extend the service life of electrolysis cells, Kemira has carried out intensive technology Our energy efficiency and emission reduction measures and process development work at Joutseno and focus on our most energy intensive sites. Based on energy Sastamala over several decades. consumption data collected in 2015, our aim is to set Our facilities in Sastamala include a workshop ambitious energy efficiency targets for our largest energy dedicated to the manufacture, upgrade and consuming sites during 2016. maintenance of electrolysis cells. Our latest During 2015 we enhanced our energy efficiency and technology is based on tailored titanium cells, technology management by creating a new global level which consume less electricity and have lower position for an expert who will lead energy efficiency operational and maintenance costs than the operations and activities. technology we used previously. Since the start of the E3 program in 2010, energy Every step taken to improve efficiency in such efficiency improvement measures have been continously energy intensive manufacturing processes can implemented across Kemira’s operations. Energy efficiency easily result in savings corresponding to the improvement measures realised during 2015 continued to amounts of electricity used to heat hundreds of focus on manufacturing processes, with investments made homes. Kemira will adopt the new technologies in in more energy efficient equipment and production lines. all new sodium chlorate manufacturing sites, and The modernization of the process equipment used in our wherever feasible in existing sites. two highly energy intensive chlorate plants in Finland, Jout2015 23 GRI REPORT RESPONSIBLE ENERGY SOURCING KEMIRA ENERGY EFFICIENCY INDEX Management Approach The Kemira facilities using the highest shares of the 120 electricity we purchase are our three energy intensive 105 102 101 100 99 99 97 chlorate manufacturing sites in Finland. Electricity price 100 risks are mitigated through strategic investments in 80 energy-generating companies, and by hedging a portion of 60 our energy and electricity spend. Kemira owns shares in the Finnish energy companies PVO (Pohjolan Voima Oy) and 40 TVO (Teollisuuden Voima Oyj). 20 During 2015 Kemira received ´Guarantee of Origin´ certificates for 105,895 MWh relating to purchased 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 electricity from hydro power and wind energy. All the certificates granted to Kemira were cancelled i.e. they were made non-tradable and their benefits were redeemed by The Energy Efficiency index is the ratio of energy use and Kemira. production normalized to 2012 for the top sites using 90% We purchase the rest of the electricity we use in of energy. The index is calculated for major sites (12 sites in Finland from Nord Pool Spot. 2015 vs 10 in 2014) that cover > 90% of Kemira’s total In other countries, energy is purchased from local energy use. The index is independent of the impact of suppliers taking into account the favorability of the energy changes in the production volumes but can be affected of source. product mix. The index enables us to monitor energy efficiency from the consolidated perspective as well as locally at each site, reflecting the actual improvements we TARGETED REDUCTIONS IN GREENHOUSE GAS have achieved. EMISSIONS KEMIRA CARBON INDEX Kemira introduced a climate change target in 2014 to Based on Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions reduce the Kemira Carbon Index by 20 percentage points by the end of 2020 compared to the baseline year 2012. Our 120 110 key measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions include: 105 102 100 • Improving energy efficiency in manufacturing pro100 91 91 88 cesses 80 • Purchasing energy and primary fuels with a lower 60 carbon footprint • Reducing the share of fossil fuels in our energy mix, 40 especially in Finland 20 Kemira Carbon Index value in 2014–2015 is not decreasing 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 due to increased share of carbon-intensive feedstock required by our product mix. In 2015, we initiated the process to establish site Kemira Carbon Index was defined to monitor our CO2 specific energy efficiency improvement and emission performance from both consolidated and individual reduction targets. manufacturing site perspective. The Kemira Carbon Index covers CO2 emissions of Scope 1 and Scope 2 excluding direct emissions from chemical processing, and is not dependent on production volumes but can be affected of product mix. In 2015, the figures for 2013–2014 were restated due to more accurate site specific information available. REMARKS ON ENERGY EFFICIENCY INDEX AND CARBON INDEX CALCULATION LOGIC In 2015, two new sites were included in the energy efficiency and carbon indices. Data from the sites that come into the index are introduced the year they come in. We do not back-calculate data for these or update the 2012 baseline. Feedstock fuels are included in the energy calculations, as they indirectly contribute to energy production at some of our sites. For consistency purposes, feedstock fuels for all sites are included. 24 2015 GRI REPORT KEMIRA ENERGY BALANCE (GWh) Management Approach Renewable fuel 8 (0) FUEL Non-renewable 570 (542) Non-renewable 235 (148) HEAT Renewable 385 (596) 1,060 Energy consumption 3,723 Non-renewable (3,711) (1,077) ELECTRICITY 639 Renewable (539) Nuclear 1,231 (1,204) Output heat delivered off-site 369 (366) Electricity delivered off-site 36 (31) TOTAL PURCHASED ENERGY 4,128 (4,107) ENERGY CONSUMPTION 3,723 (3,711) TOTAL ENERGY SOLD 405 (396) TOTAL 4,128 (4,107) Non-renewable energy sources: coal, natural gas, oil and by-product hydrogen. Renewable energy sources: solar, wind, ocean, hydropower, biomass, geothermal resources, biofuels, and hydrogen derived from renewable resources. 2015 25 GRI REPORT WATER MANAGEMENT Management Approach In Kemira's manufacturing facilities water is mainly used well as potential water scarcity risks that could affect our as process water and cooling water. Water efficiency business. The assessment concluded that water risks are management forms part of our wider environmental not material for Kemira on a global level, but four sites management system. were selected for more detailed risk assessments. These A water risk assessment was conducted in 2014 to assessments were completed in 2015, and their concludefine potential risks related to Kemira’s operations with sions indicated that no specific management plans are regard to local water resources and the environment, as currently needed. KEMIRA WATER BALANCE (million m3) Water recycled 16.9 (25.9) and reused Surface water 87.8 (97.0) Discharged without treatment, mainly 70.8 (70.9) cooling water Municipal water 2.6 (2.4) Ground water 1.8 (1.4) External treatment 1.5 (1.6) Other water sources 3.8 (3.3) Own treatment 0.5 (0.5) TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL 96 (104) TOTAL WATER DISCHARGED 72.8 (73) TOTAL WATER RECYCLED AND REUSED 16.9 (25.9) BALANCE (UNSPECIFIED WATER LOSSES) 6.3 (5.3) TOTAL 96 (104) Kemira aims to have minimum 90% accuracy on the water balance. For more details on water balance, see page 33. 26 2015 GRI REPORT 2.7 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE CASE LOCAL COMMUNITIES Management Approach Kemira is committed to create positive social impacts in communities close to our operations. Key priorities include transparency on safety and environmental impacts in the vicinity of our manufacturing sites, promoting chemistry and our industry as an educational and employment opportunity, and maintaining open dialogues with local authorities and other stakeholders. Key performance indicator (KPI) and ISSUE related target Participation in local Kemira sites with over 50 employees WATER STEWARDSHIP INITIATIVE IN community involvement participating in local community activities involvement initiatives at least once in GUANGXI PROVINCE, SOUTHERN CHINA the period 2013–2015, cumulative % → 100% by the end of 2015 In 2013, Kemira and Stora Enso launched a water stewardship initiative in the Guangxi Province of We regularly evaluate environmental and safety risks Southern China, where Stora Enso holds tree related to our activities in the vicinity of our manufacturing plantations. The goal of the joined initiative was to sites. We conduct industrial risk assessments and emisfind new solutions for responsible water managesion monitoring at every manufacturing site, as defined in ment in collaboration with the local communities. regulatory requirements, the ISO 14001 management The initiative was successfully completed in 2015. system and Kemira’s own internal standards. As a starting point, a study of water use, supply In our dealings with local stakeholders our goals and quality was conducted in 2014. Close to 1,100 include transparency, trust and continuous dialogue. We people – representing villagers, authorities and also encourage our employees to engage with local local NGOs – participated in the interviews. Pilot community initiatives and activities on a voluntary basis. projects were launched in the rural villages of Kemira has global guidelines covering the planning of Nahupo, Shengping and Baimei, addressing the local community events. Our Sponsorship and Donation villagers’ concerns regarding sewage treatment, Policy provides guidance on the permissible extent, drinking water supply and livelihood support. From suitable purposes and general acceptability of cash the very beginning, the initiative was based on donations, sponsorships, contributions to community active stakeholder engagement and local commuinvolvement initiatives and other donations made on behalf nity work. Awareness-raising campaigns and of or in the name of any Kemira company. trainings were conducted among local residents to Our target for community involvement has been to ensure long-term benefits to the community. ensure that all Kemira sites with more than 50 employees As part of the capacity-building, a water (26 sites in 2014, 26 sites in 2015) would engage in local treatment plant was renovated, wetlands, wells and community initiatives at least once in the period 2013– water storage tanks were built and a total of 12.7 2015. By the end of 2015 all the Kemira sites of this size km of water and sewage piping were laid. The (92% by the end of 2014) had duly organized local events systems were designed to suit the specific need of and activities, with some sites hosting multiple activities. each village and special attention was paid to easy All our community involvement activities are locally maintenance. selected, planned and implemented. Examples of local The initiative has been received well in the local activities include open house days for local residents at our communities, judging from the positive feedback manufacturing sites, cooperation with local schools and received from satisfaction surveys. Also the project universities, and local charity work, including suitable auditors, Bureau Veritas China, credited Stora Enso donations. and Kemira, stating that the companies took the needs and concerns of the villagers into account. Thanks to the water stewardship initiative, nearly 2,600 villagers now have better access to FOR MORE INFORMATION, SEE THE RESPECTIVE clean water and are able to handle wastewater in a MATERIAL ASPECTS AND GRI-G4 INDICATORS more responsible way. Materials (EN1, EN2) Energy (EN3, EN5, EN6) Water (EN8, EN10) Emissions (EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18, EN19, EN20, EN21) Effluents and waste (EN22, EN23, EN24, EN25) Environmental expenditures and investments (EN31) Environmental compliance (EN 29) Local communities (SO2) 2015 27 GRI REPORT EXAMPLES OF COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Management Approach USA Sweden, Helsingborg Netherlands, Botlek Participation in the Atlanta Food bank’s Donations by employees and Active co-operation with local Food drive for the people in need. management to Plan International schools and engagement with the Donations to the Children’s Health Care/ to aid the Syrian refugee children. local community by hosting several Holiday toy drive for the hospitalized events during the year and supporting teenagers. The packs were delivered to education, knowledge on chemistry the hospital before Christmas. and safety. China, Nanjing Active participation in the local community by joint safety trainings and open Brazil, Sao Paolo and house events for local Telemaco Borba: students. Active charity work by the local Kemira workers’ association (AFK), especially towards local children in need. In 2015, approximately 50 community involvement activities were organized at 26 major Kemira sites. Between 2013 and 2015 approximately 240 activities were organized. FOR MORE INFORMATION, SEE THE RESPECTIVE MATERIAL ASPECTS AND GRI-G4 INDICATORS Local communities (SO1, SO2) 28 2015 GRI REPORT 3 PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURES ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 3.1 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Kemira generates economic value from expertise, products and solutions that help customers to improve INDICATORS their water, energy and raw material efficiency. Kemira distributes the generated economic value to various stakeholders. This includes suppliers and service providers MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE through payments for raw materials and services, employG4-EC1: DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED ees through compensation and benefits, capital providers AND DISTRIBUTED through dividends and interest payments, public sector through taxes, and society through local community Sustainable organic growth, financial stability and longprojects, sponsorship and donations. The economic value term profitability are material to Kemira in order to be a retained is reinvested in the company for capital investtrusted business partner for customers and suppliers, a ments, R&D and technology development. The economic reliable employer, an attractive long-term investment, and value retained increased to EUR 161.0 million (-11.7) due to a responsible taxpayer. improved cash flow from operating activities. Stakeholder Economic value, EUR million 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Direct economic value generated Customers Income from customers on the basis of products and services sold, and financial income 2,350 2,100 2,268 2,312 2,192 Direct economic value distributed Suppliers Payments to suppliers of raw materials, goods and services 1,709 1,684 1,686 1,737 1,654 Employees Employee wages and benefits 356 283 327 340 299 Investors & lenders Dividends, interests paid and financial expenses 113 112 113 114 101 Government & Public sector Corporate income taxes 12 33 27 30 37 Economic value retained 160 -12 115 91 100 Community investments were EUR 0.17 million in 2015 (EUR 0.1 million) through sponsoring and local community participation. Kemira has defined its midterm financial targets as a the Articles of Association. The overall responsibility for revenue target EUR 2.7 billion and operative EBITDA margin financial performance at group level belongs to the Board of 15% in 2017. These group level financial targets are of Directors and CEO. Kemira has organized its global translated into business goals and performance measures activities by three business segments, which bear full for each business segment and further down to individual profit and loss responsibility. The segment heads are performance targets for employees. members of the Management Board. Kemira reports and The management approach to economic value generdiscloses its financial statements in accordance with the ated and distributed is based on the Finnish Corporate International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). For Governance Code and the Limited Liability Companies Act, detailed information, see the Kemira Corporate Governance which states that the purpose of a company is to generate Statement and the Financial Statement. profits for its shareholders, unless otherwise provided in 2015 29 GRI REPORT ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED BY REGIONS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PAYMENTS TO SUPPLIERS OF RAW MATERIALS, REVENUE BY CUSTOMER LOCATION GOODS AND SERVICES 8% 9% 40% 52% 38% 53% ■ EMEA (2014: 55%) ■ EMEA (2014: 54%) ■ Americas (2014: 39%) ■ Americas (2014: 39%) ■ APAC (2014: 6%) ■ APAC (2014: 7%) EMPLOYEE WAGES AND BENEFITS CORPORATE INCOME TAXES, MILLION EUR 25 7% 20 15 39% 10 54% ■ EMEA (2014: 58%) 5 ■ Americas (2014: 37%) 0 ■ APAC (2014: 5%) -5 EMEA Americas APAC ■ 2015 ■ 2014 In 2015, Americas was refunded the overpaid taxes of 2014. OUR APPROACH TO TAX Transfer pricing: Kemira applies the arm’s length principle and targets an appropriate remuneration of the Business rationale: We are a responsible corporate citizen activities amongst related parties in accordance with in all our operating countries. Kemira’s tax approach internationally accepted standards, such as the OECD supports responsible business performance. Our tax Guidelines. approach is based on our corporate strategy, values, the OECD BEPS action plan: Kemira is currently evaluating Kemira Code of Conduct and our tax policies. We target and preparing for the implications of the OECD BEPS (Base upfront certainty on our tax positions. We do not operate in Erosion and Profit Shifting) package for its business tax haven countries for tax reasons. models and operating structures. Kemira monitors closely Compliance: Our principle is to strictly follow and pay the BEPS related legislative changes and documentation taxes in accordance with all relevant tax rules and regularequirement developments (e.g. Country-by-Country tions as well as international best practices in all regions Reporting) as well as the response of the tax authorities in where we operate. In addition to corporate income taxes, the states where it operates. Kemira pays other taxes, including payroll taxes, social security contributions, property taxes, value added taxes, customs duties, etc. G4-EC3: COVERAGE OF THE ORGANIZATION'S Transparency and relationship with tax authorities: We DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN OBLIGATIONS are transparent about our approach to tax. We seek to develop and maintain good working relationships with the The coverage of Kemira’s defined benefit plans are tax authorities and aim at open and constructive dialogue reported in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial with them. Disclosures are made by observing applicable Statements: Note 23 Defined benefit plans. Kemira has disclosure, documentation and reporting requirements various pension plans in accordance with local conditions such as IFRS. and practices. The percentage of salary contributed by 30 2015 GRI REPORT employee or employer to the benefit plan, and the level of G4-EN2: PERCENTAGE OF MATERIALS USED participation in retirement plans are defined according to THAT ARE RECYCLED INPUT MATERIALS Environmental performance indicators local legislation and practices. In 2015, 27.5% of raw materials across all Kemira business segments were secondary raw materials which were G4-EC4: FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RECEIVED recycled materials and industrial by-products mainly from FROM GOVERNMENT smelters, steel and metal manufacturing. The secondary raw materials used included inorganic materials such as Financial assistance received from governments is scrap iron, ferrous sulphate, picling liqour bath, and organic reported in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial materials such as tall oil or by-product fatty alcohols. In Statements: Note 4 Operating expenses. Kemira received the production of coagulants, the product group used in EUR 1.2 million (EUR 2.1million) in government grants for water treatment, secondary raw materials make about 80% R&D in 2015 in Finland. of all raw materials. Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 2015 2014 2013 3.2 ENVIRONMENTAL Total materials purchased, million tons 3.293 3.276* 3.521* PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Industrial by-product and recycled material from external partners, million tons 0.904 0.897 0.911 Share of by-product and recycled MATERIAL ASPECT: MATERIALS materials, % 27.5% 27.4% 25.9% G4-EN1: MATERIALS USED BY WEIGHT OR * Data for 2013 and 2014 is corrected due to exclusion of purchased VOLUME water from total raw materials purchased. The main share of Kemira’s raw materials are non-renewable materials. The renewable materials used include mainly starches, tall oil, and fatty acid derivatives. Materials used by weight 2015 2014 2013 FOR SECONDARY RAW Total materials purchased, million tons 3.293 3.276* 3.521* MATERIALS, WE RELY FOR Renewable materials used, million tons 0.071 0.059 0.059 LOCAL SUPPLIERS OR Non-renewable materials used, EVEN OPERATE IN million tons 3.222 3.217 3.462 Share of renewable materials, % 2.2% 1.8% 1.7% INDUSTRIAL SYMBIOSIS * Data for 2013 and 2014 is corrected due to exclusion of purchased WITH THOSE SUPPLIERS. water from total raw materials purchased. 2015 31 GRI REPORT MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-EN3: ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION G4-EN5: ENERGY INTENSITY Environmental performance indicators G4-EN6: REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION GRI-G4 Energy balance indicator 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Purchased fuel as energy source, GWh EN3a-b 578 542 491 563 651 Non-Renewable 570 542 491 563 0 Renewable 8 0 0 0 0 Purchased electricity, GWh EN3c 2,930 2,820 2,799 2,672 2,960 Non-Renewable 1,060 1,077 1,069 964 0 Renewable 639 539 550 384 0 Nuclear 1,231 1,204 1,179 1,323 0 Purchased heat, GWh EN3c 620 745 1,265 1,213 1,337 Non-Renewable 235 148 1,048 992 0 Renewable 385 596 217 221 0 Total energy purchased, GWh EN3c 4,128 4,107 4,555 4,449 4,949 Total energy sold EN3d 405 396 429 450 516 Output heat delivered off-site 369 366 384 422 496 Electricity delivered off-site 36 31 44 28 20 Total energy consumption, GWh1 EN3e 3,723 3,711 4,127 3,983 4,432 Energy intensity, GWh/1,000 t 2 EN5 0.8 0.8 0.9 0.8 0.9 Reduction of energy consumption, GWh3 EN6 12 -416 144 -449 4,432 1 The amount of energy Kemira uses through the purchase of electricity, steam and heat, excluding total energy sold. 2 Kemira has calculated the energy intensity by dividing total energy consumption with the annual production volume. The total energy consumption includes fuel used for energy, electricity, heating, cooling and steam. 3 The types of energy included in the reductions include: fuel used for energy, electricity, heating, cooling and steam. The basis for the energy reduction is energy consumption in one year period. The calculations have been made according to GRI G4 reporting guidelines. The source for conversion factors used is the International Energy Agency (IEA). Where specific information has not been publishded on production efficiencies by energy source, expert estimates have been made based on historical data. 32 2015 GRI REPORT MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER Environmental performance indicators Water balance, million m3 GRI-G4 indicator 2015 2014 WATER WITHDRAWAL EN10 96,0 104,2 Incoming process water 8,4 7,5 Surface water 4,2 3,7 Ground water 1,3 1,1 Rainwater 0,0 0,0 Waste water from another organization 0,0 0,0 Municipal water supplies 2,4 2,2 Other 0,5 0,5 Incoming cooling water 87,6 96,7 Surface water 83,6 93,3 Ground water 0,5 0,3 Rainwater 0,0 0,0 Waste water from another organization 0,0 0,0 Municipal water supplies 0,2 0,2 Other 3,3 2,9 WATER REUSED OR RECYCLED EN8 16,9 25,9 Water recycled back in the same process 13,8 23,0 Water recycled into a different process, but within the same facility 3,1 2,9 Water reused in another facility 0,06 0,0 WATER DISCHARGES EN22 72,8 73,0 External treatment 1,5 1,6 Own treatment 0,5 0,5 Discharged with no treatment, mainly cooling water 70,8 70,9 Balance1 6,3 5,3 1 Balance = Water withdrawal minus water discharged minus water reused and recycled (unspecified water losses). Kemira aims to have minimum 90% accuracy on the water balance. G4-EN8: TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE Water withdrawal by source 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Total water withdrawal used as a process water, million m3 8.4 7.5 6.3 6.7 7.8 Surface water 4.2 3.7 1.5 1.8 Ground water 1.3 1.1 0.4 0.8 Rainwater 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 Waste water from another organization 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 Municipal water supplies 2.4 2.2 2.2 3.5 Other 0.5 0.5 2.0 0.6 Total water withdrawal used as a cooling water, million m3 87.6 96.7 151 138 161 Surface water 83.6 93.3 146 131 Ground water 0.5 0.3 2 3 Rainwater 0.0 0.0 0 0 Waste water from another organization 0.0 0.0 0 0 Municipal water supplies 0.2 0.2 1 0 Other 3.3 2.9 3 4 Total water withdrawal, million m3 96 104 157 144 169 The calculations have been made according to GRI G4 reporting guidelines. The figures presented are based on data collected from Kemira's sites. 2015 33 GRI REPORT G4-EN10: PERCENTAGE AND TOTAL VOLUME OF WATER RECYCLED AND REUSED Environmental performance indicators All recycled and reused water was used within Kemira's manufacturing locations. See also graph Kemira water balance in the section Water efficiency. Changes in 2015 are due to reduced wateruse at one site. Water recycled and reused 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Total volume of water recycled and reused by the organization, million m3 16.9 25.9 74.6 59.6 Water recycled back in the same process 13.8 23.0 74.5 59.5 Water recycled in a different process, but within the same facility 3.1 2.9 0.1 0.1 Water reused in another facility 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 Total volume of water recycled and reused as a percentage of the total water withdrawal as reported under Indicator G4-EN8. 18% 25% 47% 41% The calculations have been made according to GRI G4 reporting guidelines. The figures presented are based on data collected from Kemira's sites. MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-EN15: DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1), G4-EN16: INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 2), G4-EN17: OTHER INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (SCOPE 3) G4-EN18: GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS INTENSITY G4-EN19: REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS SUMMARY OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, EMISSION INTENSITY AND ANNUAL CHANGE IN EMISSIONS GRI-G4 Greenhouse gas emissions, CO2eq 1,000 tonnes indicator 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1)1 EN-15 169 144 137 147 180 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2 market-based)2 EN-16 757 771 904 950 1,054 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2 locations-based)2 907 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3)3 EN-17 1,710* 1,581* 1,609* 1,594* Total greenhouse gas emissions 4 2,638 2,496 2,651 2,692 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity per 1,000 tons of production5 EN-18 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.6 Change in greenhouse gas emissions EN-19 142 -155 -41 In 2013 and 2014, all greenhouse gases are included in the calculation. In previous years, only CO2 emissions were reported. * Scope 3 has been restated due to more accurate information available in 2015. See Note 3. 1 Greenhouse gas emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by Kemira (scope 1 of the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol). Data covers all of Kemira's production sites according to Kemira consolidation rules. 2 Greenhouse gas emissions from the generation of purchased electricity, steam and heat that is consumed by Kemira (Revised Scope 2 of the WRI/ WBCSD GHG Protocol). Market-based emissions are used for target setting and following progress. Location-based emissions are also shown, but these are not used for other indicators. GHG emission are calculated as CO2 equivalents which includes CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3. The sources for the emission factors used are the International Energy Agency (IEA), the UK government's Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), Motiva Ltd. and energy utility companies. As many utility companies often publish their specific emissions factors during Q2 or Q3 of each reporting year, previous years' factors have been used. Data covers all of Kemira's production sites according to Kemira consolidation rules. 3 Greenhouse gas emissions from Kemira's value chain (Scope 3 of WRI/ WBCSD GHG Protocol). Major changes have occurred for all years as a more detailed calculation was carried out for this report and among others, end-of-life treatment of sold products changed significantly and previous years' data was corrected. The calculation is based on the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard and a supporting guidance document Guidance for Accounting & Reporting Corporate GHG Emissions in the Chemical Sector Value Chain. Scope 3 emissions have been calculated since 2012. GHG emission are calculated as CO2 equivalents which incluldes CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3. The sources for the emission factors used include the guidance document for the Chemical Sector, the UK government's Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), the International Energy Agency (IEA), Ecoinvent, CEFIC and ECTA. Data covers all of Kemira's production sites according to Kemira consolidation rules. 4 Total greenhouse emissions including Scope 1, Scope 2 (market-based) and Scope 3. 5 Kemira has calculated the GHG emissions intensity ratio per production volume (1,000 tons). Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), indirect GHG emissions from energy consumption (Scope 2) and other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) are included. 34 2015 GRI REPORT G4-EN17: SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS BY CATEGORIES Scope 3 emissions by categories, CO2eq, 1,000 tonnes 2015 2014 2013 2012 Environmental performance indicators Category 1 Purchased goods and services 870 760 770 770 Category 2 Capital goods * * * * Category 3 Fuel and energy related activities 230 240 220 220 Category 4 Upstream transportation and distribution 200 200 220 210 Category 5 Waste generated in operations 20 20 20 20 Category 6 Business travel 10 10 10 10 Category 7 Employee commuting 10 10 10 10 Category 8 Upstream leased assets (leased offices) 10 10 10 20 Category 9 Downstream transportation and distribution 350 330 340 340 Category 11 Use of sold products 0 0 0 0 Category 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products 0 0 0 0 Total1 1,710 1,580 1,610 1,590 * Emissions of Category 2: Capital goods are included in Category 1: Purchased goods and services. 1 Scope 3 has been restated due to more accurate information available in 2015. Major changes have occurred for all years as a more detailed calculation was carried out for this report and among others, Category 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products changed significantly and previous years' data was corrected. Category 12 covers all products sold. If a product is not known to have a new lifecycle, it is always classified as waste. Category 11 emissions were estimated to be zero or close to zero, as Kemira does not sell combustible fuels, products that form greenhouse gas emissions during use, or products that contain greenhouse gases. The calculation is based on the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard and a supporting guidance document Guidance for Accounting & Reporting Corporate GHG Emissions in the Chemical Sector Value Chain. Scope 3 emissions have been calculated since 2012. GHG emission are calculated as CO2 equivalents which incluldes CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3. The sources for the emission factors used include the guidance document for the Chemical Sector, the UK government's Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), the International Energy Agency (IEA), Ecoinvent, CEFIC and ECTA. Data covers all of Kemira's production sites according to Kemira consolidation rules. NOTE: Category 10 Processing of sold products not calculated because it cannot be reasonable tracked; Category 13 Downstream leased assets is not relevant to chemical sector; Category 14 Franchises is not relevant to chemical sector; Category 15 Investments: No information available. The margin of error for Scope 3 calculations is +/16%. SCOPE 3 BY LARGEST GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, CO2 EQ, 1,000 TONNES SOURCES IN THE VALUE CHAIN (%) 1,800 1,710 1,590 1,610 1,580 4% 1,500 13% 1,200 950 904 900 12% 771 757 51% 600 20% 300 147 137 144 169 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 ■ Purchased goods and services ■ Scope 1 ■ Downstream transportation and distribution ■ Scope 2 ■ Upstream transportation and distribution ■ Scope 3 ■ Fuel and energy related activities ■ Other Greenhouse gas emissions from Kemira's value chain (Scope 3) have been calculated since 2012. 2015 35 GRI REPORT G4-EN20: EMISSIONS OF OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES (ODS) Environmental performance indicators Releases into air, tonnes 2015 2014 2013 2012 Ozone-depleting substances1 0 0 0 1 The data collection on ozone-depleting substances (ODS) from Kemira's sites was made for the first time for the year 2013. G4-EN21: NOX, SOX, AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS Releases into air, tonnes 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Nitrogen oxides (NO2)1 194 206 185 190 242 Sulphur dioxide (SO2)2 83 86 122 116 153 Volatile organic compounds (VOC)3 430* 661 682 742 665 Volatile inorganic compounds (VIC)4 36** 59 65 94 100 Particulates 14 16 16 21 23 * Reduction of VOC due to changed process at one site. ** Reduction of VIC due to improvement at one site. 1 Nitric oxide and nitrogen dioxide calculated as NO2. 2 All sulphur compounds are calculated as SO2. 3 VOC is a sum of volatile organic compounds as defined in EU Directive 1999/13/EC. 4 Sum of ammonia, hydrogen chloride and six other simple inorganic compounds. The figures presented are based on data collected directly from Kemira's sites. MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-EN22: TOTAL WATER DISCHARGE BY QUALITY AND DESTINATION Water discharged, million m3 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Wastewater volume 72.8 73.1 2.1 2.4 2.5 External treatment 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 2.0 Own treatment 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.6 0.5 Discharged without treatment, mainly cooling water 70.8 70.9 The calculations have been made according to GRI G4 reporting guidelines. The figures presented are based on data collected from Kemira's sites. Releases into water, tonnes 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), tonnes 43* 15 16 21 28 Nitrogen (N), tonnes 2 2 2 2 3 Phosphorus (P), tonnes 1 0.5 0.5 0.7 0.7 Suspended solids, tonnes 2 5.3** 1.8 7 33 * Increase of COD due to new sites. ** Data corrected due to more correct data available at one site in 2015. The calculations have been made according to GRI G4 reporting guidelines. The figures presented are based on data collected from Kemira's sites. Data covers all of Kemira's production sites according to Kemira consolidation rules. 36 2015 GRI REPORT G4-EN23: TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD Environmental performance indicators Increase in other off-site treatment of hazardous waste is due to lost capabilities to treat wastewater onsite at one of our sites. Increase of non-hazardous waste is mainly due to demolition work at one site and increased waste from production. The weight data of disposed waste is based on internal company records. Waste, tonnes 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Hazardous wastes, total 75,250 41,686 41,296 48,436 55,304 Off-site landfill 1,298 1,247 1,359 1,024 10,037 Off-site incineration 2,565 1,719 3,858 1,933 2,343 Off-site recycling* 9,625 6,578 3,032 2,652 2,145 Other off-site treatment* 61,718 31,670 33,018 42,826 40,681 On-site incineration 44 473 29 1 99 On-site landfill 0 0 0 0 0 Non-hazardous wastes, total 35,381 27,687 26,559 31,755 33,393 Off-site landfill 10,649 11,568* 13,691* 11,107 12,238 Off-site incineration 1,310 810 5,674 1,482 1,451 Off-site recycling 14,896 11,798* 4,556 14,286 14,866 Other off-site treatment 8,211 3,068 2,538 2,422 2,617 On-site incineration 35 405 30 21 25 On-site landfill 281 37 70 2,437 2,197 Total waste disposal 110,632 69,373 67,855 80,191 88,697 * Data corrected due to more comprehensive data available in 2015. G4-EN24: TOTAL NUMBER AND VOLUME OF G4-EN25: WEIGHT OF TRANSPORTED, SIGNIFICANT SPILLS IMPORTED, EXPORTED, OR TREATED WASTE DEEMED HAZARDOUS UNDER THE TERMS OF There were two significant spills during 2015 with a total THE BASEL CONVENTION (2) ANNEX I, II, III, volume of 10 tonnes. These spills were not reported in AND VIII, AND PERCENTAGE OF TRANSPORTED Kemira’s Financial Statements. The two spills had no WASTE SHIPPED INTERNATIONALLY permanent or significant impact on the environment beyond the remediated soil. There were no hazardous waste treated outside the country (shipped internationally) in 2015 (0,001% in 2014). 2015 37 GRI REPORT MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES WATER PURIFIED WITH KEMIRA PRODUCTS, million m3 G4-EN27: EXTENT OF IMPACT MITIGATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS AND Environmental performance indicators 20,000 SERVICES 18,000 16,000 Kemira’s business purpose is to enable customers to 14,000 improve their water, energy and raw material efficiency. 12,000 10,000 The extent of the environmental impacts of our prod8,000 ucts is mitigated by developing products that reduce our 6,000 customers’ environmental impacts, deploying product 4,000 stewardship programs throughout the product lifecycle, 2,000 and by ensuring safe transportation, handling, storage and 0 0 3 6 9 disposal of our products in the value chain. We apply 20 2010 20 20 20 2020 20 11 12 0 0 0 0 20 2013 14 sustainability checks at every stage of the New Product 15 Development (NPD) process. The NPD process also aims to The volume of water purified with Kemira products is based on the identify less hazardous and more sustainable alternatives share of product sales to water purification applications and using an for raw materials. experience based average chemicals dosage. The use of our products and solutions benefits our customers by: • Optimizing product quality and yield • Enhancing process and energy efficiency G4-EN28: PERCENTAGE OF PRODUCTS SOLD • Ensuring that water quality meets end-use specificaAND THEIR PACKAGING MATERIALS THAT ARE tions and regulatory requirements RECLAIMED BY CATEGORY Our business model is business-to-business, and we sell Kemira does not reclaim any sold products, whereas we products that are used in industrial scale processes mainly reclaim packaging material when possible. Kemira’s liquid as processing aids. Only in few cases, namely in paper and products are mainly transported in bulk units, i.e. ISO-tank packaging board and in wastewater sludge, our products containers, tank trucks, and tank railroad wagons, which end-up as part of the end-product. are owned by logistics service providers or leased by For more details on product stewardship see the Kemira. When small volume packaging is used we work to Chapter Sustainable products and solutions and the optimize packaging where it saves packaging and transporperformance indicators PR1-PR4, PR6 and PR9. For tations cost and also reclaim packaging materials when transportation safety see indicator EN30. possible. When plastic or other reusable material is used in packaging, Kemira strives to reclaim the material. We are also using a third party service provider to return packaging from the customers’ sites for reuse. Packaging that is returned to Kemira or to a third party is either reused or processed for recycling. The reclaimed packaging materials are Reconditioned Intermediate Bulk Container (IBC's) and Recycled liquid packages. Reclaimed packaging materials 2015 2014 2013 2012 Share of reconditioned IBC´s of total purhcased IBC´s * 12% 12% 20% 22% Recycled liquid packages (includes IBC´s) 4% 3% 5% 4% * IBC=Intermediate Bulk Container 38 2015 GRI REPORT MATERIAL ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS FROM TRANSPORTATION G4-EN29: MONETARY VALUE OF SIGNIFICANT Emissions from the downstream and upstream transportaFINES AND TOTAL NUMBER OF NON-MONETARY Environmental performance indicators tion of materials and goods are 33% of our total Scope 3 SANCTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH emissions, while emissions from business travel and ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS employee commuting are non-significant (<1%). See indicator EN17 for more details. The monetary value of fines for non-compliance with Our approach in reducing environmental impacts environmental laws or regulations totalled EUR 59,000. One through greenhouse gas emissions is based on disciplined single event took place in 2013 but the fine was paid in management of logistics activities. Our key measures to 2015. There were no non-monetary sanctions in 2015. mitigate greenhouse gas emissions from downstream transportation and distribution are logistics and load MATERIAL ASPECT: TRANSPORT optimization and commitment to logistics service providers G4-EN30: SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL that use vehicles compliant with latest emission standIMPACTS OF TRANSPORTING PRODUCTS ards. Kemira uses in longer transports train and ocean AND OTHER GOODS AND MATERIALS transports or multimodal transports to avoid higher FOR THE ORGANIZATION’S OPERATIONS, emissions if only road transports were used. Load optimiAND TRANSPORTING MEMBERS OF THE zation and full truck loads are preferred to optimize WORKFORCE transportation cost and lower emissions. Furthermore, our tendering process guides the logistics service providers to Our management approach to mitigate the environmental look for backhaul arrangements. impacts of transporting products is based on reducing the Guidelines for reducing the environmental impact from greenhouse gas emissions from transportation activities business travel are defined in the Kemira travel policy. and improving transportation safety management to avoid Internal traveling between Kemira locations has reduced any accidental spills into environment. through the use of online meeting and collaboration tools. Scope 3 emissions related to transporting, tCO2e, 1,000 tonnes 2015 2014 2013 2012 Total Scope 3 emissions1 1,710 1,580 1,610 1,590 Total Scope 3 transport emissions 570 550 580 570 Upstream transportation and distribution 200 200 220 210 Downstream transportation and distribution 350 330 340 340 Business travel 10 10 10 10 Employee commuting 10 10 10 10 Share of transport emissions, % 33% 35% 36% 36% 1 Scope 3 emissions have been calculated according to the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard and a supporting guidance document Guidance for Accounting & Reporting Corporate GHG Emissions in the Chemical Sector Value Chain. See Table G4-EN17 for more details. Sources for emissions factors used include: Guidance for Accounting & Reporting Corporate GHG Emissions in the Chemical Sector Value Chain, the UK government's Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), CEFIC and ECTA. TRANSPORTATION SAFETY regularly. Our logistics service providers are expected to Transportation incidents decreased by 27% compared to commit to the Kemira Code of Conduct for Suppliers, last year (87 vs 120 in 2014). Distributors and Agents. We also hold regular safety Kemira is fully committed to transportation safety and discussions with them and carefully inspect accidents and the development of transportation safety culture to near misses. prevent chemical leakages into environment. Our EHS Our regional EHSQ is responsibe for the training and Transportation Standard applies globally to all Kemira monitoring of the implementation of the transportation operations that are involved in the transportation of bulk standard, while our logistics services and plant operations and packaged goods. All facilities need to comply with the are responsible for the safety program implementation and requirements of the standard but also with any local/ performance monitoring. Every transportation incident is regional regulations as applicable. Employees involved in analyzed for root causes and actions are taken to prevent the handling and carriage of dangerous goods are trained re-occurrence. 2015 39 GRI REPORT MATERIAL ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURES AND INVESTMENTS G4-EN31: TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION EXPENDITURES AND INVESTMENTS BY TYPE Environmental performance indicators Kemira reports environmental protection costs by environmental capital expenditure and by environmental operating costs. In 2015, our main investments were made in air and water treatment units. G4-EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and investments, EUR million 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Environmental capital expenditure 4.8 2.4 1.4 3.4 3.6 Environmental operating costs 14.9 11.7 11.8 14.2 12.7 Total 19.7 14.1 13.2 17.6 16.3 Environmental protection expenditures and investments, % of net sales 0.8% 0.7% 0.6% 0.8% 0.7% MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL by our Sourcing personnel to potentially cease all purASSESSMENT chases from such supplier. G4-EN32: PERCENTAGE OF NEW By the end of 2015, 93% of Kemira’s repeat suppliers SUPPLIERS THAT WERE SCREENED USING had signed the CoC-SDA. About 100% of new suppliers ENVIRONMENTAL CRITERIA within the threshold limits defined in the Sourcing & Procurement policy were screened using social and At the screening phase of new suppliers, the vendor is environmental criteria. See complementary information in asked to accept Kemira’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers, the section Responsible supply chain. Distributors and Agents (CoC-SDA) in alignment with our New vendor creation process. Kemira’s CoC-SDA sets MATERIAL ASPECT: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS requirements for responsible business conduct, respect for G4-EN34: NUMBER OF GRIEVANCES ABOUT human rights and appropriate working conditions, and ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS FILED, ADDRESSED, environmental responsibility. AND RESOLVED THROUGH FORMAL GRIEVANCE Kemira Group Sourcing & Procurement policy (2014) MECHANISMS requires that all Kemira suppliers must follow our CoC-SDA in their supply activities relating to Kemira. Adherence to In 2015, there were public complaints on five Kemira sites these principles is to be confirmed in writing by all repeat about environmental impacts filed through formal grievsuppliers with an annual spend value exceeding EUR ance mechanisms, all of which were addressed and 200,000 for indirect and EUR 500,000 for direct materials. resolved during the reporting period. The complaints If a supplier refuses to give such a confirmation and if related mainly to smell, spills on the road and throughKemira cannot otherwise confirm that the supplier adheres passage of trucks. to acceptable ethical principles, an evaluation is performed 40 2015 GRI REPORT 3.3 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 3.3.1 L ABOR PRACTICES AND The employee distribution by region shows that 55% (57%) of Kemira’s total workforce are employed in EMEA, DECENT WORK and 35% (31%) in Americas. The number of employees has increased by 437 (compared to decrease by 205 during GENERIC DISCLOSURES: EMPLOYMENT STRUCTURE 2014), of which 184 in APAC, resulting mainly from the G4-10: STRUCTURE OF EMPLOYMENT acquisition of AkzoNobel Paper Chemicals business. The share of employees that have been classified as white At the end of 2015, Kemira employed 4,685 people (4,248). collars has slightly increased due to re-classification and This figure includes employees who entered the Group acquisition employee structure. through acquisitions and excludes employees of divested Workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, assets. or individuals other than the ones in Kemira payroll are not counted on these numbers. TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES BY GENDER EMPLOYEES BY AGE BY REGION 2015 GROUP 2015 <30 12 74 Americas 1,578 MALES APAC 30–50 57 26 536 >50 31 FEMALES EMEA 2,571 G4-10: TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Total number of employees* 4,685 4,248 4,453 4,857 5,006 Females, % 26% 26% 26% 25% 24% Males, % 74% 74% 74% 75% 76% White collar, % 62% 58% 58% Blue collar; % 38% 42% 42% * at year end G4-10A: TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT AND GENDER 2015 2014 2013 %, 2015 %, 2014 %, 2013 Total number of employees 4,685 4,248 4,453 Total permanent 4,559 4,133 4,350 97.3% 97.3% 97.7% Total fixed-term 126 115 103 2.7% 2.7% 2.3% Females total 1,220 1,110 1,164 Permanent 1,171 1,064 1,127 96% 95.9% 96.8% Fixed term 49 46 37 4.0% 4.1% 3.2% Males total 3,465 3,138 3,289 Permanent 3,388 3,069 3,223 97.8% 97.8% 98.0% Fixed term 77 69 66 2.2% 2.2% 2.0% 2015 41 GRI REPORT G4-10B: TOTAL NUMBER OF PERMANENT EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE AND GENDER 2015 2014 2013 %, 2015 %, 2014 %, 2013 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Total permanent employees 4,559 4,133 4,350 Total full-time 4,481 4,099 4,314 98.3% 99.2% 99.2% Total part-time 78 34 36 1.7% 0.8% 0.8% Females total permanent 1,171 1,064 1,127 Full-time 1,106 1,037 1,102 94.4% 97.5% 97.8% Part-time 65 27 25 5.6% 2.5% 2.2% Males total permanent 3,388 3,069 3,223 Full-time 3,375 3,062 3,212 99.6% 99.8% 99.7% Part-time 13 7 11 0.4% 0.2% 0.3% G4-10D: TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY REGION AND GENDER 2015 2014 2013 %, 2015 %, 2014 %, 2013 Total number of employees 4,685 4,248 4,453 APAC 536 352 340 11.4% 8.3% 7.6% EMEA 2,571 2,413 2,595 54.9% 56.8% 58.3% Americas 1,578 1,483 1,518 33.7% 34.9% 34.1% Females total 1,220 1,110 1,164 APAC 146 99 93 12.0% 8.9% 8.0% EMEA 736 687 739 60.3% 61.9% 63.5% Americas 338 324 332 27.7% 29.2% 28.5% Males total 3,465 3,138 3,289 APAC 390 253 247 11.2% 8.1% 7.5% EMEA 1,835 1,726 1,856 53.0% 55.0% 56.4% Americas 1,240 1,159 1,186 35.8% 36.9% 36.1% G4-11: EMPLOYEES COVERED BY BARGAINING SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES: LABOR PRACTICES AND AGREEMENTS DECENT WORK The percentage of employees covered by collective MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT bargaining agreements by ‘significant locations of operaG4-LA1: TOTAL NUMBER AND RATES OF NEW tion’ varies widely between regions, being lowest in North EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER America (USA 5%, Canada12%), which is characteristic to BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION the region. In APAC, collective bargaining agreements are practice Total number of new hires in 2015 was 673 (710), out of in the chemical industry only in few countries, Indonesia which 31% (33%) were female and 69% (67%) male. The having 73%, and Korea and Thailand 100% of employees new hires include summer trainee positions. Kemira’s new covered with collective bargaining agreements. hiring reflects the similar degree of diversity as in previous In many European countries all employees are covered years. by collective bargaining agreements, especially in Northern Kemira is reporting the employee turnover rate by total Europe (Finland, Sweden) and Southern Europe (Spain, and voluntary turnover. France, Italy). In Central and Eastern Europe the percentThe total turnover rate was 10.5% in 2015 compared to age varies (UK 30%, the Netherlands 65%, Germany 40%, 17.3% in 2014. The total turnover includes divestments, Austria 100%, Slovenia 80%, Czech Republic 49%), and for which created bigger part of turnover during 2014. Some example in Poland there are no collective bargaining small organizational changes driven by market and agreements. business situation and integrating acquired business In Brazil all employees are covered by a collective impacted turnover, but there were no organization-wide agreement, and in Uruguay, blue-collar employees and changes implemented during 2015. The turnover rate in administrative clerks are covered, representing 66% of EMEA was 8.8% (19.2%), which was lowest of the regions. employees. The highest turnover rate was in Americas 13.2% vs.15.4% The definition used for ‘significant locations of operain 2014. tion’ refers to countries where we have 10 or more employThe voluntary turnover rate was 5.5% (5.1%) in 2015 ees, and which counted together 99% of all employees. In being highest below the age of 30 years (10.8% vs. 8.2% in Kemira’s case there are 26 countries with 10 or more 2014) and females (8.2% vs. 7.1% in 2014). Total and employees. voluntary turnover doesn´t include fixed-term contracts. 42 2015 GRI REPORT G4-LA1A: NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES W/O ACQUISITIONS BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION Number of new hires % of total new hires SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Total new hires 673 710 431 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% New hires by age group <30 293 291 201 43.5% 41.0% 46.6% 30–50 312 348 196 46.4% 49.0% 45.5% >50 68 71 34 10.1% 10.0% 7.9% New hires by gender Females 208 236 141 30.9% 33.2% 32.7% Males 465 474 290 69.1% 66.8% 67.3% New hires by region APAC 60 60 42 8.9% 8.5% 9.7% EMEA 373 418 239 55.4% 58.9% 55.5% Americas 240 232 150 35.7% 32.7% 34.8% G4-LA1B: TOTAL TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION Turnover Turnover, % 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Total turnover 490 736 715 10.5% 17.3% 16.1% Turnover by age group <30 78 96 77 13.6% 18.6% 11.9% 30–50 263 428 357 9.8% 17.6% 14.6% >50 149 212 281 10.4% 16.3% 20.8% Turnover by gender Females 144 242 198 11.80% 21.8% 17.0% Males 346 494 517 10.0% 15.7% 15.7% Turnover by region APAC 56 44 62 10.4% 12.5% 18.2% EMEA 225 464 445 8.8% 19.2% 17.1% Americas 209 228 208 13.2% 15.4% 13.7% G4-LA1C: VOLUNTARY TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION Voluntary turnover Voluntary turnover, % 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Total voluntary turnover 258 218 205 5.5% 5.1% 4.6% Voluntary turnover by age group <30 62 42 35 10.8% 8.2% 5.4% 30–50 168 144 147 6.3% 5.9% 6.0% >50 28 32 23 1.9% 2.5% 1.7% Voluntary turnover by gender Females 100 79 64 8.2% 7.1% 5.5% Males 158 139 141 4.6% 4.4% 4.3% Voluntary turnover by region APAC 39 34 34 7.3% 9.7% 10.0% EMEA 139 101 96 5.4% 4.2% 3.7% Americas 80 83 75 5.1% 5.6% 4.9% 2015 43 GRI REPORT G4-LA2: BENEFITS PROVIDED TO FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES THAT ARE NOT PROVIDED TO TEMPORARY OR PART-TIME EMPLOYEES, BY MEASURES TO IMPROVE SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SIGNIFICANT LOCATIONS OF OPERATION SAFETY CULTURE FOCUS ON Benefit programs in Kemira differ depending on regional INCIDENT PREVENTION AND and country specific practices, and there are no major RISK MITIGATION. changes to the practices since 2014. In most countries the same benefits are offered to full-time and part-time employees, and for temporary employees hired directly by Kemira, if the temporary contract exceeds certain lenght. Some exceptions apply, for example the sickness fund in Finland is available to full-time employees with more than a one year contract, and some countries offer broader MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY insurance and/or retirement benefits for permanent G4-LA6: TYPE OF INJURY AND RATES OF full-time employees. In North America, the eligibility for INJURY, OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES, LOST DAYS, benefits varies, in USA employees are eligible if they work AND ABSENTEEISM, AND TOTAL NUMBER OF at minimum 20 hrs per week. Benefit practices are country WORK-RELATED FATALITIES, BY REGION AND BY specific and are not related to individual locations of GENDER operations. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operaKemira reports workplace safety both for own employees tion’ refers to countries where we have 10 or more employand contractors working at Kemira sites. Since 2013, ees, and which counted together 99% of all employees. In Kemira is reporting only TRI (Total Recordable Injuries per Kemira’s case there are 26 countries with 10 or more million working hours). The TRI frequency includes fataliemployees. ties, lost time injuries, restricted work cases and medical treatment cases of both Kemira employees and contracMATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS tors working for Kemira. Kemira does not collect Incident G4-LA4: MINIMUM NOTICE PERIODS data by gender. All injuries are treated in a similar way REGARDING OPERATIONAL CHANGES, independent of gender. In 2015, there has been no fatalities INCLUDING WHETHER THESE ARE SPECIFIED IN but one permanent injury to the hand. No fatalities have COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS been associated with Kemira employees since 2005. Information regarding absenteeism is collected locally and Kemira follows all local laws and regulations and other not consolidated on Group level. agreements regarding notice periods. Notice periods and the time period for the consultation process relating to operational changes varies by country and region, starting from 14 days for smaller changes to up to three months in some countries and for major changes. G4-LA6: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY INDICATORS 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Total Recorable Injuries per million working hours, TRI1 7.2 5.8 7.1 8.5 APAC 0.6 0 0 EMEA 10.6 6.1 9.2 Americas 5.7 6.4 5.1 Number of Lost Time Injuries per million working hours, LTA12 2.3 2.7 1 TRI per million work hours = Lost Time Injuries (LTA1) + Restricted work cases + Medical treatment cases, 1 year rolling average. Injury numbers include Kemira personnel and Contractors. The Contractor work hours have been included in 2014. As of 2013, Kemira reports only TRI. 2 LTA1: Injuries causing an employee absence at least one day, Kemira personnel. This figure was reported for the last time in 2012. MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION employee categories. In 2015, appr. 36,100 (14,700) training G4-LA9: AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER hours were registered in the Learning Management system, YEAR PER EMPLOYEE BY GENDER, AND BY which now covers eLearnings, global training programs, EMPLOYEE CATEGORY and part of the local trainings. Implementation to cover all regions will continue in 2016. Parts of external trainings are Kemira continued the implementation of a global Learning not yet included in the hours. Training hours for biggest Management System including a training register during countries currently registered in the system are e.g. Finland 2015 for new countries and functional areas. Training 6,800 (5,800) hrs, UK 5,800 (3,200) hrs, Sweden 9,500 register does not yet cover 100% of the organization, thus (1,000) hrs, USA 4,800 hrs, and Netherlands 4,000 hrs. The distribution of training hours does not cover gender and average hours of training do not differ by gender. 44 2015 GRI REPORT G4-LA10: PROGRAMS FOR SKILLS • Lean management related training in basic and MANAGEMENT AND LIFELONG LEARNING THAT advanced level in variety of methodologies to support SUPPORT THE CONTINUED EMPLOYABILITY OF SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS continued implementation of lean principles and tools. EMPLOYEES AND ASSIST THEM IN MANAGING • Customer claim process training for contributors and CAREER ENDINGS stakeholders in all segments and regions, including training for advanced capabilities for resolution owners Competence development and training programs as well as and investigators. leadership development programs (internal and external) • Management system auditor trainings for lead auditors are provided to all employees in order to support employee and internal auditors in accordance with ISO 19011. development. Leadership development is planned and • eLearning programs in variety of topics to ensure global organized globally by the Human Resources function, while compliance and knowledge development, e.g. Human segments and functions are responsible for the profesrights and business, Anti-Corruption, Communicating sional skills development. on Chemical Hazards – Globally Harmonized System, PPE: Personal protective equipment (Kemira Safety Our development portfolio consists of: eLearning). • On-the-job training to enhance technical/professional • Induction and training programs in all regions for competencies employees that joined Kemira with the AkzoNobel • External and internal coaching and mentoring Paper Chemicals acquisition. • Training aiming at validated certificates and diplomas • In 2015, approximately 95% of employees had comin manufacturing pleted Kemira’s Code of Conduct training. • External trainings for professional skills and leadership development. Employees can also be reimbursed for further education costs partly or fully, and study leaves G4-LA11: PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES are available in many countries. RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE AND • Leadership development programs and on-the-job CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS, BY GENDER learning opportunities for leaders e.g. in business AND BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY projects. All permanent employees, who are not absent for an Examples of global or regional programs offered during extended time period because of leaves, for example, are 2015: covered by our global performance and development • Implementation of Project Management Framework discussion (PDD) process. The global PDD process covers and Project Execution Manual in order to harmonize both white collar and blue collar employees. Temporary internal processes, improve cross-functional communiemployees' inclusion in the PDD process is evaluated cation and introduce Kemira Engineering Standards. case-by-case, depending on the length of the contract. Key persons in Manufacturing, Site Engineering, and related functions (Engineering&Technology, Lean and Sourcing) trained in global guidelines. G4-LA11: PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE AND CAREER REVIEWS BY GENDER AND BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY Employees PDD Coverage, % Performance and Development Discussion (PDD) 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Total permanent employees not absent* 4,440 4,019 4,281 PDD's by gender Employees covered in Global PDD process 4,147 3,803 2,382 93% 95% 56% Females covered in Global PDD process 1,030 977 816 96% 95% 77% Males covered in Global PDD process 3,117 2,826 1,566 93% 94% 49% PDD's by employee category White collars covered in Global PDD process 2,730 2,317 97% 98% Blue collars covered in Global PDD process 1,417 1,486 88% 89% * All permanent employees, who are not absent for an extended time period, because of leaves, for example, are covered by global performance and development discussion process. 2015 45 GRI REPORT MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-LA12 COMPOSITION OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES PER EMPLOYEE CATEGORY ACCORDING TO GENDER, AGE GROUP, MINORITY GROUP MEMBERSHIP, AND OTHER SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS INDICATORS OF DIVERSITY The number of females in the Management Board and Board of Directors has remained the same in 2015 as in 2014. The percentage share of females (26%) in the total number of employees has remained the same in 2015 as in 2014. The number of females in executive positions (Directors and above) has remained approximately at the same level (22% vs. 21% in 2014). G4-LA12A: COMPOSITION OF GOVERNANCE BODIES BY GENDER AND AGE GROUP Total % 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Management Board Total 9 9 11 Females 2 2 2 22% 22% 18% Males 7 7 9 78% 78% 82% By age group <30 0 0 0 0% 0% 0% 30–50 5 6 5 56% 67% 45% >50 4 3 6 44% 33% 55% Board of Directors Total 6 6 5 Females 2 2 2 33% 33% 40% Males 4 4 3 67% 67% 60% By age group <30 0 0 0 0% 0% 0% 30–50 0 0 0 0% 0% 0% >50 6 6 5 100% 100% 100% EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Women in executive and other positions 2015 2014 Management Board 22% 22% Executive positions excluding Management Board* 22% 21% White collars 39% 37% Blue collars 5% 11% Total employees 26% 26% * Positions from Director to Senior Vice-President G4-LA12B: BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY GENDER AND AGE GROUP Total % 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Total employees 4,685 4,248 4,453 100% 100% 100% <30 575 515 646 12% 12% 15% 30–50 2,672 2,435 2,453 57% 57% 55% >50 1,438 1,298 1,354 31% 31% 30% Females in total 1,220 1,110 1,164 26% 26% 26% <30 188 172 205 15% 15% 18% 30–50 773 705 710 63% 64% 61% >50 259 233 249 21% 21% 21% Males in total 3,465 3,138 3,289 74% 74% 74% <30 387 343 441 11% 11% 13% 30–50 1,899 1,730 1,743 55% 55% 53% >50 1,179 1,065 1,105 34% 34% 34% 46 2015 GRI REPORT MATERIAL ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT WOMEN AND MEN FOR LABOR PRACTICES G4-LA13: RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND G4-LA14: PERCENTAGE OF NEW SUPPLIERS SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS REMUNERATION OF WOMEN TO MEN BY THAT WERE SCREENED USING LABOR EMPLOYEE CATEGORY, BY SIGNIFICANT PRACTICES CRITERIA LOCATIONS OF OPERATION At the screening phase of new suppliers, the vendor is Kemira operates a global job structure that is applied to all asked to accept Kemira’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers, white collar employees. The job structure describes job Distributors and Agents (CoC-SDA) in alignment with our families and the respective job roles with required qualifiNew vendor creation process. Kemira’s CoC-SDA sets cations and main responsibilities. The job structure links to requirements for responsible business conduct, respect for job grades, which define the salary range and the incentive human rights and appropriate working conditions, and opportunity for a specific job role. Factors impacting salary environmental responsibility. increases include country-specific salary budgets, the Kemira Group Sourcing & Procurement policy (2014) position of an employee in the salary range and employee requires that all Kemira suppliers must follow our CoC-SDA performance evaluated as part of the performance mangein their supply activities relating to Kemira. Adherence to ment process. Incentive payouts are based on measured these principles is to be confirmed in writing by all repeat achievement for pre-defined targets on the company, unit suppliers with an annual spend value exceeding EUR and individual levels. 200,000 for indirect and EUR 500,000 for direct materials. The job grade and salary data information allows If a supplier refuses to give such a confirmation and if Kemira to evaluate, analyse and implement equal remuKemira cannot otherwise confirm that the supplier adheres neration. to acceptable ethical principles, an evaluation is performed by our Sourcing personnel to potentially cease all purAVERAGE RATIO OF BASIC SALARY OF WOMEN chases from such supplier. TO MEN BY COUNTRY1 By the end of 2015, 93% of Kemira’s repeat suppliers Country 2015 2014 had signed the CoC-SDA. About 100% of new suppliers Finland 93% 93% within the threshold limits defined in the Sourcing & USA 91% 94% Procurement policy were screened using social and Sweden 96% 103% environmental criteria. See complementary information in Poland 91% 93% the section Responsible supply chain. Canada 86% 94% UK 96% 96% MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE China 94% 93% MECHANISMS Netherlands 97% (N/A) G4-LA16: NUMBER OF GRIEVANCES ABOUT 1 LABOR PRACTICES FILED, ADDRESSED, AND White collar employees, calculated as average of all job grades' average ratio. The table covers the data from the largest countries of RESOLVED THROUGH FORMAL GRIEVANCE operation. MECHANISMS There were no grievances about labour practices filed The table above covers the data from the largest countries through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting of operations. period, nor filed prior to the reporting period and resolved during the reporting period. 2015 47 GRI REPORT 3.3.2 HUMAN RIGHTS IN 2015, THE HUMAN RIGHTS SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-HR3: TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF TRAINING WAS TARGETED TO DISCRIMINATION AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS 2,850 EMPLOYEES WITH TAKEN COMPLETION RATE 80%. There were no confirmed incidents of discrimination in 2015. MATERIAL ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4-HR4: OPERATIONS AND SUPPLIERS IDENTIFIED IN WHICH THE RIGHT TO EXERCISE Suppliers, Agents and Distributors when conducting FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE business with Kemira. BARGAINING MAY BE VIOLATED OR AT In 2014, Kemira conducted a Group level Human Rights SIGNIFICANT RISK, AND MEASURES TAKEN TO Impact Assessment to identify key areas of human rights SUPPORT THESE RIGHTS risks in our value chain and gaps in our current management approach for human rights. Our current management Kemira respects the right of all employees to establish or approach was assessed against the Operational Principles join trade unions and other representative organizations. of the UN Guiding Principles of Business and Human We are committed to respecting the International Rights. No evidence of infringing human rights was found. Labour Organization's Declaration on Fundamental High risk areas in our value chain arise from our business Principles and Rights at Work as stated in the Kemira Code relationships, product stewardship, and emerging market of Conduct. Kemira is also a signatory of the UN Global expansion. Kemira’s greatest human rights risk lies in our Compact since March 2014. We expect our suppliers to upstream and downstream business relationships, respect these principles and commit to the Kemira Code of especially where our power of influence is limited. Our Conduct for Suppliers, Agents and Distributors when human rights risk exposure is high due to our operations conducting business with us. Kemira employees’ awarewith hazardous substances, which impact rights to health ness on the their rights for freedom of association and and workplace safety. Kemira’s expansion into emerging collective bargaining is enhanced by training on the Code of markets may increase exposure to human rights risk. Conduct, which is provided to all Kemira employees. In In 2015, we organized Human Rights training to all who 2015, Kemira did not identify any violations of freedom of in their job positions are responsible for ensuring that association or collective bargaining in our own operations. Human rights are respected in our business relationships We also evaluated supplier related risks on labor rights, and in our own operations. The training was targeted to and no evidence was found on suppliers restricting their 2,850 persons, and the training was completed by 80% of employees’ opportunities to exercise freedom of associathe target group. tion and collective bargaining. As no risks for violations were identified, no support measures were taken. For MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT additional information, see focus area Responsible G4-HR10: PERCENTAGE OF NEW SUPPLIERS business practices for the Code of Conduct training and for THAT WERE SCREENED USING HUMAN RIGHTS Kemira Ethics and Compliance Hotline as an internal CRITERIA reporting channel for any violations on employee rights, and G4-11 for Employees covered by collective bargaining At the screening phase of new suppliers, the vendor is agreements. asked to accept Kemira’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Distributors and Agents (CoC-SDA) in alignment with our MATERIAL ASPECT: ASSESSMENT New vendor creation process. Kemira’s CoC-SDA sets G4-HR9: TOTAL NUMBER AND PERCENTAGE requirements for responsible business conduct, respect for OF OPERATIONS THAT HAVE BEEN SUBJECT human rights and appropriate working conditions, and TO HUMAN RIGHTS REVIEWS OR IMPACT environmental responsibility. ASSESSMENTS Kemira Group Sourcing & Procurement policy (2014) requires that all Kemira suppliers must follow our CoC-SDA Kemira is committed to respecting and supporting fundain their supply activities relating to Kemira. Adherence to mental human rights as defined by the United Nations these principles is to be confirmed in writing by all repeat Universal Declaration of Human Rights and stated in the suppliers with an annual spend value exceeding EUR Kemira Code of Conduct. Kemira became a signatory of the 200,000 for indirect and EUR 500,000 for direct materials. United Nations Global Compact in March 2014. Our If a supplier refuses to give such a confirmation and if employees’ awareness on human rights is enhanced by Kemira cannot otherwise confirm that the supplier adheres providing all Kemira employees with training on the Code of to acceptable ethical principles, an evaluation is performed Conduct. Kemira expects its suppliers to respect these by our Sourcing personnel to potentially cease all purprinciples and to commit to the Kemira Code of Conduct for chases from such supplier. 48 2015 GRI REPORT By the end of 2015, 93% of Kemira’s repeat suppliers 3.3.3 SOCIETY had signed the CoC-SDA. About 100% of new suppliers SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS within the threshold limits defined in the Sourcing & Procurement policy were screened using social and MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES environmental criteria. See complementary information in G4-SO1: PERCENTAGE OF OPERATIONS the section Responsible supply chain. WITH IMPLEMENTED LOCAL COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT, IMPACT ASSESSMENTS, AND MATERIAL ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS MECHANISMS G4-HR12: NUMBER OF GRIEVANCES ABOUT Kemira encourages initiatives at local level to support HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACTS FILED, ADDRESSED, positive interaction with the communities where we AND RESOLVED THROUGH FORMAL GRIEVANCE operate. Our community involvement target is to engage all MECHANISMS Kemira sites with over 50 employees (26 sites in 2015; 26 sites in 2014) in local community initiatives at least once in No grievances regarding human rights impacts were filed in the period 20132015 (cumulative %). By the end of 2015, 2015. One grievance about human rights, which was filed in 100% of Kemira’s sites had organized local events and 2014, was addressed and resolved through formal grievactivities, with some sites hosting multiple activities over ance mechanisms in 2015. the year. Globally, Kemira concentrates its sponsorships and donations to education related programs in chemistry and technology, mainly addressed to children and youth. Locally, Kemira participates in the local communities in many ways that relate to safety in the vicinity of our manufacturing sites, people safety and wellbeing, and education related to water and chemistry. See complementary information in the section Responsibility towards the local communities. G4-SO2: OPERATIONS WITH SIGNIFICANT ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS ON LOCAL COMMUNITIES Most of Kemira’s manufacturing sites are located outside residential areas in industrial parks that are designed for the purpose of industrial development. A potential negative impact on the safety and environment of local communities could take place in case of accidental incidents involving a leakage of chemicals. Kemira's EHSQ management approach includes assessments and emission monitoring at every manufacturing site as defined by the regulatory requirements, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 management systems and Kemira internal EHS standards. Each Kemira site has programs and contingency plans in place to ensure the safety of surrounding communities. This is done in close cooperation with local environmental authorities. To enhance the safe use of chemicals, Kemira works in close cooperation with many local chemical agencies. Each Kemira site is classified for actual and potential negative impacts of operations (at the end of 2015, Kemira had 64 sites). A three-level ranking system defines our internal environmental requirements and audit frequency for each site: higher ranking meaning higher requirements. Environmental classification results 2015: • High-ranking sites: 30% • Medium-ranking sites: 30% • Low-ranking sites: 40% 2015 49 GRI REPORT We proactively take preventive actions and mitigation MATERIAL ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY measures for the operations that involve potential negative G4-SO6: TOTAL VALUE OF POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS BY COUNTRY AND RECIPIENT/ SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS impacts on the local communities. In addition to continuous safety and risk management work, Kemira focuses on a BENEFICIARY continuous dialogue with local communities to understand and implement activities that respond to their needs, The Kemira Code of Conduct and the Kemira Group Gifts, concerns and expectations, and to provide opportunities Entertainment and Anti-Bribery Policy prohibit any for our own employees to participate in local community financial support to politicians, political parties or political initiatives. organizations. No financial or in-kind political contribuFor complementary information, see Safety at manutions paid by Kemira have come to Kemira's attention facturing sites. during 2015. MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR G4-SO3: TOTAL NUMBER AND PERCENTAGE OF G4-SO7: TOTAL NUMBER OF LEGAL ACTIONS OPERATIONS ASSESSED FOR RISKS RELATED FOR ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR, ANTITRUST, TO CORRUPTION AND THE SIGNIFICANT RISKS AND MONOPOLY PRACTICES AND THEIR IDENTIFIED OUTCOMES In 2015, corruption risk at Kemira was evaluated through Kemira was a defendant in two legal proceedings in which risk assessment questionnaire, interviews with key damages were sought for violations of competition law, on management and the rolling audit plan. No material risks the basis of events which occurred before year 2000. These related to corruption were identified through the risk proceedings are described in the Note 30 to the Consoliassessment. Based on the revenue generated in locations dated Financial Statements: Commitments and contingent subject to audit in 2015, about 90% of the operations were liabilities, under heading Litigation. assessed for risks related to corruption. In late 2015, several class action suits were filed in the United States based on alleged violation of antitrust laws relating to sale of certain water treatment chemicals. In G4-SO4: COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING some of those claims, Kemira was named as a defendant ON ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND among other defendants. According to Kemira’s preliminary PROCEDURES assessment, these law suits against Kemira lack merits. In 2015, Kemira had no other pending or completed Kemira’s principles for anti-corruption are included in the legal actions initiated under national or international laws Kemira Code of Conduct and in the Kemira Group Gifts, designed for regulating anti-competitive behavior, antiEntertainment and Anti-Bribery Policy. Both documents are trust, or monopoly practices. available to all employees on Kemira intranet, and the Code of Conduct is also publicly available at www.kemira.com. MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE We expect our suppliers and other business partners to G4-SO8: MONETARY VALUE OF SIGNIFICANT conduct their business with integrity and commit to Kemira FINES AND TOTAL NUMBER OF NON-MONETARY Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Agents and Distributors SANCTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH (CoC-SDA) in their business activities with Kemira. The LAWS AND REGULATIONS CoC-SDA states that Kemira expects its business partners to adhere to local legislation and avoid corruption in all its No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for nonforms. compliance with laws and regulations came to Kemira's In 2015, Anti-Bribery eLearning was introduced at attention in 2015. This is based on the information availKemira to selected personnel groups, which needs to have able through our Group legal department, Group Finance compherensive understanding on Kemira anti-corruption and Administration and the Environmental, Health, Safety principles. Employee awareness on anti-corruption matters and Quality organization. is also employed through our Code of Conduct training, which is mandatory to all of our employees. MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-SO9: PERCENTAGE OF NEW SUPPLIERS G4-SO5: CONFIRMED INCIDENTS OF THAT WERE SCREENED USING CRITERIA FOR CORRUPTION AND ACTIONS TAKEN IMPACTS ON SOCIETY There were no confirmed incidents of corruption or public At the screening phase of new suppliers, the vendor is legal cases regarding corruption in 2015. asked to accept Kemira’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Distributors and Agents (CoC-SDA) in alignment with our New vendor creation process. Kemira’s CoC-SDA sets requirements for responsible business conduct, respect for human rights and appropriate working conditions, and environmental responsibility. 50 2015 GRI REPORT Kemira Group Sourcing & Procurement policy (2014) requires that all Kemira suppliers must follow our CoC-SDA BY THE END OF 2015, SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS in their supply activities relating to Kemira. Adherence to these principles is to be confirmed in writing by all repeat 93% OF KEMIRA´S suppliers with an annual spend value exceeding EUR 200,000 for indirect and EUR 500,000 for direct materials. SUPPLIERS HAVE SIGNED If a supplier refuses to give such a confirmation and if THE CODE OF CONDUCT FOR Kemira cannot otherwise confirm that the supplier adheres to acceptable ethical principles, an evaluation is performed SUPPLIERS, DISTRIBUTORS by our Sourcing personnel to potentially cease all purAND AGENTS. chases from such supplier. By the end of 2015, 93% of Kemira’s repeat suppliers had signed the CoC-SDA. About 100% of new suppliers within the threshold limits defined in the Sourcing & Procurement policy were screened using social and environmental criteria. See complementary information in the section Responsible supply chain. MATERIAL ASPECT: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-SO11: NUMBER OF GRIEVANCES ABOUT IMPACTS ON SOCIETY FILED, ADDRESSED, AND RESOLVED THROUGH FORMAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS There were no grievances about impacts on society filed through formal grievance mechanisms in 2015, nor grievances filed prior and resolved in 2015. 2015 51 GRI REPORT 3.3.4 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY G4-PR2: TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND VOLUNTARY CODES CONCERNING THE HEALTH SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY AND SAFETY IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS AND G4-PR1: PERCENTAGE OF SIGNIFICANT SERVICES DURING THEIR LIFE CYCLE, BY TYPE PRODUCT AND SERVICE CATEGORIES FOR OF OUTCOMES WHICH HEALTH AND SAFETY IMPACTS ARE ASSESSED FOR IMPROVEMENT In 2015, Kemira did not record any cases of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes resulting in a Product stewardship is the key pillar in the Responsible fine, penalty or warning. The six incidents of non-compliCare program, a voluntary initiative of the global chemical ance with voluntary codes that were reported in 2013 have industry (International Council of Chemical Associations, all been resolved during 2014–2015. ICCA) and signed by Kemira. Product stewardship aims to make health, safety and environmental protection an MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING integral part of the life cycle of chemical products. For us G4-PR3: TYPE OF PRODUCT AND SERVICE this is a platform to identify risks at an early stage and INFORMATION REQUIRED BY THE manage those risks along the value chain, thereby enabling ORGANIZATION'S PROCEDURES FOR PRODUCT adequate protection of human health and the environment. AND SERVICE INFORMATION AND LABELING, All our products are evaluated for product safety and AND PERCENTAGE OF SIGNIFICANT PRODUCT regulatory compliance aspects prior to market launch. Our AND SERVICE CATEGORIES SUBJECT TO SUCH New Product Development (NPD) process has regular INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS sustainability, product safety and regulatory compliance reviews included at every stage of the process. When a new Kemira’s product portfolio contains 7 major product lines product is introduced to the portfolio it undergoes a and approximately 2,400 different products. All of them are product stewardship and compliance review. Product documented and labeled according to legal requirements, regulatory compliance audits are conducted regularly at including the identification of hazardous components and our manufacturing sites. safe use information. Kemira provides Safety Data Sheets Proactive measures are in place for the reduction of for all products, although in most jurisdictions Safety Data potential health hazards and relating to anticipated future Sheets are mandatory only for hazardous products. In legislation. For example, management plans are defined for addition to Label and Safety Data Sheet information, more those substances in the portfolio that have properties that detailed information about the products and their raw may pose an unacceptable risk to human health, safety or materials is provided upon request. environment. The management measures may include In 2015, the Kemira Product Stewardship & Regulatory replacement for a safer alternative, discontinuation of Affairs team responded to approximately 8,770 (5,400 in using the substance and/or risk management measures to 2014) customer requests on product safety and/or regulaensure the safe use of the substance. tory compliance on a global scale. In 2015, a Product Stewardship Community was launched in Kemira. The purpose is to increase knowledge and awareness on the areas of the safe use of chemicals, risks related to chemicals across the Kemira organization. Furthermore, the community aims to further improve Kemira’s ability to be prepared and to react timely to changing requirements such as regulatory changes, changes in customer requirements, voluntary schemes, developments in the Responsible Care initiative, or public opinion. Kemira’s Operational Excellence Board has endorsed the need and purpose for the Product Stewardship Community. Our overall management approach to improve the safety and quality of our operations is based on the KEMIRA´S PRODUCT PORTFOLIO systematic implementation of certified Environmental, Health, Safety and Quality management systems. In 2015, CONTAINS 7 PRODUCT LINES audit program covered 77 site locations, which included AND APPROXIMATELY 2,400 manufacturing sites, major office locations and R&D centers. Certification rate for site locations were 88% for DIFFERENT PRODUCTS. ISO 9001 and 86% for ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. 52 2015 GRI REPORT G4-PR3: PRODUCT AND SERVICE INFORMATION PROVIDED Topic Product and service information provided SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The sourcing of components of the Only if requested by customers product or service Content, particularly with regard to As required by law, always in Safety Data Sheets (SDS) and on the Labels. Additional information about substances that might produce an chemicals in our products for voluntary certification/compliance schemes such as ecolabeling is also environmental or social impact provided to customers upon request and when applicable. Safe use of the product or service Safe use of a product or service is communicated in the SDS’s and on the Labels. Additional information about the use, dosage and application is provided to customers when applicable Disposal of the product and When legally required, disposal of a product and environmental/social impacts are communicated in the environmental/social impacts SDS’s and on the Labels G4-PR4: TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS NON-COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND G4-PR6: SALE OF BANNED OR DISPUTED VOLUNTARY CODES CONCERNING PRODUCT PRODUCTS AND SERVICE INFORMATION AND LABELING, BY TYPE OF OUTCOMES Kemira follows all relevant chemical laws and regulations, and thus does not sell any banned products. Kemira is Customer complaints, claims or non-conformities are proactive in mitigating health, safety, environment or image actively monitored, evaluated and corrected as required by related risks. We are continuously screening substances the quality management system in use at Kemira. with any regulatory restrictions, or with substitution In 2015, there were 72 (115 cases in 2014) customer requirements by non-regulatory stakeholders. For example, complaints related to labeling of which 31 cases were we closely follow the Endocrine disruptor definition found in EMEA region, 34 in Americas region and 7 in APAC development. In 2015, we screened our current portfolio region. The most typical incident was that a wrong label and identified substances that may be problematic or had been used in packaging. The corrective action planning subject to further restrictions in the future. Those subfor 4 cases was in the process at the year end. stances will be subject to development of internal manageIn 2015, there were 4 (10 in 2014) incidents related to ment plans. The management measures may include “non compliance with regulations”. Investigation result replacement for a safer alternative, discontinuation of have indicted that all four cases had different root causes. using the substance and/or risk management measures to The handling of all cases was completed by year-end. ensure the safe use of the substance. There were no incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine, penalty or a warning. MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT COMPLIANCE G4-PR9: MONETARY VALUE OF SIGNIFICANT FINES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE PROVISION AND USE OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES In 2015, Kemira did not record any regulatory non-compliances that would have resulted in fines. 2015 53 GRI REPORT Principles as well as the outcomes of such actions. GRI 4. REPORTING Content Index has a reference to the indicators relating to Reporting Principles the UN Global Compact reporting, PRINCIPLES www.unglobalcompact.org. The Kemira GRI report 2015 forms part of the Kemira Annual Report 2015, and has been prepared in accordance 4.2 REPORTING SCOPE with the Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines. Some of the General Standard Disclosures or Specific Standard Disclosures according to the GRI G4 G4-13: SIGNIFICANT CHANGES DURING THE Guidelines are reported in the other sections of the Kemira REPORTING PERIOD Annual Report 2015: i.e. in the Business Report, Corporate Governance Statement or Financial Statement. The At the end of 2015, Kemira operated 64 (59) manufacturing Business Report also reflects the principles set out in the sites. Our environmental reporting scope included 67 (63) International Integrated Reporting <IR> Framework. sites according to Kemira’s consolidation rules. During The contents of our Business and GRI reports have 2015, Kemira integrated five new sites due to the acquisibeen reviewed and approved by Kemira’s Board of Directors tion of AkzoNobel’s paper chemicals business, while we in February 2016. Contents related to our economic, closed one of the purchased manufacturing sites and environmental and social performance have been indepenadditionally one site in North America. dently assured by Deloitte against the GRI principles for There were no significant changes in our share capital defining report content and quality. structure or other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations. For further information, please see the Consolidated Financial Statements: Note 33. There were no significant changes along our supply 4.1 REPORTING FRAMEWORK chains in terms of the locations of material and service suppliers, or our selection or termination of suppliers. FOLLOWING THE GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING FRAMEWORK G4-17: ENTITIES INCLUDED IN THE ORGANIZATION'S CONSOLIDATED The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is an international FINANCIAL STATEMENTS independent organization with a network-based structure, which also constitutes a Collaborating Centre of the United The reporting boundaries of this GRI report mainly follow Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). GRI’s Sustainthe reporting boundaries of Kemira’s Consolidated Finanability Reporting Framework enables companies and cial Statements. A more detailed description of the organizations to measure, understand and communicate reporting boundaries and the completeness of the informainformation about the economic, environmental and social tion is provided in the table Reporting scope (G4-19, G4-20, impacts caused by their everyday activities. The GRI and G4-21). The entities included in Kemira’s Consolidated Sustainability Reporting Guidelines are the world’s most Financial Statements are listed in the Consolidated widely used comprehensive sustainability reporting Financial Statement: Note 34; Group companies. standards. The fourth generation of the Guidelines, G4, represents a consolidated framework for reporting performance against various codes and norms for sustainability G4-18: PROCESS FOR DEFINING GRI REPORT including the EU Directive for Non-Financial information CONTENT AND ASPECT BOUNDARIES (which will enter into force in 2017) and the UN Global Compact Principles. www.globalreporting.org. The definition of material aspects for Kemira’s GRI reporting in the section Performance disclosures was carried out in accordance with the GRI G4 Principles for defining report COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) FOR content. THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT 1. IDENTIFICATION Kemira became a signatory of the United Nations Global Material aspects relevant to Kemira have been identified Compact in 2014. The UN Global Compact is the world’s on the basis of the topics and concerns raised by our largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiative designed stakeholders. Our stakeholder expectations were most to help businesses respect and promote human rights, recently reviewed in spring 2015. All of our stakeholders implement decent work practices, reduce their environcontinue to highlight the importance of topics such as mental impacts and work against corruption. This Corposustainable products, safety, employee development, rate Responsibility Report 2015 conveys our Communicabusiness ethics and compliance, responsibility along the tion on Progress (COP) in relation to the UN Global Comsupply chain, and reductions in environmental impacts pact’s Ten Principles. GRI G4 indicators are used to report both in our own operations and in the value chain. the actions taken to implement the Global Compact 54 2015 GRI REPORT 2. PRIORITIZATION G4-19–21. Aspect boundaries for the identified material The identified topics and the related material aspects were aspects were defined to reflect whether the impacts occur Reporting Principles prioritized with reference to the relative importance to within or outside of entities owned by Kemira. According to stakeholders, and to the relevance to Kemira’s value Kemira’s consolidation rules, all entities owned by the creation model as well as the relevance of topics to the company for at least 6 months are included. global chemical sector as a whole (GRI 2013, Sustainability The identified material aspects provide a balanced Topics for Sectors: What do stakeholders want to know?). representation of Kemira’s corporate responsibility focus This prioritization procedure identified 36 material aspects areas, which are: Responsible business practices; Sustainout of the 46 aspects in the GRI subject list as duly meeting able products and solutions; Responsibility towards our these criteria, and these aspects were selected as material employees; Responsible supply chain; Responsible aspects for our reporting purposes. manufacturing; and Responsibility towards the local communities where we operate. 3. VALIDATION Data collection practices for the identified material 4. REVIEW aspects were reviewed and defined. These aspects are Our Management Board annually discusses and approves listed together with a detailed description of the respective our corporate responsibility performance and targets. aspect boundaries and data collection practices in table 2015 55 GRI REPORT G4-19–21 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND ASPECT BOUNDARIES G4-20: Aspect G4-21: Aspect Reporting Principles G4-19: Identified material boundaries within boundaries aspects Kemira outside Kemira Data collection practices CATEGORY: ECONOMIC • Economic performance Kemira’s Data is extracted from Kemira’s Enterprise Resource Planning operations* (ERP) system and collected from Kemira consolidated companies. Consolidation on the Group level. CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENT • Materials Kemira’s operations Data is extracted from Kemira’s ERP system and from R&D New • Products and services as covered by our Product Development process documentation. • Transport ERP** • Energy (Scope1 and 2) Kemira’s Data is collected from each production site and consolidated on • Water manufacturing the Group level. • Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) sites*** • Effluents and waste • Compliance • Environmental expenses and investments • Emissions (Scope 3) Kemira value Data is collected from Kemira’s ERP system and the relevant chain from organizational units. Default data and assumptions are as in the suppliers to WBCSD Guidance for Accounting & Reporting Corporate GHG customers Emissions in the Chemical Sector Value Chain. • Supplier Environmental Suppliers Harmony Contract Management Tool used to track suppliers’ Assessments signing of Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Agents and Distributors. Ecovadis database for supplier sustainability assessment. • Environmental Grievance Kemira’s External Kemira’s Compliance and Ethics Hotline. External notifications Mechanism operations* stakeholders collected from Sustainability@Kemira.com CATEGORY: SOCIAL Labor practices and decent work • Employment Kemira’s HR data management system. • Labor/management relations operations* To some extent Kemira uses workers and employees who are • Occupational health and supervised by our contractors, but the related information safety**** is managed locally at respective sites and not collected and • Training and education consolidated globally • Diversity and equal opportunity • Equal remuneration for women and men • Supplier Assessments for Labor Suppliers Harmony Contract Management Tool used to track suppliers’ Practices signing of Code of Conduct for SDA • Labor Practices Grievance Kemira’s External Kemira’s Compliance and Ethics Hotline. Mechanism operations* stakeholders Human rights • Non-discrimination Kemira’s Notifications through Compliance & Ethics Hotline and • Freedom of association and operations* sustainability@kemira.com collective bargaining • Human Rights Assessments • Supplier Human Rights Suppliers Harmony Contract Management Tool used to track suppliers’ Assessments signing of Code of Conduct for SAD. • Human Rights Grievance Kemira’s External Kemira’s Compliance and Ethics Hotline. Mechanism operations* stakeholders External notifications collected from Sustainability@Kemira.com Society • Local communities Kemira’s Data is collected from each region, from Kemira’s legal archive, • Anti-corruption operations* and through notifications from Kemira’s Compliance and Ethics • Public policy Hotline. • Anti-competitive behavior • Compliance • Supplier Assessment for Suppliers Harmony Contract Management Tool used to track suppliers’ Impacts on Society signing of Code of Conduct for SDA. • Grievance Mechanism for Kemira’s External Kemira’s Compliance and Ethics Hotline. Impacts on Society operations* stakeholders External notifications collected from Sustainability@Kemira.com Product responsibility • Customer health and safety Kemira’s Data is extracted from Kemira’s ERP system, from R&D • Product and service labeling operations covered New Product Development process documentation, and from • Marketing communication by ERP Kemira’s legal archives. • Compliance * Kemira’s operations = All operations covered by Kemira’s consolidation rules ** Kemira’s operations covered by ERP = All operations covered by both Kemira’s consolidation rules and the company’s Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) *** Kemira’s manufacturing sites = All manufacturing sites covered by Kemira’s consolidation rules. **** Occupational health & safety: total recordable incident (TRI) figures also cover contractors working at Kemira sites 56 2015 GRI REPORT G4-22: EFFECTS OF ANY RESTATEMENTS 4.3 REPORT PROFILE OF INFORMATION PROVIDED IN PREVIOUS REPORTS, AND THE REASONS FOR SUCH Reporting Principles RESTATEMENTS G4-28: REPORTING PERIOD There is a major restatement for Scope 3 due to more accurate information available in 2015. For more detailed The reporting period is from 1 January to 31 December information see G4-EN17 footnote 1. 2015. G4-23: SIGNIFICANT CHANGES FROM PREVIOUS G4-29: DATE OF THE MOST RECENT PREVIOUS REPORTING PERIODS IN THE SCOPE AND REPORT ASPECT BOUNDARIES Kemira's previous Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 The integration of the paper chemicals business acquired was published on 26 February 2015. from AkzoNobel to Kemira was the main change in 2015. We have reported on Kemira’s environmental perforFive of the six manufacturing sites acquired from AkzoNomance since the early 1990s. Prior to 2010, we used the bel were consolidated with Kemira, one site was closed. Responsible Care Reporting Guidelines of the European Additionally one site in North America was closed. Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) as a reporting framework. The first sustainability report prepared according to the GRI guidelines was published for the reporting year 2011. Comparable reports for the years 2003–2014 are available on Kemira’s website www.kemira.com. G4-30: REPORTING CYCLE Kemira’s corporate responsibility report and financial statements are published annually by calendar year. G4-31: CONTACT POINT FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING THE REPORT If you have any questions regarding this report or its contents, please do not hesitate to contact Kemira’s Communications and Corporate Responsibility. 2015 57 GRI REPORT Areas of accountability Title 5 GOVERNANCE • Responsible business practices Group General Counsel (not a member of the MB, but Governance • Ethics and compliance reports directly to CEO and is a secretary of the Board of Complementary information on Kemira’s corporate governDirectors and the MB) ance is available in the Corporate Governance Statement of • Economic impact (Tax policy, Chief Financial Officer Dividend policy) the Annual Report 2015. • Responsible sourcing EVP, Operational Excellence • Climate Change (Scope 2) • Sustainable products and solutions: Product stewardship GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE AND • Energy efficiency • Climate Change (Scope 1) EVP, Projects & Manufacturing Technology COMPOSITION • EHSQ – Safety related target • Leadership and employee EVP, Human Resources engagement related targets • Sustainable products and Chief Technology Officer solutions: Innovation G4-34: GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE OF THE • Local community engagement SVP, Communications & Corp. ORGANIZATION, INCLUDING COMMITTEES OF • Corporate responsibility Responsibility (reporting directly THE HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY function to CEO, not a member of the Management Board) Kemira’s governance structure is described in the Corporate Governance Statement of the Annual Report 2015. G4-37: PROCESSES FOR CONSULTATION BETWEEN STAKEHOLDERS AND THE G4-35: REPORT THE PROCESS FOR DELEGATING HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY ON ECONOMIC, AUTHORITY FOR ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL TOPICS AND SOCIAL TOPICS FROM THE HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY TO SENIOR EXECUTIVES As a listed company, Kemira can disclose information to AND OTHER EMPLOYEES. the market in alignment with Kemira Oyj’s corporate governance, which is based on the rules of the Articles of Kemira’s operative organization consist of segments and Association, the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act (in functions. While the segments have a strategic role, Finnish: osakeyhtiölaki) and the rules and regulations Kemira’s global functions are responsible for developing applicable to companies listed on the NASDAQ OMX Nordic. policies, processes, guidelines and tools related to their Furthermore, Kemira complies with the Finnish Corporate respective functional areas on a global basis. They oversee Governance Code which is publicly available at www. that such policies and processes are adopted and implecgfinland.fi. All information that is likely to materially mented throughout the company. In particular, Finance & influence the valuation of a listed company must be Administration function is responsible for economic topics, published in such a manner that the information reaches Projects & Manufacturing Technology function is responsiall market participants simultaneously. ble for environmental topics and Communications & Kemira’s general meeting of shareholders is held at Corporate Responsibility function is responsible for social least once a year. Shareholders have the right to demand a topics. The heads of these three functions report to the matter that falls within the competence of the general CEO & President of Kemira who, in turn, reports to the meeting by virtue of the Limited Liability Companies Act to Board of Directors, being the highest governance body. be included in the agenda. The shareholders also have the right to ask questions from the members of the Board of Directors, the CEO and the auditor during the general G4-36: EXECUTIVE-LEVEL POSITIONS meeting. WITH RESPONSIBILITY FOR ECONOMIC, Institutional and private shareholders engage directly ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL TOPICS with the CEO, CFO and Kemira’s Investor Relations. The Head of Investor Relations reports to the Chief Financial The CEO is ultimately accountable for sustainability and Officer. In 2015, Kemira’s Investor Relations hosted overall performance with regard to the corporate responsiapproximately 32 roadshow days and 200 individual bility targets and reports directly to the Board of Directors. meetings with portfolio managers and other representaResponsibilities for the individual targets are shared tives in several countries. between the members of the Management Board (MB), as The employee survey results are reported to the Board outlined below. Segments and functions are responsible of Directors´ Committee Personnel and Remuneration and for implementation and driving performance. to the Board of Directors. Other topics relating to stakeholder relations are reported to the Board of Directors only when material issues are revealed. 58 2015 GRI REPORT G4-38: COMPOSITION OF THE HIGHEST The Finnish Corporate Governance Code and Kemira GOVERNANCE BODY AND ITS COMMITTEES Oyj’s Charter of the Board of Directors define that the Governance members of the Audit Committee are non-executive The composition of Kemira’s highest governance body and directors who are independent of the company and at least its committees is described in the Corporate Governance one member shall be independent of significant shareholdStatement of the Annual Report 2015 in the Board of ers and the members of the Personnel and Remuneration Directors section. Diversity matters regarding the Board of Committee are non-executive directors the majority of Directors are reported in indicator G4-LA12. which shall be independent of the company. All Board members are independent of the company except Dr. Wolfgang Büchele who is the former CEO of G4-39: STATUS OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE Kemira. The Board members are also independent of the BOARD OF DIRECTORS major shareholders of the company, except Chairman Jari Paasikivi. Jari Paasikivi is the CEO of Oras Invest Oy, which The tasks and duties of the Chairman are laid out in the owns 18.2% of Kemira Oyj’s shares. Kemira Oyj's Charter of the Board of Directors. The ChairThe related parties, transactions and disclosure of man of the Board of Directors is a non-executive officer. related parties and transactions are defined in the Kemira The Charter of the Board of Directors is available online at Group Related Party Policy. Related party information is www.kemira.com -> Investors -> Corporate Governance -> disclosed in the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note Group Management -> Board of Directors -> Kemira Board 32, as required by the International Financial Reporting of Directors Charter. Standards (IFRS). As stated in the company’s Code of Conduct, all Kemira employees, as well as the Board of Directors, must recognize and avoid conflicts of interest G4-40: NOMINATION AND SELECTION PROand must always disclose any potential or actual conflict of CESSES FOR THE HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY interest in accordance with applicable Kemira policies. AND ITS COMMITTEES, AND THE CRITERIA USED FOR NOMINATING AND SELECTING HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY MEMBERS ROLE IN SETTING PURPOSE, The 2012 Annual General Meeting (AGM) decided to establish a Nomination Board, consisting of shareholders VALUES, AND STRATEGY or representatives of shareholders, to prepare an annual proposal for the next AGM regarding the composition and remuneration of the Board of Directors. G4-42: THE HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’S The Nomination Board consists of representatives of AND SENIOR EXECUTIVES’ ROLES IN THE Kemira Oyj’s four largest shareholders, based on the DEVELOPMENT, APPROVAL, AND UPDATING situation on August 31 preceding the AGM. The Chairman of OF THE ORGANIZATION’S PURPOSE, VALUE Kemira Oyj’s Board of Directors acts as an expert member. OR MISSION STATEMENTS, STRATEGIES, The authority, composition and responsibilities of the POLICIES, AND GOALS RELATED TO ECONOMIC, Nomination Board are laid out in the Kemira Nomination ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS Board Charter. The Charter of the Nomination Board is available on-line at www.kemira.com -> Investors -> The general meeting of shareholders, the Board of DirecCorporate governance -> Group Management -> Nominators and the Managing Director (President & CEO) are tion Board -> Kemira Nomination Board Charter. responsible for Kemira’s management and operations. Kemira complies with the Finnish Corporate GovernTheir tasks are defined based on the Finnish Limited ance Code (www.cgfinland.fi) and follows its recommendaLiability Companies Act and Kemira Oyj’s Articles of tions for criteria used in selecting the members of the Association. Kemira Oyj’s Charter of the Board of Directors Board, including independence, competence and diversity. lays out that the Board of Directors shall establish the long-term goals of the company and the main strategies for achieving them, approve the Annual Business Plan/Budget G4-41: PROCESSES IN PLACE TO AVOID AND and define and approve key corporate policies in key MANAGEGE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST management control areas like risk management, financial control, financing, internal control, information security, The main tasks and duties of the Board of Directors and corporate communications, human resources, ethical Board Committees are defined in the Kemira Oyj’s Charter values and environment. The Board of Directors approves of the Board of Directors. the interim reports and financial statements as well as the The Finnish Corporate Governance Code defines the corporate responsibility report. evaluation of the independence of the Board of Directors The Managing Director (President & CEO) is responsible and obliges the directors to provide the Board with suffor managing and developing the company and the Kemira ficient information that allows the Board to evaluate their Group in accordance with the instructions and rules issued qualifications and independence, and notify the Board of by the Board of Directors. any changes in such information. The Management Board is responsible for securing the long-term strategic development of the company. The 2015 59 GRI REPORT Management Board also approves the company’s policies G4-46: THE HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY'S and corporate responsibility targets. ROLE IN REVIEWING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE ORGANIZATION'S RISK MANAGEMENT Governance PROCESSES FOR ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL TOPICS COMPETENCIES AND Board of Directors/Audit Committee has the oversight PERFORMANCE EVALUATION responsibility for risk management and approves the Kemira Group Risk Management Policy and supervises the implementation of risk management. G4-43: REPORT THE MEASURES TAKEN Kemira’s Internal Audit function reviews the results of TO DEVELOP AND ENHANCE THE HIGHEST the risk assessment processes annually for audit planning GOVERNANCE BODY’S COLLECTIVE purposes. The risk management process is evaluated by KNOWLEDGE OF ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL the Internal Audit every three years. AND SOCIAL TOPICS The Board of Directors approves interim reports, including G4-47: THE FREQUENCY OF THE HIGHEST quarterly status updates on corporate responsibility GOVERNANCE BODY’S REVIEW OF ECONOMIC, targets, as well as the corporate responsibility report. The ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS, RISKS, Board is also informed about the results of the employee AND OPPORTUNITIES surveys, and regularly reviews Kemira’s EHSQ updates. The tasks and duties of the highest governance body are laid out in the Kemira Oyj’s Charter of the Board of DirecG4-44: PROCESSES AND ACTIONS TAKEN WITH tors. In 2015, the Board of Directors met 12 times. REGARD TO HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY'S PERFORMANCE Annual self-assessment of Board work and performance is ROLE IN SUSTAINABILITY laid out in the Kemira Oyj’s Charter of the Board of Directors. The assessment covers issues and trends affecting REPORTING the company, including governance of economic topics. The resulting action plans are presented to the Nomination Board. G4-48: THE HIGHEST COMMITTEE OR POSITION THAT FORMALLY REVIEWS AND APPROVES THE ORGANIZATION’S SUSTAINABILITY REPORT AND ENSURES THAT ALL MATERIAL ASPECTS ARE ROLE IN RISK MANAGEMENT COVERED Kemira’s corporate responsibility targets are approved by the Management Board and discussed annually with the G4-45: HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY'S ROLE Board of Directors. Performance against targets is publicly IN THE IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT reported in Kemira’s interim reports and the corporate OF ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL responsibility report, which is part of the Annual report. IMPACTS, RISKS, AND OPPORTUNITIES Kemira’s corporate responsibility report is approved by the Board of Directors and assured by an external partner. Risks and opportunities are identified in Kemira's strategy approved by the Board of Directors. Strategy review is a continuous process at Kemira. Early warning signals are presented to the Board of Directors once a month, covering ROLE IN EVALUATING ECONOMIC, information on the markets relevant to the company. A risk report based on the findings of the annual Enterprise Risk ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL Management (ERM) process is annually presented to the PERFORMANCE Board of Directors. G4-49: THE PROCESS FOR COMMUNICATING CRITICAL CONCERNS TO THE HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY Critical concerns are communicated either directly to the Board of Directors or through the Audit Committee, which reviews the effectiveness of internal controls and risk 60 2015 GRI REPORT management. The CEO is responsible for risk management ferred to the members of the Board of Directors within two reporting to the Board of Directors. weeks after the release of Kemira’s interim report January Governance Our employees have an obligation to raise concerns 1 – March 31, 2015. The members of the Board of Directors about possible misconduct against our Code of Conduct or are not eligible for any cash bonus plans, share-based policies. The first point of contact is the direct or relevant incentive plans or supplementary pension plans of Kemira line manager or the Kemira Ethics & Compliance function. Oyj. The remuneration fees are documented in the ManageWe also have an Ethics and Compliance Hotline ment Remuneration Statement. operated by an external service provider. It is available 24/7 for all Kemira employees to report suspected misconduct MANAGING DIRECTOR AND THE MANAGEMENT BOARD in their mother tongue, either by phone or an online form. The remuneration of the Managing Director (President & The reported non-compliance issues are handled by CEO), his Deputy and other members of the Management Compliance Committee, which consists of Kemira Group Board comprises of a monthly salary, benefits and perforGeneral Counsel, Head of Internal Audit and Director, mance-based incentives. The performance-based incenEthics & Compliance. Compliance Committee may escalate tives consist of an annual cash bonus plan and a long-term critical concerns to the Audit Committee of the Board of share-based incentive plan. Neither the Managing Director Directors. Internal Audit reports all violations of Code of nor the other members of the Management Board have a Conduct to the Audit Committee. separate supplementary pension arrangement. A mutual termination notice period of six months applies to the Managing Director. The Managing Director is entitled to a G4-50: NATURE AND TOTAL NUMBER separate severance pay for 12 months if the company OF CRITICAL CONCERNS THAT WERE decides to terminate his/her service contract for reasons COMMUNICATED TO THE HIGHEST not depending on the Managing Director. The remuneration GOVERNANCE BODY AND THE MECHANISMS fees and main principles of the performance-based USED TO ADDRESS THEM incentive plans are described in the Management Remuneration Statement. Litigations, if material, are reported in the Financial Statements in Note 30: Commitments and contingent MANAGEMENT AND KEY PERSONNEL liabilities, section Litigation . Litigation cases above the Kemira has a share-based incentive plan established by threshold value EUR 100,000 are periodically reported to the Board of Directors and targeted to the management the Audit Committee. and other key personnel. The sharebased incentive plan All material violations against the Code of Conduct are aims to align the goals of the shareholders and the stratereported to the Audit Committee. There were six reported gic management in order to increase the value of the cases in 2015. The Audit Committee reports the litigation company, to motivate the strategic management and to and violation cases to the Board of Directors in each provide them with competitive equity based incentives. meeting. Non-compliance issues reported by Kemira employees are treated by the Compliance Committee, which reports to the Audit Committee. G4-52: PROCESS FOR DETERMINING REMUNERATION The Annual General Meeting decides on the remuneration REMUNERATION AND INCENTIVES of the Board of Directors based on a proposal presented by the Nomination Board. The Board of Directors determines the salaries, other remuneration and employment terms of the Managing G4-51: EXECUTIVE-LEVEL COMPENSATIONS Director and other members of the Management Board. The targets set out in the annual cash bonus plan and Kemira’s management remuneration is described in the the long-term share-based incentive plan for the manageManagement Remuneration Statement which is included in ment are determined annually by the Board of Directors. the Corporate Governance Statement and published The Board of Directors may use external, independent pursuant to the Finnish Corporate Governance Code. remuneration consultants when needed. Consultants have been used for example for defining the incentive plans BOARD OF DIRECTORS described above. Kemira’s Annual General Meeting decides on the remuneraThe process for determining remuneration is also tion of the Board of Directors for one term of office at a described in the Management Remuneration Statement time. According to the decisions of the Annual General published pursuant to the Finnish Corporate Governance Meeting 2015, the members of the Board of Directors are Code. paid an annual fee, a separate fee per meeting and traveling expenses. In addition, the 2015 Annual General Meeting decided that the annual fee shall be paid as a combination of the company’s shares and cash in such a manner that 40% of the annual fee is paid with the Kemira shares and 60% is paid in cash. The shares were trans2015 61 GRI REPORT G4-53: PROCESS FOR SEEKING STAKEHOLDER VIEWS REGARDING REMUNERATION 6 ASSURANCE REPORT Assurance Report Shareholders’ views regarding remuneration are taken into account in Kemira Oyj’s Annual General Meeting (AGM). The AGM decides on matters within its competence under the INDEPENDENT LIMITED Limited Liabilities Companies Act and the Articles of Association, including the election of the Chairman, Vice ASSURANCE REPORT Chairman and other members of the Board of Directors and their remuneration, and the election of the auditor and the auditor’s fees. G4-33: POLICY AND CURRENT PRACTICE WITH REGARD TO SEEKING EXTERNAL ASSURANCE FOR THE REPORT Information on the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to external assurance can be found in the Assurance statement. TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF KEMIRA OYJ We have been engaged by Kemira Oyj (hereafter Kemira) to provide a limited assurance on Kemira's corporate responsibility information for the reporting period of January 1,2015 to December 3t,2015. The information subject to the assurance engagement is the Kemira GRI Report and pages 2-L9 of the Kemira Business Report (hereafter: Responsibility lnformation). MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY Management is responsible for the preparat¡on of the Responsibility lnformation in accordance with the reporting criteria as set out in Kemira's reporting principles and the Sustainabil¡ty Reporting Guidelines (G4 Core) of the Global Reporting lnitiative. This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of the Responsibility lnformation that are free from material misstatement, selecting and applying appropriate criteria and making estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. The scope of the Responsibility lnformation depends on Kemira's Corporate Responsibility focus areas and as well as the reporting principles which are set out on pages 54–55 of the GRI Report. AUDITOR'S RESPONSIBILITY Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Responsibility lnformation based on our engagement. We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with lnternational Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) to provide limited assurance on performance data and statements within the Responsibility lnformation. This Standard requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance 62 2015 GRI REPORT whether any matters come to our attention that cause us to OUR INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCES IN believe that the Responsibility lnformation has not been PROVIDING ASSURANCE TO KEMIRA Assurance Report prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria. We complied with Deloitte's independence policies which We did not perform any assurance procedures on the address and, in certain cases, exceed the requirements of prospective information, such as targets, expectations and the lnternational Federation ofAccountants Code of Ethics ambitions, disclosed in the Responsibility lnformation. for Professional Accountants in their role as independent Consequently, we draw no conclusion on the prospective auditors and in particular preclude us from taking financial, information. Our assurance report is made in accordance commercial, governance and ownership positions which with the terms of our engagement with Kemira. We do not might affect, or be perceived to affect, our independence accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than and impartiality and from any involvement in the preparaKemira for our work, for this assurance report, or for the tion of the report. We have maintained our independence conclusions we have reached. and objectivity throughout the year and there were no A limited assurance engagement with respect to events or prohibited services provided which could impair responsibility related data involves performing procedures our independence and objectivity. This engagement was to obtain evidence about the Responsibility lnformation. conducted by a multidisciplinary team including assurance The procedures performed depend on the practitioner's and sustainability expertise with professional qualificajudgment, but their nature is different from, and their tions. Our team is experienced in providing sustainab¡lity extent is less than, a reasonable assurance engagement. lt reporting assurance. does not include detailed test¡ng of source data or the operating effectiveness of processes and internal controls and consequently they do not enable us to obtain the CONCLUSION assurance necessary to become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance On the basis of the procedures we have performed, nothing engagement. has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information subject to the assurance engagement is Our procedures on this engagement included: not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with • Conducting interviews with senior management the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 Core) of the responsible for corporate responsibility at Kemira to Global Reporting lnitiative or that the Responsibility gain an understanding of Kemira's targets for corporate lnformation is not reliable, in all material respects, with responsibility as part of the business strategy and regard to the Reporting criteria. operations; • Reviewing internal and external documentation to verify to what extent these documents and data Helsinki 11.2.2016 support the information included in the Responsibility Deloitte & Touche Oy lnformation and evaluating whether the information presented in the Responsibility lnformation is in line Jukka Vattulainen Lasse Ingström with our overall knowledge of corporate responsibility Authorized Public Authorized Public at Kemira; Accountant Accountant • Conducting interviews with employees responsible for the collection and reporting of the Responsibility lnformation and reviewing of the processes and systems for data gathering, including the aggregation of the data for the Responsibility lnformation; • Performing analytical review procedures and testing data on a sample basis to assess the reasonability of the presented responsibility information; • Performing site visits in Atlanta and Mobile in the U.S. and Dormagen in Germany to review compliance to reporting policies, to assess the reliability of the responsibility data reporting process as well as to test the data collected for responsibility reporting purposes on a sample basis; and • Assessing that the Responsibility lnformation has been prepared in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 Core) of the Global Reporting lnitiative. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. 2015 63 GRI REPORT 7 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Content Index BR = Business Report GRI = GRI report • The report is prepared in accordance with the GRI-G4 Core option. GS = Corporate Governance Statement • Communication on Progress (COP) of the UN Global Compact at FS = Financial Statements Global Compact Active level using the GRI G4 reporting principles. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Location in the UN Global Annual Report Compact Standard disclosures (pp) Principles STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization about relevance of BR 4–6, 12 Commitment sustainability to the organization and its strategy to GC G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities BR 10–11 GRI 4–6, 54–56 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the reporting organization Kemira Oyj G4-4 Primary brands, products and services BR 20–31 G4-5 Location of organization's headquarters Helsinki, Finland G4-6 Countries of operation BR 2–3, 18–19 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form BR 2–3 G4-8 Markets served with geographic breakdown BR 2–3 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization BR 2–3, FS Balance Sheet G4-10 Workforce structure by emplyment type, gender and region GRI 41 Principle 6 G4-11 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements GRI 42 Principle 3 G4-12 Description of oranization's supply chain GRI 19–20 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period GRI 54, FS Note 33 G4-14 Position regarding the precautionary principle and its application GS: Risk section G4-15 Adherance to charters, principles and other external initiatives BR 6, GRI 6 G4-16 Memberships of associations and advocacy organizations GRI 5 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in the organization's consolidated financial statements GRI 54 G4-18 Process for determining the report content GRI 54–55 G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content GRI 56 G4-20 Boundaries of material aspects within the organization GRI 56 G4-21 Boundaries of material aspects outside the organization GRI 56 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for GRI 57 such restatements. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries GRI 57 64 2015 GRI REPORT GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Location in the UN Global GRI Content Index Annual Report Compact Standard disclosures (pp) Principles STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. GRI 4–5 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders GRI 4–5 G4-26 Organization's approach to stakeholder engagement GRI 4–5 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and how GRI 4–5 the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period for the information provided GRI 57 G4-29 Date of the most recent previous report GRI 57 G4-30 Reporting cycle GRI 57 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents GRI 57 G4-32 GRI content index. Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report GRI 64–70 G4-33 Policy and practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report GRI 62 GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS GOVERNANCE Governance Structure and Composition G4-34 Governance structure of the organization GRI 58 G4-36 Executive-level position with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics GRI 58 G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on GRI 58 economic, environmental and social topics G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees GRI 59 G4-39 The role of the Chairman of the Board of Directors GRI 59 G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, GRI 59 and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and GRI 59 managed Role in Setting Purpose, Values, and Strategy G4-42 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, GRI 59 approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impact Competencies and Performance Evaluation G4-43 The measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective GRI 60 knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics G4-44 Process for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to GRI 60 governance of economic, environmental and social topics Role in Risk Management G4-45 The highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, GRI 60 environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-46 The highest governance body's role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization's risk GRI 60 management processes for economic, environmental and social topics G4-47 The frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and GRI 60 social impacts, risks, and opportunities 2015 65 GRI REPORT GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Location in the UN Global GRI Content Index Annual Report Compact Standard disclosures (pp) Principles Role in Sustainability Reporting G4-48 The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s GRI 60 sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered Role in Evaluating Economic, Environmental and Social Performance G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body GRI 60 G4-50 The nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest GRI 61 governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them Remuneration and Incentives G4-51 The remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives GRI 61 G4-52 The process for determining remuneration GRI 61 G4-53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration GRI 62 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct GRI 10–11 Principle 10 and codes of ethics G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and GRI 10–11 Principle 10 matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful GRI 10–11 Principle 10 behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GENERIC DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH For Kemira's Description of Management Approach (DMA), please see: • Corporate responsibility, GRI pp. 6–9 • Focus areas, GRI pp. 6–26 • Economic impact, GRI pp. 29–30 • Governance, GRI pp. 58–62 66 2015 GRI REPORT SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Location in the UN Global GRI Content Index Annual Report Compact Performance indicators (pp) Principles ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Material Aspect: Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed​ GRI 29–30 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations GRI 30 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government​ GRI 30 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Material Aspect: Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume GRI 31 Principle 7, 8 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials GRI 31 Principle 8 Material Aspect: Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization GRI 32 Principle 7, 8 G4-EN5 Energy intensity GRI 32 Principle 8 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption GRI 32 Principle 8, 9 Material Aspect: Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source GRI 33 Principle 7, 8 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused GRI 34 Principle 8 Material Aspect: Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) GRI 34 Principle 7, 8 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) GRI 34 Principle 7, 8 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) GRI 34-35 Principle 7, 8 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity GRI 34 Principle 8 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions GRI 34 Principle 8, 9 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) GRI 36 Principle 7, 8 G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions GRI 36 Principle 7, 8 Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination GRI 36 Principle 8 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method GRI 37 Principle 8 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills GRI 37 Principle 8 G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the GRI 37 Principle 8 terms of the Basel Convention (2) Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Material Aspect: Products and Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services GRI 38 Principle 7, 8, 9 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category GRI 38 Principle 8 Material Aspect: Environmental compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonGRI 39 Principle 8 compliance with environmental laws and regulations Material Aspect: Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials GRI 39 Principle 8 for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Material Aspect: Overall environmental spend G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type GRI 40 Principle 7, 8, 9 Material Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria GRI 40 Principle 8 Material Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through GRI 40 Principle 8 formal grievance mechanisms 2015 67 GRI REPORT SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Location in the UN Global GRI Content Index Annual Report Compact Performance indicators (pp) Principles SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Material Aspect: Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender GRI 42 Principle 6 and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time GRI 44 employees, by significant locations of operation Material Aspect: Labor/Management Relations G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are GRI 44 Principle 3 specified in collective agreements Material Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and GRI 44 total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Material Aspect: Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category GRI 44 Principle 6 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued GRI 45 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by GRI 45 Principle 6 gender and by employee category Material Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category GRI 46 Principle 6 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Material Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by GRI 47 Principle 6 significant locations of operation Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria GRI 47 Material Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal GRI 47 grievance mechanisms HUMAN RIGHTS Material Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken GRI 48 Principle 6 Material Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association GRI 48 Principle 3 and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Material Aspect: Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews GRI 48 Principle 1 or impact assessments Material Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria GRI 48 Principle 2 Material Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through GRI 49 Principle 1 formal grievance mechanisms 68 2015 GRI REPORT SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Location in the UN Global GRI Content Index Annual Report Compact Performance indicators (pp) Principles SOCIETY Material Aspect: Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact GRI 49 Principle 1 assessments, and development programs G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities GRI 49 Principle 1 Material Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations asessed for risks related to corruption and the GRI 50 Principle 10 significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures GRI 50 Principle 10 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken GRI 50 Principle 10 Material Aspect: Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary GRI 50 Principle 10 Material Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly GRI 50 practices and their outcomes Material Aspect: Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonGRI 50 compliance with laws and regulations Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society GRI 50 Material Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through GRI 51 formal grievance mechanisms PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Material Aspect: Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety GRI 52 impacts are assessed for improvement G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes GRI 52 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Material Aspect: Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization's procedures for GRI 52 product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes GRI 53 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Material Aspect: Marketing Communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products GRI 53 Material Aspect: Product compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations GRI 53 concerning the provision and use of products and services 2015 69
