For more information visit: www.erm.com/sustainabilityreport2015 ERM Sustainability Report 2015: Overview This document provides an overview of CEO message ERM’s Sustainability Report 2015, including our approach, performance and At ERM, we see 2015 as a turning point highlights from the past year. for the planet’s sustainability agenda. The United Nations, working with Learn more about our strategy, programs corporate, government and other leaders, and results in the full, online report at is determined to increase the levels of www.erm.com/sustainabilityreport2015. cooperation needed to reach agreement on how, together, we can create a more sustainable future. This is against a Who we are backdrop of challenging economic ERM is a global provider of environmental, conditions in parts of the world, with health, safety, risk, sustainability and social low commodity prices and a changing consulting services. Sustainability describes energy landscape. what we do, day in and day out — through the services we provide to our clients, the way ERM continues to focus on helping our we deliver our projects and how we manage clients understand, create and implement John Alexander our own operations. We focus on serving our solutions and programs in response to their speaking at UN Climate Summit clients’ needs across the life cycle of their changing needs around the broad sustainability assets and business. We believe the greatest agenda. Everything that we do is aimed at impact we can have is through helping building the capacity to help clients create ERM joins in historic UN our clients seek solutions to sustainability value in their businesses. We are adapting Climate Summit challenges they face now and into the future. our market strategy and dialogue with clients to ensure we can make a greater difference Manhattan, New York, US The Oil and Gas, Mining and Metals, Power, to our clients in terms of how they respond The Climate Summit marked the Manufacturing and Chemical Sectors make and contribute to what we believe will be a largest meeting of world leaders on up more than 75 percent of our business and more robust global sustainability agenda in climate change in history. The Summit are at the forefront of many sustainability the future. This includes our expansion into helped build momentum in advance issues, including resource constraints, safety, the Chemical Sector and the Technology, of an ambitious global agreement in risk management, human rights and work Telecommunications and Media sectors December 2015 in Paris. in sensitive and challenging environments. where we are working with companies to develop market leading solutions. We also CEO John Alexander participated in a completed three key acquisitions in FY15 to panel session on reducing emissions Added value to clients enhance our services in product registration, from forest degradation. ERM is involved • Helping clients manage challenging risk and the energy sector. in addressing the challenges presented market conditions, through by climate change through our work operational performance In June 2015, the management of ERM with clients, the WBCSD and other improvement, asset retirement and announced that it has partnered with new organizations. We will be actively other services. private equity investors. The transaction involved in activities leading up to and • Understanding client needs and enabled the ERM employee shareholders, during the COP21 Climate Change delivering positive outcomes, by the ERM Partners, to re-invest in the Conference in Paris. working effectively across cultures, business, highlighting their continued geographies and sectors. commitment to ERM and the confidence • Bringing people together from they share with me in the long-term outlook multiple clients and sectors to share for the company. experiences and solutions. John Alexander Chief Executive Officer The world’s leading sustainability consultancy For more information visit: www.erm.com/sustainabilityreport2015 ERM Sustainability Report 2015 Impact through client work Sustainability at ERM is about the services we provide to our clients as well as our own impacts on communities and the environment. To identify and prioritize our primary sustainability issues, ERM conducts formal Improving operational sustainability materiality assessments in accordance for a leader in clean energy with the GRI G4 Guidelines each year. Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, US Material sustainability issues Westinghouse Electric Company’s vision is to be • Attracting, developing, rewarding and a trusted leader in clean energy. ERM helped retaining employees support this vision by conducting sustainability • Business conduct, ethics and compliance assessments for a global portfolio of facilities. With a focus on meeting the company’s key performance • Climate change and GHG emissions indicators, the ERM team identified opportunities to • Contributing to society and the reduce energy use and GHG emissions, water use, environment waste generation and chemical emissions to air • Financial performance and water. • Health and safety • Supply chain/value chain management • Technical expertise and independence Our people ERM is fundamentally a people-centered What first attracted me to join ERM as a Partner focussing on the business serving clients. We hire great Chemical Sector was ERM’s commitment to grow sectors and clients. people, ensure that our leaders and My team is recruiting people and growing capabilities to serve our culture support their success, and invest chemical clients across their entire value chain. Our acquisition of in the future of our employees through ReachCentrum is a great example of meeting very specific needs learning and development opportunities. around services, clients and geographies. Jennifer Whitney Health and safety Holland, Michigan, US The ongoing health and safety of everyone impacted by our work — including ERM employees, clients, contractors and the public — are paramount to ERM. Our daily Meeting international standards and actions require diligent and comprehensive client needs in Myanmar planning and management to achieve our ultimate goal of ZERO harm. Yangon, Myanmar During FY15, ERM established a formal presence in Our performance Myanmar, where we have been active since 1993. ERM operates with a number of guiding We created specialized Anti-Bribery and Corruption principles that remain the foundation of training for all of our employees working there. our culture and the engine that drives We use many tools to make decisions on which our approach to sustainability. We opportunities we will pursue and manage effectively recognize the need to continue improving any associated risks long before the projects our environmental, social and financial are won. performance through the effective management of our offices and assets, business activities and client project work. For more information visit: www.erm.com/sustainabilityreport2015 ERM Sustainability Report 2015 Impact through client work We understand the sustainability challenges of our clients and work together to deliver cost-effective solutions. ERM has been involved in some of the most complex and challenging projects in the world. We bring technical expertise along As Commercial Director for Latin America and the Caribbean, I lead with independent, strategic thinking and the implementation of our commercial strategy and support our broad knowledge of sustainability issues to Partners and consultants in creating value for clients across sectors. such projects and to high-profile industries. Oil and gas has been facing significant changes recently in the region. ERM has decades of in-country experience and is helping clients Helping clients across their value chain navigate new market conditions. We understand the implications of the key issues across our clients’ value chains, and, Vivian Giannotti Houston, Texas, US depending on the client need, address them from a strategic and tactical level, using a blend of skills and experience from the range of services we provide. We work with clients through the life cycle of Promoting sustainable products for Sky TV their assets and businesses. This includes London, UK the challenges around entering new markets, ERM has been instrumental in helping capital project support, and how to operate Sky TV improve the sustainability of its in a safe, compliant and sustainable way. We products year on year. ERM has conducted also support clients in delivering a life cycle assessments of existing products responsible asset retirement strategy while and new product designs to understand improving transparency and corporate and reduce environmental impacts, reporting across all areas of performance. led workshops to embed sustainability in product design, developed interactive We are adapting our services to address sustainable design toolkits to ensure key emerging areas of focus for our clients environmental considerations are including safety performance, product addressed going forward and appraised the stewardship services, post-merger company’s supply chain, packaging and integration and information management. materials choices. After acquiring Safety Design A.S. in 2014, ERM now offers services to new and existing clients around active fire protection systems, technical safety engineering, risk, working environments and human factors. Joining ERM strengthens our position within the Oil and Gas Sector in Norway and the North Sea, and provides us with opportunities to expand and diversify. Jørgen Pettersen Kristiansand, Norway For more information visit: www.erm.com/sustainabilityreport2015 ERM Sustainability Report 2015 Contributing to society ERM is making a tangible contribution through our thought leadership activities and our support for sustainable development in communities around the world. Thought leadership ERM Foundation marks Our consultants participate actively in technical associations and deliver hundreds 20th anniversary in 2015 of presentations at conferences around the Over the past 20 years, the ERM Foundation has world, sharing the lessons learned from more disbursed more than $3 million in grants to around than 20,000 projects annually as well as our 250 organizations on five continents. More than observations and insights into sustainability 10,000 hours of technical pro bono support has been challenges facing different sectors. provided to not-for-profit entities and social enterprises globally. The ERM Foundation has As a member of the UN Global Compact, expanded from being a single entity in the United the Global Reporting Initiative and the States to a company-wide program that engages World Business Council for Sustainable ERM employees across the world. Development, ERM plays a key role in the private sector contribution to the Global Goals for Sustainable Development (also known as Sustainable Development Goals). Investigating links between forest The focus of these efforts is to help make fragmentation and Ebola virus corporate sustainability more scalable in Lakka, Sierra Leone the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable The ERM Foundation is sponsoring research into Development. suspected links between forest fragmentation and Ebola virus outbreaks in humans. ERM GIS experts ERM Foundation looked at the most recent outbreak alongside six Our focus on delivering sustainable solutions historical outbreaks across Central Africa. The extends to the communities in which we research findings have been presented in a report to live and work through our employee-led stimulate debate on effective Ebola virus risk ERM Foundation. We provide financial prevention and a more sustainable approach to contributions, allocation of pro bono time forest management. for technical and professional advice for not-for-profit organizations and social enterprises, and other support through For more information, visit our reports: employee-led initiatives. See the online ERM Sustainability Report 2015 at www.erm.com/sustainabilityreport2015 Download the ERM Foundation Review at www.erm.com/en/about-us/erm-foundation/ In 2015, the ERM Foundation provided more than 2,000 hours of pro bono time and disbursed $460,000 in grants to over 100 projects. The ERM Foundation Annual Review 2015 Supporting sustainable development for 20 years We welcome your feedback. Please email us at: sustainability@erm.com The world’s leading sustainability consultancy
