UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2016 Short description of the company STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that AP Services reaffirms its support of the Ten Focusing on saving lives and preventing permanent physical disability. Since 2004 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, AP Services has developed customized solutions for exposed environments Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. and flashpoints, such as offshore industries, in disaster areas and war zones. As a trusted advisor and partner AP Services has, for instance, developed solutions This is our first Communication on Progress, in which we describe our for Siemens, the Red Cross, the UN, NATO, and the armed forces in actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its ten Scandinavia. In cooperation with suppliers and customers, we source principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit solutions that can be used in precisely those environments for which they are to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of designed. Our experience ranges from the training of soldiers stationed in communication. dangerous areas of the world, the miners of East Greenland, to wind turbine engineers working at heights on offshore wind turbines. Allan Pedersen CEO, AP Services HUMAN RIGHTS Vision AP Services’ mission is to reduce the risk and increase the treatment options for We are fully committed to support and respect the protection of people whose lives or health is in danger. This is done by developing and selling internationally proclaimed human rights and ensure that it is not complicit in pre-hospital emergencyand tactical medical equipment, solutions, advice, human rights abuse. We support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and training. Care for adherence to human rights constitutes a significant and its conventions and the European Human Rights declaration written in the element of corporate responsibility in AP Services. Through our training programs EU charter and are pertinently aware of its implications and our obligations we wish to promote general human rights and work to promote better health therein. Our Human Rights Policy together with associated procedures with care through utilizing advanced technology, modernized equipment and violations remains under continual review. AP Services fully complies with Danish education from highly-trained specialists. Saving lives is the without doubt the legislation regarding Human Rights. very core of our business and in all simplicity what we aim to do every day. AP Services A/S is committed to conducting all of its business in a legal and Progress ethical manner underpinned by an ethos of transparency and our mission We are highly aware of our responsibility to protect human rights. Much of our statement: work is related to circumstances and events in dangerous places. Our aim isto save lives through hard work and our obligation to source the very best products. This was our motivation when establishing our company, and “Products to save life and limb” continues to be what drives us today. Results This is why we are the leading European distributor of the very best We are proud that we have distributed and developed products and products on the market, and not only are our products being used by the armed solutions that safes lives in the world’s flashpoints. AP Services has more than forces of the Scandinavian countries, but also NATO, the UN and many others 12 years of practical experience and a thorough understanding of the specific clients. AP Services are determined to find products that work in remote areas with environments and requirements relevant to tactical medicine. Every year we gain limitedresourceswitchcanpreventordiminishfurther catastrophes. new knowledge, experience and know-how and we use this to innovate and develop our solutions to save even more lives and minimize permanent damage We communicate and cooperate in a close relationship between our people in the even further – this is our deep-rooted passion and an ongoing process that will company and our stakeholders. This allows for transparent reporting of any never stop. In regards of training it is standard procedure to instruct and educate concerns that may arise during any planned task. This provides a critical link in Human Rights and local laws. Not only is this eminent in our material but also between our own operations and personnel and our clients. This enables to a requirement made by our customers. conduct any investigations or potential issues to be quickly identified and suitable resolutions found with direct involvement from our personnel and the company’s management. Our reason for doing so is that it is utmost important that AP Services’ is a leading example if the company detect any Human Rights violations and taking matters of special practical affairs to diminish the further wrong doing. LABOUR RIGHTS Vision Results Our mission is to reduce the danger from working and living in dangerous areas. AP Services’ makes every effort to prevent accidents, injuries and physical This is primarily done through education of our employees to reduce risk for disabilities in the workplace. Recognizing the risk, our clients and employees are people whose lives or health is in danger. We prepare them if anything should exposed to when entering new and unfamiliar workplaces, AP Services always happen with pre-hospital emergency treatment options, tactical medical meets all statutory health and safety obligations. In order to ensure a decrease in equipment, solutions, advice, and most importantly – special training. occupational accidents of our safety performance our standard measures varies Progress from task to task in preventing accidents and injuries, thus various risk potentials We encourage all our stakeholders to match our high standards in respect of varies significantly from one another. We have decided to keep detailed track personal well-being, safety, training practices and working conditions. With on work related accidents and will establish an accurate and verifiable baseline for regards to training courses all personnel deployed on operational duties have future monitoring and benchmarking purposes so that we can make the completed highly advanced theoretical and practical training and education. The necessary changes to bring it to a minimum. Further we have initiated a yearly actual briefing and training sessions are carried out directly by AP services highlyemployee satisfaction survey to make sure we nurture and support our employees trained instructors who are educated to operate for industries in particular and to improve working conditions on a continual basis exposed environments. In accordance with work regulations, we conduct preliminary and periodic medical healthchecks for our employees andinstructors. ENVIRONMENT Vision We have a principle in AP Services which always should be our number one We have initiated different sustainable projects to reduce our footprint on the priority, and it is that people comes first. That does not mean that environment. You can read more about this below. sustainable and responsible use of resources is not important to AP Services. Despite the relatively small size of AP Services’ our company policy is to Results decrease our organizational footprint and have minimal impact on the Despite our own company office location and being on-site locations, we are environment. AP Services’ recognizes its responsibility to do everything striving for the principle that “every little step helps”. Monthly energy readings possible to make a positive contribution to the environment, and takes steps, are now being collected at our head quarter in Denmark in association with however small, to realize that aim. We have guidelines to responsible our newly established CO2 program. Further our goal is to pursue a long-term goal conduct within the company in regards of the environment. We do believe it is of continuously reducing paper use by improving processes and thereby important to protect the environment for future generations as well. sustainably contributing to resource conservation. All of our employees are encouraged to take part of actively engaging and Progress promoting the following steps, in particularly appropriate and suitable each time Our product catalogue consist only of high-quality, multi-use products. The material when operating at our client’s locations: is produced to be durable and achieves as long a lifetime as possible. Thereby we conserve resources. When we obtain new products, we specifically focus on durability. Recycling and shredding – no littering indoors or outdoors Switch to default black and white printing – no unnecessary use of color No unnecessary printing – more extensive use of electronic media before printing Use of recycled products or office supplies whenever practical Switching off lights andother electrical equipment when not in use No unnecessary use of water AP Services continue to work towards a more environmental framework and measurable initiatives for managing our environmental performance, which is proper to our environmental impact. In the future we will seek to identify new opportunities and evaluate past, present and future initiatives for our own improvement of performance. This will also serve to enhance our stakeholder’s perception of our environmental responsibility and understanding for why we believe this to be an important issue. PROJECTS WE SUPPORT TESTIMONIALS SATS Århus Tactical Combat Casualty Care SATS (Students anesthesia and traumatology union) is supported with The Danish Royal Guard instructors as well as products for education andtraining. “Overall, the course has been supreme.” “…they have managed to combine their experiences and Veteran foreningen (Veteran Association) make a course that seems incredibly realistic for us as The Veteran Association is supported with monetary funding in regards of participants.” construction of housing for returning veterans with Post-traumatic stress disorder or the like. Politiets skytteforening (Police Rifle Club) The Police Rifle Club is supported with relevant products to enhance the safety and treatment options for accidents in training and education. The defense in Lithuania The defense in Lithuania issupported with training and education in implementation of Tourniquet (a device in their army. AP services donated a large number Tourniquets so this could be used be every educated individual. Clinics in Syria & Libya An amountof medical products with limited life cycle are sentto NGO clinics in Syria and Libya. We do so because we know how vital the right equipment is to the treatment of wound. We believe that valuable medical equipment should never go to waste as there are many flashpoints where the use of the equipment can be the difference between life and death. ANTI-CORRUPTION Vision Progress AP Services has a zero policy with regards to bribery and corruption and our If any should be in doubt or uncertain or apprehensive in a specific policy will guide us in communion to protect the company against risks in relation situation it is our employees duty to address and approach the CEO. AP Services to fraud, bribery, corruption and other forms of unethical business conduct. will remain informing its employee’s knowledge and understanding of anticorruption, the company’s policy and code of conduct and will continue the This policy applies for all of our employees and all of the company’s business opportunity to reinforce every step necessary to prevent relationships and in all those countries where we conduct and operate our anti-corruption and bribery. business. It is AP Services’ policy to comply and obey all laws, rules and regulations that concerns anti-corruption and antibribery, wherever AP Services’ Results may conduct its business and operates. The company is committed to take actions At no point have any areas of concern arisen regarding anti-corruption and the and affairs so as to ensure that it does not engage in any form of corruption, ethical delivery of our services or products. The company has not been the subject including extortion and bribery. of any investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or any other relevant actions related to corruption or bribery.
