Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1 Overview 3 about this report 79 Social 4 executive summary 82 employment and labour relations 6 chairman’s statement 86 occupational health and safety 8 group md/ceo’s statement 87 training and education 89 diversity and equal opportunity 11 About Zenith Bank 92 equal remuneration for women and men 12 our corporate profile 14 organisational structure 95 Human Right Rightss 17 our business focus 96 business investments 23 products services and delivery 97 non-discrimination channels 97 forced or compulsory labour 26 ethics and integrity 97 suppliers’ human rights assessments 31 Our Stakeholders 101 Society 32 engagement with stakeholders 102 local communities 40 managing stakeholders concerns 104 anti-corruption and grievances 105 compliance and social responsibilty 105 supplier assessment for impact on society 45 Our Footprints 107 grievance mechanism for impact on society 47 Economic 48 economic performance 109 Product R Product es Res ponsibility esponsibility 50 indirect economic impacts 110 product and service labelling 53 stimulating the real sector for 111 achieving financial inclusion through product sustainable growth offering 57 market presence 114 marketing communication 58 procurement practices 114 customer privacy 59 regulatory compliance 115 compliance with products and service offering regulations 61 Envir onment Environment 65 energy efficiency 117 Nigerian SusSusttainable Banking Principles 67 emissions 118 our NSBP scor ecar scorecar d ecard 70 transport 71 paper management 129 Conclusion 73 water management 131 Exter nal Assur External ance R Assurance eportt epor Repor 73 effluents and wastes 132 GRI-G4 Content Index Dat Data able a TTable 75 suppliers’ environmental assessment 140 Cont act Infor Contact mation Information 75 our products, services and the environment 77 compliance and environmental grievance mechanisms 77 overall 2 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro About This Report Zenith Bank’s Sustainability Report 2015 (‘NurturThe report is written in compliance with the GRI-G4 General ing Our People, Planet, Profit’) covers our ecoand Specific Standards disclosure guidelines; disclosures on nomic, social and environmental activities and permanagement approach to sustainability implementation formance from January 1 to December 31, 2015. (DMA); and financial services sector specific disclosures. The It complements our audited Annual Financial ReGRI-G4 content index is also included in the report. port & Statements, 2015. It is an integrated report that takes cognizance of our progress in the different ... a b balanced eview o alanced rreview susttainability per off our sus for perfor mance in formance sustainability principles we are committed to 2015, analyzing our ecological, social, ethical and by choice or by regulatory obligation, includfootprintss on the societies wher economic footprint where ewwee carr y out carry ing principles and standards of the United our business activities. Nation’s Global Compact (UNGC); United Nation’s Environment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP-FI); International Labor Organization (ILO); InThe report is written ‘in accordance’ with the Gloternational Finance Corporation (IFC); ISO2600; the Orgabal Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Renization for Economic Cooperation and Development porting Guidelines at Core level. (OECD); and the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Sustainable Banking Principles (NSBP). It provides a balanced review of our sustainability performance in 2015, analyzing our ecological, soThe report is significant as it marks the baseline in the recial, ethical and economic footprints on the societporting of our sustainability progress. ies where we carry out our business activities. It also examines our engagement with key stakeholdPricewaterhouseCoopers conducted limited independent ers; the gaps in the actualization of our sustainability external assurance on the report using the International Stangoals; and our strategic plans for improving on dard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised). The our overall performance in the years ahead. external assurance procedure included on-site visits, interviews with relevant KPI managers and verification of related The report also covers the Bank’s approaches to documents and data. tackling issues identified by our stakeholders as material during the year under review. It details where we are in our sustainability journey, and where we plan to be in five to ten years. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3 Executive Summary As we progress in our vision of building a globally competitive brand that would exceed the financial services expectations of current and future generations, we remain increasingly mindful of our sustainable banking obligations and responsibilities. We understand that leapfrogging into the next generation of our business strategy would require a stronger commitment to the improvement of the quality of our physical environment and the overall wellbeing of our critical stakeholders. Our sustainability journey had been propelled in the last decade by our commitments to the UN Global Compact (UNGC), the United Nations Environment Programme’s Financial Institutions Statement on the Environment & Sustainable Development (UNEP FI), the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Sustainable Banking Principles (NSBP), the IFC Performance Standards, ISO26000, and the newly unveiled Sustainable Development Goals. 2015 was a particularly difficult year nationally and globally, especially owing to the dramatic tumble in the demand for, and prices of commodities, and slowing growth in the traditional economic expansion hotspots. But Zenith Bank was quick to rise up to the challenge, leveraging its quality people, technology, products and service delivery to achieve better than expected performance. However, our assessment of our performance in the year under review goes way beyond the impressive profit margin we recorded. How effectively we engaged our key stakeholders, the economic value we created, and how positively we impacted our social and physical environments, are all parts of our balanced performance scorecard. We will continue to pay priority attention to the opinions and concerns raised by our critical stakeholders and ensure that we do not grow our business at their expense. The turbulent economic situation in 2015 was a wakeup call to sharpen our focus on funding projects and initiatives that would drive activities and growth in the real sector of the economy and support job creation. We estimate that at least 100,000 jobs were created from our strategic investments and financing, and the economic 4 4 SUS SUSTTAINABILIT SUSAINABILITY SUST Y REPOR TAINABILIT AINABILITYREPORT Y REPORT T2015 REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro values we created in the year under review. In our We will ensure that we leave our business environment social investments, we also targeted projects that better than we met it, by diligently reviewing our opwould meet the most pressing needs of host comerations and decisions to minimize and mitigate our munities and the larger society in line with the outnegative footprints and improve on the positive ones. comes of our engagements with key stakeholders. In doing this, we understand our obligation to carry We consider ourselves a devoted partner in the along all key stakeholders, especially third party busiglobal fight against global warming, deforestation, ness partners, investees, contractors, vendors and serdrought, harmful emissions, biodiversity loss, wasteful vice providers whose activities could indirectly exacerproduction and consumption practices, and other bate our business footprints. threats to humans and the physical environment. We will leverage our position as a leading African We also remain committed to the sustainable brand to support the aspirations of government togrowth and development of wards eradicating extreme the Nigerian economy; the poverty and creating new overall progress of the popuWe will continue to pay priority jobs. We will continuously imlace; and the physical wellbeing attention to the opinions and concerns prove on our business policies of the earth. As a leading firaised by our critical stakeholders and and processes and adopt glonancial services institution, we ensure that we do not grow our bal best practices in energy understand and are committed business at their expense. consumption, paper usage, to playing our role towards inwaste management and refr astructure development, source utilization. youth and women empowerment, economic diverAs we forge ahead in our sustainability journey, we sification, capacity building and inclusive growth and will continue to build on those competitive advantages development. We understand our responsibility in that had transformed us from being merely one among ensuring that our products, investments and busiabout 120 banks in Nigeria as at 1990 to becoming the ness activities do not constitute environmental harm. most profitable, the biggest in Tier-1 Capital, and Africa’s We will continue to work with our partners, investees seventh largest financial institution. and other third party associates to ensure that they understand and comply with relevant environmental policies, laws and regulations. In our sustainability journey, we understand that there are still several gaps to fill, especially in the capture, documentation, measurements and monitoring of our different environmental footprints. But we are committed to achieving signif icant improvement in these areas in the next five to 10 years, using 2015 as our baseline. In the years ahead, we will continue to imbibe the tenets of good corporate citizenship; human rights protection; resource efficiency; respect for the wellbeing of our colleagues, host communities and the physical environment. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5 Chairman’s Jim Ovia, CON Statement Chairman, Zenith Bank Plc In spite of the tough and stormy global and naEmbracing a mance and achievements, in line with our comtional economic terrain in 2015, the Zenith Bank sustainable mitments to sustainable development. The Group, year-on-year, grew its profit after tax by banking culture value we create for our colleagues, customsix percent; gross earnings by seven percent; is inevitable for ers, shareholders, investors, vendors, governshareholders’ fund by eight percent; and total asthe Zenith ment, host communities and the larger brand. It is the sets by 10 percent. This is perhaps a leading ineconomy, now informs our assessment of the sure route dustry performance among our peers and a feat balanced progress we are making as a leadtowards worth celebrating. achieving our ing African brand. Embracing a sustainable goal of banking culture is inevitable for the Zenith Beyond the numbers becoming the brand. It is the sure route towards achieving first choice our goal of becoming the first choice bank 2015 was a highly significant year for Zenith Bank. bank for the for the present and future generations. It marked twenty-five years of our corporate expresent and istence. And the many firsts and milestones we future Focus on people, planet, profit have achieved are largely attributable to our comgenerations. mitment to creating and sustaining stakeholders’ Our business operations and policies are invalue. Our growth and performance goes way creasingly being propelled by our commitment beyond the positive financial numbers. Our defito the triple-bottom line – people, planet, nition of the ‘business bottom-line’ is shifting away profit. Our people include our colleagues, cusfrom the traditional understanding of profit and tomers, shareholders, investors, business partgrowth, towards a balanced scorecard that takes ners, communities and the larger society. Our cognizance of our social investments, contribuplanet refers to the earth’s flora and fauna and tions to inclusive economic growth and developall its natural resources and endowments. For ment and improvements in the condition of our us, profit means not just our financial perforphysical environment. mance as a for-profit institution, but also, the Zenith Bank has embraced this much more economic value we create for our internal and balanced scorecard in rating its overall perforexternal stakeholders. We understand that 6 SUS SUSTTAINABILIT Y REPOR AINABILITY T 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro tainable banking principles. As a brand tinuous overhaul of our Corporate that is being positioned to be the first Sustainability and Responsibility policies choice bank for current and future genand practices to reflect global best erations, we understand that this canpractices in stakeholder engagement. not be achieved in isolation of a thriving economy, a flourishing social sysSupporting inclusive tem, a healthy physical environment and well engaged stakeholders. economic growth As a leading player in the African fiEngaging our valued nancial services sector, and a responstakeholders sible corporate citizen, we understand the critical importance of our role in Our business decisions and practices stimulating increased economic activiare targeted at ensuring the optimal ties, job creation, infrastructure develsatisfaction of our colleagues, customopment, economic diversif ication, ers, investors, communities and other women and youth empowerment, castakeholders. We understand that the pacity building, extreme poverty eradistrategic investments we make in our cation and overall economic growth colleagues help us to continue to reand development. tain the best brains, which gives us This is why we welcome the Suscompetitive advantage; strengthens tainable Development Goals (SDGs) our business returns and competences and are now building the new global and increases value for our other shareinitiative into our business processes holders. and practices. We also remain a dedistakeholders who are fulf illed, an Our stakeholders are the reason cated government partner in their difeconomy that is thriving, and a planet why we are in business and the reason ferent policies and initiatives geared that is healthy are antidotes for our enwhy we will remain a competitive brand towards improving the living conditions hanced business growth and for generations to come. It is for this of the citizenry and achieving inclusive sustainability. This is why we consistently reason that our colleagues, customers, growth and prosperity. target exceeding stakeholders’ expecinvestors and host communities remain We are moving into 2016 and betations and outperforming our own set our critical partners and assets. We yond with the resolve to remain a leadgoals. And this business focus and strathave identified them as our business ing African brand, committed to the egy has continued to pay off owing to enablers and the engine room of our socio-economic wellbeing of our the quality of our people, technology sustainable growth and progress. We people; a cleaner, greener planet; inand service. are mindful of the symbiotic and mucreased investments in our communiAs we reposition our brand towards tually benefiting relationship we share ties; and enhanced returns for our exceeding the financial services expecand understand our responsibility in shareholders and investors. tations of future generations, we will ensuring that our business decisions are hold on firmly to our winning formula not taken at their detriment. Therefore, – outstanding and dedicated soliciting their constant feedback, lisworkforce, state-of-the-art technology tening to their views and exceeding Jim Ovia, C ON CON and unsurpassed customer service detheir expectations remain our key busiChair man Chairman livery. ness strategy. The best of businesses are only as We have remained proactive in improductive as the condition of the soproving on our existing channels of cial, economic and physical environstakeholder engagement and devising ment where they operate. No business new ones in line with evolving sociothrives in isolation of the wellbeing of economic, environmental and regulaits critical stakeholders. This growing tory realities. awareness informs the passion with We remain dedicated to the conwhich Zenith Bank has embraced sus2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7 Group MD/CEO’s Peter Amangbo Group Managing Director/CEO, Zenith Bank Plc Statement Achieving a balanced performance scorecard Achieving a have harmful consequences on the environment means for us, integrating environmental and sobalanced if not properly managed and mitigated. cial considerations into our measurement scale, performance The global problem of climate change reand looking beyond just profit. It also entails imscorecard mains of critical concern to us, especially since bibing global best practices in our business polimeans for us, we operate in an environment that is highly vulcies and practices and ensuring that our entire integrating nerable to high rate of pollution, desertification, value chain are carried along in our sustainability environmental drought, deforestation, oil spillages and gas flarjourney. and social ing. As a major lender to the oil and gas, agriconsiderations culture, real estate, telecommunications and the Weighing our footprints into our extractive sectors, entrenching the culture of measurement sustainability and carrying all our stakeholders We understand that it is not just what we do, but scale, and along is a compelling task. We remain commithow we do it, and the impact of our every busilooking beyond ted to ensuring that our business activities do ness decision and operation on our stakeholdjust profit. not result in natural resource depletion and overers and the larger planet. In the fully globalized all environmental degradation. We will continue and digitized environment where we now operto work with our clients and partners to ensure ate, the spillover effect of every business action that environmental laws and regulations are obcould be massive. This is why we have become served in our entire value chain. increasingly diligent in the choices we make and the decisions we take. Leveraging effective feedback We are aware that as a leading business entity, our footprints could worsen or improve the for enhanced performance condition of our physical environment. We have The bedrock of our strength has been our staketherefore invested in initiatives and innovations holders – our colleagues who toil with us; our that would reduce our carbon emissions, waste customers who give us the privilege of serving generation, paper usage, energy consumption, them; our shareholders and investors who beand water usage. We have observed that these lieve in us; our local communities that provide are material to our business operations and could us with the conducive environment and good 8 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro Closing observed gaps We recognize that we have some work to do, especially in the area of sustainability data management, measurement of environmental footprints and effective monitoring of environmental and social risks along our entire value chain, particularly our third party business partners. We are however laying a strong foundation towards closing these observed gaps. Our goal is to record significant, measurable improvements in these areas in the next five to ten years, using 2015 as our baseline. We understand that sustainability is a continuous journey towards improved stakeholders’ relations, corporate governance, responsible products and business practices, care for our local communities and considerations for the wellbeing of the physical environment. We are resolved to continue this all-important journey with our board of directors, executive management, staff members and all external stakeholders, on board. As a major lender in an oil-dependent, low inneighborliness we need to excel; and our come economy confronted with a historic oil price For us, slump, the challenge before us in the coming years governments and regulators who have essustainability tablished the overall institutional and legal would be how to leverage public and private sector goes beyond a partnerships for a more diversified economy, imframework for us to thrive. regulatory proved infrastructure development, thriving producOur people remain our biggest asset. We have increasingly invested in the emrequirement, it tive sector, enhanced job creation, extreme poverty powerment of our colleagues, especially is the eradication and overall sustainable economic growth. Becoming the globally competitive brand we asthrough trainings and capacity building, springboard to competitive wages and family-friendly polipire to be requires us to think, decide and act rethe future we cies, empowering them to attain their full sponsibly and sustainably. For us, sustainability goes desire. beyond a regulatory requirement, it is the springcareer potential and preparing them for life beyond their current employment. board to the future we desire. In 2015, we opened up new channels of engagement with our stakeholders – colleagues, customers, investors and shareholders, host communities, suppliers and vendors, regulators and the media, elicitPeter Amangbo ing feedback and addressing their concerns. Group MD/CEO We reviewed our employee handbook to address some key issues raised by our colleagues and created various portals in our internet and intranet through which we give our stakeholders a voice in our business decisions and actions. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 9 1010 SUS SUS SUST SUST TAINABILIT AINABILITY TAINABILIT AINABILITYY REPOR 2015 T T2015 Y REPOR REPORT REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro About ZENITH BANK 2015SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT11 REPORT 11 offering of electronic banking services, such as ATM, Our Corporate POS Terminals, Internet banking and mobile/telephone banking services, amongst others. Our offices are located in prime business and commerProfile cial cities in each State of the Federation and they are easily accessible to all the Central Bank of Nigeria’s clearing offices and zones around the country. Over the last ten years, Zenith Bank has reZ enith Bank Plc (the parent company of the Zenith Bank Group) is a Nigerian commercial bank mained a tier 1 bank despite the prevailing ecowith international authorization that allows us nomic and operational circumstances. The bank to operate our subsidiaries overseas. has efficiently deployed its competitive advantages Zenith Bank is one of Nigeria’s strongest of excellent customer service, size, brand name, and most respected brands. In 2015, we were branch network and customer reach, stable manrated by the Bankers’ Magazine (UK) as Nigeria’s largest bank (in agement, well-motivated workforce, strong capiTier-1 Capital) and the seventh biggest bank in Africa. We are also tal and liquidity base in order to effectively comrated among the world’s 300 biggest banks. Our strategy has been pete in the Nigerian banking landscape. anchored on continued investment in quality people, state-of-theart technology and excellent customer service delivery. The comOur Strengths bined intellectual capital and commitment of our staff, management • Innovation and Board have molded Zenith into the world-class institution that • Good financial performance it is today. • Stable and dedicated management team From inception, Zenith Bank clearly set out to distinguish itself in • Highly skilled and motivated workforce the banking industry through its service quality, drive for a unique • Leadership in the use of Information and customer experience and the caliber of its customer base. Our growth Communication Technology is driven principally by a strategic business focus, commitment to • Strategic service delivery points quality service, close attention to risks management, excellent share• Good asset quality holders’ returns and a conservative business model. The bank’s main service delivery channels remain its branches Our Vision which currently stand at about 358. The brand has become synony“To build the Zenith brand into a reputable intermous with leadership in Information and Communication Technolnational financial institution recognized for innoogy (ICT) and innovative banking and is an industry leader in the vation, superior customer service and performance while creating premium value for all stakeholders”. 12 SUS 12 SUSTTAINABILIT SUST SUST AINABILIT AINABILITY AINABILITY REPOR YY REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 TT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 2015 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 REPORT REPORT 13 13 14 SUSTAINABILIT SUST Y REPOR AINABILITY T 2015 REPORT 14 SUSTAINABILIT SUST Y REPOR AINABILITY T 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITYREPORT REPORT 15 15 • Ethics Our Mission • Commitment “To establish a presence in all major economic and financial • Transparency centers in Nigeria, Africa and indeed all over the world, cre• Service ating premium value for all stakeholders” • Equity Our Core Values Our Ownership Structure • Integrity The shareholding pattern of the Bank as at 31 December, • Professionalism 2015 is as stated below: • Excellence Ownership Structure 16 SUS 16 SUS SUST SUST TAINABILIT Y YREPOR AINABILITY TAINABILIT AINABILITY T T 2015 REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro Our Board of Directors Our BoBoarardo ard off Direct Direct or orss and ector Owner Ownershipship Int er Inter estt es eres As at year end 2015, we had 10 members constituting our Board of Directors following the retirement of two non-executive directors in March 2015. The direct interests of directors in the issued share capital of Zenith Bank Plc as recorded in the register of directors shareholding and/or as notified by the directors for the purposes of sections 275 and 276 of the Companies and Allied Matters Act and the Our Business Focus listing requirements of the NigeIn October 2010, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) issued a directive prohibiting rian Stock Exchange is as follows Nigerian banks from holding interests in non-banking subsidiaries, except pension (See table): and custodian services. It however gave banks the option of restructuring into a holding company if they wish to continue their interest in non-banking subsidiaries. Zenith Bank opted to operate as a commercial bank only, with authorization to operate foreign subsidiaries. As a result, the Bank now focuses and channels its resources only to its core corporate and retail banking activities, international subsidiary businesses and its pension and custodian services business. a. Cor por porate Corpor et ate and rretail banking ser etail vices services Our corporate and retail banking services business provides a broad range of banking products and services to a diverse group of corporations, financial institutions, investment funds, governments and individuals. These business activities are conducted through the following business units: • Institutional and investment banking • Corporate banking • Retail banking • Public sector banking The Ins titutional and Inves Institutional tment Investment Banking Unit (the “IIBU”) manages the Group’s business relationship with other banks, financial institutions, multilateral agencies, securities houses, insurance companies, asset management companies and other non-bank finance companies, private equity and venture funds. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 18 18 SUSTAINABILIT SUST SUSAINABILITY SUST Y YREPOR TAINABILIT AINABILITY T T 2015 REPORT REPOR REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro The Cor por Corpor porate ate Banking invoice/contract financing, stock fiary and investment accounts modified to Str ategic Business trategic nancing, amongst others), lease fimeet the needs of individuals in different (CBSBU) offers a wide range of nance lines, Bonds and Guarantee strata of the society. Examples of such speservices to multinationals, large lines, current account, domiciliary accialized products are the Zenith Children Aclocal conglomerates and corpocounts and fixed deposit accounts. counts (ZECA), Zenith Mutual Funds Account, rate clients with the following Ancillary services rendered to this among others. sub-units: sub-sector include local drafts issuThe sub-group also offers credit products, • Transport and Aviation ance, local inter/intra bank funds including personal loans, advances, mort• Conglomerates transfers, payroll services, bill paygages, asset finance, small business loans, and • Breweries and Beverages ments, safe custody, duty/tax paycredit cards. E-business products offered in• Oil and Gas ments, remittances, and so on. The clude internet banking and mobile banking. • Power and Infrastructure massive deployment of ATM and POS The Public Sector Group (PSG) provides and terminals across the network in recent services to meet the banking needs of all tiers • Construction times is to effectively service this segof government (federal, state and local govment of the market. ernments), ministries, departments and agenThe R etail Banking Unit ((the etail Ret The personal banking products cies, not-for-profit organizations, embassies “RBU”) focuses on all small and and services range from standard to and foreign missions. The focus of the PSG medium enter prises (SMEs), specialized savings, current domicilibusiness is all institutions operating under the commercial businesses and consumer businesses which comprise of personal current and savings accounts customers and all unincorporated entities (such as societies, clubs, churches, mosques, amongst others). The Group’s deposit liability creation efforts aim to win and retain a collection of retail Zenith Bank is part of the Zenith Group with controlling interest in a number businesses. Services offered inof banking and non-banking subsidiaries in Nigeria, Africa and Europe. clude savings and transactional accounts, mortgages, personal loans, debit cards and credit cards. Loans and advances in the forms of overdrafts, import finance lines, term loans and leases are extended to the RBU customers, especially those involved in the sales and distributions of fast moving consumer goods and key distributors to major manufacturing companies. The Group offers a wide range of generic banking services and products to meet the needs of the customers in this sub-sector. These include various lending and deposit products such as working capital lines (overdraft, invoice discounting, 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 auspices of Government, including within the executive, legislative and judiciary branches, and at the Federal, State and/ or Local Government levels. Some of the products and services offered to the public sector include revenue collections, cash management, deposit and investment, electronic payroll systems, offshore remittances and foreign exchange and project finance. b. Over seas subsidiaries Overseas Zenith Bank is part of the Zenith Group with controlling interest in a number of banking and non-banking subsidiaries in Nigeria, Africa and Europe. The Group’s overseas subsidiaries carry out banking operations, providing traditional banking products and services tailored to meet the needs of those customers who are either located in countries where the subsidiaries are based or who have a business presence in such locations. The following chart shows the subsidiaries’ structure of the Group as at the end of the 2015 financial year. Each of the Group’s overseas subsidiaries acts as intermediary between the financially surplus and deficit units in their locations, offering a wide range of products and services to attract deposits and extend loans and advances. The following are specific services provided by the Group’s overseas subsidiaries: Zenith Bank UK Limited (“Zenith UK”) leverages trade and investment flows between Nigeria and Europe to provide intermediary banking services which include post shipment finance, back to back letters of credit, standby letters of credit and contract guarantees. Zenith UK also provides facilities for working capital and capital expenditure directly to Nigerian borrowers through participation in syndicated loans. The subsidiary acts as the contact point for correspondent banking relationships with Nigerian and other West African banks by providing facilities for letter of credit confirmation and treasury products. The operational mandate of Zenith UK also enables it to source deposits from institutions such as parastatals, corporate and institutional counterparties to support its funding needs. Through effective treasury management, Zenith UK trades in fixed income instruments which include government and institutional bonds and certificates of deposit. Zenith UK also has a wealth management unit which is dedicated to offering long term investment advisory and wealth management solutions to its customers. Zenith Bank (Ghana) Limited, Zenith Bank (Sierra Leone) Limited and Zenith Bank (The Gambia) Limited (the “West African Subsidiaries”), are the Group’s banking subsidiaries within the West African sub-region which provide compre20 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro hensive trade services to major global corporations and medium sized enterprises operating in the region. In the years ahead, our expansion within the African continent will be propelled by the planned integration of African economies under the proposed African Union (AU), which provides a unique opportunity for the bank to build a strong banking franchise based on its size, experience, local and regional expertise. The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) initiative would be another important propeller of our continuous expansion within the continent. And this would be further driven by the number of small to medium-sized banks operating in the ECOWAS and African region that require correspondent banking services, trade finance and related services. Zenith Bank has a competitive advantage to serve these institutions based on the depth of its experience and expertise. Our foreign subsidiaries will be positioned to target companies that have trade partners in Nigeria and other locations where we have business presence. This approach is aimed at encouraging cross border marketing and the routing of a portion of their international trade transactions Our for eign subsidiaries will be foreign positioned tto ar arget o ttar companies get comp anies have that hav trade e tra de p ar par tnerss in Nigeria artner tner and other locations wher where ewwee have hav e business pr esence. presence. through the Zenith Bank Group’s network. The challenge here will be to demonstrate to the local companies that their relationship with Zenith Bank in their country and in other countries where we operate, will be mutually beneficial. The lending businesses in all our subsidiaries will focus primarily on international trade and export trade transactions. It will involve discounting international trade bills for companies and also providing short-term credits to financial institutions that are using the bank as their correspondent bank. c. Pension and cus todial ser custodial vices services The Group’s pension custodian services business is conducted through Zenith Pension Custodians Limited (“Zenith Pensions”) which offers pension management and custodian services to pension funds administrators (PFAs). As at 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 31 December, 2015, total funds under its custody amounted their concerns. We ensure that we observe the corporate to approximately N1,998 billion. Zenith Pensions has 77 funds laws and regulations in the different societies where we under its custody, shared among five open pension fund operate, benchmarking global best practices in our cusadministrators and three closed pension funds administratomers, employees, investors and communities’ relations. tors. The main service offerings provided by Zenith Pensions include collecting pension contributions, paying benOur Strategic Objectives eficiaries from their respective retirement savings accounts, The strategic objective of Zenith Bank remains the continusafekeeping of assets, managing real estate assets of the ous improvement of its capacity to meet stakeholders’ funds under its custody and the settlement of transactions changing needs, sustained excellent service delivery and in financial investments such as equities, bonds and treaconsistent growth in a volatile business environment. This sury bills. Zenith Pensions also provides administrative and we plan to achieve through: recordkeeping services to the funds under its custody. • Continuous investment in branch network and business In addition to our expanding foreign subsidiaries, we expansion, thus bringing quality banking services closer remain committed to consolidating our position as a leadto our existing and potential customer base ing f inancial services provider in Nigeria. Our Nigerian • Continuous investment in and deployment of state-ofbranch network has expanded exponentially, from about the-art technology and ICT platform 100 in 2004 to about 358 as at December 2015. • Employing and retaining the best personnel available In managing our different local and international busi• Continuous investment in training and re-training of our ness units, and our products and services offerings, we have personnel continuously improved on our stakeholders’ engagement • Maintaining and reinforcing our core customer service policies and practices, soliciting feedback and addressing delivery charter 22 SUS 22 SUS SUST SUST TAINABILIT AINABILITYYYREPOR AINABILITY TAINABILIT REPOR TT 2015 REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro • Sustaining strong profitability and ensuring adequate Return on Equity (ROE) • Remaining conservative but innovative • Sustaining a strong balance sheet size with adequate liquidity and capital base • Sustaining our brand and premium customer services • Cautious and synergistic global expansion • Remaining customer service focused • Continuous emphasis on use of technology as a competitive tool • Continuous considerations for and mitigation of the social, economic and environmental impacts of our business decisions and actions on the communities where we • Continuous enhancement of our processing and systems platforms operate to deliver new capabilities and improve operational efficiencies • Maintaining strong risk management and and economies of scale corporate governance practices • Maintaining strong risk management and corporate governance • Maintaining open channels of engagement culture with key stakeholders and continuously • Ensuring proper pricing of our products and services and overall striving to surpass their expectations products responsibility • Continuously delivering superior and tailor-made service experience to all our customers at all times, and in all regions where we operate Pr oduct oducts, Product s, Ser vices and Deliv Services Deliverer eryy Channels The Zenith Bank Group provides its services through a variety of channels, including its network of branches and ATMs across the various locations where it operates; electronically, through its internet and mobile banking platforms; as well as through point of sale terminals. The Group aims to continue to develop and expand the channels through which it provides convenient services to customers. As at December 31, 2015, the Group had a total of 393 branches. The Group’s branch network is spread across Nigeria, other countries in Africa where it operates (Sierra Leone, Gambia and Ghana) as well as two branches in the United Kingdom. The Group also has representative offices in South Africa and China. All branches are linked to the Group’s IT system through V-SAT. Both wide area networks and local area networks are used to connect and integrate all the Group’s branches and business centres. As at December 31, 2015, the geographical spread of the Group’s branch network is highlighted in table. As at December 31, 2015, the Group also had approximately 163 off-site locations, strategically situated in various commercial centers around Nigeria in addition to its network of branches. These off-site locations comprise small business offices such as kiosks, which are located in airports, university campuses, large shopping malls, or the premises of core customers of the Group, strictly for cash collection purposes. The Group has a total of 1,268 of Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) with 1,206 in Nigeria, 54 in Ghana, 4 in the Gambia and 4 in Sierra 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 Leone. The machines are mounted in branches and strategic locations such as airports, university campuses, large shopping malls and premises of large manufacturing firms employing large numbers of workers. Due to collaboration and shared services arrangements with other banks, ATM cards issued by members of the Group are accepted by the ATMs of other institutions. The Group also collaborates with other card issuing agencies to offer internationally recognized cards, such as MasterCard and Visa, in different currencies. The Group’s range of internet and mobile banking products and services offer customers, services such as collections and remittances of bills (including utility bills), real time internet banking, purchase of mobile phone airtime, funds transfers, cheques requisitions and confirmations, balance enquiries and statement services. Specific electronic products offered by the Group include: • Cor por Corpor ate i-Bank a secure online solution that allows porate corporate customers to carry-out banking transactions on the internet; • Zenith P ayroll (Br ayroll Payr anch i-Bank) automates the (end to (Branch end) payroll process of customers and eliminates the manual processes involved in the generation of monthly payroll, while also remitting funds electronically to staff accounts. The platform provides database backup, payroll reports, customization option, secure payment authorization and salary payments; • Xpath (Cus tomized Br (Customized anch Collections) allows cusBranch tomers to collect or receive remittance from their key distributors and customers through any branch of the Group. The platform also enables customers to capture specific information relating to their account. Other features of the product include the provision of electronic receipts, PIN Vending and direct integration; • Inter net Banking a real-time solution that provides Internet customers with access to their account 24 hours a day,7 days a week via the internet; • EazyMoney a mobile banking service which enables customers to carry out various banking transactions using their mobile phones. Some of the banking transactions that can be performed via the mobile banking platform include card balance enquiry, card to-card transfers, airtime purchase, bill payments, funds transfers to accounts held with the Group as well as those with other banks, and local money transfers; • Global P ay a convenient, flexible and secure platform Pay for receiving payments through the internet. This platform accepts multi-currency transactions and also provides online transaction monitoring capabilities; and 24 SUS SUSTTAINABILIT AINABILITYY REPOR REPORTT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro • Electronic Multicar Electronic Multicardd this product enables merchants to receive payments from customers when they use a bank card issued either by the Group or other institutions recognized by our platform. It enables merchants to accept payments after banking hours, provides online transaction monitoring, alternative mode of payment, and can be customized to capture specific data. Car Cardsds and E-Solutions Zenith Bank blazed the trail in digital banking in Nigeria, scoring several firsts in the deployment of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) infrastructure to create innovative products that meet the needs of its teeming customers. The bank is verifiably a leader in the deployment of various technology banking channels and has become synonymous with state-of-the-art banking solutions. We continually enhance our processes and systems platZenith Bank blazed the trail in digital banking in Nigeria, scoring several firsts in the deployment of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) infrastructure to create innovative products that meet the needs of its teeming customers. forms to deliver new capabilities, improve operational efficiencies and achieve economies of scale, leveraging our unparalleled competitive advantage in delivering superior ICT and e-solutions. The bank has excelled in its provision of an array of electronic banking channels in line with the current trend of ecommerce. Zenith Bank offers customers an array of cards to choose from. Each card is designed by a team of innovative, in-house staff to meet the specific needs of our diverse customers. These cards ensure ease of payments and are trusted by our customers and merchants globally. Our card products include: • Debit naira Standard Card product • Debit USD Standard Card product • MasterCard Naira Prepaid • Aspire Debit Card Products • Credit Naira Cards (Classic, Gold and Platinum) • Credit USD Card (Classic, Gold and Platinum) • Co-operate Standard debit product • Debit Gold & Platinum Premium Card products • Easysave Card Products (Classic, Premium and Plus) 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 • Prepaid Cards (USD, Pound and Euro ensure that we meet the expectaconduct and personal behavior, both denominated) tions of all stakeholders. in and outside the office. They are also Zenith Bank believes that effecrequired to maintain good judgment, Ethics and Integrity tive governance, controls and comself-discipline, and a courteous appliance are essential in maximizing proach to customers and colleagues at As a major financial services institution, shareholder value. We therefore act all times. gaining the trust and confidence of our with the highest standards of integAt Zenith Bank, we are committed clients, stakeholders and the general pubrity and honesty in all our operato safeguarding our reputation. And we lic is of critical importance to us. In the tions, to ensure that customers can ensure that employees at all levels are last 25 years of our corporate existence, entrust their business to us with untrained on business ethics, integrity and we have succeeded in building a brand wavering confidence. professionalism. We have put structures that is synonymous with good ethics, inThe Bank subscribes to the Cenin place that reward outstanding ethitegrity and professionalism. tral Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Code of cal behavior. In all societies where we operate, the Corporate Governance for Banks in The Bank also has a robust EmployBank carries out its business activities in Nigeria (2014) and the Securities ees Code of Conduct and Handbook, compliance with laid down laws and reguand Exchange Commission (SEC) that clearly defines acceptable code of lations. Our employees are expected to Code of Corporate Governance. conducts, and all employees at all levexhibit the highest level of ethical and leDuring the year under review, we els are bound by them. In cases of gal conduct as stipulated by statutory complied with the provisions of breaches of our ethical standards, poliregulations, industry guidelines and the both codes. cies and procedures, and depending Bank’s policies. The professional image of Zeon the gravity of the breach, the Bank We remain committed to promoting nith Bank is directly linked to the can invoke any of the following discigood corporate governance and best way each employee behaves. So all plinary measures against erring empractices in the conduct of our business employees are expected to mainployees: to engender public trust and ultimately tain high standards of professional • Query 2626 SUSSUS SUST SUST TAINABILIT Y YREPOR AINABILITY TAINABILIT AINABILITY T T 2015 REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro • Formal written warning • With-holding of annual salary increment • Suspension • Termination • Dismissal We encourage employees at all levels, and indeed, all stakeholders to use our different engagement channels to report any breach of our ethical standards that could jeopardize the reputation of the Zenith brand. Reports can be made anonymously, via the bank’s whistle blowing portal on our intranet, or directly. No matter the form of report, investigations will be conducted discreetly and We encourage employees the source kept confidential, subject to any legal constraints. It is the responsibility of all employees to promptly communicate susat all levels, and indeed, all picious conducts, or possible violation of laws, regulations or ethical stanstakeholders to use our dards, to any or all of the following, until the issue is appropriately addifferent engagement dressed: 1. A supervisor channels to report any 2. Chief Compliance Officer breach of our ethical 3. Human Resources department The bank prohibits retaliatory action against any individual for raising standards that could legitimate concerns or questions regarding ethics, discrimination or hajeopardize the reputation of rassment, or for reporting suspected violations. the Zenith brand. Also, we ensure that the disciplinary measures we have put in place for noncompliance are fair, impartial, transparent and known to all our employees. In 2015, 18 employees were dismissed for breach of bank’s ethics and values and the incidences were reported to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). We are committed to dealing fairly and professionally with our customers, suppliers, competitors and employees. This is why we have consistently elicited positive rankings in corporate governance and professional ethics in States where we operate. The Bank’s recent listing on the Premium Board of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) is an indication of our performance in this regard. The Bank also recently won the award of “the Best Corporate Governance Bank in Nigeria 2015” at the Global Banking and Financial Review Awards 2015. We will continue to sustain this feat and continuously reappraise our processes to ensure that our business practices conform with the highest global standards at all times. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27 28 SUST SUSTAINABILIT AINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro 2015 SUSTAIN ABILITY REPORT 29 SUSTAINABILITY Employees Customers Investors Suppliers Media Host Communities Government Regulators 30 SUS 30 SUS TTAINABILIT SUST SUST AINABILIT AINABILITY AINABILITY TT 2015 REPOR YYREPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro Our STAKEHOLDERS In the financial year 2015, we continued to build on existing efforts at ensuring the availability of effective, up-to-date and transparent channels of stakeholder engagement, through which we elicit and receive feedbacks that would enable us pursue and achieve our common goals. 2015 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31 SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 31 Engagement with stakeholders O ur stakeholders are those entities that fective, up-to-date and transparent chanhave direct or indirect impact on the nels of stakeholder engagement, through attainment of our corporate goals which we elicit and receive feedbacks that and objectives; and whose social, would enable us pursue and achieve our Our economic and environmental common goals. We launched several new stakeholders are wellbeing we also impact, directly or platforms through which we engaged our those entities indirectly. Our key stakeholders are our employees, internal and external stakeholders, includthat have direct customers, shareholders and investors, government ing the rebranding of our social media or indirect and regulators, host communities, suppliers and venpresence for increased interaction with the impact on the dors, and the media. youthful population, which is increasingly attainment of We are aware that our stakeholders will not alimportant to our business strategy. We our corporate ways see things from our own perspective and may also worked extensively on our intranet goals and in fact disagree with some of our business decisions portals to significantly improve feedback objectives; and and actions. That is why effective engagement is critifrom, and interactions with our internal whose social, cal, providing us a continuous platform to keep feelstakeholders. economic and ing their pulse and ensuring that we are guided by In addition to our business strategies, environmental what they think or say. We understand that becomgoals and objectives, feedback from our wellbeing we ing the competitive global financial institution that internal and external stakeholders was also impact, we aspire to be will depend on how effectively we another factor that significantly influenced directly or engage these stakeholders and the extent to which the outcome of our sustainability materiindirectly. their views, observations and concerns are put into ality assessment in 2015. consideration in the business decisions and actions The table below summarizes issues of we take. concern to our stakeholders and our stratIn the financial year 2015, we continued to build egies for addressing them in the year unon existing efforts at ensuring the availability of efder review. 32 SUS 32 SUS TTAINABILIT SUST SUST AINABILIT AINABILITY AINABILITY TT 2015 REPOR YYREPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITYREPORT REPORT 3333 34 SUS 34 TTAINABILIT SUS SUST SUST AINABILIT AINABILITY AINABILITY TT 2015 REPOR YYREPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 REPORT 35 35 36 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37 REPORT 37 38 SUS 38 TTAINABILIT SUS SUST SUST AINABILITYYREPOR AINABILITY AINABILITY TT 2015 REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro 2015 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39 SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 39 Effective engagement with our inIn 2016 and beyond, we hope to tors and shareholders, the major issues ternal and external stakeholders avails further improve on our channels of were the need for continuous improveus the opportunity to share ideas that engagement with our stakeholders. We ment in our return on equity and acsupport our decision-making processes are working on re-launching a more rocess to performance reports. For reguin the overall interest of all those that bust live chat on our internet as part of lators, banking sector reform and syshave a stake in our business. We unour strategies in this regard. This should temic risk, enhanced lending to the doderstand that our relationship with key be live before end 2016. mestic economy, especially SMEs and stakeholders must be well established, the real sector, infrastructure financing, strategic and based on open, continuManaging momentum on ongoing anti-corrupous and participatory engagement so as to deepen our understanding of their stakeholders’ tion war, and the need for increased focus on financial inclusion and literacy expectations and map out the best way concerns and were top on the engagement agenda. of exceeding them. grievances Our engagements with host communities were mostly focused on soWhile our internal policies are targeted cial investments and ameliorating obat conflicts prevention, our relations served negative environmental footEffective engagement with diverse stakeholders at times genprints. One of the material issues with with our internal and erate unavoidable friction and differour host communities in 2015 was the external stakeholders ences in opinion. At such instances, we concerns expressed by some landlords avails us the opportunity are committed to ensuring prompt and at Samuel Adedoyin Street, behind our to share ideas that effective resolution of issues and comcorporate head office. Their concerns support our decisionplaints. centered on incidences of indiscrimimaking processes in the For our employees, the top ennate parking and the emergence of overall interest of all gagement issues in the year under restreet vendors who are leveraging our those that have a stake view were on remuneration packages, corporate presence in the community in our business. promotions, trainings and developto market their wares. We are currently ment and work-life balance. For invesworking with relevant Lagos State 40 SUS SUSTTAINABILIT AINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro 2015SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT41 REPORT 41 agencies such as the Kick Against Indiscipline (KAI) and the Lagos State Waste Management Agency (LAWMA), to address the incidences of street trading and the poorly managed effluence and waste in some parts of the neighborhood. To address the issue of street parking in some neighboring streets, we are building an ultra-modern, 600-capacity parking lot in the community to cater for the parking needs of our employees and business visitors. The project will be completed by second quarter, 2016. In 2015, the major complaints received from customers were on dispense errors arising from failed ATM, Web and POS transactions. Other complaints bothered on bank rates and charges, access to lendZenith Bank views complaints and grievances as ing and financing, Biometrics Verification learning curves and effective feedback that compel Number (BVN) registration hitches, and us to serve our stakeholders better. They are also incidences of employees’ misconducts. Specifically, the bank received a total of useful tools for measuring our customers’ 212 complaints from customers in 2015 satisfaction with our product and service delivery. out of which 208 were successfully resolved. Five unresolved complaints were escalated to the CBN for intervention. 60 COMPLAINTS RESOLRESOLVED VED IN 2015 unresolved issues were brought forward from previous years, bringing the total number of unresolved complaints to 64. The Bank’s target is to ensure that all complaints are resolved promptly as much as possible, and avoid carrying over any compliant into the following financial year. We plan to achieve near zero unresolved complaints from stakeholders in the next 5 years. Zenith Bank views complaints and grievances as learning curves and effecComplaints Resolved Total unresolved complaints pending at the bank tive feedback that compel us to serve our stakeholders better. They are also useful tools for measuring our customers’ satisfaction with our product and service delivery. The Bank is committed to looking into every complaint critically with a view to resolving them amicably, while also leveraging the feedback for improved stakeholders’ management. 42 SUS SUSTTAINABILIT AINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITYREPORT REPORT 4343 44 SUS 44 SUS SUST SUST TAINABILIT Y YREPOR AINABILITY TAINABILIT AINABILITY T T 2015 REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro Our FOOTPRINTS The best of businesses are only as productive as the condition of the social, economic and physical environment where they operate. No business thrives in isolation of the wellbeing of its critical stakeholders. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITYREPORT REPORT 45 45 46 SUS 46 SUSTAINABILIT SUST TAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYYYREPOR AINABILITY TT 2015 REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro ECONOMIC At Zenith Bank, we are focused on creating economic value for our stakeholders – colleagues, customers, shareholders and investors, the local communities and the larger society. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITYREPORT REPORT 47 47 Economic performance t Zenith Bank, we are cent growth rate. Profit after tax inA Despite the turbulent focused on creating creased by 4.9 percent, from N99 bileconomic terrain in lion in 2014 to N105 billion. Total aseconomic value for our the financial year stakeholders – colsets also grew from N3.76 trillion in 2015, Zenith Bank leagues, customers, 2014 to N4 trillion in 2015, representshareholders and invesing a 6.4 percent growth. grew its gross tors, the local communities and the larger We have also sustained superior earnings from N403 growth in net assets which increased society. billion in 2014 to N432 Despite the turbulent economic terrain by 7.6 per cent to N594 billion in 2015, billion in 2015, a 7.2 in the financial year 2015, Zenith Bank from N552 billion in 2014. This has percent growth rate. grew its gross earnings from N403 billion positioned the bank as one of the bigin 2014 to N432 billion in 2015, a 7.2 pergest financial institutions in Africa. 48 SUS 48 SUS TTAINABILIT SUST SUST AINABILIT AINABILITY AINABILITY TT 2015 REPOR YYREPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro The Group’s operating costs infrom N34.1 billion as at 2010, employlion, being interest paid on funds. Vencreased from N81.5 billion in 2014 to ees received salaries and benefits valdors, suppliers, and local service proN89.9 billion in 2015, representing a ued at N67.5 billion, representing a 98 viders received economic value of 10.3 percent growth. Also, profit bepercent rise within the five-year period. N87.1 billion. fore tax increased by five percent to In the year under review, the Bank The economic benefits we generN125 billion in 2015, from N119 billion added 180 new employees to its ated and distributed to our stakeholdrecorded in the 2014 f inancial year. workforce while our diverse economic ers in 2015 are outlined below. Profit after tax grew 6 percent, from and social investments created an esAs we continue to improve on our N99.4 billion in 2014 to about N105.7 timated 100,000 new jobs. economy of scale and resource effibillion in 2015. Highlights of the Group’s In addition, the Group created a ciency in the years ahead, we foresee operating results (extract) for the year total net value of N203.5 billion in dia significant increase in the economic under review are tabulated in the diarect and indirect economic benefits in value created for our stakeholders. We gram. 2015. Shareholders received direct anticipate stable growth in our gross A five year comparison of our ecobenefits valued at N54.944 billion in earnings, from N396 billion in 2015 to nomic value creation shows a 58 perdividend payments, a 400 percent rise about N519 billion by 2019, representcent increase in tax payments to govfrom the N11.303 billion paid out in ing a 31 percent growth. Similarly, toernment, from N12.610 billion as at 2010. Providers of capital enjoyed the tal deposit liabilities and total assets in 2010 to N19.953 billion in 2015. Also, highest economic value of N107.3 bil2019 are projected to rise to N4.03 tril2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 49 lion and 6.2 trillion, respectively, up from N2.3 trillion and N3.7 trillion in 2015. We also expect our Profit before tax to rise to N134 billion by the end of financial year 2019. As at year end 2015, the Group’s total loans and advances was N1,884,941,000,000, representing 8.7 percent of the N21,612,500,000,000 aggregate domestic credit to the economy, as reported by the Central Bank of Nigeria in its fourth quarter 2015 economic report. Indirect economic Our corporate philanthropy in 2015 also focused on empowering impacts our communities economically and supporting government’s efforts at delivering sustainable growth and development to the people. OverIn our business investments and lending activiall, the bank expended N923 million (US$4.6 million {@ N199.05/US$1}) ties, we are mindful of the need to boost ecoon donations and corporate philanthropy in 2015. Our communities’ nomic growth and development, create wealth, investments and donations is projected to rise to N1.3 billion (an estialleviate poverty and generate employment mated US$5.2 million {@N250/US$1}) by 2019. opportunities for the over 15 million Nigerian Even for profit oriented projects, priority is given to those that would youths that are actively seeking employment. deliver direct or indirect benefits for households, small and medium 50 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPOR REPORTT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro scale businesses, women owned businesses, youths, infrastructure development, energy generation, economic diversification and job creation. We prioritize economic sectors with the greatest potential to improve the condition and wellbeing of the larger economy and bring development closer to the people. The infrastructural and economic development of Nigeria is of great priority to us. This is because we understand that as a profit-oriented institution, we can only grow as much as our wider economic environment allows. It is in our best interest that the Nigerian economy and other economies where we operate, grow sustainably. And we are mindful of The infrastructural and economic development of Nigeria is of our role in making this happen. The great priority to us. This is because we understand that as a Bank’s approach is to assist govprofit-oriented institution, we can only grow as much as our wider economic environment allows. https://lagislandinfo.files.wordpress.com/2014/08/7.jpg 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT 51 51 ernment at diversifying the economy through active funding and In addition, we invested N7.7 billion on educainvestments in the real sector of the economy such as agricultional projects and N2 billion on public utilities. We ture, power, manufacturing, solid minerals, industries and conadvanced N81.7 billion towards the transport secstruction. We are committed to lending towards the developtor and a massive N464.9 Billion for general comment of the productive sector of the economy, and participate merce, amongst others. These sectorial lending have actively in the disbursement of various intervention funds created employment opportunities and wealth for launched by the Central Bank of Nigeria towards developing tarseveral households in the different communities geted sectors. where we operate, and also added value to govWe estimate that our real sector financing and investment activities in 2015 created over 100,000 new Jobs. These included N39.6 billion to promote agricultural development; N444 billion We estimate that our real sector credit towards the manufacturing sector; over N105 billion for real estate and construction development; and N55.7 billion for financing and investment activities power projects financing. in 2015 created over 100,000 new Jobs. These included N39.6 billion to promote agricultural development; N444 billion credit towards the manufacturing sector; over N105 billion for real estate and construction development; and N55.7 billion for power projects financing. 52 SUS 52 SUS SUST SUST TAINABILIT Y YREPOR AINABILITY TAINABILIT AINABILITY T T 2015 REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro ernments, shareholders and investors, the construction of rubber footwear customers and the larger society. manufacturing line, among others. Our investments in key sectors of In the Power Sector, we invested the economy in 2015 are detailed in over N55.7 billion to jump start the the table. sluggish manufacturing sector and support the privatization and economic diStimulating the versification goal of the Government. This investment has improved the soreal sector for cial well-being of Nigerians, created sustainable thousands of new jobs and promoted growth economic productivity. In 2015, we facilitated the growth 2015 was a remarkable year for the of SMEs with N2.8 billion credit to that Nigerian economy. The drastic drop in sector. N139 million was advanced to commodities prices, especially crude twenty-six (26) small and medium scale oil, once again re-echoed the need to enterprises with the aim of promoting diversify the country’s sources of forentrepreneurship, creating jobs and eneign exchange earnings. The current hancing the income of households. shortage in foreign exchange has also Also, Zenith Bank in partnership with thrown up the urgent need to develop the United States Agency for Internalocal industries and promote locally tional Development (USAID) provided manufactured goods through effective mortgage facilities for low and middle import substitution policies. income earners in Nigeria. Consequently, the importance we The country is estimated to require attach to the development of the a minimum of N56 trillion to bridge its country’s manufacturing sector is re17 million housing units deficit. At Zeconstruction of (50) units of residential flected in our total loan advances of nith, we are committed to playing our houses at Olive Estate, Agodi, Oyo N444 billion into the sector in 2015, role in closing this huge gap. In 2015, State. representing 24 percent of our total we advanced over N109.6 billion for In a bid to encourage import subloans for the year. the construction of homes and busistitution, we invested N3.18 billion and We provided medium term credit ness complexes, including the con$252 million in financing the construcfor the acquisition of plant and machinstruction of the Lekki-Epe expressway, tion of 2.5 (metric tonnes per annum) ery towards the construction of an ulreclamation and provision of infrastruccement production line and the acquitra-modern synthetic polythene bag ture at Shoreline Estate, among othsition of plant and machinery. factory. We lent about N2.69 billion for ers. We invested N1.31 billion for the To facilitate export and international 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 53 54 SUS 54 SUS SUST SUST TAINABILIT Y YREPOR AINABILITY TAINABILIT AINABILITY T T 2015 REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT 55 55 trade towards economic diversification, we fiployed while also enhancing data penetration nanced the completion of the Ofon Phase 2 These in some selected cities such as Port Harcourt, Project and the Phase 4B of port facilities’ deinvestments Lagos and Abuja. velopment at Onne Port Complex with about We also funded several oil and gas projects US$40 million credit line. have also in the year under review, including US$140 milTo further propel the fast growing ICT and supported lion and N362 billion credits advanced with the Telecommunications sector, we invested about improved aim of delivering the following socioeconomic US$75.5 million and N107.5 billion, respecbenefits: efficiencies in tively, towards enhancing telecommunications • Improved indigenous participation in the infrastructure, especially in rural areas, and imkey industries Oil & Gas Upstream sub-sector proved network quality. These investments such as • Enhanced implementation of the Federal have also supported improved efficiencies in Government Gas Master Plan agriculture, key industries such as agriculture, trade and • Importation of refined petroleum products commerce, among others. Our investments trade and for enhanced product availability in Telecommunications also propelled the commerce, • Enhanced oil exploration and production opening of new outlets in this sector and creamong others. activities to improve sector output, create ated new job opportunities for the unemjobs and enhance income for households 56 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro in local communities The Bank’s The Bank invested in the • Community developlending to the production of palm kernel oil Market ment through partAgricultural and cake for export and local nerships between Oil sector impacted consumption purposes. We presence Exploration and Prothe local also invested towards the proZenith Bank is a leading African duction Companies communities by duction of oil palm, tomato, brand with strong global aspiand local communiproviding rice, sesame and fruit Juice. rations. We understand that takties employment The Bank’s lending to the ing our brand image seriously We also supported opportunities; Agricultural sector impacted is a first step towards garnergovernment’s economic developing local the local communities by proing the trust and respect of our diversification drive with markets (farm viding employment opportucustomers and prospects. And the lending of about N42 gates) and nities; developing local marso we are mindful of how our billion to the Agriculture increasing trade kets (farm gates) and increasmarket presence comes across sector. This included N13 and commerce. ing trade and commerce. to all key stakeholders and inbillion credit to finance These investments also led to deed, the general public. We the acquisition of propthe construction of access are committed to adopting the erty, plant and equipment roads; skills and knowledge best global practices in all our for the construction of a transfer; provision of potable processes, policies and pracgreen field fertilizer plant water ; establishment of tices; and this is what we want with a capacity of 2.6 milhealthcare centers and cotto be known for. lion metric tons of urea tage hospitals; provision of Zenith Bank is an equal opper annum. The fertilizer free agricultural extension serportunity employer that is project will create at least vices to host communities, strongly committed to ensuring 6,500 jobs. amongst others. good employee management 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITYREPORT REPORT 57 57 In our remuneration and minimum wage, there is no gender disparity. Our net entry level wage as at end 2015 was N1,868,998/annum, significantly higher than the Federal Government’s minimum wage of N216,000 per annum (or N18,000/month) according to the provisions of the National Minimum Wage (Amendment) Act, 2011. The ratio of our entr y level wage to government’s minimum wage is 8.6 to 1. Zenith Bank’s wage is the same for all employees on the same level, irrespective of region and gender. and labour practices. We understand Procurement We pay highly that this is the only way we can conpractices competitive wages to all tinue to attract, employ and retain the employees in all the best talents that our industry has to ofIn 2015, our vendors, suppliers, confer. This has been, perhaps our biggest tractors and local service providers recountries where we ceived economic value of N87.1 billion, competitive edge. operate. We promote We pay highly competitive wages up from N78.4 billion in 2014 and repgender equality and to all employees in all the countries resenting a whopping 22 percent of our where we operate. We promote gengross earnings. As a leading financial provide equal services institution, our corporate proder equality and provide equal opporopportunities for all tunities for all employees to thrive. As curements remain robust and signifiemployees to thrive. at December 31, 2015, we had in our cant to our operations since they imemployment 3,294 male and 2,992 fepact, directly or indirectly, the quality male, representing 52 percent and 48 of our products and services. percent of our total workforce, respecAs part of our procurement politively. cies, we give priority to the patronage 58 SUS 58 SUSTAINABILIT SUST TAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYYYREPOR AINABILITY TT 2015 REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro of local suppliers in all the loca• ‘Local’ means all resources both ness by applying our procurement and extions where we operate. This is human and material that can be pense policies, which control spending limits one of our ways of giving back to sourced within the Federal Republic in all our branches and business locations. We our host communities and adherof Nigeria also conduct price intelligence and assist our ing to the country’s local content • ‘Significant location’ of operabranches to get value for money. regulations. This in turn, has sigtion’ means all the operational acnificant benefits for the economy, tivities covered within the 36 States Regulatory creating direct and indirect jobs, of Nigeria and the Federal Capital generating income and economic Territory (FCT) compliance empowerment for households, ICT facilities and equipment conAs we carry out our business and financial achelping in the f ight against institute a significant part of our protivities with our different stakeholders, we are equality and extreme poverty and curements. Our procurement policy mindful of the need to ensure strict compliboosting activities across various encourages a leaning towards paance with all relevant laws and regulations. sectors of the economy. tronage of local IT vendors, guided When unavoidably, instances of violation(s) of And to ensure timely, quality by laid down service level agreeoperational regulations do occur, we ensure service delivery and value for ments. We have a tender commitprompt and effective reparation. money, Service Level Agreements tee that oversees the selection of our In 2015, the bank paid a total f ine of (SLAs) are signed with all major IT vendors. N60,100,000.00 for various economic related service providers. In our procurement procedures, regulatory infringements. We also ensure regular interwe prioritize excellent product qualaction with contractors to enable ity, service delivery and after sales us track trends, spot emerging support. We ensure cost effectiverisks and establish appropriate controls. In our procurement practices: • Over 80 percent of the total As we carry out our business and financial activities with procurement budget is committed to locally sourced materials our different stakeholders, we are mindful of the need to gotten through local suppliers. ensure strict compliance with all relevant laws and These materials include cement, regulations. steel, woods, paints, among others Financial Regulatory Infringements and Fines in 2015 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 59 60 SUS 60 SUS TT SUST SUST AINABILIT YYREPOR AINABILITY AINABILIT AINABILITY TT 2015 REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro ENVIRONMENT As a responsible corporate citizen, Zenith Bank is committed to the wellbeing of its physical environment. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITYREPORT REPORT 61 61 Environment A s a responsible corpoto preempt, avert and mitigate these r ate citizen, Zenith negative footprints. We are conscious of Bank is committed to Zenith Bank is a fast growing brand the wellbeing of its with presence in Nigeria, Africa and the emergent global physical environment. Europe. Our goal is to become a gloWe understand that environmental bal brand that could compete effecconcerns about abuse and natural resource depletion tively with major financial institutions environmental portend danger for current and future around the world. But we know that generations. While we are mindful of this vision will not be realizable if we sustainability and have the direct environmental impact of our do not embrace sustainable business business operations, we also recognize practices. This is why we are now inchosen to embrace the that as a major financial services insticulcating sustainability into our everytution that funds projects in virtually all day operations and decision making clean earth principles. sectors of the economy, we could, processes. One of our priorities in this through our investments and partnerregard is to carry out periodic reviews ships have indirect negative influence of our processes to identify those with on the physical environment. We see it significant negative environmental imas our corporate social responsibility pacts and mitigate them as efficiently 62 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro economy, we understand that our enby 2020 and 100 percent by 2025. vironmental footprint could be huge if As a financial services institution, we do not put the necessar y our direct environmental impact is conpreventives and mitigants in place. Our siderably limited. The most material branches are mandated to undergo environmental footprints arising from periodic environmental impact assessour direct business operations include ment in line with existing regulations, energy consumption (fossil and nonand to obtain the necessary certificates fossil) and the attendant release of of compliance. greenhouse gas emissions. Our paper As we pursue our business expanconsumption and waste generation are sion goals, we will continue to insist on also moderately important. However, efficiency, adherence to laid down enwe realize that our products, especially vironmental laws and regulations and investments and project f inancing, the adoption of global best practices could constitute even greater environin products and service delivery. mental challenges. This is because we We are currently putting in place a play in virtually all sectors of the framework for identifying and impleeconomy, including oil and gas, conmenting practical and measurable struction and real estate, telecommugreen building design features. We are nications, agriculture, mining and quaradopting the glass curtain walling sysrying, among others. And activities retem in several of our buildings, as sulting from these funding and investagainst solid block walls. This is to rements could leave behind considerable duce the overall weight of the building environmental footprints. while also ensuring enhanced appearTo address the issue of third parances. In addition, the introduction of ties’ footprints, the Bank has introduced ramp access for the physically chalenvironmental and social (E&S) risk lenged people in our society has made management framework which guide our buildings more accessible and cusall major business decisions. In additomer friendly. While very few of our tion to our investees, we are currently outlets currently has this facility, our expanding this dragnet to include our plan is to achieve 50 percent coverage vendors, suppliers and contractors. Our as possible. We are conscious of the emergent global concerns about environmental sustainability and have chosen to embrace the clean earth principles. Our goal is to transform our banking operation into one that delivers low carbon emissions, energy efficiency, natural resource preservation, protection of biodiversity and the earth’s flora and fauna. We are dedicated to conducting our business activities in an environmentally friendly manner. With our widespread reach of over 500 branches and business outlets in Nigeria, coupled with our different investments in diverse sectors of the 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 63 major investees, business partners and service providers are also being educated on our environmental and social risks policies as they apply to third party relationships and the penalties for default. While we may be constrained in our capacity to enforce our E&S policies on third parties, we however reserve the right to terminate such relationships in proven cases of outright violation of applicable laws and regulations on human rights and the environment. As a responsible brand, Zenith Bank is taking appropriate steps to ensure complimoting Green Banking and Lending practices in all our major business ance with globally acceptable business printransactions. ciples as recommended by the United NaWe are shifting our business focus from the traditional bottom line to tions Environment Programme Finance Inione that emphasizes the Triple Bottom Line – People (society), Planet (entiatives (UNEP-FI); the Equator Principles; IFC vironment) and Profit (economy). And we are already beginning to see Performance Standards on Environmental the reward in this approach. In the financial year 2015, Zenith Bank did not and Social Sustainability; the Central Bank suffer any financial or non-financial loss resulting from breach of environof Nigeria’s Sustainable Banking Principles; mental regulations. among others. We are committed to pro64 SUS SUSTTAINABILIT AINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro Energy As an efficiency emerging global brand, As a major financial services institution,, eenergy is highly Zenith Bank material to our business opis committed erations. Our major source to limiting its of energy is the national elecoverall tricity grid. However, this is highly supplemented by the negative use of fossil-powered generaenvironmental tors, owing to unstable power footprints. supply in the country. Using 2015 Besides the high cost of as our base fossil fuel, we are aware of its environmental harm. The year, our To this end, we have adopted energy efficiency policies and burning of fossil fuel remains goal is to cut environmentally responsible practices across our branch network. one of the highest source of emission by The target is to reduce our total energy consumption by 20 per greenhouse gas emission with cent by 2020 and further down to 40 percent by 2025. As part of 20 percent the attendant global warming measures to achieve this target, we plan to shut down business and climate change implicaby 2020. operations in our branches and head office two hours earlier tions. The Bank is therefore than we currently do. From our recent cost/benefit analysis, this committed to mitigating this will save for us, up to 8-13 percent of our current energy conrisk by running energy effisumption. cient operations bank wide. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 65 2015 65 66 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro We are also retrofitting our light fiterating sets in our Head office, with creasing the use of renewable energy tings with energy saving LED bulbs and plans to replicate this in all branches. in our energy mix, upgrading our busifluorescents as part of our energy opIn addition to saving cost, this will also ness processes for enhanced efficiency, timization plans. Currently, 37 percent reduce the level of carbon emissions deploying energy efficient technoloof Zenith Bank branches no longer use and noise pollution. gies, and ensuring that we effectively modular f ittings with high wattage capture, measure and monitor emisbulbs and fluorescents. Our goal is to Emissions sions from all business offices and subensure that up to 60 percent of our sidiaries. branches are retrofitted for energy savAs an emerging global brand, Zenith Zenith Bank since inception has ing light fittings by 2017 and 100 perBank is committed to limiting its overbeen a technology-savvy brand. We cent by 2020. all negative environmental footprints. have pioneered the use of several bankPlans are also in place to install ecoUsing 2015 as our base year, our goal ing technologies in our industry and friendly, energy efficient air conditionis to cut emission by 20 percent by will continue to use state-of-the-art soers. We have installed gas power gen2020. We hope to achieve this by inlutions to deliver optimal, customized 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITYREPORT REPORT 67 67 68 SUS 68 SUS SUST SUST TAINABILIT Y YREPOR AINABILITY TAINABILIT AINABILITY T T 2015 REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro banking experience and products offering. tomers, which also means reduction in co2 emissions, these Importantly, we have been able to use technology banking tools also generate their own emissions, coupled with to significantly reduce the commute time for millions of the challenge of e-waste management. We will therefore conour customers, as they are able to meet their banking tinue to invest in new technologies that deliver on scalability, needs without needing to visit our banking halls. Some energy efficiency, and low emissions. of the electronic channels we offer in this regard include Our goal is to power these different technology-driven internet banking, mobile banking, ATMs, POSs, among banking platforms using up to 70 percent renewable energy others. by 2025. And we made significant progress in this regard in But while they have reduced commute time for cus2015. Our 1,206 Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) are now Zenith Bank’s Key Emission P oints & R Points emedial Strategies Remedial 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 69 Zenith Bank’s Key Emission P oints & R Points emedial Strategies Remedial generally powered by Inverters. But these Inverters are still mostly charged using fossil-run generators whenever there is no power supply from the national grid. As at end 2015, only 10.8 percent of ATMs in our branches used solar powered energy for this purpose. By 2020, we hope to increase this to 30 percent, and 70 percent by 2025. Also, we have commenced the replacement of all our 1320kva generators on Night Loads with Hybrid solar panels. The goal is to migrate up to 70 percent of our branches and business premises to renewable energy sources by 2025. Transport The largest share of our emission is generated through transportation and business travel. This comes directly from our pool cars, official cars for management staff, departmental vehicles and staff buses; or indirectly from staff vehicles, customer’s commutes to our business locations, contractors’ and vendors’ travels to our business locations, amongst others. To mitigate this impact, the Bank ensures regular servicing of our vehicles. This preventive maintenance helps avoid emis70 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPOR REPORTT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro sions resulting from incomplete combustions. We also ensure strict compliance with our four-year vehicle depreciation and replacement policy as part of efforts to mitigate high emissions. Similarly, we have implemented process automation and widespread adoption of state-of-the-art technologies that enable us communicate remotely with stakeholders. This has reduced the need for face-to-face communication and therefore, the commute time. As part of our Green House Gas (GHG) control practices, we have flagged off several initiatives aimed at: • Increasing the quality and quantity of our staff buses and encouraging more employees to use them • Encouraging carpooling and sharing among staff living in the same • Using energy-eff icient and low Lync Video Conferencing; Microsoft locality emission hybrid vehicles Off ice Communicator (OCS); IBM • Phasing out official vehicles (staff We will continuously invest in enSametime; among others, to enhance buses and trucks) that use diesel ergy-efficient technologies, new infraseamless, off-site communication. as they tend to emit more CO2 structure and robust software applications that would enable us communi• Leveraging technology to reduce cate remotely with key stakeholders. Paper tr avel time through video conferencing, video calls, among We will continue to build on our existmanagement others ing multimedia applications, such as In 2015, Zenith Bank Plc used 26,380kg of A4 papers in its Head Office alone. This consumption rate is indicative of the huge stationaries cost across the 358 branches of the Bank. Our sustainable paper and printing policy specifies processes that reduce the use of paper in general, and the need to ensure shredding and recycling of residues. To cut our operating costs and environmental footprint, we have initiated a paper management system aimed at reducing bulk printouts. The target is to reduce paper usage bank wide by 40 per cent in 2020 and 70 percent in 2025. Processes are already being put in place to achieve this goal. To significantly reduce internal resource consumption, Zenith Bank recently updated its electronic archiving platform and e-distribution channels. With e-archiving, we digitize our vital documents and store them electroni2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 71 cally. This e-storage system is more efficient, cost We encourage electronic communication and documents effective, and enables us comply with the stipuretrieval between employees, customers and other lated record keeping duration required by regustakeholders. E-communication and distribution channels latory authorities. It further provides secure storreduce the need for and number of printouts. age with controlled access and easy retrievals. We encourage electronic communication and documents retrieval between employees, customers and other stakeholders. E-communication and distribution channels reduce the need for and number of printouts. Our information databases are also hosted on the intranet for global access by all staff (including locations outside Nigeria). This has significantly reduced the need to print documents and the consequent environmental clutter caused by physical paper storage. In 2015, automation of several of our procedures and processes were successfully completed. Some of these include 100 percent automated call over of posted transactions; automated clearing of other banks’ instruments; automation of fixed deposit and Treasury Bills modules; fixed assets management; customs duties payments processing and account statements printing, among others. Furthermore, we are in the process of upgrading the automation of our administrative processes to enable us capture, store, measure and monitor our environmental footprints more efficiently. 72 SUS 72 SUSTAINABILIT SUST TAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYYYREPOR AINABILITY TT 2015 REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro While we are concerned about our resource usage, we are also mindful of the need to reduce that burden on our customers. To this end, virtually all our products have been migrated to electronic platforms that enable our customers initiate and consummate their transactions remotely, reducing their need to print or commute. In adherence to global best practices, recycling and re-use of materials is now actively enforced in our banking operations. Our policies promote shredding of used papers in accordance with ISO 27001 standards. Paper wastes generated within the different departments are shredded and the residues are sent to central collation centers for proper disposal and recycling. By 2017, we aim to introduce centralized printing services and double-sided copying, to further reduce paper consumption while also saving costs. Water management Availability of fresh and potable water is increasingly becoming a global challenge. At Zenith Bank, we understand the dire implications of this. We also appreciate the need to preserve and replenish the earth’s natural water supply. Minimizing industrial water consumption is one of the ways of resolving the global water crisis. And as a responsible corporate citizen, we are committed to water preservation by inspiring change in users’ behavior, retrofitting business offices with water saving equipment, and strengthening our water recycling mechanisms. Our water is primarily sourced from boreholes, Our estimated water usage in 2015 was about 1.87 billion given that water supply from government owed liters. Our target is to reduce this by 187 million liters by the year corporations is epileptic. In a bid to conserve 2020, which is an average of 37 million liters reduction per anwater, the Bank has installed motion sensor faunum. We are committed to deploying more accurate measurcets in our Head Office restrooms as well as waing tools for assessing our progress by 2018. ter-efficient cisterns in the lavatories. Dual-flush toilets have also been introduced in some of our branches and are gradually being rolled out in Effluents and wastes toilets and restrooms bank wide. Waste generation is an integral part of every business, including Our policies effectively enforce water effiours. But it is our responsibility to manage our wastes responsiciency practices, with the aim of achieving 10 bly. As a financial services institution, much of our waste include percent reduction in consumption by 2020. One fully depreciated and unserviceable items such as automobiles, of our strategies is to create awareness through computers and accessories, generators, air conditioners, contraining on the environmental implications of wastruction wastes, among others. As an environmentally friendly ter wastages and contaminations, as well as the brand, we understand that we can significantly reduce the wastes benefits of water conservation practices. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 73 we generate through more Waste Head office and the majority of dard recycling regulations. efficient use of assets and generation our business offices, we use the Because of its potential to negaresources. We are also comis an services of the Lagos Waste tively impact the physical environmitted to the sustainable integral Management Authority ment, and also in order to protect waste management prinpart of (LAWMA) for this purpose. This our employees and the larger sociciple of “Reduce, Reuse and every agency is currently responsible ety from the ensuing health hazards, Recycle, to lessen our envibusiness, for the classification, measuresustainable e-waste management ronmental impact in this reincluding ment, and disposal of wastes has been of utmost concern to the gard. ours. But it generated by the Bank. LAWMA Bank. While we are still working on Zenith Bank disposes is our has adopted recycling as an efimproving our waste management fully depreciated items like responsibility fective, more environmentally and measurement policies, our ultivehicles, computers, gento manage friendly substitute for landf ill mate goal is to achieve 20 percent erators and air conditioners our wastes and dumping. The agency’s reduction in the amount of wastes through a bidding process responsibly. Clean Development Mechanism generated by 2020. exclusively reserved for staff, (CDM) initiative is in accordance In the coming years, one of the in line with our reuse policy. with the United Nations FrameE&S preconditions we plan to introIn all the states where we work Convention on Climate duce in our third party business reoperate, we have waste Change (UNFCCC). Furtherlationships will be the presentation management contracts with more, we monitor our conof wastes disposal certificates obState owned or privately run tracted waste disposal agencies tained from relevant wastes and enwaste management agento ensure that our wastes, and vironmental management authoricies. In Lagos State for exespecially the electronic wastes, ties. This is to ensure that wastes ample where we have our are disposed in line with stangenerated by these businesses are 74 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro responsibly disposed and managed. have integrated the UNGC’s basic pilGoing forward, this would guide our lars (human rights, labor, environment, business decisions and relationships and anti-corruption) into our supply with vendors, investees and other busichain assessment and monitoring pracness partners. tices. In 2015, over 80 percent of the toIn 2015, Suppliers tal procurement budget of the Bank was committed to locally sourced maover 80 environmental terials procured through local supplipercent of assessment ers. We consider this a crucial policy because it affords us an opportunity the total To meet our diverse operational needs, to empower local businesses. But also, we consistently source for products and procurement very significantly, it enables us to cut services from different vendors. We travel time in products sourcing and budget of build mutually benefitting relationships delivery, thereby reducing greenhouse with our suppliers and other service the Bank gas emissions. providers and encourage them to We hope to further strengthen suswas adopt environmentally friendly policies. tainable practices in our supply chain Our procurement department has committed by setting clearly defined expectations mapped out a supply chain manageand putting structures in place to ento locally ment strategy with extensive focus on force and monitor them. Our strategy sourced mitigating the social and environmenis to develop a green supply chain tal risks inherent in our business dealmaterials policy anchored on well communicated ings with vendors. Our selection probaseline performance targets. This will procured cess is rigorous and includes stringent provide us a common framework for assessment procedures based on prodthrough evaluating and monitoring progress uct type, business size, location and poover time. local tential risks. 2015 has been adopted as our base To improve environmental and sosuppliers. year in sustainability reporting. We uncial responsibility in our value chain, we derstand that challenges remain in collecting, measuring and reporting data on our overall environmental footprints. We are committed to deploying the basic requisite tools that would enable us capture, measure and monitor our footprints more efficiently within the next three years. Our products, services and the environment While some of our service delivery channels have the tendency to impact the environment, our major influence as a financial services institution comes from third parties – our project finance, lending and investment activities. These financial products and services 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 75 76 SUS 76 SUSTAINABILIT SUST TAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYYYREPOR AINABILITY TT 2015 REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro cut across clients and projects in diverse physical environment. In addition to and responsibilities could sometimes sectors, including environmentally senthe ‘green ambience’ we have maintrigger disagreements with host comsitive ones such as Agriculture, Oil & tained at our Ajose Adeogun Road, munities and other key stakeholders. Gas, Power & Infrastructure, Mining, Victoria Island since 2007, in DecemAt Zenith, swift reparation is one of our Real Estate and Construction, among ber we decorated the road with specfourteen service creeds, and effective others. We are aware of the inherent tacular Christmas lightings and animaconflict resolution is a required skill in environmental challenges posed by tions that added extra glamour to the our daily relations with stakeholders. It projects in these sectors, and take proyuletide season and the celebrations is an ingrained corporate culture to acactive steps to minimize and mitigate of thousands of Lagos residents and cept complaint as an important feedthem. We also understand that it is our tourists from within and outside the back and resolve same promptly. corporate responsibility to enlighten country. The Bank has consistently improved our clients and project partners on exIn the years ahead, we will focus on its relationship with stakeholders and isting laws and regulations in this reespecially on financing environmenprovided effective channels for them gard, and to ensure their compliance tal and clean energy projects, includto air their grievances. In addition to with our E&S policies. ing renewable energy, recycling, our 24/7 customer care unit, departAs one of our strategies in this reamong other initiatives that would mental heads are always accessible to gard, in 2015 we deployed and trained positively impact the wellbeing of our all stakeholders. Complaints hotlines sustainability champions in all the dephysical environment. are also displayed conspicuously in our partments of the Bank to fully integrate business locations and there are dedisustainability consciousness into our Compliance and cated staff that are empowered to daily operations and decision making. make restitutions and address conWe have updated our credit and risk environmental cerns. As a result of these practices, management procedures and policies grievance Zenith Bank has always managed all to cover more of our lending and inmechanisms environmental issues amicably and to vestment activities and also, to ensure the satisfaction of relevant stakeholdmore effective monitoring. We are curWe are conscious of the fact that the ers. Consequently, the Bank was not rently reviewing all our products, serdischarge of our corporate functions fined by regulatory authorities for any vices and processes with a view to environmental infringement in 2015. achieving 70 percent alignment with standard sustainability principles by The Bank has consistently improved on its relationship 2020. with stakeholders and provided effective channels for them to air their grievances. Overall We specifically targeted some environmentally friendly projects for funding and investment in the year under review. These included the multimillion dollar completion of the Ofon phase 2 project, designed to stop gas flaring and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by half, and also to deepen local content in Nigeria’s oil and gas sector. To promote the culture of recycling and re-use of waste materials, we financed the multibillion naira acquisition of a furnace for the smelting of scrap into billet at the Ikorodu Industrial Estate, Lagos. In 2015, we continued with the landscaping and beautification of our 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 77 78 SUS 78 SUS SUST SUST TAINABILIT YYREPOR AINABILITY TAINABILIT AINABILITY T T 2015 REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro SOCIAL Zenith Bank is a leading financial services brand. Our size, brand equity, reputation and financial status bestow on us significant social responsibilities towards our stakeholders and the larger society. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITYREPORT REPORT 79 79 80 SUS 80 SUS TTAINABILIT SUST SUST AINABILIT AINABILITY AINABILITY REPOR YY REPORTT 2015 REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITYREPORT REPORT 81 81 LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK enith Bank is a leading financial services brand. pool of people from diverse backgrounds and with profesZ Our size, brand equity, reputation and financial status bestow on us significant social responsibilities towards our stakeholders and the larger society. We understand that our success is not for us alone, sional skills that guarantee premium services to our customers • building an inclusive merit-driven work environment where everyone is valued and motivated to bring out their but for all interested parties. We are mindful of the fact that best our society and the economy where we carry out our business activities should benefit from our corporate existence. We are committed to, not just creating economic value, but also leaving behind positive environmental footprints and improving the wellbeing of peoples around us, including employees, customers, investors, service providers and of course, our host communities. Employment and labor relations Our people are our most valuable assets. At Zenith Bank, this is not a cliché, it is who we are. Our business strategy is anchored on People, Technology and Service. We recognize our employees as vital to our long-term performance and business continuity. When our employees are motivated, they perform optimally, drive our business strategies, engage our customers and other stakeholders effectively, and deliver on the Bank’s service promise. Our employee relations policies and practices are geared towards: • attracting, motivating and retaining a highly talented 82 SUSTAINABILIT SUST AINABILITYY REPOR T 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro Our people are our most valuable assets. At Zenith Bank, this is not a cliché, it is who we are. Our business strategy is anchored on People, Technology and Service. • creating a workplace culture that is characterized by inclusion and behaviors that are free from discrimination, harassment and bullying • establishing a robust, on-the-job training and development program that helps every individual to acquire the technical and leadership skills needed for their career growth and development • promoting the well-being of our employees • creating an environment that allows every individual 2015 2015SUSTAINABILITY REPORT8383 REPORT SUSTAINABILITY 8484 SUS SUS SUST SUST TAINABILIT AINABILITY TAINABILIT AINABILITYY REPOR 2015 T T2015 Y REPOR REPORT REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro 2015SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT85 REPORT 85 to get involved in and give back tives. We work with our employees to seek to their communities solutions that best align their interests with We accord these committhose of the Bank. ments serious priority, with the While we currently do not have an enunderstanding that our long-term terprise-wide policy mandating a minimum sustainable success is hinged on notice period regarding significant operathe talented individuals that make tional changes, we ensure that any decision up our workforce. that may affect the working life and jobs of To retain the best brains, Zeemployees is made after in-depth considernith Bank recruits, develops, and ations. Signif icant plans of operational rewards talented individuals. Our changes that could impact the wellbeing of new employees usually resume employees are communicated to them in a into a robust orientation (ontimely manner before the actions are taken. boarding) program. Here, they Through our diverse feedback channels, emare formally welcomed and the ployees are encouraged to communicate culture and values of Zenith Bank their views and opinions on matters that conare inculcated in them in a warm cern them. Zenith Bank remains committed and cordial environment, before to complying with all applicable labor laws they are deployed to their variand regulations in the different markets ous departments and branches. where it operates. Where there is no legal The orientation program provides minimum notice period in place, we attempt a smooth and seamless transition to provide notice at the earliest practicable for new employees. At our statetime. of-the-art training facility, all asIn 2015, a total of 263 employees exited pects of banking, and Zenith our workforce, which constituted about 4.2 Bank’s processes, procedures and percent of the total active staff strength. We ment are installed at strategic locations policies are taught to new emwill continue to improve on our working conwithin the Bank’s premises, while occaployees. The orientation program ditions and remuneration packages to ensional fire drills are conducted to crealso places special emphasis on sure that we attract and retain the best talate awareness amongst employees on the ethics, rules, and regulations ents. emergency response techniques. We in the banking sector. also have Health and Safety Policy On labour relations, Zenith Occupational health documents that clearly def ine the Bank complies with all applicable laws, rules and regulations of the and safety Bank’s safety procedures and practices. These policy documents are deployed countries in which it operates. The health and safety of our people in the on our intranet for easy access to all These include sovereign state legworkplace is the responsibility of the Bank staff. Employees are encouraged to faislations on collective agreements, as well as the employees. Zenith Bank promiliarize themselves with the instrucbargaining and freedom of assovides and maintains safe premises, machintions and procedures, such as the lociation. We respect employees’ ery, systems and processes for the workplace. cation of fire extinguishers in their work right to form, join or not to join We enforce strict health and safety rules and area as well as fire exits and assembly labour unions without fear of repractices at the work environment; and these points. prisal, intimidation or harassment. are reviewed and tested regularly for effecTo promote occupational health Where employees are repretiveness. Employees are encouraged to take and safety, the Bank also has a Worksented by a legally recognised reasonable care of themselves and others place Safety Management Committee union, we are committed to esby observing all health and safety policies in place that, among other functions, tablishing constructive dialogue and promptly reporting potential health and conducts periodic safety and emerwith their chosen representatives. other hazards to supervisors or designated gency preparedness drills within the The Bank is also committed to safety officers. off ice environment. Every year, our bargaining in good faith with emFire prevention and fire-fighting equipemployees undergo Fire Prevention ployees and/or their representa86 SUS SUSTTAINABILIT AINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro tion and promoting healthy nutrition and workout habits among our employees. Training and education At Zenith, excellent service delivery is a key priority. And we understand that this can only be provided by a workforce that is highly trained, skilled, competent and motivated to attain their full potential. This is what our training programs are designed to achieve. We are conscious of the fact that attracting and retaining talented and committed employees with the requisite skills set in the dynamic financial services sector requires continuous training. For us, training and development is a continuous process of improving individual performance and competence. Training serves as a vehicle and Safety Management trainings to enhance their safety consciousness and emergency responses. In conjunction with the Lagos State Fire Service, we have also trained some of our employees to the level of Fire Marshals to enable them evacuate staff and customers in cases of emergency and create safety awareness. As at year end 2015, the Bank had 40 trained Fire Marshals. At every point in class private hospitals where medical for the development and transfer of time, each wing of the head off ice services are provided for staff and their requisite skills with the aim of building building has a minimum of two Fire immediate families at the Bank’s exan empowered, knowledgeable and Marshals on duty. We plan to extend pense. experienced workforce. this practice to our branches and busiIn 2015, our Human Resources deWe therefore strive to offer to our ness offices in the coming years. partment commenced the routine employees, opportunities that enhance The Bank also operates both Group communication of useful health tips via their professional growth and developPersonal Accident and the Workmen’s email to help employees live healthier, ment, and assist them to attain their Compensation Insurance covers for the and encourage work/life balance. This full potential and live their career benefit of its employees. We retain topinitiative is targeted at disease prevendreams. Our trainings can be informal/ 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 87 on-the-job (at unit/department level), or formal Our training individual employee, as against per training (classroom or computer based via the Learning Manfeedback sessions. This means that even for an indiagement Online (LMO) module). Employees are enmechanism vidual employee that may have undergone couraged to avail themselves of every opportunity revealed that more than one training type during the represented via any of these training platforms to acview period, the trainings are summed up as a significant quire relevant skills. one. number of Following the outcome of team engagements Our training feedback mechanism reand on-the-job assessments, Line Managers are reemployees vealed that a significant number of employsponsible for identifying the training needs of their that ees that attended our different trainings durteam members and this feedback is built into emattended our ing the year rated the sessions as “extremely ployees’ training plans. Employees are subsequently different useful.” As was our objective with the nominated to attend both locally and internationtrainings ally organized courses relevant to their job funcduring the tions. In accordance with the Bank’s policy of conyear rated tinuous development, requisite training facilities are the sessions provided in all our training centers. as Excluding our in-house computer based trainings “extremely which hold all year round for all categories of emuseful.” ployees, in 2015, a total of 6,098 (inclusive of 6,286 active permanent staff, 263 exited staff and 51 staff seconded to various subsidiaries) out of 6,600 employees were trained over a period of 151,036 cumulative hours. This number represents 92 percent of our total workforce. In addition, a total of 750 employees out of 6,286 active permanent staff were trained (over a period of 17,721 cumulative hours) on Sustainable Business Principles and Practices in 2015, representing 12 percent of the total workforce. This was designed to create awareness on green business practices and develop needed skills and capacity in our implementation of sustainable banking. The number of training activities is calculated per 88 SUS SUSTTAINABILIT AINABILITYY REPOR REPORTT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro sustainability trainings, most of the parted to promoting diversity and buildpersonal conduct, in line with global ticipants reported that the sessions ining a work community where everyprinciples and charters on human creased their knowledge of environone is respected for their distinctive rights. mental and social risks in banking opskills, experiences and perspectives. The bank is fully committed to proerations and effective ways of mitigatOur employees come from diverse viding equal employment opportunity, ing them. educational, professional and cultural fair employment practices and upholdIn the year under review, we spent backgrounds, bringing with them a ing non-discrimination laws. Consesix hundred and eighty four million, six wealth of experience that encourages quently, discrimination against indihundred and ninety one thousand, two continuous social learning from mixing vidual and group of employees on the hundred and fifty six naira and sixty and inter-cultural interactions. basis of gender, family status, ethnicity, eight kobo (N684,691,256.68; about All decisions relating to recruitment, nationality, race or religion by another US$3.441 million) on online, local and career advancement, compensation, employee or group, is prohibited. international training programs for all benefits, and training are based solely Zenith Bank values a work environcategories of staff. on individual’s qualifications, merit and ment where diversity is embraced and our business needs. employee differences are valued and Diversity and As a leading African brand with over respected. 6,000 permanent employees, we unThe Bank maintains a policy of givequal opportunity derstand the importance of upholding ing fair considerations to the applicaZenith Bank is an equal opportunity the principle of diversity in our tion for employment tendered by peremployer and adheres strictly to the workforce. The Bank demonstrates full sons with permanent or temporary principle of meritocracy and fairness. respect for human rights and upholds physical challenges. Our policy prohibWe understand that a diverse the highest standard of ethical and proits discrimination against persons with workforce confers competitive advanfessional behaviors in the workplace. disabilities in recruitment, training and tage on our brand, and so achieving Our Employee Code of Conduct lays career development. In the event that this edge is part of the Bank’s operaout guiding principles for appropriate a member of staff becomes disabled tional strategy. Zenith Bank is commitworkplace practices, professional and while in our employment, efforts are made to ensure that their employment continues and that they continue to fit into the Bank’s working environment. As at year-end 2015, we had a total of three persons with physical disabilities in our employment, representing 0.05 percent of the workforce. In the years ahead, we will continue to provide equal opportunities for all candidates based strictly on merit, irrespective of the candidates’ physical (dis)abilities, ethnicity, religion or gender. We will continue to improve on the accessibility of our business premises to persons with disabilities and provide a barrier-free environment for them. By 2025, our goal is to ensure that all our branches and business locations are fitted with ramps, elevators, platform lifts, stairs, railings and handrails, entrances, doors and rest rooms that are customized for the convenience of persons with disabilities. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 89 90 SUS 90 SUS TTAINABILIT SUST SUST AINABILIT AINABILITY AINABILITY TT 2015 REPOR YYREPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITYREPORT REPORT 91 91 ployees are entitled to maEqual ternity leave for a period of 12 weeks or 60 working days remuneration with full pay, in accordance for women with the local employment and men laws in Nigeria. On resumption from maternity leave, Zenith Bank has male and nursing mothers are entitled female gender representato early closing time for antion in its workforce. The other 12 weeks. Bank offers equal remuneraIn compliance with all tion for men and women relevant human rights and who are at the same level labor laws, the Bank ensures and for work of equal value, equality in employee manas set out in the Equal Reagement. All staff in the orAt Zenith Bank, we rights of all the parties inmuneration Convention of ganization receive the same have built an inclusive volved. Employees have the International Labor Orremuneration across the work environment equal access to training and ganization (ILO). We also where everyone is career advancement without same level, irrespective of have a policy of non-disvalued and can any form of discrimination. gender or region of operasucceed strictly based crimination against women tions. Recruitment is carried Female staff are represented on merit and requisite during pregnancy and after out without prejudice and at all levels of management. competences. childbirth. Our female emwith respect for the human At Zenith Bank, we have built 92 SUS 92 SUSTAINABILIT SUST TAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYYYREPOR AINABILITY TT 2015 REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro an inclusive work environment where everyone is valued and can succeed strictly based on merit and requisite competences. Our 48:52 female/ male employees ratio as at year end 2015 attests to our commitment to providing an equal platform for all employees to thrive. In the management cadre (from the level of Assistant Manager to Executive Director), the male gender constitute 59 percent while the female gender constitute 41 percent. From the level of Manager to Senior Manager, 36.36 percent are female and 63.64 percent are male. Among our top management cadre (which is made up of employees from the level of Assistant General Managers up to Executive Directors), 70 percent are male while 30 percent are female. ager to Executive Director Level) with a view to grooming We are committed to a continuous improvethem for executive management positions within the Bank ment on this ratio. In this regard, the Bank is curand its subsidiaries, right up to the board level. rently implementing a female mentoring initiaAlso, in fulfilment of the Banker’s Committee’s Recomtive designed to identify talented women emmendation on Women Economic Empowerment, the Bank ployees who have distinguished themselves over organizes a minimum of one female leadership training prothe years and have demonstrated immense leadgram annually with a view to maximizing the career potential ership potentials. They are assigned to mentors of female employees with high leadership potential. at the top echelon of the Bank (General Man2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 93 94 SUS 94 SUS TTAINABILIT SUST SUST AINABILIT AINABILITY AINABILITY TT 2015 REPOR YYREPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro HUMAN RIGHTS As an emerging global financial institution, we understand the importance of protecting human rights in all our business transactions. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITYREPORT REPORT 9595 Business investments s an emerging global financial inview to screening them for environmental and A stitution, we understand the imporsocial risks considerations. The Committee contance of protecting human rights in ducts periodic, on the spot assessments of the all our business transactions. We are Bank’s projects and investments and ensures adaware of the reputational risk that equate monitoring of clients’ implementation could arise from a poor handling of human rights issues in our business operations. This is why our Human Rights Policy clearly identifies the Headquarters of the importance of creating awareness on, and training all International Labour Office, categories of employees on human rights issues and Geneva best practices. Plans are in place to introduce Human Rights into our training curriculum from the 2016 financial year. However, to identify, prevent and mitigate adverse human rights impacts, we have already integrated human rights considerations (land, labour, child rights, health and safety of workers and communities, rights of indigenous people, among others) into our Environmental and Social Risks (E&S) due diligence processes and our Global Reputational Risk Framework. We also have in place a Management Global Credit Committee responsible for reviewing the entire credit and investment portfolio of the Bank with a 96 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPOR REPORTT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro Nonpolicy as a precondition in our lending and investment decisions. We will condiscrimination tinue to improve on internal policies In all our business transactions and and structures aimed at strengthening dealings with internal and external and monitoring compliance in our stakeholders, we abhor all forms of disdealings with third parties across our crimination on the basis of gender, entire value chain. color, tribe or ethnicity, religion, marital status or physical challenges. Our Suppliers’ Human Rights Policy clearly defines human rights these standards and lays down strict penalties for violations. We also encourassessment age our business partners, service proOur suppliers, vendors and contractors viders and investees to embrace nonare service providers through which we discriminatory policies in their business acquire the products and services we operations. need for our business operations. Zenith Bank purchases all goods and serForced or vices with considerations for fair priccompulsory labor ing, quality of goods and services, and E&S considerations. Effort is made to In accordance with international labor prioritize the patronage of local supstandards as spelt out in the Internapliers while also leveraging the Bank’s tional Labor Organization (ILO) Forced buying power with the goal of deliverLabor Convention (2014), Zenith Bank ing value to our customers and sharedoes not condone the use of forced or holders. The Bank is committed to enof, and compliance with agreed envicompulsory labor in its operations or suring that suppliers and service proronmental and social risks terms and those of its clients or suppliers. We abviders adhere to all applicable Human conditions, including protection of huhor and strongly condemn the use of Rights standards, including our Human man rights in the entire value chain. child labor, and strictly enforce this Rights Policy. 2015 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 97 SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 97 98 SUS 98 SUSTAINABILIT SUST TAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYYYREPOR AINABILITY TT 2015 REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT 99 99 100 SUS 100 SUS SUST SUST TAINABILIT YYREPOR AINABILITY TAINABILIT AINABILITY T T 2015 REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro SOCIETY The wellbeing of our local communities is of critical importance to us. We clearly understand the symbiotic relationship we share, as we can impact their wellbeing as much as they can impact the actualization of our corporate goals. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITYREPORT REPORT 101101 Local communities he wellbeing of our local communiT ties is of critical importance to us. We clearly understand the symbiotic relationship we share, as we can impact their wellbeing as much as they can impact the actualization of our corporate goals. We therefore strive to ensure a harmonious, win-win relationship with them. Our strategy has been to listen to their views on how we can be better, value-adding neighbors to one another; engage them more constructively on issues that are important to both parties; provide them with solution-based goods and services; and ensure that our social investments in the communities are in line with the outcome of effective engagements and a thorough understanding of their most pressing needs. The Bank encourages a synergetic relationship with host communities. We respect the fundamental human rights of our local people and accept their views and concerns as valuable stakeholders’ feedback that could guide our business decisions and actions. This strategy of engagement has ensured that we achieve a peaceful environment for our business to thrive while also catering for the social, economic and environmental wellbeing of our communities. In order to mitigate environmental and social risks associated with the conduct of our projects 102 SUS 102 SUS SUST SUST TAINABILIT Y YREPOR AINABILITY TAINABILIT AINABILITY T T 2015 REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro and business activities, we carry the local populace. In 2015, we invested out environmental impact assesssizeable funds towards various States sements prior to the execution of any curity projects, ensuring that security apmajor project. We ensure effective paratuses are strengthened and better engagement to determine the equipped to serve the local communities extent of impact (positive and, or more effectively. We also supported sevnegative) the project could have eral educational, youth, women and caon the target communities. reer development initiatives, as well as Our social investments in host public health care projects. communities in the year under reOverall, a total of N923 million (US$4.6 view were mostly in the form of million) was invested in diverse CSR corporate philanthropy, which projects in 2015, representing about 0.87 entails donating funds, time and percent of our profit after tax for that year. material resources towards specif ic community empowerment Overall, a total of N923 million (US$4.6 million) was initiatives as well as providing public infrastructure and facilities invested in diverse CSR projects in 2015, representing needed to satisfy the yearnings of about 0.87 percent of our profit after tax for that year. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 103 The Bank’s philanthropic and comAnti-corruption being deployed. Some of our staff are mercial investments in the year under currently undergoing trainings within review created immense value for loIn the year under review, we conducted and outside the country preparatory cal communities, increased commercial various checks on our banking proto the launching of the new software. activities in major cities across the councesses and procedures with the view As part of our prevention stratetry, generated thousands of new jobs, of strengthening systems’ security and gies, we encourage whistleblowing to enhanced household income and plugging observed vulnerabilities that deter would-be fraudsters. We also boosted overall productivity in the could hinder our anti-corruption drive. ensure adequate anti-corruption traineconomy. This necessitated the acquisition of a ing for all categories of staff on quarnew banking software which is currently 104 SUS SUSTTAINABILIT AINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro terly basis, with emphasis on evolving fraud tactics to and board members also participated in anti-corruption and watch out for. In 2015, a total of 4,048 employees which anti-fraud related trainings. represents 61 percent of our 6,600 employees (inclusive Furthermore, the bank is in the process of organizing of 6,286 active permanent staff, 263 exited staff and 51 trainings on anti-corruption for its key business partners. The staff seconded to subsidiaries) were sent on diverse antiplan is to kick-start this initiative from the next financial year. corruption training. The Bank’s executive management Compliance and social responsibility Our interactions with the society and diverse social investments in the year under review were guided by strict compliance with all laws and regulations governing such activities in the different countries where we operate. In this regard, we did not suffer any monetary or non-monetary sanctions and fines in 2015. Supplier assessment for impacts on society At Zenith Bank, we engage multiple suppliers for our every product and service need. As part of our due diligence practices, we have put in place an effective KYV (know-your-vendor) policy and strictly enforce our Service Level Agreements While we respect the third party status of our (SLAs), especially for major transactions. While we respect the suppliers and contractors, we are however third party status of our suppliers and contractors, we are howmindful that their business relationship with ever mindful that their business relationship with us could result in social and environmental reputational damage to our us could result in social and environmental brand. Therefore, in addition to documented SLAs, we engage reputational damage to our brand. in unscheduled visits to sites and offices of our key suppliers 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 105 106 SUS 106 SUS SUST SUST TAINABILIT Y YREPOR AINABILITY TAINABILIT AINABILITY T T 2015 REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro and vendors to carry out first hand asspell out acceptable environmental, sessment of their business procedures. human rights, labor and diversity manThis is to ensure that they operate agement practices. It will also obligate within acceptable social and environour supplies to adhere to set standards, mental laws and regulations. This stratobtain their products from renewable egy enables us to track trends, spot and responsible sources, and through emerging risks and establish approprienvironmentally friendly processes. Our ate boundaries and interventions. In plan is to set up periodic assessment 2015, all key suppliers were screened models to ensure compliance. By 2020, to determine their social and environwe plan to have communicated our mental impact on the society. Due diliSCoC to, and enlightened all our vengence assessments were carried out dors and contractors about its terms and vendors were rated according to and conditions. the quality of their services, ability to produce durable and environmentally Grievance friendly goods, and the speed of delivery (as specified in the Service Level mechanism for Agreement). impacts on As we keep enhancing our society sustainability performance, we will engage our suppliers even more While we remain committed to mainproactively with a view to pruning out taining good neighborliness with, and the weak links in our entire value chain. value creation for our host communiOur goal is to extend our existing Serties and the larger society, we undervice Level Agreement to all our major stand that there will always be differsuppliers by 2018. We are also now deences in opinion which could at times veloping a Supplier Code of Conduct engender complaints. We ensure an (SCoC) that would be served to all our open channel of communication becontractors and vendors. This would tween us and our communities and create multiple avenues through which we could discuss and address the concerns raised at every point in time. Heads of Operations and Managers in Our goal is to extend all our business offices and branches our existing Service are empowered to accept and address complaints from our communities. If Level Agreement to the issues could not be resolved at this all our major level, they are escalated to the regional suppliers by 2018. offices, and ultimately to the corporate head office. Contact details of our We are also now 24/7 feedback mechanism, developing a Supplier ZenithDirect, and other complaints hotlines are displayed conspicuously in Code of Conduct our banking halls, websites, ATMs, (SCoC) that would be among others. In addition, our Corposerved to all our rate Sustainability and Responsibility Department has a mandate to escacontractors and late communities’ grievances to the vendors. attention of executive management for effective resolution. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 107 108 SUS 108 SUS TT SUST SUST AINABILIT YYREPOR AINABILITY AINABILIT AINABILITY TT 2015 REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY As a deposit money bank, the products and services we offer are predominantly financial in nature and we are committed to offering them in the most responsible manner. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITYREPORT REPORT 109109 Product and service labelling A s a deposit money bank, highest possible standards and with maximum positive imthe products and services pact on our customers and the larger society. we offer are predominantly We consistently invest in innovative solutions that would financial in nature and we enable us deliver world class customer experience. We also are committed to offering ensure the availability of diverse, technology-driven channels them in the most responof service delivery for the convenience of our customers and sible manner. But we ensure that we offer clients. these services responsibly and in compliIn 2015, we operated from 358 branches; 163 off-site loance with all existing laws and regulations. cations; 1,268 Automated Teller Machines (ATM); over 20,000 Our products are designed to meet the Point of Sale (POS) machines; and our internet and mobile needs of the different segments of the marbanking platforms. Through these channels, our customers ket that we serve. In the last twenty-five years of our corporate existence, we have, through the strategic deployment of qualOur products are designed to ity people and state-of-the-art banking techmeet the needs of the different nology, redefined customer service stansegments of the market that we dards. We remain committed to ensuring that our products are delivered with the serve. 110 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro In 2015, we banked with us in their own terms, enjoyoperated from 358 ing competitive pricing, convenience, and branches; 163 offproduct and service offerings guided by site locations; strict ethical rules. 1,268 Automated (See a full report on our different prodTeller Machines ucts and services in our corporate profile (ATM); over 20,000 section). Point of Sale (POS) As a responsible corporate entity, we machines; and our understand that it is our responsibility to internet and ensure that our products and services and mobile banking the methods of marketing or delivering platforms. Through them, do not constitute economic, social these channels, or environmental harm to our customers, our customers stakeholders and the larger society. banked with us in Zenith Bank has consistently come out their own terms, tops in the KPMG Customer Satisfaction enjoying Index (CSI) across all segments. The CSI is competitive based on a survey of retail, SME and corpricing, porate/commercial customers of Nigerian convenience, and banks. Zenith Bank has clearly distinproduct and guished itself in the banking industry service offerings through superior service quality, unique guided by strict customer experience and sound financial ethical rules. indices. Achieving financial inclusion through innovative product offering As a major stakeholder in the Nigerian financial services landscape, we support efforts to promote financial inclusion and literacy. We see this as a responsibility we owe the unbanked population. We have taken steps to reduce the preponderance of adults without access to suitable financial products and explore opportunities to promote financial literacy. At Zenith Bank, the overall goal of our financial literacy strategy is to assist the attainment of financial independence and stability through the empowerment of citizens with knowledge of various types of financial products and services available. We aspire to connect the informal, unbanked community to the mainstream financial sector using products and ser2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 111 112 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro ucts in addition to its already existing banking products and services. Our Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) product introduced within the year offers convenient, fast, and secure way to access bank accounts and perform banking transactions via non-smartphone and without internet connectivity. This service is available to all individual account holders with any feature phones that run on the GSM platform. With the USSD banking, we plan to meet the financial service needs of over 30 million adult nigerians that are currently financially excluded. Some of the products that we have developed to support the financial inclusion initiative include: • Zenith Children’s Account (ZECA; designed for children below the age of 18) vices that are user friendly, accessible, functional, solution• Zenith Integrated Student Account (ZISA) oriented and affordable. • Aspire Account We realize that some groups are disadvantaged with • EazySave Classic Accounts respect to assess to financing and financial services. Avail• EaszySave Premium Account able Data has shown that women, persons with disability, • EazyMoneyMobile Phone enabled low income groups, and people in rural areas have limited • Agent Banking or no access to financial services. In 2015, we focused on • Zenith Mobile Banking developing products that are designed to meet the observed • Zeca account needs of these segments of the economy. To this end, we • Aspire Account (designed for students and individuals increased our focus on the retail market in compliance with of age 18 – 34years) the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) strategy to reach the • Zenith Mobile App unbanked population. To meet the needs of the retail cusOur e-solutions provide self-access to banking activities tomers more effectively, the bank rolled out several prodthat makes banking attractive for the low income segment 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 113 As a leading financial services provider, we consider information security as top business priority. We maintain strict confidentiality on customers’ data and information in line with existing laws and global best practices. of the economy. Through our mobile banking products, we include the annual Zenith National Women Basketball plan to gain customers who did not previously use banking League. 2015 marked the eleventh year of this sponsorship services. With Nigeria’s tele-density now at over 100 perwhich is in partnership with the Nigeria Basketball Federacent, the bank is leveraging mobile phones as key financial tion (NBBF). The initiative is targeted at empowering the inclusion enabler. And we expect to significantly reduce the female gender and helping them build gainful career in country’s unbanked population within the next five years. sports. The League, and several other events we sponsored During the period under review, 70,717 EazySave Clasin 2015 provided us a good platform to showcase our brand sic Account and 18,940 EazySave Premium Account were and market our products and services. opened. With the introduction of our EazySave Classic and In 2015, we also actively leveraged the social media Premium Accounts, individuals can open accounts with mini(Facebook, Twitter, Google+, Instagram, YouTube, among mal KYC requirement. others) to receive feedback from stakeholders and market We will continue to expand our network of ATMs, POSs, our products and services. branches and business offices throughout Nigeria to mainWe ensure that we comply with all rules and regulations tain our position as a leading e-solutions brand that supguiding events sponsorships, branding, marketing and soports government’s financial inclusion strategy. cial media engagements in the different countries where we operate. Marketing communication Customers’ privacy Zenith Bank uses a full range of marketing communication tools to create a formidable corporate presence using local As a leading financial services provider, we consider inforand international channels. In its marketing communications, mation security as top business priority. We maintain strict the Bank ensures best practices and fully complies with all confidentiality on customers’ data and information in line necessary guidelines and regulations on advertising, prowith existing laws and global best practices. Our commitmotions and sponsorships. ment to the highest standard of integrity and professionalThe Bank sponsors a variety of events and initiatives ism has earned us customers’ trust and confidence while designed to positively impact the socioeconomic interests helping us to maximize stakeholders’ value. This we have of our stakeholders while also ensuring our brand visibility. achieved by putting in place and enforcing good goverSome of our sponsored initiatives in the year under review nance practices, effective internal controls and compliance 114 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro with existing industry rules and regulations. Compliance with Conscious of the negative impact the misconducts of employees could have on the Bank’s repuproducts and tation, we ensure that every job function has operaservice offering tional manuals and handbooks that clearly define regulations the acceptable, professional relationships that should exist between employees and customers, colleagues, The Bank remains committed to prosuppliers and all stakeholders. moting good corporate governance We consistently invest in resources and new proand best practices in the conduct of cesses that would enable us serve our customers its business activities. This is because more efficiently, and this entails expert management we believe that good corporate govof customer data and information. ernance engender public trust and In 2015, Zenith Bank became the first company ultimately ensures that we meet and in Nigeria to achieve, at once, three certifications exceed the expectations of all stakefrom the British Standards Institution (BSI). The Bank holders. Zenith Bank has built a good The Bank reputation for itself as a Corporate attained the BSI certifications for Information Security Management System, ISO/IEC 27001:2013; IT remains Governance compliant bank. In 2015, Service Management System, ISO/IEC 20000-1:2011; committed to the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and Business Continuity Management System, ISO promoting listed the bank on the Premium 22301:2012. The Bank’s commitment to these intergood corporate Board of the Exchange, in recogninational standards stemmed from its resolve to governance tion of our commitment to exceldeepen customer experience through greater inforlence and global best practices. The and best mation security, an efficient IT management system, Bank also recently won the award of practices in the “the Best Corporate Governance and a robust business continuity plan, all targeted at protecting the information and investments of our conduct of its Bank in Nigeria 2015” at the Global valued customers, investors, and other stakeholders business Banking and Financial Review Awards in an increasingly unpredictable business environactivities. 2015. We will continue to improve ment. on this performance and continuously reappraise our business processes to ensure conformity with best global standards at all times. During the period under review, the Bank complied with the provisions of codes of corporate governance which it subscribes to, including the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Code of Corporate Governance for Banks in Nigeria (2014) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Code of Corporate Governance. In the year under review, there were no compliance failures or breach of laws and regulations concerning our product and service deliveries. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 115 116 SUS 116 SUS SUST SUST TAINABILIT Y YREPOR AINABILITY TAINABILIT AINABILITY T T 2015 REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro NIGERIAN SUSTAINABLE BANKING PRINCIPLES (NSBP) Our sustainability journey started in year 2000 with the establishment of our Zenith Philanthropy unit, charged with the responsibility of identifying, implementing and managing our social investments and relationships in host communities. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITYREPORT REPORT 117 117 Today, we have not only integrated sustainability principles into our CSR, we are actually striving to incorporate the concept into everything we do. And our decade and half experience in community engagement and development has been very handy in this regard. Our NSBP Scorecard United Nations Universal Declaration of Human As a Rights (UDHR), the United Nations Environment Our sustainability journey started in year 2000 responsible Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), and the with the establishment of our Zenith Philanthropy corporate United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), among unit, charged with the responsibility of identifycitizen, others. ing, implementing and managing our social inZenith Bank In 2014, the Central Bank of Nigeria and all vestments and relationships in host communichief executives of Nigerian banks, committed remains ties. As global awareness on sustainable develto the implementation of the Nigerian Sustaincommitted opment becomes prevalent, the Bank has been able Banking Principles (NSBP). By January 2015, quick to realize the benefits of sustainability to to actualizing all banks operating in the country were expected its core business. Today, we have not only inteto have commenced the implementation of the grated sustainability principles into our CSR, we the nine principles in their business operations. are actually striving to incorporate the concept developmental As a responsible corporate citizen, Zenith into everything we do. And our decade and half objectives of Bank remains committed to actualizing the deexperience in community engagement and dethese velopmental objectives of these principles. Our velopment has been very handy in this regard. principles. newly developed sustainability policy, strategy In the last decade, we have committed to and framework has entrenched the Nigerian several global sustainability principles geared toSustainability Banking Principles (NSBP) into the wards the social, economic and environmental DNA of our business. The table below outlines wellbeing of our society. These include the IFC’s our progress in NSBP implementation in the fiPerformance Standards, the World Bank Group nancial year 2015. Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines, the 118 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 119 120 SUS 120 SUSTAINABILIT SUST TAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYYYREPOR AINABILITY TT 2015 REPOR REPORT REPORT 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 121 122 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 123 124 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 125 126 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro Sustainable economic, environmental and social practices are easy concepts to sell to any discerning, forward-looking business. This is because they offer innovative, win-win solution that no progressive business should ignore. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITYREPORT REPORT 127127 128 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro CONCLUSION We are moving into 2016 and beyond with the resolve to remain a leading African brand, committed to the socio-economic wellbeing of our people; a cleaner, greener planet; increased investments in our communities; and enhanced returns for our shareholders and investors. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 2015 SUSTAINABILITYREPORT REPORT 129129 Conclusion ing positioned to outlive generations, we must already begin to look beyond now, and way into the future, to gauge The journey to achieving a better managed global environwhat it holds and how we can remain relevant for generament is the responsibility of all stakeholders. As a respontions to come. sible corporate citizen, we cannot shy away from this obliSustainable economic, environmental and social pracgation. While we have only just officially begun the reporttices are easy concepts to sell to any discerning, forwarding of our progress in this regard, we are committed to looking business. This is because it offers an innovative, winensuring that sustainable banking becomes “our way of win solution that no progressive business should ignore. business” within the shortest possible timeframe. Embracing a sustainable business culture is our way of The many ‘firsts’ we have recorded in the first 25 years investing in our own corporate future. Our profitability, comof our corporate existence were not handed to us on a petitiveness, (future) relevance and sustainability are hinged platter. From inception we instituted ethical structures, exon the socioeconomic and ecological wellbeing of the marcellence-driven processes and insistence on exceptional perket where we play. Because no business can perform betformance; and these have brought us this far within a relater than the overall social, economic and physical condition tively short space of time. of the environment where it operates, we will continue to We plan to bring this culture of exceptional performance nurture our people, planet and profit, in the best interest of to bear in our sustainability journey. As a brand that is beour business and all our stakeholders. Embracing a sustainable business culture is our way of investing in our own corporate future. Our profitability, competitiveness, (future) relevance and sustainability are hinged on the socioeconomic and ecological wellbeing of the market where we play. 130 SUS 130 SUS SUST TAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY YREPOR REPOR TAINABILIT AINABILITY REPORT REPORT 2015 T T 2015 Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro External Assurance Report From PricewaterhouseCoopers We have been engaged by the Directors of Zenith Bank Plc We refer to this information as the “Selected Sustainability (the “Bank”) to perform an independent limited assurance Information for Limited Assurance” which is also referred to engagement in respect of Selected Sustainability Informaas the “Selected Sustainability Information”. tion reported in the Bank’s Sustainability Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 (the “Report”). This report is proWe have carried out work on the data reported for 2015 duced in accordance with the terms of our contract with only and have not performed any procedures with respect the Bank dated 4 July 2016. to earlier periods or any other elements included in the 2015 Sustainability Report and, therefore, do not express Independence, Quality Contr Controlol and Exper tise Expertise any conclusion thereon. We have not performed work in We have complied with the independence and other ethirespect of future projections and targets. cal requirements of the Code of Professional Conduct for Registered Auditors issued by the Independent Regulatory Res pectiv pective espectiv e rres es ponsibilities o esponsibilities off the Dir ect Direct or orss o ector off Board for Auditors, which is founded on the fundamental Zenith Bank Plc and Pricewat erhouseCooper erhouseCooperss PricewaterhouseCooper principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence The Directors are responsible for selection, preparation and and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. presentation of the Selected Sustainability Information in Our engagement was conducted by a multi-disciplinary accordance with ‘Core” criteria set out on [page 3] of the team of health, safety, environmental and assurance speReport and the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 guidecialists with extensive experience in sustainability reporting. lines, collectively referred to as the “Reporting Criteria”, and in compliance with principles and standards of the United Scope and Subject Mat Mattter Nation’s Global Compact (UNGC); United Nation’s EnvironThe subject matter of our engagement and the related level ment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP-FI), International of assurance that we are required to provide are as follows: Labour Organization (ILO), International Finance Corporation (IFC), ISO26000, the Organization for Economic CoopLimit Limiteded a ssurance assurance eration and Development (OECD) and the Central Bank of The following Selected Sustainability Information in the ReNigeria’s Sustainable Banking Principles (NSBP). port was selected for an expression of limited assurance as related to Zenith Bank Plc: The Directors are also responsible for designing, implementing and maintaining internal controls, as they determine necessary, to enable the preparation of the Selected Sustainability Information that are free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. Our responsibility is to form an independent conclusion, based on our limited assurance procedures, on whether anything has come to our attention to indicate that the Selected Sustainability Information has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. This report, including the conclusion, has been prepared solely for the Directors 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 131 of the Bank as a body, to assist them in reporting on the or error. In making those risk assessments, we consider inBank’s sustainable development performance and activities. ternal control relevant to the Bank’s preparation of the Selected Sustainability Information in order to design proceWe permit the disclosure of this Report for the year ended dures that are appropriate in the circumstances. We believe 31 December 2015, to enable the Directors to demonstrate that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and approthat they have discharged their governance responsibilities priate to provide a basis for our conclusion. by commissioning an independent assurance report in connection with the Report. To the fullest extent permitted by Inher ent limit Inherent ations limitations law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Non-financial performance information is subject to more other than the Directors and the Bank for our work or this inherent limitations than financial information, given the report, except where the terms are expressly agreed and characteristics of the subject matter and the methods used with our prior consent in writing. for determining, calculating, sampling and estimating such information. The absence of a significant body of estabAssurance w ork per work perforfor med formed lished practice on which to draw allows for the selection of We conducted our limited assurance engagement in acdifferent but acceptable measurement techniques which can cordance with International Standard on Assurance Engageresult in materially different measurements and can impact ments (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): Assurance Engagements other comparability. than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information issued by the International Auditing and Assurance StanQualitative interpretations of relevance, materiality and the dards Board. This standard requires that we comply with accuracy of data are subject to individual assumptions and ethical requirements and that we plan and perform the asjudgements. The precision of different measurement techsurance engagement to obtain limited assurance on the niques may also vary. Furthermore, the nature and methSelected Sustainability Information as per the terms of our ods used to determine such information, as well as the engagement. measurement criteria and the precision thereof, may change over time. Our work included examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the Selected Sustainability Information. It also Conclusion included an assessment of the significant estimates and judgOn the selected key performance indicators on which we ments made by the Directors in the preparation of the Seare required to express limited assurance, based on the relected Sustainability Information. We planned and performed sults of our limited assurance procedures, nothing has come our work so as to obtain all the information and explanato our attention that causes us to believe that the Selected tions that we considered necessary in order to provide us Sustainability Information for the year ended 31 December with sufficient evidence on which to base our conclusion in 2015 were not prepared, in all material respects, in accorrespect of the Selected Sustainability Information. dance with GRI G4 Guidelines. Our limited assurance procedures primarily comprised: Other MatMattter erss • Discussions with the Bank’s staff primarily responsible The maintenance and integrity of the Bank’s website is the for matters on sustainability responsibility of the Directors. Our procedures did not in• Interviews with primary process owners (key managevolve consideration of these matters and accordingly we ment staff ) across departments including Learning accept no responsibility for any changes to either the inforManagement, Internal Control and Audit, Human Remation in the Report or our independent assurance report sources and Legal. that may occur when uploaded on the website. • Understood and evaluated the key controls put in place by the management. For: PricewaterhouseCooper PricewaterhouseCooperss 05 August 2016 • Reviewed documented policies, reports and supporting information for relevant management assertions. • Examined the sustainability report in relation to the findings from our assurance engagement and provided recommendations for improvements. Ifori Lay egue Layegue The procedures selected depend on our judgment, includAssociate Director ing the assessment of the risk of material misstatement of FRC/2013/ICAN/00002989 the Selected Sustainability Information, whether due to fraud 132 SUS SUSTTAINABILIT AINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro GRI-G4 CONTENT INDEX DATA TABLE 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 133 134 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 135 136 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 137 138 SUSTAINABILIT SUSTAINABILITYY REPORT 2015 REPORT Nur turing P Nurturing eople, Planet, Pr People, of it Pro 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 139 Contact Information This report is prepared by the Corporate Sustainability and Responsibility Unit of Zenith Bank Plc, in compliance with the GRI-G4 sustainability reporting principles and guidelines. All feedback and enquiries should be directed to: The Head Corporate Sustainability & Responsibility (CSR) Zenith Bank Plc Corporate Head Office Zenith Heights 87, Ajose Adeogun Street Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria Email: sustainability@zenithbank.com; csr@zenithbank.com; zenithdirect@zenithbank.com Phone: +234 1 278 1049, +234 1 278 1047, +234 1 278 1048, +234 704 0000 831 140 SUS 140 SUS TTAINABILIT SUST SUST AINABILIT AINABILITY AINABILITY TT 2015 REPOR YYREPOR REPORT REPORT 2015
