HELPING CITIES GROW SUSTAINABLY Sustainability Report 2015 CONTENTS KONE IN BRIEF Interview with the Chairman and At KONE, our mission is to improve the flow of urban life. As a global leader in the elevator and the President and CEO................................................... 4 escalator industry, KONE provides elevators, escalators and automatic building doors, as well as solutions for modernization and maintenance to add value to buildings throughout their life cycle. Key figures 2015............................................................ 6 Strategy and megatrends.............................................. 8 We serve more than 400,000 customers across the globe. The majority of these are maintenance customers. Key customer groups include builders, building owners, facility managers and developers. Innovations.................................................................. 10 Architects, authorities and consultants are also key parties in the decision-making process regarding elevators and escalators. Managing sustainability............................................... 12 Materiality analysis....................................................... 14 Through more effective People Flow®, we make people’s journeys safe, convenient and reliable, in taller, smarter buildings. In 2015, KONE had annual net sales of EUR 8.6 billion, and at the end of the year close to 50,000 employees. KONE class B shares are listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. in Finland. Safety........................................................................... 16 Environment................................................................ 20 KONE worldwide Quality......................................................................... 30 Our people.................................................................. 32 Hyvinkää Helsinki Creating added value for our stakeholders.................. 36 Essen Ùsti nad Labem Coal Valley Cadrezzate Supply chain................................................................ 42 Pero Allen Kunshan Nanxun Torreón Reporting scope........................................................... 46 Chennai Independent assurance report..................................... 47 KONE’s presence Head office Global Reporting Initiative index................................. 48 Global R&D site Production site KONE collaborates with authorized distributors in close to 80 countries. Sustainability at KONE At KONE, sustainability is embedded in our organizational culture. It is how we treat each other and our stakeholders, how we take the environment into account in all of our actions, and how we foster economic performance now and in the future. Our vision is to deliver the best People Flow® experience. We see sustainability as a source of innovation and a competitive advantage. KONE is committed to conducting our business in a responsible and sustainable way and we expect the same commitment from our partners. Read more about our approach to sustainability at www.kone.com/sustainability 39 INTERVIEW WITH THE CHAIRMAN KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT INTERVIEW WITH THE CHAIRMAN AND THE PRESIDENT AND CEO AND THE PRESIDENT AND CEO Looking back at our progress during 2015, are The same applies to other areas. The less WHAT DOES SUSTAINABILITY MEAN FOR KONE? there any particular highlights which stand waste material and wasted resources we have, out? the more efficient we are, and that applies throughout our operations and facilities. “At KONE, we want to AH: I was pleased to see that our growth was “We should remember geographically broad-based, not only in Asia, HE: Absolutely, and we should remember contribute to better which has been a major growth driver over the that new technology is a significant enabler of what new technology can urban living by helping last 20 years. Another highlight for me is that improved sustainability. The technology in our bring to sustainability. 2015 marked our 50th consecutive profitable products and services can significantly reduce people move around in year. elevator and escalator energy consumption, while Digitalization gives us the and between buildings, reducing waiting time for users. Digitalization also opportunity to be more HE: The increasingly broad based growth in gives us the opportunity to provide new services in ways that are smooth both new equipment and in services was an for our customers, which improve efficiency. efficient in our operations important achievement for us. Other areas and safe. A great deal of include our ability to constantly reduce our We are, for example, investing significantly in and improve quality.” that is about sustainable carbon footprint. In fact, during the reporting diagnostics for our services which improves the year, our operational carbon footprint is down quality and predictability for our customers. The -Henrik Ehrnrooth practices.” by over 60%, relative to orders received, agreement we announced with IBM in 2016, compared to 2008. We were also awarded a will bring cognitive analytics to our services. In -Antti Herlin position on the Climate Performance A-List by practice, this means that we can resolve issues CDP, recognized as one of the world’s leading before they occur, with our analytics platforms providers of climate change data. constantly learning and becoming better at identifying future needs. Technologies in smart AH: Another aspect where we have made buildings is another example which can help Chairman Antti Herlin joins President and CEO Henrik Ehrnrooth for a conversation on our progress in 2015. progress is safety, which can have big impacts facility owners and managers to improve the on sustainable urban living, and our employees. overall energy and resource efficiency of their buildings, while improving people flow. HE: Yes, safety continues to be important in Sustainability is an integral aspect of how we Henrik Ehrnrooth (HE): Yes, sustainability everything we do. We have an ambition to How can customers tell the difference between do business. Can you begin by explaining why it is very broad and it has many dimensions. reach zero accidents and in 2015 the number companies that call themselves sustainable? remains a critical area for KONE? We embed it in all of our operations, and it of incidents decreased again. The industrial What are KONE’s differentiators? is an integral part of our mission to improve injury frequency rate (IIFR) improved further Antti Herlin (AH): Sustainability is part the flow of urban life. Every day, our People from 2.8 last year, to 2.3 this year. AH: I think it comes back to what we talked of everything we do; it is not only about Flow solutions help to address the challenges about at the beginning. We work hard to environmental performance and safety. It created by urbanization, demographic change, It is interesting when we look at safety and understand sustainability and all its dimensions, is about how we conduct our business and the need for improved energy efficiency and business performance. Because what becomes including the environment, safety, quality and work in society. Sustainability as a whole has increased safety demands. clear, when you look at that correlation, is that continuous improvement. All of that runs deep been important for KONE for as long as I can our business units with the best safety track in the KONE culture. Our track record is very remember, and it is something where we have How does KONE continue to make progress in record tend to have the same track record in strong and if you look at that, it tells you a lot always looked towards the future. sustainable development? business performance. It all goes together hand about our commitment to sustainability. in hand. At KONE, we want to contribute to better urban HE: First of all, our financial performance in HE: As I mentioned earlier, our mission is living by helping people move around in and 2015 was strong. We continued to grow on a How has KONE improved the integration of to improve the flow of urban life, for our between buildings, in ways that are smooth and broad basis and in a sustainable way. We have environmental, social, and governance issues customers and for the people who use our safe. A great deal of that is about sustainable a strong order book and more importantly, our into its business? equipment. Sustainability is embedded in not practices. good financial performance enables continued only what we do, but how we do it and one of significant investments in strengthening our AH: This is really important because our strength is definitely our pragmatic culture. It is a must for business to operate in a competitiveness and in developing sustainable integration with the business happens over sustainable manner – and we need to solutions and services. the long term. We have to consider that we Our people want to develop themselves and understand its different dimensions. For are all sharing a global environment and the company all the time. In 2015, we reached instance, I have seen it going 100% hand In the second half of the year we announced the resources we have at our disposal are a record high response rate of 93% in our in hand with the philosophy of continuous our new innovation strategy, which is designed becoming increasingly scarce. global employee survey, and this gives a strong improvement. to ensure that we can meet the needs of indication of the commitment they have in an urbanizing world, where the pace of To be a leader in sustainability, efficiency making KONE an even better company. My family has been involved in KONE since technological change is increasing. Digital becomes more important. We need to be 1924, and sustainability is something that has technologies can help us deliver new value resource-efficient in everything we do and Finally, our people and culture are built on been with KONE for generations, which was added solutions and services to our customers in there are a lot of examples of how we have KONE’s values, which are about how we started by my great grandfather. It runs deep in a more sustainable way. made our products more efficient and more develop as a strong company, contributing to the KONE culture. sustainable. sustainable cities of the future. 4 5 Key figures 2015 KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Key figures 2015 KEY FIGURES 2015 Relative operational carbon footprint Data assured externally Employees by market, 2015 Sales by market, 2015 Vehicle fleet Electricity (Scope 2) Business air travel Logistics (Scope 3) Overall operations Key financial figures 2014 2015 change, % (Scope 1) (Scope 3) 13% Orders received MEUR 6,812.6 7,958.9 16.8% 17% Order book MEUR 6,952.5 8,209.5 18.1% Sales MEUR 7,334.5 8,647.3 17.9% 42% 39% Operating income MEUR 1,035.7 1,241.5 19.9% 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,050 1,050 1,050 1,050 Operating income % 14.1 14.4 1,050 1,018 -14.6% -5.6% +1.0% 44% 900 900 900 900 965 900 -8.2% 920 Cash flow from operations 869 911 45% MEUR 1,345.4 1,473.7 750 750 798 750 750 750 (before financing items and taxes) 600 600 600 600 600 Net income MEUR 773.9 1,053.1 450 450 450 -4.3% -9.5% 450 450 -5.0% -2.9% EMEA: 42% (44%) 300 300 300 397 380 300 300 Basic earnings per share EUR 1.47 2.01 77.4 73.5 71.4 344 Americas: 13% (12%) EMEA 39% (44%) 150 150 150 150 150 42.2 -4.3% -12.1% 40.4 35.5 Interest-bearing net debt MEUR -911.8 -1,512.6 0 0 0 0 0 Asia-Pacific: 45% (44%) Asia-Pacific 44% (41%) kgCO2e / Unit in service kgCO2e / Headcount kgCO2e / Headcount kgCO2e / Unit tCO2e / MEUR Sales* Total equity/total assets % 43.6 45.4 (2014 figures in brackets) Americas 17% (15%) Gearing % -44.2 -58.7 2013 2014 2015 (2014 figures in brackets) *4.4% reduction in 2015 with sales growth calculated at comparable exchange rates. R&D expenditure MEUR 103.1 121.7 Employees by job category, 2015 Energy consumption Units 2013 2014 2015 Direct Heating and vehicle fleet fuels MWh 403,500 390,400 399,100 Sales by business, 2015 (heating oil, natural gas, petrol, die9% sel, biodiesel; biodiesel consumption was 9,000 MWh in 2014/2015) 9% 12% KONE’s economic impacts in 2015 Indirect Electricity* MWh 78,300 79,900 79,800 Stakeholders District heat MWh 15,000 15,900 15,100 26% 56% Employees 1,825 (1,578) MEUR *2014 restated Customers Suppliers Added value = 57% Creditors -122 (-19) MEUR 31% 8,647 4,960 3,687 Public sector 932 (765) MEUR Carbon footprint of KONE’s operations, tCO2e 2013 2014 2015 (7,334) (4,198) (3,136) Shareholders 718 (616) MEUR Direct (scope 1) Vehicle fleet* 86,200 85,800 88,500 Maintenance and modernization MEUR MEUR MEUR Economic value Heating fuels* 12,800 9,900 9,300 56% (56%) retained in the company 334 (196) MEUR Cooling gases 1,000 1,400 1,900 New equipment, sales and New equipment 57% (55%) installation 26% (26%) (2014 figures in brackets) Indirect electricity Electricity consumption 44,100 40,900 39,700 Maintenance 31% (32%) Manufacturing 9% (10%) (scope 2) (including district heat)** Modernization 12% (13%) Administration, IT and R&D 9% Other relevant Logistics*** 129,100 138,200 148,000 (8%) (2014 figures in brackets) indirect (scope 3) (2014 figures in brackets) Business air travel 17,200 17,900 17,100 Waste 1,900 2,300 2,500 Industrial Injury Frequency Rate Total 292,300 296,400 307,000 Number of employees, end of year development among KONE employees * 2014 restated **2014 restated; calculated using market-based method ***2013 and 2014 restated 49,734 50,000 47,064 43,298 8 7.5 40,000 37,542 39,851 33,755 7 Waste, tonnes 2013 2014 2015 6 6.0 30,000 5 5.2 Recycled waste* 18,500 16,900 16,000 4 4.3 4.1 20,000 Incinerated waste 1,800 2,200 2,200 3.4 3.0 3 2.8 10,000 2 2.3 Landfill waste* 2,700 2,700 3,000 1 0 0 Hazardous waste** 700 800 800 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total 23,700 22,600 22,000 *2013 and 2014 restated **2014 restated KONE tracks the number of lost time injuries of one day or more, per million hours worked, as a key performance indicator. The IIFR covers KONE’s own employees. Water consumption 2013 2014 2015 Total m3 370,000 390,000 390,000 Scope 1, scope 2, and scope 3 logistics and business air travel data assured by Mitopro Oy 6 7 Strategy and megatrends KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Strategy and megatrends TURNING OUR VISION INTO REALITY BRINGING OUR INSIGHTS TO From low-rise buildings to the world’s highest and by whom a building is used determines Urbanization The world’s population is also aging at an GROWING INTEREST TOWARDS PEOPLE FLOW skyscrapers, or the demands of shopping malls, the optimal location, quantity and type The world’s cities are constantly growing. unprecedented rate. The growing number GREEN BUILDINGS hotels, airports and transit hubs, to cruise ships, of equipment required at the site. Over They attract billions of people and by 2050, of older people raises the importance At KONE, our vision is to deliver the stadiums and concert halls, KONE remains the decades, we have amassed extensive more than two in every three people on of accessibility in buildings and urban The demand for energy efficient best People Flow® experience. This focused on delivering the best People Flow® knowledge and expertise on different the planet will live in urban areas. Estimates infrastructure. solutions for moving people in and means we make sure that the people between buildings is driven by experience, and we are proud to serve some environments, their functionality and how tell us that around 200,000 people move who use our products and services, the voluntary sustainability ratings and people who live in towns and cities, of the world’s most well-known buildings and they are connected. At KONE, we provide into cities across the globe each and every Safety national green building ratings. can move around more easily, more urban complexes. Ease, Effectiveness and Experiences to users day, the same as 140 people every minute Urban infrastructure is aging. In Europe alone, These are becoming more common effectively and have more enjoyable and customers, over the full life cycle of (Source: UN World Population Prospects, the equipment aged over 20 years is expected and are of increasing importance to experiences. Our job is to make the best of the world’s buildings. 2014 revision). to increase from 2.2 million units to 3.2 our customers. Sustainable urban building refers to building practices cities, buildings and public spaces, because million units by 2020, representing 60% of that improve energy efficiency, use we believe that cities are part of the solution Strategic targets This makes urbanization the most important the equipment base (Source: European Lift sustainable materials and reduce a for a better future. At KONE, our mission is to Our strategic targets lead the way towards megatrend within the global elevator and Association ELA). The well-functioning of the building’s negative impacts on human improve the flow of urban life. our vision. We aim to have the most loyal escalator industry. It is expected to drive equipment used daily by over one billion health and the environment. customers, be a great place to work, grow demand for years to come. The concentration people is becoming increasingly important for Through more effective People Flow, we make faster than the market, have the best financial of people in urban areas increases the authorities and equipment users around the it possible to live and work in taller, smarter development in our industry and be a leader importance of moving them efficiently from world. This makes safety one of the key drivers buildings and together with our partners and in sustainability. Our development programs one point to another, and calls for sustainable for our industry. INNOVATIONS FOR MODERNIZATION customers we help cities to become better are designed to help us turn our strategy innovations. places to live in. into reality and support our efforts to meet Environment Optimizing the urban environment our strategic targets. In addition, we give the Demographic change Today’s cities take up about 2% of the world’s requires new approaches to modernization and maintenance as The world’s cities are constantly growing and utmost importance to two high-priority areas in The global demographic structure is changing. land mass, but account for 75% of global much as solutions for new buildings. As around 200,000 people move into cities every our daily work. These are safety and quality. Our Economic growth translates into higher energy consumption and 80% of manmade our population matures, the buildings day. Our equipment moves over 1 billion users development programs and strategic targets are standards of living for a larger part of the world’s carbon emissions (Source: UN Habitat, New we depend on also grow older. Cities each day, with over 1 million elevators and founded on KONE’s core values of delighting population. The number of people classified as Cities and Climate Change: Global Report – namely buildings and transportation escalators in our service base. All this, while the customer, energy for renewal, passion for middle-income earners is expected to grow to on Human Settlements 2011). Reducing the hubs – need to be designed and built in a way that enables all people, including serving more than 400,000 customers around performance, and winning together. nearly 5 billion by 2030 (Source: Pew Research impact urban areas make on the environment elderly persons, to move around easily. the world. Center, Global Attitudes and Trends, 2015). is essential for a more sustainable future. Here, elevators and escalators play an The world we live in Middle income earners expect more spacious This is a challenge that has driven KONE to important role. With this kind of growth and change The direction and shape of the global elevator and better equipped apartments, which drives develop numerous eco-innovations over the For example by modernizing an happening around the world, delivering and escalator industry are driven by four higher demand for elevators. At the same past decades. elevator, the space inside the car can increase by even up to 50%, making the best People Flow experience means megatrends: urbanization, demographic time, an increasing value is being placed on it easier to access the elevator with a understanding different types of buildings change, the increasing importance of safety, well-being. wheelchair or a walker. Reduction of and the purposes they serve. How, when, and concern for the environment. energy consumption is another benefit. Over time, a new elevator can save up to 70% of energy consumption. 8 9 Innovations KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Innovations INNOVATING FOR TOMORROW’S CITIES DIGITALIZING OUR INDUSTRY At KONE, innovations in urban development At a time when markets and technologies are KONE’s R&D process supports innovations have an important role in tackling issues like changing, competition is intensifying and Digitalization is changing the face social progress, climate change, and economic urbanization is happening faster than ever, at Market environment and megatrends of where we live and how we work. prosperity. As a company, we have always KONE, we have mapped our innovation focus Rapid advances in the capabilities maintained that our towns and cities are made areas by carefully understanding universal of sensors, connectivity, analytics up of a combination of complex infrastructure needs for sustainable and smart urban and mobile technologies are systems, flows of people, transport networks, development. We have defined six of the most Creation of Concept Research new products redefining many industry sectors. and of course, a variety of buildings. important needs as: creation and services For our business at KONE, it means using real-time data and analytics as preventive maintenance gets 1. Providing innovative, affordable vertical housing to facilitate better living for aging populations as well as the changing needs of inhabitants. Eco-efficiency Safety Quality smarter. It also means improving customer experience through 2. Maintaining safe and reliable infrastructure as populations grow, the design of infrastructure real-time transparency. Or it can needs to be modernized and made more efficient. mean sustainable, smart buildings 3. Improving living standards and convenience, especially as the global middle classes increase New innovations across our businesses the KONE Z MiniSpace™ elevator, as well as an making better use of energy and their income and develop increased expectations. In 2015, we further strengthened our high-rise updated version of the KONE TransitMaster™ REACHING HIGH resources. For users, it means a better, innovation capabilities by opening one of the 140 escalator for the infrastructure segment. personalized experience through the 4. Putting more of a premium on eco-efficiency and sustainability, to reduce energy consumption, tallest elevator test towers in the world at our In December 2015, KONE celebrated manage waste and pollution and use materials smartly. whole elevator and escalator journey. R&D facility in Kunshan, China. At a height of In North America, we started sales of the the opening of one of the world’s 5. Smart cities are evolving, buildings and complexes are getting bigger and more complicated; 236 meters, the Kunshan test tower is the tallest KONE Turnstile 100 and the RemoteCall™ tallest elevator test towers. The new so for instance, heating, cooling and utilities all need to work together. Digital technologies among KONE’s testing facilities, complementing application, which allows the elevator to be 36-floor tower reaches 235.6 meters, and connectivity can also enable better public services for citizens, better use of resources and increased comfort and reliability. our testing facility in Tytyri, Finland. called remotely from anywhere in the building and is centrally located at the KONE with smartphone technology. Park manufacturing site, engineering 6. Finally, addressing the growing value placed on well-being and better living standards, as peoIn India, two new elevator models for the facility and research and development ple increasingly want to live in harmony with their surroundings. residential market were introduced, the KONE I During the year, elevator installations began (R&D) center in the Kunshan New MonoSpace® and the KONE I MiniSpace™. The at the Jeddah Tower (formerly known as and Hi-tech Industrial Development new elevators are designed for lowand mid-rise Kingdom Tower). The world’s tallest building, Zone in Eastern China. It apartment buildings, providing customers and scheduled to be completed in 2018, will demonstrates our strong commitment If we can understand the demands and the example the demand of ever-higher buildings users with improved ride comfort and ecobe equipped with the latest technologies to developing R&D in midand changing trends of urbanization, then we and their huge, growing populations, and efficiency as well as inspiring design. including KONE UltraRope™ and high-speed high-rise elevator technology. KONE is believe we will have a great opportunity to ideas generated through our own innovation elevators which are set to make records for the industry leader in China, and this add value to our customers and society at processes. In China, KONE extended its offering in the the 660 meter distance they can travel in one investment will further strengthen our large, making a contribution to rising living affordable housing segment with the launch of journey. position in a rapidly changing market. KONE ON THE FORBES standards, in the most sustainable ways. We collaborate closely with our customers, INNOVATION LIST partners, universities, and research centers. For Searching for new ideas example, we organize design and innovation In 2015, KONE was ranked 48th out The needs which arise from urbanization labs together with academic institutions, and of the 100 most innovative companies play a large role in the development of our we also encourage our own people to share in the world by business magazine Research & Development (R&D). For the past their inspirations and ideas. Forbes (2014: 42nd). Out of all the century, we have made systematic, long-term European companies listed, KONE was investments into our R&D capabilities. Today Throughout the entire R&D process, ecoranked fifth. KONE was listed by Forbes we have eight global R&D competence efficiency, safety and quality are of utmost for the fifth consecutive year and centers which are located in Finland, China, importance. was the only elevator and escalator Italy, India, the United States, Mexico, company included on the list. Germany, and the Netherlands, and over 800 In the second half of 2015 we announced AWARD-WINNING DESIGN dedicated technology professionals working our new Technology and Innovations unit, for R&D. which brings together KONE’s R&D and IT KONE received recognition for its functions from January 1, 2016. The new unit design during 2015. KONE was Our R&D process is a continuous search for aims to leverage digitalization opportunities awarded two design awards, the new ideas and opportunities. Our starting and speed up development in a changing iF Design Award and the Red Dot point is a wide variety of sources, the most business environment. Digital technologies Product Design Award, for its KONE important ones being our customers and can help us deliver new value added solutions Turnstile 100 solution. KONE was Read more the equipment users. We also make use of and services to our customers in increasingly recognized in the iF Design Awards about KONE’s R&D and eco-efficiency opportunities presented by the market, for sustainable ways. The awarded turnstile is KONE’s response to the increasing need for smarter cities and buildings as it is designed to guide already for the third time. on p. 20. people effectively and smoothly from front entrance to desired destination. 10 11 Managing sustainability KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Managing sustainability MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY AT KONE LISTENING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS SUPPORTING THE UN GLOBAL KONE is committed to conducting its Innovation unit bringing together KONE’s We work closely with our stakeholders on the Keeping an open and continuous dialogue MEMBERSHIPS AND COMPACT business in a responsible and sustainable way R&D and IT functions. Tomio Pihkala was various topics of sustainability, and maintain enables us to collaborate efficiently and POSITIONS OF TRUST and we expect the same commitment from appointed KONE’s Chief Technology Officer an active dialogue with them. KONE’s main ensures a predictable business environment for KONE signed up to the UN Global all our partners. We comply with the laws and to head the new unit as of January 1, 2016. stakeholders are our customers, employees, all parties. Read more about this collaboration KONE is an active participant in Compact in 2014 and remains a rules of the societies in which we operate. Tomio Pihkala was previously responsible shareholders, suppliers, distributors, media, in the table below. organizations developing codes, committed member today. Our everyday work is guided by KONE’s Code for KONE’s Operations Development. Mikko educational institutions, and local communities. standards, and guidelines for “We are dedicated to carrying of Conduct and our other company policies Korte was appointed Executive Vice President, improving safety, accessibility, out business in a sustainable way and and guidelines. Operations Development as of January energy efficiency, as well as other we are active on many fronts, with 1, 2016. KONE Operations Development Stakeholder group Channels of dialogue Assessments and organizations advancing sustainable selected organizations, in order to Sustainability and its management are the includes KONE’s installation development as key topics raised development. In 2015, KONE make the best impact,” says Henrik responsibilities of KONE’s Executive Board well as the quality, safety and environment KONE deals with over Customer meetings and events, constant Annual global customer loyalty survey: Continued continued to be a member of the Ehrnrooth, President and CEO, KONE and our President and CEO. Our Quality and functions. Mikko Korte was previously 400,000 customers dialogue through solution support, seminars positive feedback on product quality and offering, as well following organizations: Corporation. Environmental Board and Executive Board, responsible for KONE’s new equipment worldwide. Our main and conferences, company reports, brochures as competence of KONE personnel. KONE is continuously customers are builders, and magazines, company website and social developing in several areas: competence development, “As a member of the UN Global both chaired by the President and CEO, are business in the Americas region. building owners, media channels customer centricity and communication. • United Nations Global Compact Compact, KONE is committed to responsible for the company’s environmental facility managers, and • The International Organization for upholding its ten principles which management. Our Chief Financial Officer, Our management and supervisors work to developers Standardization (ISO) are aimed at promoting sustainability who is represented on the Executive Board ensure that our employees are familiar with and KONE pays wages and Performance discussions, continuous facePulse employee survey, annual performance discussions, • Standardization Administration of and fairness in the business and reports to the President and CEO, comply with the legislation, regulations and salaries to approximately to-face dialogue between employees and Idea Management System, Innovation Tool. The global China (SAC) 50,000 employees in managers, European Annual Employee Pulse results showed clear improvement in collaboration. environment. Our Sustainability manages KONE’s economic responsibility. internal operating guidelines of their respective over 60 countries Forum, company intranet, internal employee Cross-team workgroups continued to drive further devel• The European Committee for Report communicates our progress areas of responsibility and that our products publications, training events, global learning opment of work processes and collaboration. Standardization (CEN) on some of the specific initiatives In September 2015, KONE announced and services are in full compliance with all solutions, innovation creation through • International Trade Associations, Innovation Tool across the breadth of our businesses, the establishment of a new Technology & codes and standards applicable to them. such as the European Lift Association including KONE’s Code of Conduct, KONE conducts business Continuous one-to-one dialogue, Annual Annual supplier survey, supplier performance (ELA), the Pacific Asia Lift and with approximately Supplier Day for Strategic Suppliers, trade fairs, assessment with the Supplier Excellence Certification Competition Compliance Policy and Escalator Association (PALEA), and 20,000 suppliers steering group meetings, supplier workshops. Program. No material concerns raised, discussions about our Environmental Excellence Program. Management systems Management bodies in KONE day-to-day operational issues, for example on how to the National Elevator Industry, Inc. Every day, our solutions help to address and certificates further improve the logistic processes and quality. (Read (NEII) in North America more on pages 26 and 42.) the challenges created by urbanization, • World Business Council for demographic change, the need Economic Finnish Corporate Governance Code, internal Board of Directors, Executive Board, President KONE pays dividends to An active and open dialogue: Financial Some of the most discussed topics with KONE’s Sustainable Development (WBCSD) responsibility control, internal auditing and CEO, Annual General Meeting, Internal Audit over 56,000 sharedisclosure is provided through stock exchange stakeholders include current and future business for improved energy efficiency and • Green building councils in the United function holders, ranging from and press releases, as well as financial and performance, the development of KONE’s end markets increased safety demands,” added institutional investors and other company reports. In addition, more as well as KONE’s capital allocation. We receive direct States, Finland, India, Italy, Romania, Henrik. companies to individuals, personal channels of dialogue include feedback from financial market representatives in Singapore, the Netherlands, Sweden, Social KONE Code of Conduct, KONE’s Competition Board of Directors, Executive Board, President and public institutions, and management meetings with investors and discussions and meetings, and we collect feedback from responsibility Compliance Policy, KONE Supplier Code of Conduct, CEO, Internal Audit function, Global Compliance Vietnam and the Czech Republic non-profit organizations analysts, annual general meetings, and capital the financial community also through surveys. OHSAS 18001 Occupational health and safety Committee markets days. We have a dedicated Investor • World Alliance of Low Carbon Cities management system Relations team at KONE, which coordinates (WALCC) all of KONE’s Investor Relations activities. This • European Round Table of ensures a fair and equal access to company Environmental ISO 14001 Environmental management system, Board of Directors, Executive Board, President and Industrialists’ Energy and Climate information and to its spokespersons and product ISO 9001 Quality management system, ISO 25745 CEO, Quality and Environmental Board Change Working Group (ERT) responsibility Parts 2 and 3 Energy performance of lifts, escalators KONE collaborates with Continuous dialogue through daily contacts, Customer survey, monitoring of sales-related activities, and moving walks, Lifts Directive Module H, KONE’s authorized distributors regular country visits, distributors’ meetings and direct feedback from distributors. No material • Cleantech Finland Supplier Excellence Certification, ISO 50001 Energy in close to 80 countries and various support tools concerns raised. • Climate Leadership Council Management System, LEED or other green building In 2015, the UN launched its new • Council on Tall Buildings and Urban certification systems Sustainable Development agenda, and KONE communicates Press releases, interviews, background briefings, Surveys, media analysis, reputation studies. No special issues Habitat (CTBUH) as a member of the UN Global Compact, proactively and openly visits, press events, factory tours, publications raised during the reporting period. KONE supports the new agenda and its with representatives of and magazines, company website and social the media media channels goals. KONE collaborates with KONE International Trainee Program, CEMS, Most attractive workplace surveys, online tracking. educational institutions Singularity University, thesis opportunities, local Efforts for deepening school collaboration and social locally and globally internships, participation in recruitment fairs, media visibility have been increased to further strengthcommon projects, guest lectures, participation in en Talent acquisition and employer brand. research programs and social media platforms Society KONE pays Media coverage, company website and social Sustainability surveys, reputation studies. No special direct taxes, social media channels, reports, stakeholder relations issues raised during the reporting period. security, and employer expenses in more than Read more 60 countries about our corporate governance on p. 60–63 of our Financial Statements publication. 12 13 Materiality analysis KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Materiality analysis MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS DEFINING THE FOCUS AREAS In our sustainability reporting, we follow developments, results of the 2013 materiality SAFETY OUR PEOPLE Altogether 24 GRI G4 aspects were the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 and stakeholder analysis, and by interviewing 1 Safety of products and services 9 Competent management and employees recognized material when mapping guidelines. During 2015, we updated our KONE experts. the KONE focus area content with 2013 assessment of material sustainability 2 Occupational safety and well-being 10 Employee engagement GRI G4 definitions. This mapping topics and focus areas for defining the report The identified topics were prioritized by KONE 3 Subcontractor safety 11 Diversity and equal opportunity – Non is presented in GRI table on p. content. Back then, an online questionnaire experts based on their impact on the value chain, discrimination 48, including also the reporting was sent to over 200 respondents, including business implications and stakeholder interest. Why material? Elevators, escalators and automatic building doors are everywhere and the safety of the Why material? We want KONE to be a great place to boundaries within KONE value chain customers, investors and analysts, industry The KONE sustainability focus areas were millions of people who use them is our first priority, work, and to inspire, engage, and develop our employees by focus area. associations, end users, suppliers, employees, updated based on the materiality analysis results to deliver great results. Our employees have the right to a along with the safety of our employees. KONE employs media representatives and KONE’s Executive and they were approved by selected members of some 50,000 people and works with thousands of safe, healthy working environment where discrimination Board. The response rate was 44%, amounting KONE’s management. subcontractors globally. At the end of the day, we want is prohibited and personal well-being is promoted to 94 responses. everyone to return home injury-free. The results of the materiality analysis and Targets: We want KONE to be a great place to work – this In 2015, material topics were recognized prioritization is presented in the below chart. Targets: Our ultimate goal is zero accidents – for all of our is one of our strategic targets. Our personnel strategy employees, partners, and the users of equipment made aims to ensure the availability, engagement, motivation, by analysing industry and peer group The structure of this report also corresponds or serviced by us. Achieving this target means integrating and continuous development of employees. reporting, reporting guidelines and legislation with these focus areas. safety into our corporate strategy: it is one of our high priority areas. CREATING ADDED VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS 12 Economic performance ENVIRONMENT RESULTS OF THE MATERIALITY ANALYSIS 13 Community involvement 4 Low-carbon solutions and operations 14 Ethical business practices 5 Resource efficiency 16 1 6 Water use Why material? KONE directly contributes to the economic 2 development of the over 60 countries in which we operate. As a responsible corporate citizen, we are Why material? Today’s cities take up about 2% of the 15 committed to making a positive contribution to these world’s land mass, but account for 75% of global 3 energy consumption and 80% of manmade carbon communities. Our global presence makes it crucial for us to ensure that we have clear rules and guidance in place emissions. Reducing the impact urban areas make on SUPPLY CHAIN SAFETY the environment is essential for a more sustainable when it comes to ethical business practices. future. This is a challenge that has driven us to develop 14 4 numerous eco-innovations over the past decades. Targets: Our objective is to develop our business in a profitable and in an ethically and socially responsible Targets: Our long-term environmental objectives are to manner throughout our entire value chain. CREATING ADDED further improve the eco-efficiency of our solutions, and 13 5 VALUE FOR ENVIRONMENT modernize existing elevators, escalators, and automatic SUPPLY CHAIN STAKEHOLDERS building doors to make them more energy efficient. 15 Supply chain excellence We aim to further reduce the adverse environmental impact of our operations, particularly with regard to our 16 Supply chain compliance 12 6 operational carbon footprint as well as energy, material, and water efficiency. OUR PEOPLE QUALITY Why material? We work with approximately 20,000 suppliers who provide us with raw materials, components and modules, and logistics and installation services – not 11 QUALITY 7 to mention other suppliers who provide us with indirect 7 Quality of products and services materials. Without them, we could not provide high10 quality products and services to our customers. 8 Customer satisfaction 9 8 Targets: We want to develop the best supply chain in the industry, a goal that entails the continuous analysis and Why material? Quality is one of KONE’s high priority improvement of the quality of everything we do. areas and it is of utmost importance in our daily work. It is embedded in everything we do, from customer The number indicates each topic. The color refers to the importance of the topic based on our interaction and product planning all the way to the materiality analysis: the darker the color, the more mentions the topic in question received from our services we offer. stakeholders. Targets: Our objective is to deliver the best customer and user experience. Quality plays a fundamental role in Read more about our reporting scope on p. 46. achieving this goal. Our aim is to delight our customers with consistently high quality. 14 15 KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Safety SAFETY Elevators, escalators and automatic building doors are everywhere and the safety of the millions of people who use them is our first priority. Our 20,000 EMBRACING A in different parts of the world and provide Safe at work SAFETY TARGETS service technicians around the world take pride in maintaining the safety of equipment 24/7. CULTURE OF SAFETY educational material for our customers and the general public to help equipment users stay At KONE we have defined safety as our highest priority. This means making sure each of our AND ACHIEVEMENTS safe. Our safety mascots, Bob and Max, help employees has the necessary competence to • KONE’s ultimate goal is zero KONE employs some 50,000 people and works with thousands of teach children about the safe use of equipment perform their work professionally and safely. accidents subcontractors globally. At the end of each and every day, we want everyone to through events, leaflets, and an online KONE’s Supplier Code of Conduct requires • In 2015 our industrial injury return home injury-free. animation and game. all of our suppliers, including subcontractors, frequency rate (IIFR) was 2.3, down It is our strong belief that all accidents are preventable. to protect the health and safety of their from 2.8 in 2014 Building owners and maintenance service employees. We require both our employees • Employees regard KONE as highly providers are responsible for making sure and subcontractors to follow our globally committed to employee safety, equipment is professionally maintained and defined rules and methods to protect their according to the 2015 results of the Safety is at the top of our agenda at KONE. kept in good condition. Building owners own safety and that of anyone else who may annual employee survey Pulse. It is embedded in everything we do. We should, for example, inform service providers be affected by their activities. have worked hard to create a culture where if they identify any recognizable hazards, people proactively promote safe practices and such as broken glass or sharp edges due KONE employees receive training on health colleagues look after each other. to vandalism. We work closely with our and safety, and safety is a key element in all of customers to provide them with the tools to our product and operations trainings. Toolbox IIFR DEVELOPMENT And our work is paying off. In the last eight recognize and deal with situations that could talks are used to communicate safety messages years, the rate of work-related injuries has lead to safety risks. to field employees. And for four years running, In 2015 the industrial injury frequency declined steadily year-on-year, and we have KONE has organized a Global Safety Week with rate (IIFR) among KONE’s employees shifted from reactive to proactive action Active participant a range of activities aimed to further boost our was down by 18% from 2014. As a regarding safety. This motivates us to continue The safety level of elevators, escalators, safety culture. key performance indicator, KONE developing our processes and promoting a and automatic building doors is largely tracks the number of lost time injuries safety mindset among our own employees, determined by national and international Every manager is responsible to provide his of one day or more per million hours our partners, and the general public. safety codes and standards. KONE or her team with all the necessary means for worked. contributes actively to the development working safely. Managers perform regular Our ultimate goal is zero accidents – for all of codes and standards that aim to further audits to measure compliance with KONE’s Industrial Injury Frequency Rate of our employees, partners, and the users of improve equipment safety. We also promote policies, rules, and defined working methods. development among KONE equipment produced or serviced by us. Safety safety through our involvement in industry Corrective actions are taken if deviations are employees is an integral part of our strategy, and it is trade associations. Our experts have, for identified. one of our high priority areas. We have global example, been involved in the planning 8 7 policies, processes, and guidelines in place to and development of the extensively revised KONE also conducts process audits and 6 enable that our business activities, including main European safety standards for elevators controls to identify possible obstacles to work 5 4 subcontractor operations, are organized (EN 81-20 and EN 81-50) introduced in safety and if found, the work in question is 3 and conducted in a structured and globally 2014, and the new European Lifts Directive stopped until a safe method is approved. 2 1 harmonized way. 2014/33/EU, enforced from April 20, 2016. Members of senior management teams 0 participate in workplace audits regularly. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Safety is a joint effort that involves everyone A major concern for our industry is the aging KONE tracks the number of lost time injuries from technology and maintenance service urban infrastructure systems in cities around Incidents, lost days per incident, and the of one day or more, per million hours worked, as a key performance indicator. The IIFR providers to building owners and equipment the world. In Europe, several countries have number of near misses are part of each covers KONE’s own employees. users. adopted strict standards for improving safety unit’s monthly reporting to global functions. through modernization. Elevator modernization The underlying root causes are identified Knowledge is power is a critical issue that enhances safety and and corrective and preventive actions are Everyone who uses an elevator or escalator accessibility by, for example, improving leveling implemented to prevent the accident or needs to be conscious of their own behavior, accuracy and the functioning of doors, and near-miss from being repeated. Quarterly for example making sure children’s hands are providing a voice link to the service center. We global safety network meetings are used to G4 INDICATORS RELATED TO SAFETY held when riding an escalator, not blocking work with customers to find the modernization share lessons learned from accidents and near closing elevator doors and stepping away solutions that best meet the requirements of misses, and safety managers gather monthly G4 PR1: Percentage of significant product and service categories for from the doors when they are opening or their buildings. to discuss concerns and share best practices. which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement shutting. As a technology provider, KONE manufactures G4-LA6: Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost We believe that knowledge is power and equipment that meets applicable codes and days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by we communicate actively about safety to standards. Furthermore, our equipment often region and by gender Read more at empower everyone who works with or uses includes additional safety features that exceed www.KONE.com/safety. our equipment. We organize various activities the minimum requirements. 16 17 Safety KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Safety SAFETY IS AN INTEGRAL PART OF OUR SOLUTIONS AND OPERATIONS We enhance the safety of our products and services through rigorous attention to our design, manufacturing, installation, and maintenance processes. Safe practices are promoted for our employees, subcontractors and suppliers, as well as for customers and people who use our equipment. SUPPLIERS R&D OFFICE PRODUCTION SITE INSTALLATION USE MODERNIZATION MAINTENANCE SAFETY IN THE SPOTLIGHT KONE’s Supplier Code of Safety is embedded in KONE promotes the KONE enhances the KONE’s installation methods KONE supports customers KONE develops KONE maintains the safety KONE has organized a Global Safety Conduct requires all of our the product development safety awareness of its quality and safety of all and processes are designed to and building owners in modernization solutions of elevators, escalators, Week for all employees every year RIDING SAFELY suppliers to protect the process. Potential safety employees through health components used in enhance the safety of installers promoting the safe use of for upgrading or replacing and automatic doors using since 2011. As most accidents are health and safety of their hazards affecting the and safety training as well production by carefully and third parties whilst elevators, escalators and existing equipment with preventive maintenance caused by things that we don’t worry Habits learned young tend to stick. employees. products’ full life cycle are as safety-related internal controlling raw materials enabling product quality automatic building doors. new solutions that meet methods. about because they seem too little That is why KONE sees children as an systematically identified communication. and production processes. and reliability. KONE follows or exceed the latest safety and too familiar, the focus of the important target group when it comes KONE has defined clear and eliminated before All of KONE’s major the 5S methodology in all of KONE communicates standards, improving We train our maintenance week is on paying attention to the to using the equipment safely. quality requirements which products are introduced to Building managers production sites are its installation processes. actively about safety issues, equipment reliability and professionals regularly so little things that matter when it comes Our safety mascots Max the mouse are continuously measured the market. promote and maintain certified to ISO 9001, and organizes events for user safety. that they have the required to safety. and Bob the elephant teach children and followed. (Read more safe and healthy working 14001 and OHSAS 18008 KONE uses continuous end users and customers competence to perform The 2015 event included global how simple, everyday considerations about quality on p. 30–31.). Existing products are environments in KONE standards. training, installation safety & to promote the safe use of Products are installed by their work safely. virtual training sessions on topics can make a big difference in safety In addition, our quality continuously developed to premises. method passport, site audits, equipment we maintain. professional technicians such as the new European elevator when riding elevators or escalators. The professionals regularly audit further improve their safety We make sure that all and risk-assessed methods to following strict standards and their impact on safety, pair have toured safety events around key suppliers to monitor and functionality. our production sites are control site safety. modernization processes various locally organized activities, the world and are featured in a safety the safety and quality of safe places to work, for that include safety and family events for employees and animation and online game as well as delivered components and example by using the requirements. subcontractors. children’s workbook. products. 5S* methodology and by KONE also works with partner conducting regular safety organizations to design our equipment training. to cater to people with special needs. And when it comes to customers, we provide guidance on keeping equipment running safely, such as safety manuals, and provide safety education to their employees. *The name of the 5S methodology comes from the words sort, stabilize, shine, standardize, and sustain. 18 19 ENVIRONMENT SOLUTIONS KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT ENVIRONMENT SOLUTIONS ENVIRONMENT Today’s cities take up about 2% of the world’s land mass, but account DEVELOPING Our long-term environmental objectives are In this market equipment aged over 20 years is LONG-TERM ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABLE SMART TARGETS for 75% of global energy consumption and 80% of manmade carbon to further improve the eco-efficiency of our expected to increase from 2.2 million units to emissions. Reducing the impact urban areas make on the environment is solutions, and modernize existing elevators, 3.2. million units by 2020, representing 60% essential for a more sustainable future. This is a challenge that has driven KONE to develop numerous eco-innovations over the past decades. CITIES AND LOWescalators, and automatic building doors to make them more energy efficient. In addition, we aim of the equipment base (Source: European Lift Association ELA). Elevator modernization can PRODUCTS AND SERVICES: Leader in low-carbon People Flow® CARBON COMMUNITIES to further reduce the adverse environmental impact of our operations, particularly with regard bring vast energy savings. According to the Energy Efficiency of Elevators and Escalators solutions for smart eco-cities to our operational carbon footprint as well as (E4) study supported by the European OPERATIONS: energy, material, and water efficiency. Commission, energy savings of up to 63% can Efficient low-carbon operations be achieved by modernizing elevators installed KONE aims to be a leader in sustainability. Energy efficient solutions in 1985 or earlier with the best available We have ambitious environmental targets for for greener buildings technology. On the European level this would 2014–2016 that focus on further improving The biggest environmental impact of our amount to 11.6 TWh. ENERGY CONSUMPTION OF KONE the eco-efficiency of our solutions and reducing solutions stems from the amount of electricity ELEVATORS greenhouse gas emissions from our own elevators and escalators use over their lifetime. Over the years, KONE has also worked Annual energy consumption (kWh/year) operations. Our Environmental Excellence This underlines the importance of focusing on on further improving the safety, quality, program supports the ongoing green energy efficiency innovations. and reliability of our escalators. We have 8,000 transformation of the built environment into set a target of further improving the 7,000 smart eco-cities, low-carbon communities, and KONE is a pioneer in developing eco-efficient energy efficiency of KONE solutions in our 6,000 net zero energy buildings. It is estimated that the solutions in the elevator and escalator industry. Environmental Excellence program for 2014– 5,000 market for smart cities will reach a phenomenal The KONE MonoSpace® 500, our current 2016 (Read more on page 29). 4,000 value of US$ 1.6 trillion globally by 2020*. machine-room-less volume elevator, is up to 3,000 90% more energy efficient than KONE’s elevators Eco-efficiency in every phase of a 2,000 In 2015, the United Nations launched its new from the 1990s. This has been made possible by building’s life cycle 1,000 Sustainable Development agenda, addressing the completely renewed low-rise volume KONE We provide services that help our customers 0 the social, economic, and environmental EcoDisc® hoisting machine, a highly efficient achieve their eco-efficiency goals in every 90s 1996 2008 Current KONE KONE KONE KONE dimensions of sustainability. As a signatory drive, enhanced standby solutions, and LED phase of their buildings’ life cycles – from elevators MonoMonoMonoSpace Space Space company of the UN Global Compact, KONE lighting. Our revolutionary KONE UltraRope™ designing and constructing buildings to technology supports the new agenda and its goals. KONE high-rise hoisting technology cuts the energy maintaining and modernizing them. We pay Calculation is based on: solutions help to address the challenges created consumption of a 500-meter elevator ride by careful attention to the way our services are Speed: 1 m/s, load: 630 kg by urbanization, climate change, demographic 15%. produced and delivered to ensure that they are Since 2008 also: 150,000 starts per year, travel height 9 m, 4 floors change, and increased safety demands environmentally efficient. Due to historical reasons, the data for – all covered in the new UN Sustainable Elevators and escalators currently in operation starts, travel height and floors is not G4 INDICATORS RELATED TO ENVIRONMENT Development Goals. are aging at a rapid pace, especially in Europe. available for the 1990s elevators. G4 EN1: Materials used by weight or volume In 2015, KONE also signed the Paris Pledge for 1. S upporting green 2. E co-efficient installation G4 EN3: Energy consumption within the organization Action climate initiative for non-state actors, building design Considering the environment G4-EN6: Reduction of energy consumption showing climate leadership and commitment Calculating our products’ when installing new equipment. A TOP LEADER IN to limiting global warming to under 2 degrees energy use and enabling green Our well planned and efficient CLIMATE CHANGE G4-EN7: Reductions in energy requirements of products and services building construction. We publish installation processes minimize the Celsius in accordance with the Paris Climate the environmental impact of adverse environmental impacts of REPORTING AND G4-EN8: Total water withdrawal by source Agreement. KONE products and contribute PERFORMANCE installation work, and our systems G4-EN15: Direct GHG emissions to developing global energy ensure we reduce our chemical use management standards. and handle waste efficiently on site. G4-EN16: Indirect GHG emissions KONE’s environmental strategy is to provide KONE received the safe, environmentally efficient, and responsible best possible 100 A G4-EN17: Other indirect GHG emissions high-performance products and services. We (2014: 100 A-) score G4-EN18: GHG emissions intensity strive for continuous improvement in all of our Up to 70% energy savings 2.9% relative reduction of in CDP’s climate change program, and G4-EN19: Reduction of GHG emissions business activities. In addition to complying was included in CDP’s Global A List of by modernizing an elevator vehicle fleet emissions G4-EN23: Total waste by type and disposal method with or exceeding applicable laws, rules, 113 (5%) leading companies for the G4-EN27: Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of and regulations, we work with our suppliers first time, and in the Nordic Carbon products and services and customers to prevent or reduce business Disclosure Leadership Index for the fifth operations-related emissions and waste. 4. E  co-efficiency through year running. G4-EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non3. E  fficient maintenance processes modernization Using smart technologies and a green KONE also made it to CDP’s global monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and Applying a range of solutions to *Source: Benefits of Carbon Neutrality in a Rapidly vehicle fleet to minimize emissions and Supplier A List including the top 71 regulations Changing Business Environment. Frost & Sullivan and make the biggest difference with maximize efficiency. Remote monitoring (2%) of suppliers that have been the lowest possible environmental solutions reduce unnecessary technician G4-EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transport SITRA, 2015. Smart cities use the latest intelligent and green impact. Our modernization solutions awarded an A grade for their climate initiatives to reduce energy and resource consumption and callouts. By carrying optimized spare part range from retrofitting LED lights to a stocks in our vehicles we reduce warehouse performance. improve efficiencies in all facets of human life. completely new elevator with energyvisits, further decreasing emissions. regeneration technology. 20 21 ENVIRONMENT SOLUTIONS KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT ENVIRONMENT SOLUTIONS GREEN LABEL IN SINGAPORE Top-class energy efficiency KONE MonoSpace® elevator and the best A+++ Eco-efficient People Flow solutions MAKING NEW ZEALAND’S ICONIC In late 2014 KONE was the first company escalator classification for KONE TravelMaster™ SKY TOWER MORE ECO-EFFICIENT KONE was the first elevator company to achieve the best A-class energy efficiency 110. All the ratings have been granted and KONE EcoDisc ® hoisting machine Regenerative solution to receive the Green Label from the classification for as many as eight volume elevator measurements made by external third parties at KONE UltraRope™, our revolutionary KONE UltraRope™ Singapore Green Building Council for installations, according to the new international customer reference locations. In addition, KONE carbon fiber based hoisting technology, its KONE N MiniSpace™ and standard ISO 25745 Energy performance of is the only elevator company to offer the best was chosen to modernize the iconic KONE N MonoSpace® elevators lifts, escalators and moving walks. In 2015, VDI 4707 A-class energy efficiency rating for its Sky Tower in Auckland. The building, in 2013. In 2015 the labels KONE’s ISO 25745 A-class achievements were volume elevator range. at 328 meters high, is the tallest LED lighting were renewed and the scoring complemented by an A-class classification for the man-made structure in New Zealand. Standby solutions KONE HybridHoistingTM system improved from good to very KONE UltraRope was added to the good. Through the Green Label, project due to its ability to reduce Lubrication-free step chain the KONE N MiniSpace™ and Best-in-class energy efficiency according to ISO 25745 Destination control system energy consumption and mitigate Regenerative solution KONE N MonoSpace® elevators Elevators KONE KONE KONE E KONE S KONE N KONE KONE N KONE S KONE the effect of building sway. Thanks to are recommended for Green Mark Eco Mono Mini Mini Mini Mini MonoMonoMini Eco-efficient operation KONE EcoReel™ motor this lightweight solution, the energy certified green buildings. Green Space® Space® Space™ Space™ Space™ Space™ Space® Space® Space™ consumption of the modernized Mark is a green building certification 500 Energy-efficient sliding door elevator decreased by 15–30% KONE EcoMod™ modernization scheme of the Singaporean Building Building depending on the usage (calculation and Construction Authority, type Office Residential Residential Residential Hotel Office Retail Office Hotel based on ISO 25745-2). promoting sustainability in the Load KONE Direct Drive construction and real estate sectors. (kg) 630 630 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,150 1,150 1,200 Speed (m/s) 0.63 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.5 2.5 1.75 2.5 4.0 A-CLASS ENERGY EFFICIENCY Energy Elevators ACCORDING TO VDI 4707* efficiency DESIGN FOR ENVIRONMENT IN class • The KONE EcoDisc® hoisting machine delivers the best VDI 4707 and ISO 25745 A-class energy (A to G) A A A A A A A A A KONE’S R&D PROCESS efficiency on the market. Its innovative copper winding system reduces heat losses and the A braking system reduces the power consumption during steady run. KONE EcoDisc is compact and lightweight, contributing to material and space efficiency. KONE R&D aims to maximize the positive environmental impacts and • The innovative HybridHoisting™ system of KONE NanoSpace™ incorporates a unique combination of belt and rope technologies, thin balancing weights that enable adaptive balancing and the optimization minimize the adverse ones throughout KONE EcoSpace® of energy consumption, and the highly energy efficient and compact KONE EcoReel™ motor. the life cycle of our solutions. This KONE MonoSpace® 500 extends from raw material extraction to • KONE’s regenerative solutions can provide energy savings of 20–35% by recovering the energy that is KONE MonoSpace® 700 released when the elevator is used. end-of-life treatment such as recycling KONE N MonoSpace® the materials. We focus on: KONE S MonoSpace® • LED lighting is up to 80% more energy efficient compared to halogen lighting and lasts ten times longer. • reducing energy consumption KONE E MiniSpace™ • Standby solutions power down the equipment when the elevator is not in use, providing substantial • developing new smart technologies KONE N MiniSpace™ energy savings. for green buildings KONE S MiniSpace™ • reducing material use, including • KONE’s destination control system optimizes traffic, reducing the size and number of elevators KONE MiniSpace™ needed in a building. packaging and waste KONE Double Deck • avoiding the use of hazardous • KONE’s revolutionary high-rise hoisting technology, KONE UltraRopeTM, cuts the energy consumption substances of a 500-meter elevator ride by 15%. *VDI 4707 is a guideline published by • maximizing material durability and the Association of German Engineers Escalators recycled content (Verein Deutscher Ingenieure), which • maximizing recyclability classifies elevators based on their energy • The lubrication-free step chain saves oil, reduces chain wear, and decreases fire risk. • minimizing water consumption consumption. • Eco-efficient operation can cut energy consumption by slowing down or stopping the escalator when it is • ensuring that our products meet not in use or by increasing the efficiency of the motor when traffic volumes are low. green building requirements FIDE ENERGY SAVING LABEL IN • Regenerative solutions reduce energy consumption by recovering the energy that is released when MEXICO the escalator is running downwards. • LED lighting consumes up to 80% less energy compared to fluorescent tubes. In addition to the VDI 4707 and ISO 25745 A-class ratings, KONE is the • The KONE EcoMod™ solution makes it possible for an escalator to be modernized without removing first and only company to already the truss, saving both construction time and materials. have achieved the FIDE energy saving Automatic building doors label for its elevators in 2011. FIDE Read more • KONE’s sliding door solution regulates the door’s opening width and opening time based on the outside about our eco-innovations at kone. is an organization in Mexico that temperature, wind speed, and pedestrian volumes. This enables savings of up to 4,000 kWh per year in com/sustainability/environment/ acknowledges companies for their eco-efficient-solutions/ heating and cooling consumption. technical and economical efforts to eco-innovation-milestones produce energy efficient equipment. The FIDE evaluation is based on VDI 4707. 22 23 ENVIRONMENT SOLUTIONS KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT environment OPER ATIONS THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF KONE’S OPERATIONS IN 2015 Reducing the carbon footprint of our escalators during their operational lifetime. By KONE’s operational environmental work with sales growth calculated at comparable REDUCING OUR OPERATIONAL 90% of the materials used in products reducing energy consumption we reduce the focuses on reducing our carbon footprint and exchange rates). CARBON FOOTPRINT elevators and escalators are metals KONE’s environmental responsibility covers the environmental impact of KONE solutions during improving energy and material efficiency, full life cycle of its products from design and their operational lifetime. lowering our water consumption and waste During the year, the absolute operational carbon KONE has been measuring its manufacturing to installation, maintenance, amounts, and minimizing our use of hazardous footprint of externally assured scope 1 and scope operational carbon footprint since modernization, and end-of-life treatment. KONE is an active member of the European substances. We work with our suppliers and 2 greenhouse gas emissions increased by 1.0%. 2008. Between 2008 and 2015, we KONE’s life cycle assessments, carried out in Lift Association (ELA) working group that in customers to avoid greenhouse gas emissions The scope 1 and 2 carbon footprint relative to have managed to reduce our Scope accordance with the ISO 14040 standard, show 2015 published a set of new Product Category and other adverse environmental impacts from net sales decreased by 14.4% (6.7% with sales 1 and 2 carbon footprint relative to that our biggest environmental impact stems Rules (PCR) for use in Environmental Product our business operations whenever possible. growth calculated at comparable exchange rates). orders received by over 60%.* from the energy consumed by our elevators and Declarations (EPD) of elevators. In 2015, KONE’s absolute operational carbon Logistics operations were the major source of Direct energy and electricity footprint amounted to 307 ktCO2e (thousand greenhouse gas emissions in KONE’s absolute carbon footprint, tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent) (2014: carbon footprint, accounting for 148 ktCO2e kgCO2e relative to orders received Metals Electronics Carbon footprint of KONE’s elevators and escalators, 296). The 3.6% increase in our absolute (2014: 138). Other significant contributors 2,500 Other materials tCO2e 2013 2014 2015 carbon footprint is mainly the result of growth were our vehicle fleet at 89 ktCO2e (2014: 86), in employee numbers, sales, and production electricity consumption at 40 ktCO2e (2014: 41), 2,000 Plastics Production of materials for products (calculated)* 2,086,000 2,295,000 2,320,000 volumes. KONE’s operational carbon footprint business air travel at 17 ktCO2e (2014: 18), and 1,500 Glass Lifetime energy consumption of products ordered relative to net sales decreased by 12.1% fuels for heating and cooling, which added to 1,000 Rubber from KONE during the reporting year (calculated) 5,045,000 4,554,000 5,017,000 compared to 2014 (the reduction was 4.4% the total by 11 ktCO2e (2014: 11). 500 Packaging wood *2013 and 2014 restated 0 Packaging plastics 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Packaging cartonboard Relative operational carbon footprint Other packaging materials Materials used, tonnes Materials 2013 2014 2015 Data assured externally *Calculations include Scope 1 direct energy and cooling gases as well as scope Manufacturing (calculated) Metals (steel, 531,600 586,700 622,900 Vehicle fleet Electricity (Scope 2) Business air travel Logistics (Scope 3) Overall operations 2 indirect electricity and district heat. aluminum, copper) (Scope 1) (Scope 3) According to KONE’s Life Cycle Electronics 27,000 28,800 29,500 Assessment data and products ordered in 2015, almost 90% Other materials 5,500 3,600 3,200 of the materials used for Plastics 4,100 4,000 4,100 manufacturing and packaging Glass 3,900 4,100 4,800 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 KONE elevators and escalators Rubber 500 600 700 1,050 1,050 1,050 1,050 1,050 consist of metals that can be 1,018 -14.6% -5.6% +1.0% 900 900 900 900 965 900 Packaging (calculated) Wood 39,500 37,900 38,000 869 -8.2% 911 920 recycled at the end of the 750 750 798 750 750 750 Plywood 12,400 14,200 16,000 600 600 600 600 600 product life cycle. 450 450 450 450 450 Plastics 1,100 1,100 1,200 -5.0% -2.9% -4.3% -9.5% 300 300 300 397 380 300 300 77.4 73.5 71.4 344 Cartonboard 1,100 900 800 150 150 150 150 150 -4.3% -12.1% 42.2 40.4 35.5 0 0 0 0 0 Other materials 500 500 500 kgCO2e / Unit in service kgCO2e / Headcount kgCO2e / Headcount kgCO2e / Unit tCO2e / MEUR Sales* Office consumables (actual data) Paper 600 700 800 2013 2014 2015 Total* 627,800 683,100 722,500 *4.4% reduction in 2015 with sales growth calculated at comparable exchange rates. *2013 and 2014 restated: manufacturing electronics and rubber, packaging plywood and other packaging materials added Absolute operational carbon footprint per category, ktCO2e Calculations are based on Life Cycle Assessment data and products ordered from KONE (2013: 137,000; 2014: 154,000; 2015: 161,000) Data assured externally 160 140 148 120 138 129 100 80 89 86 86 60 40 44 41 40 20 0 14 11 11 17 18 17 Vehicle fleet Heating fuels and Electricity and Logistics Business air travel cooling gases district heat 2013 2014 2015 24 25 environment OPER ATIONS KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT environment OPER ATIONS ITALIAN MANUFACTURING UNIT Logistics benefits of this change during 2015. The new Vehicle fleet KONE’s maintenance contracts) decreased CERTIFIED FOR EXCELLENT ENERGY Logistics accounted for 148 ktCO2e, or 48% of Chengdu distribution center in China was also Of KONE’s operational greenhouse gases in by 2.9% in 2015 (2014: 5.0% decrease). We MANAGEMENT KONE’s operational carbon footprint, making it fully operational during 2015. In Europe the 2015, 29% was emitted by our global vehicle continuously search for new and innovative the biggest contributor in terms of greenhouse logistics flows between the distribution centers fleet, making it the second biggest contributor ways to reduce the carbon footprint of our KONE’s Italian manufacturing unit gas emissions. KONE’s logistics greenhouse were further enhanced according to optimization in terms of our greenhouse gas emissions. vehicle fleet. has achieved the ISO 50001 Energy gas emissions data has been externally calculations. Additionally, the first practical results The total size of our fleet during the year was management systems certification assured since 2013. In 2015 KONE’s logistics were visible from our latest IT systems update, around 15,300, out of which 14,300 (93%) Business air travel as the second KONE unit in addition carbon footprint relative to units delivered allowing us to route material from suppliers were in the scope of KONE’s environmental Business air travel accounted for 6% of KONE’s to the Czech manufacturing unit to customers increased by 1.0%. The main to customers in a more optimal way. All these reporting globally. Service vehicles made up operational carbon footprint in 2015. The certified already in 2013. Receiving reasons for not meeting the 3% reduction actions have allowed KONE to limit the increase two-thirds of the fleet while employee benefit greenhouse gas emissions related to air travel the certification shows awareness of target are increased intercontinental deliveries, in absolute emissions from logistics. cars accounted for the rest. In total, KONE’s decreased by 4.5% to 17 ktCO2e (2014: 18). and commitment to energy reduction the ramp-up phase of the distribution center vehicle fleet emitted 89 ktCO2e (2014: 86) in The relative carbon footprint decreased by activities. Thanks to actions agreed in India, and the challenges posed by volume KONE has strict requirements concerning the eco2015. 9.5%, which is well above the 3% reduction during the certification process such growth in North America. The logistics data efficiency of its service providers’ operations. From target. In order to reduce the need for travel TAKING CARE OF OVER A MILLION as installing indoor and outdoor LED covers the transportation of products from the reporting perspective, we have improved The absolute carbon footprint of our vehicle and to facilitate global collaboration, KONE ELEVATORS AND ESCALATORS lighting, acquiring a new chiller for KONE’s manufacturing units to customers and our collaboration with logistics service providers fleet increased by 3.2% compared to 2014. invests in virtual meeting tools such as video the offices, and improving the energy the transportation of those modules that are by improving our reporting methods and tools. The reporting scope was extended during conferencing equipment. In 2015, virtual Close to 20,000 KONE service efficiency of machinery use practices, delivered straight from our suppliers to our During 2015 we also developed a new in-house the year by adding Turkey to the reporting meeting time increased by 2% compared to technicians are on the road every significant energy and monetary distribution centers and onward to customers. calculation system for our logistics emissions data. countries, and by the end of the year the 2014. This has been achieved by encouraging day, making sure that the million plus savings have been achieved. The relative logistics carbon footprint excludes Both the accuracy and coverage of greenhouse reporting scope covered 22 countries. The KONE personnel to use virtual meeting tools units of equipment that are in KONE’s spare parts deliveries. gas emissions data collection and calculations relative carbon footprint per units in service as the first option instead of travel. service function properly. KONE’s have thus been further improved during 2015. (elevators/escalators/building doors under fleet of approximately 10,000 service During the year, KONE delivered over 3.3 million vehicles are managed in compliance packages from distribution centers to installation KONE’s logistics operations are based on with the company’s global vehicle fleet sites, and around 1.2 million packages of spare accurate and timely information at all phases policy, which defines environmental LEED PLATINUM FOR THE NEW parts from distribution centers to customer sites. of the delivery chain, and on using distribution Key actions to reduce the carbon footprint of KONE’s vehicle fleet criteria such as limits for maximum HEAD OFFICE OF FINNISH COUNTRY The biggest changes in KONE’s delivery chain in models that take eco-efficiency into account. Compliance with KONE vehicle KONE continued to manage its vehicle fleet in compliance with the CO2 emissions. ORGANIZATION 2015 related to the further optimization of our Special attention is paid to reducing the impact fleet policy global vehicle fleet policy, which defines maximum CO2 emission limits and encourages employees to select vehicles with lower CO2 emissions network of distribution centers. We moved the of transportation through route and shipment for benefit cars. Typically best in class vehicles in each segment (vehicle The office building housing the existing North American distribution center in optimization, as well as through careful analysis size) are listed in the local vehicle policies. new head office of KONE’s country Illinois to Ohio at the end of 2014 and saw the of alternative transportation models. organization in Helsinki, Finland has Fuel-efficient vehicles KONE continued its cooperation with internationally preferred suppliers Ford, Renault and Fiat, who comply with the Euro 6 emission been awarded LEED Platinum green standard for light passenger and commercial vehicles. Both passenger building certification. In the design How KONE reduces the environmental impacts of transportation and commercial vehicles taken out of use were replaced by new, phase, particular attention was placed on significantly more fuel-efficient models. In Finland, the United KingDevelopment action Impact on eco-efficiency dom, the Netherlands, and Austria, we have benefited from Ford’s energyand cost-saving solutions, such Optimized use of transportation networks. Optimal routing of material through distribution new product line of vans with improved fuel efficiency. Ford Transit as placing solar panels on the roof of the Courier, a new compact van, was introduced to our fleet in the United center network and selection of suppliers located building. The building is also very well close to distribution centers. Kingdom. In Italy, Spain, Portugal, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and located with direct access to multiple Poland, we continued working mainly with Fiat Fiorino with stop-start Maximized use of railway transportation, miniLess CO2 emissions per tonne-kilometer. technology. France, Belgium and Sweden continued with Renault public transportation routes. KONE Park mized use of air freight. Waterway transportation vans, especially with Renault Kangoo which is among the best ones in in Kunshan, China, the People Flow also preferred over air freight. terms of fuel efficiency in the medium vans segment. Center showroom in Hyvinkää, Finland, Improved space utilization ratio in loading. Better load planning of outbound trucks and the KONE Centre in Moline, USA, and Introduction of electric vehicles Piloting full electric vehicles continued in France, and the piloting containers resulting in improved container space of hybrid electric vehicles continued in the United States and in the ITEC in Chennai, India, have already utilization, optimization of transportation units Netherlands. In the US, KONE currently has 145 hybrid sedans on the been certified earlier. used and more products delivered per shipment. road. Centralized volumes to main suppliers, convenient Fewer transportation routes and improved translocation of suppliers close to distribution centers. portation efficiency ratio. Vehicle rightsizing The vehicle rightsizing program continued in 2015. KONE has continuously paid attention to selecting correctly sized commercial Use of more eco-efficient transportation equipTruck equipment selection from eco-efficiency vans when replacing existing models, which often had larger cargo ment. perspective. Requirement for Euro 4 trucks for capacity than required. The proportion of compact and medium-sized European logistics service providers (European vans in the global fleet continues to grow. emission standard for vehicles). Monitoring driver performance The driver performance monitoring program continued in 2015. KONE monitored the driving performance of its service drivers in How KONE reduces packaging-related emissions and waste France, the UK, Belgium, the Netherlands, and the US. Each month, Development action Impact on eco-efficiency drivers were scored in terms of fuel efficiency and driving behavior. Optimized packaging to better fit into logistics More products delivered per transportation unit. Vehicle sharing program The vehicle sharing program in France continued. chain. Telematics systems Telematics systems went live in the UK and Sweden to increase Optimized use of packaging materials. Less packaging material used, better waste driver safety and security, and to improve fuel efficiency through management, increased recyclability of materials. safer driving. Both countries achieved good results in fuel efficiency Read more about our supply chain on p. 42. Management and development of suppliers’ Less packaging material used, better waste by minimizing idling time as well as reducing the number of packaging. management, improved logistics efficiency. incidents on the road. 26 27 environment OPER ATIONS KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT ENVIRONMENT OPER ATIONS Electricity Waste optimization in ENVIRONMENTAL EXCELLENCE PROGRAM IMPROVING THE ECO-EFFICIENCY the manufacturing chain 100% Electricity and district heat consumption accounted for 40 ktCO2e (2014: 41) or 13% of In 2015, waste accounted for 2.5 ktCO2e 2014–2016 OF OUR FACILITIES of the electricity consumed at KONE’s KONE’s operational carbon footprint in 2015. (2014: 2.3) or 0.8% of KONE’s operational KONE has over 1,000 facilities globally, corporate head offices and the whole The electricity was used in KONE’s offices, carbon footprint. We aim to reduce the waste including office spaces and installation manufacturing and R&D site in warehouses, and manufacturing facilities. The generated by our manufacturing processes Key initiative Achievements in 2015 Target 2016 and service operation hubs. KONE has Finland is produced by wind power. figures take into account our usage of green and offices through reduction at the source, a Global Facility Policy approved by Other KONE units that purchase electricity produced using renewable sources reuse and recycling, and by sending waste Solutions The best possible A-class energy efficiency classification according to the new Further the Executive Board, which aims at a green electricity are our Belgian, (market-based calculation method). Without the to incineration. Landfill waste is kept to a ISO 25745-2* energy efficiency standard received for the following elevators: reduce energy harmonized approach in the selection • KONE N MonoSpace® consumption German, Swedish, and Danish country use of green electricity (location-based method), minimum. Waste is always handled according of elevators and management of our facilities. The A-class classification achieved already in 2014: organizations. KONE’s manufacturing the electricity carbon footprint would have to applicable laws and regulations in local and escalators policy aims at developing fit-for-purpose • KONE EcoSpace® compared to unit in Slimpa, Italy, has a solar energy amounted to 43 ktCO2e (2014: 44). The share KONE organizations, and we aim to exceed 2013, and further facilities and eco-efficient operations as • KONE MonoSpace® 500 system that produces around 5% of of green electricity increased to 22% in 2015 legal requirements. improve resource well as providing a safe and secure work • KONE MiniSpace™ (Europe and Asia) efficiency the electricity the unit consumes. The (2014: 20%). In 2015, electricity consumption environment for all KONE employees. • KONE E MiniSpace™ LEED Platinum certified KONE US was 79,800 MWh (2014: 79,900) and the Based on environmental data collected from Our goal is to reduce our facility-related • KONE S MiniSpace™ Operations Center in Moline, Illinois, consumption of district heat 15,100 MWh 12 KONE engineering and manufacturing sites, • KONE N MiniSpace™ carbon footprint by 15% by the end has over 1,300 solar panels that (2014: 15,900). The absolute electricity carbon 91% of the waste generated by KONE’s global • KONE S MonoSpace® of 2016, (base year 2010). This will be produce around 30% of the electricity footprint decreased by 2.9% and the relative delivery chain was recycled or incinerated. Only KONE TravelMaster™ 110 escalator achieved the highest A+++ classification implemented by: consumed by the facility. footprint by 8.2%. 9% (2014: 8%) was landfilled. All of the waste for escalators according to ISO 25745-3*. • Improving space efficiency at KONE generated by our escalator manufacturing The Green Labels of Singapore Green Building Council for the KONE N facilities MiniSpace™ and KONE N MonoSpace® elevators renewed and the scoring KONE’s Global Facility Policy includes unit and the GiantKONE manufacturing unit improved from good to very good. • Optimizing energy usage in heating, energy saving targets. During 2015, KONE’s in China and by our manufacturing units in ventilation, air conditioning, and in manufacturing unit in Italy achieved the ISO Chennai, India, Hyvinkää, Finland, and Pero, lighting systems by using proximity 50001 Energy Management System certification Italy, is either recycled or incinerated – none is Green building • KONE solutions delivered to LEED, BREEAM and other certified green Develop sensors and LED lights as the second KONE unit. Our manufacturing landfilled. Only 0.3% of the waste generated buildings. solutions to fulfill • Deploying energy-saving practices for • ISO 50001 Energy management systems certification achieved by KONE’s green building unit in the Czech Republic was the first KONE by our elevator manufacturing unit in China is requirements computers and office equipment manufacturing unit in Italy as the second KONE unit, in addition to the unit to be certified in 2013. During the year, landfilled. and implement • Increasing the share of green 0% manufacturing unit in the Czech Republic certified already in 2013. KONE units falling into the scope of the new LEED/BREEAM at electricity • LEED Platinum green building certification awarded to the building housing selected KONE landfill waste at escalator Energy Efficiency Directive completed energy Water consumption the new head office of KONE’s country organization in Finland. facilities • Improving material efficiency in manufacturing unit and GiantKONE audit reports or other related requirements Water consumption in KONE’s production and manufacturing, warehousing, and in China, manufacturing units in in eight European KONE countries. In two maintenance processes is minimal, and we offices Chennai, India, Hyvinkää, Finland, additional countries where the local KONE continue to optimize and further minimize our Environmental • KONE’s relative carbon footprint decreased by 12.1% (4.4% with sales Reduce KONE’s • Reducing waste and further impact of growth calculated at comparable exchange rates). The carbon footprint of carbon footprint and Pero, Italy. company would fall into the scope of the usage of water. KONE uses municipal water, operations externally assured scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions relative relative to net improving recycling directive (Spain and Poland), the directive was and waste water is released into municipal to net sales decreased by 14.4% (6.7% with sales growth calculated at sales by 3% • Selecting eco-efficient service not yet implemented locally. treatment systems that abide by local comparable exchange rates). annually suppliers regulations. The total amount of water used • In addition, new KONE buildings Heating fuels and cooling gases in our manufacturing and office facilities was should be designed according OneISO and • All corporate units, manufacturing units, and R&D units are ISO 14001 and Continue to Heating fuels and cooling gases account for 390,000 m³ (2014: 390,000). In 2015, KONE’s suppliers ISO 9001 certified. maintain OneISO to LEED or other green building 4% of our operational carbon footprint. In manufacturing units, excluding GiantKONE, • 18 major country organizations are ISO 14001 certified (2014: 18), and (ISO 9001/14001) standards. Green buildings should KONE’s manufacturing units in the Czech Republic and Italy are ISO 50001 and require ISO 2015, fuels for heating and cooling generated released 17 tonnes (2014: 20) of waste water 9001/14001 be chosen when relocating KONE certified. 11 ktCO2e (2014: 11) of greenhouse gas effluents into the municipal waste water from our strategic facilities to existing buildings • 93% of strategic suppliers are ISO 14001 certified (2014: 91%). suppliers emissions. systems. Material management Reporting and • KONE 2015 Sustainability Report met GRI G4 requirements. KONE’s Work to meet GRI In 2015, KONE used 722 k tonnes (2014: 682) communication greenhouse gas emission data for Scope 1, 2 and 3 (excluding waste) was G4 requirements externally assured. and continue to of materials for producing and packaging its • KONE’s score in CDP’s climate change program further improved to the maintain high elevators and escalators. The figures have been best possible 100 A (2014: 100 A-) and KONE was included on CDP’s global CDP scores calculated based on life-cycle impact assessment A List of the top 5% of companies for the first time and on the Nordic Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index for the fifth year running. KONE was data. Higher material consumption figures also included on CDP’s global Supplier A List 2015 including the top 2% of reflect an increase in production volumes. At suppliers that have been awarded an A grade for their climate performance. KONE, we focus on material management and • KONE was ranked the world’s 28th most sustainable company in the Global the optimization of our own operations. Our 100 index fund managed by investment advisory company Corporate Knights. KONE is the only elevator and escalator company included in the primary goal is to achieve material efficiency index. throughout our manufacturing chain, beginning with the product development stage. Read more *ISO 25745-2 is a new global standard for the energy calculation and classification of elevators. ISO 25745-3 is the about KONE’s product carbon corresponding standard for escalators and autowalks. footprint on p. 24. 28 29 KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT QUALIT Y QUALITY KONE’s objective is to deliver the best customer and user experience. Quality plays a fundamental role in achieving this goal. Our aim is to delight our QUALITY CULTURE customers with consistently high quality. AT KONE Quality is one of KONE’s high priority areas and it is of utmost importance in our daily work. It is embedded in everything we do, from customer interaction and product planning all the way to the services we offer. The quality culture we promote encompasses our Solution creation quality KONE’s processes fulfill ISO 9001 quality QUALITY ACHIEVEMENTS products, processes, and all the services we offer KONE’s new solutions are screened during management system requirements. from design to maintenance and modernization. the early stages for quality, using quality • In our annual employee survey, It includes taking ownership of the quality of management tools and thorough verification All KONE’s corporate units, manufacturing units and R&D units are Pulse, the questions about quality ISO 9001 certified our work, strengthening our product quality processes. In the design stage we define critical received high scores and improved through our quality improvement programs, and quality parameters that all solutions must fulfill from the previous years. 28 of KONE’s major country organizations are ISO 9001 certified constantly improving our installation processes. in order to proceed to production. • We audit all of the main suppliers We receive feedback from various streams that deliver direct materials to KONE and measure progress, for example, through Delivery and manufacturing quality 97% of KONE’s strategic suppliers are ISO 9001 certified distribution centers or factories on a customer and employee surveys. KONE is working to continuously improve regular basis. its delivery chain in terms of quality, We set targets and monitor key performance responsiveness, and efficiency. We make sure indicators (KPIs) such as the cost of poor that we deliver to the highest quality standards. quality, the early failure rate of our equipment, and the callout rate of our products. In 2015 KONE started a project aimed at improving in-house production quality. The action if needed during installation, and COMPREHENSIVE RIDE Everyone is responsible for quality 10x Better Factory project will harmonize conduct thorough quality tests to monitor the COMFORT TEST Good, solid working practices help us deliver process control activities in our own production outcome. world-class products and services. If there is a lines further. As part of the project, solid and KONE elevators are tested for ride quality concern, we look for the root causes and up-to-date process control plans will be created Maintenance quality quality, a service that is unique to take immediate action to solve the issue. for each workstation, and critical standard At KONE we are constantly working to maintain KONE. The test measures noise as well processes will be governed through real-time the highest quality of service, and to keep as lateral quaking and vertical vibration We listen to our customers closely by using statistical process control. The project enables equipment in top condition for the best possible levels inside the car, and ensures customer surveys and feedback questionnaires. production unit employees to improve their user experience. KONE maintenance delivers that our elevators provide a smooth According to the latest customer survey results, quality-related competences. industry-leading customer value and quality. ride with minimum disturbance to the quality and competitiveness of our products We service close to 1.1 million elevators and building occupants. After test results are have further advanced. Ratings show that quality During the review year we carried out thorough escalators. We offer our expertise throughout analyzed, improvements are made if is among the top reasons for choosing KONE as a analyses of all of our production lines and the entire lifecycle of a building as maintenance needed. This thorough testing reduces partner. established global, in-depth production quality and modernization are tailored to maximize the need for unplanned maintenance guidelines to direct our production units on equipment performance. callouts. We also support our employees so that they their quality improvement journey. have the attitude and skills to solve quality issues KONE develops a unique maintenance plan in the most effective way possible. We give In 2016 we will build production quality for each piece of equipment. Each technical practical guidance to our employees and provide competencies through eLearning materials module is maintained at appropriate intervals. them with effective and easy-to-use problemand local classroom trainings at all of our This enhances quality and end-user safety, and solving tools. Employees are actively encouraged production sites. minimizes equipment downtime. to take part in improving product quality and processes through an Idea Management System We have high standards for supplier quality. We Clear procedures for call handling, strong, G4 INDICATORS RELATED TO QUALITY and Kaizen continuous improvement practices. focus on ensuring our suppliers have excellent real-time support from the KONE Customer G4-PR5: Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. manufacturing processes and process controls in Care Center, and detailed reporting and quality At KONE, each of us is responsible for quality. place. control on every site visit guarantee quality in G4-PR9: Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with It is about caring to take action, not accepting everything we do. About 50 training hours per laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and less than the expected level of quality, and KONE’s installation process quality enables us person per year give KONE service technicians Read more about KONE’s supply chain on p. 42 services caring about what we pass on to our colleagues to monitor the installation quality at different the latest technical knowhow of the equipment suppliers on p. 44 and customers. stages of the process. We take corrective they maintain. 31 Our people KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Our people OUR PEOPLE We want KONE to be a great place to work, and to inspire, engage, and develop our employees to deliver great results. Our employees have the right to a safe, healthy A GLOBAL TEAM OF TRUE working environment where discrimination is prohibited and personal well-being is promoted. We see diversity as a strength. PROFESSIONALS to KONE. It builds on earlier Employee managers are advised to talk about employee Employees by market, 2015 KONE employed approximately 50,000 people at the end of 2015. Most of Engagement and People Leadership programs. well-being, as well as career development our employees are in the field every day, serving customers in more than 60 and growth opportunities. The quality of 13% countries. During 2015 we continued the program by performance discussions was further improved further improving the coverage and the quality during the reporting period, and we actively of individual development plans, by expanding encouraged all employees to have their 42% access to a wide selection of online learning individual development plans in place. courses to the majority of KONE personnel, and At KONE, we strive to foster a collaborative by strengthening country specific field training KONE’s well-being and safety programs 45% culture where co-workers trust and respect capabilities as well as apprentice programs and continued during the reporting year, and good each other, and leaders inspire people to employer branding activities. progress was made in expanding the Elevate deliver the best results. Our personnel strategy Your Health program globally. These well-being EMEA: 42% (44%) aims to ensure the availability, engagement, Job rotation is an important way for KONE programs cover topics ranging from taking care Americas: 13% (12%) motivation, and continuous development of employees to develop their skills and of joints and muscles to weight loss initiatives, Asia-Pacific: 45% (44%) employees. We want KONE to be a great place knowledge. In 2015 we developed the Visit a walking campaigns, and building stress (2014 figures in brackets) to work – this is one of our strategic targets. job concept to support short-term job rotation resilience. across units and countries. For us, creating a great place to work means Attracting new talent treating every employee fairly and providing him We continued rolling out our global learning KONE has apprentice programs in key Employees by job category, 2015 or her with a safe working environment. High management system (konelearning.com), making countries, and these are an excellent way ethical principles guide all of our activities. As training options more visible, and simplifying to recruit new professionals. KONE also an employer, KONE is committed to an equal the management of certifications, training collaborates actively with schools. In 2015 we 9% opportunities approach that places people in the requirements, and personnel development. continued our promoters program and trained 9% positions that best suit their abilities. more employees to talk about the company in Konelearning.com also supports our online schools, universities, and other relevant sites. 26% 56% We see diversity as a strength and prohibit and field trainings, and facilitates better discrimination of any kind. We do not collaboration and material sharing. At the end The KONE International Trainee Program offers differentiate between job applicants based of the reporting year, 86% of KONE personnel students and graduates opportunities to work on their gender, race, or other aspects of were covered by konelearning.com, making the on projects at different KONE units around their personal backgrounds. To strengthen management of their learning and certifications the world. In 2015 we received over 2,100 our global approach and our insights on possible online. applications and had trainees representing 8 Maintenance and modernization 56% (56%) multicultural ways of working, we have set nationalities pursuing their internships at 6 New equipment sales and installation goals for cultural diversity in our headquarter KONE continued to carry out global learning different KONE locations. 26% (26%) teams. programs for leaders. These programs cover all Manufacturing 9% (10%) leaders at KONE, from executives to our first line KONE also offers various summer traineeships Administration, IT and R&D 9% During the reporting year, 117 nationalities managers. Key programs in 2015 include the and thesis opportunities in several countries. (8%) were represented throughout KONE’s Supervisor Development Program, the Service (2014 figures in brackets) workforce. The majority are male, which Management Program, and Project Management Measuring workplace satisfaction represent nearly 90% of our employees certifications for our installation projects. We conduct our Pulse survey every year globally. Nevertheless, women accounted for to measure employees’ level of workplace 18%* of management team members in 2015, Performing at our best satisfaction. The survey offers employees an G4 INDICATORS RELATED TO OUR PEOPLE a slight improvement on the year-ago figure, At KONE, we want to have the best possible opportunity to give feedback and provides and a step closer to our target of 20%. professional with the right competencies in insights into their engagement with KONE’s G4-LA1: Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee each position. We emphasize this by organizing core values. In the reporting year 42,590 turnover by age group, gender and region. A winning team performance discussions between each employees provided feedback, and we G4-LA10: Programs for skills management and lifelong learning. KONE defined A Winning Team of True employee and their supervisor at least twice reached a record high response rate of 93%. Professionals as one of its five development a year. In 2015 over 97% of eligible staff and G4-LA11: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and programs at the beginning of 2014. The over 95% of eligible operatives took part in The survey covers areas such as employee career development reviews, by gender and by employee category. program aims to enable all employees performance and career development reviews. engagement, performance enablement, to perform at their best, to develop field sustainability, strategy and values, leadership, G4-LA12: Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees competencies, and to attract the best talent In addition to using these discussions to communication and involvement, customer Read about per employee category according to gender and age group. set targets and review job content, KONE relationships, and growth and development workplace safety on p. 17. *The figure excludes data for the Americas. 32 33 Our people KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Our people Personnel by country opportunities. In addition, the survey examines We invest significantly in the range of continuous consultation and communication KONE’s global intranet, for example, acts as Age distribution, Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2015 how respondents view their jobs, managers, monetary and non-monetary rewards on important developments affecting KONE both a news channel for all the latest news and All KONE employees* 10 largest countries and performance reviews. offered to employees, and we call this total employees. events and a virtual teamwork site. This KONE (2014 figures in brackets) reward. This framework focuses on pay Collaboration Workplace improves document China 14,057 (13,090) In 2015, KONE’s employee engagement score for performance and our aim is to make it In 2015 the theme of the Forum was sharing and supports interaction. 30 and under 36% 31–50 51% United States 4,672 (4,192) maintained its upward trend and also surpassed transparent and to communicate about it service business development in a changing India 4,078 (3,799) 51 and above 13% external benchmarks. As in the previous year, clearly. While reward policies are consistent environment. 20 employees from 14 European The latest KONE news is also shared through France 3,048 (3,149) Finland 2,142 (2,093) none of the survey scores declined. across KONE, the practices are flexible to countries participated. employee magazines and both global and local *Excluding United States Italy 1,969 (1,991) meet local needs. newsletters. In 2015 KONE published 2 editions Germany 1,910 (1,716) Questions related to career opportunities, Employee agreements are managed on a of its global employee magazine Move in nine United Kingdom 1,867 (1,909) Australia 1,376 (1,267 ) collaboration, opportunities to show initiative, The compensation and other benefits of the national level, and there are differences in different languages. Canada 1,009 (956) and the perceived quality of KONE products Board of Directors, President and CEO, and national legislations. Approximately 40% of and services were among those whose scores the Executive Board are disclosed in KONE’s KONE’s employees are covered by collective improved most. Financial Statements 2015 (p. 62–63). bargaining agreements. Age distribution of Executive Board 30 and under 0% Average Workforce Tenure Rewarding performance Listening to employees Encouraging interaction 31–50 29% in years Our reward framework is intended to inspire, KONE organizes the European Employee At KONE, we believe employee engagement 51 and above 71% (2014 figures in brackets) motivate and engage employees through Forum every year to bring together employee is built on open and timely communication easy-to-understand policies, guidelines, and representatives and top management about the company’s goals and ways of doing China 3.18 (2.71) United States 7.50 (8.15) practices that are aligned with our business to discuss issues ranging from safety to business. We use multiple channels to interact India 5.20 (5.10) strategy and development programs. business development. A smaller working with employees, to motivate them, and to 10.75 (10.22) France group meets 2–4 times a year to ensure encourage collaboration. KONE Board age distribution Finland 11.63 (11.70) Italy 13.16 (13.71) Germany 11.65 (12.70) 30 and under 13% United Kingdom 8.64 (8.68) 31–50 13% Australia Canada 7.76 (8.10) 6.31 (6.25) Employees, 2015 51 and above 75% Total number of employees, year end 49,734 Share of women in employees, % 12 Share of women in management teams (top 492*), % 18 Share of women in the Executive Board, % 14 Gender distribution per market, 2015* Share of women in the Board of Directors, % 38 Total turnover rate, %, compared to 12 month average headcount 6.88 EMEA Asia Pacific Men 86% Men 89% *Excluding United States. Women 14% Women 11% *Excluding Americas Employees per contract type, 2015 % of employees with Permanent contract 98 % of females with Permanent contract 97 % of males with Permanent contract 99 34 35 KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Creating added value CREATING ADDED VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS Sales by market 2015 Sales by business 2015 ECONOMIC LONG-TERM FINANCIAL TARGETS KONE directly contributes to the economic development of the over 60 countries in which we operate. All together, KONE’s solutions, including our RESPONSIBILITY Americas EMEA Asia-Pacific New equipment GROWTH: 17% 39% 44% 57% Faster than the market distributors, are available in around 140 countries. Our objective is to develop our business in a profitable and sustainable way. PROFITABILITY: As a responsible corporate citizen, we are committed to making a positive Modernization 16% EBIT margin contribution to the communities where we operate. Our global presence makes it crucial for us to ensure that we have clear rules and guidance in place when it 12% CASH FLOW: comes to ethical business practices. Improved working capital Maintenance rotation Our business model is based on a lifecycle 31% approach. This means we provide solutions for our customers’ needs during each phase in the Our geographic regions are Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), Americas, and Asia-Pacific. The service business lifetime of elevators, escalators and automatic accounts for around 40% of KONE’s revenue, while the new equipment business represents the remaining close to 60%. Orders received 2011-2015 doors. We offer solutions in new equipment, maintenance and modernization. 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 In terms of geographical distribution, 39% of taxes was strong at EUR 1,474 million (1–12: 2011 4,465 This lifecycle business model is one of our net sales came from the EMEA region (Europe, 2014: 1,345 MEUR). The cash flow was driven 2012 5,496 strengths. The new equipment business is Middle East and Africa), 17% from Americas and by growth in operating income and continued 2013 6,151 more cyclical in nature and fuels the growth 44% from Asia-Pacific. China, the United States favorable development in net working capital. 2014 6,813 2015 7,959 of our maintenance business in the long and France were the largest individual countries term. Maintenance, on the other hand, in terms of sales. China’s share was close to 35% Creating stakeholder value brings stability to the business over economic and the United States’ share was close to 15% of Our strong financial performance in recent cycles and in turn, the aging equipment total net sales in 2015*. years has enabled us to generate stakeholder Sales 2011-2015 in maintenance creates potential for value for our customers, suppliers, employees, 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 modernization. KONE’s operating income (EBIT) increased, local communities and shareholders alike. reaching EUR 1,241 million (1–12/2014: 1,036 2011 5,225 Over time, we believe that megatrends such MEUR) or 14.4% (14.1%) of net sales in 2015. Shareholders 2012 6,277 2013 6,933 as urbanization, aging population and the Operating income grew driven by positive KONE’s strong financial performance has made 2014 7,334 emergence of a global middle class will provide development in both the new equipment and it possible for the company to offer increasing 2015 8,647 a strong backdrop for the continued demand service businesses. The growth was driven dividend payments. For 2015, the dividend of our solutions. by broad-based positive development across distributed to shareholders increased by 16.7% geographical regions. Favorable translation compared to the previous year. In total, KONE Financial performance in 2015 exchange rates clearly contributed to the growth distributed almost EUR 720 million in dividends Operating income 2011-2015* In 2015, KONE’s orders received increased by in operating income with a positive impact of for the financial year 2015. Also with a longer 0 300 600 900 1,200 1,500 16.8% (at comparable rates 5.6%), and reached approximately EUR 120 million. term perspective, our track record on dividend 2011 725 a level of EUR 7,959 million (1–12/2014: 6,813 distribution has been sustainable. KONE has a 2012 829 MEUR). New equipment orders received grew KONE’s financial position was strong at the end strong shareholder base and had over 56,000 2013 953 somewhat. In modernization, orders received of December 2015. The cash flow generated shareholders at the end of December 2015. 2014 1,036 grew significantly. Orders received in the new from operations in 2015 during January to (Dec. 2014: over 51,000 shareholders.) 2015 1,241 G4 INDICATORS RELATED TO ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY AND ETHICAL equipment business amounted to approximately December 2015 before financing items and * excluding one-time items BUSINESS PRACTICES 161,000 units (2014: approximately 154,000 elevator and escalator units), whereas our *For a list of KONE’s top 10 countries by sales, please see page 38. G4 EC1: Direct economic value generated and distributed maintenance base was close to 1.1 million units G4-EC6: Proportion of senior management hired from the local at the end of 2015 (2014: exceeded one million community at significant locations of operation units). KONE’s economic impacts in 2015 Stakeholders G4-SO4: Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and In 2015, KONE’s net sales grew by 17.9% (at Employees 1,825 (1,578) MEUR procedures Customers Suppliers Added value = comparable rates 8.3%) as compared to the Read more Creditors -122 (-19) MEUR G4-SO7: Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antiprevious year, and totaled EUR 8,647 million about KONE’s financial trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes (1–12/2014: 7,334 MEUR). The share of new 8,647 4,960 3,687 Public sector 932 (765) MEUR performance from our Financial Statements 2015 available at G4-SO8: Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonequipment sales out of total sales was 57%, (7,334) (4,198) (3,136) Shareholders 718 (616) MEUR kone.com/en/investors. monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations whereas maintenance accounted for 31% and MEUR MEUR MEUR Economic value retained in the company 334 (196) MEUR modernization 12%. (2014 figures in brackets) 37 Creating added value KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Creating added value 10 biggest countries by sales, 2015 Customers & Suppliers provide. KONE is a global company with global GIVING BACK TO COMMUNITIES We seek to build long-term relationships with processes and guidelines, but our operations China ~35% our suppliers and customers. Our supplier are at the same time very local. In our United States ~15% France relationships provide business opportunities subsidiaries, management and field personnel Having a corporate conscience is more than the Xico Museum to bring local art and history Germany and employment for thousands of suppliers are predominantly local. an add-on strategic initiative. It is a mindset to the area’s children and youth. United Kingdom globally. Read more about our supplier that shapes KONE’s social behavior and guides Australia management on p. 42. KONE had close to 50,000 employees in over the company to pursue an active role in The Xico Museum was founded by local people Italy Finland 60 countries at the end of 2015. KONE’s largest communities around the world. who realized that their poor neighborhoods Sweden Local communities countries by employees in 2015 were China, were built on land containing archeological India KONE is committed to operating as a the United States and India. Read more about The KONE Centennial Foundation (KCF), treasures. The museum now displays over responsible corporate citizen in all the countries our people on p. 32 –35. an independent, non-profit organization 5,000 objects unearthed in construction in which we are present. founded by KONE in celebration of its 100th projects in the Valle de Chalco area. Together Ensuring added value in the future anniversary in 2010, is an example of this. with Xico Arte, the Museum organizes lessons We are committed to paying all taxes that KONE has three long-term financial targets: KCF’s mission is to advance and support and workshops for local children and youth We are focused on are legally due, and to meeting all disclosure growing faster than the market, achieving an developmental, educational, and cultural on the significance of the museum’s objects to YOUTH ACTIVATION requirements in the countries where we operate. EBIT margin of 16%, and improving working activities for children and youth around local history and traditions. The archeological maintaining our Our objective is to ensure predictability in all tax capital rotation. We have achieved two of these the world. The Foundation gives priority to objects are also used to inspire children’s KCF helped found the innovative challenger attitude and matters. In addition, every transaction must have three targets: KONE has grown faster than the projects that serve the neediest children and artwork in nearby schools. Westbury Youth Center in 2012. a solid business rationale without compromising market in recent years, and we have improved youth. It cooperates closely with strong local Located in a poor Johannesburg are constantly developing tax compliance principles. The location of our working capital rotation at the same time. partners to plan projects, aiming to ensure At the end of 2015 the Foundation’s other core community with a history of gangour competitiveness KONE’s group entities is driven by business For the 16% EBIT margin, no target date has efficient resource allocation and respect for projects included a mobile library initiative in related crime and drug problems, the reasons, such as the location of customers, been set. With the lifecycle business model, the local culture and priorities. China, a youth center offering educational and center brings nonprofit agencies and in order to strengthen suppliers, raw materials and know-how. We insist short-term focus is on growing absolute EBIT health services in an inner-city slum in Chennai, skills development programs under one on transparency in all our activities, including while achieving improved relative profitability The Foundation focuses on innovative services India, and a one-stop shop of opportunities and roof to create a one-stop shop where our position as one of our relationships with tax authorities. Since over time with growth and productivity gains. that can be replicated and may one day services for youth in a drug and crime ridden young people can find a wide range of the global leaders in the 2015, KONE is participating in an enhanced become self-sustainable. KCF has a long-term area of Johannesburg, South Africa. services and opportunities. collaboration with the Finnish Tax Authorities KONE’s philosophy is to continuously develop commitment to all of its projects and also elevator and escalator promoting tax transparency. the business with a long-term outlook. We devotes effort to attracting support from other The Foundation also supports other projects industry. are focused on maintaining our challenger public and private sources in order to improve that share similar goals with KCF and have In 2015 income taxes paid by KONE globally attitude and are constantly developing our sustainability and replicability. The Foundation’s a proven level of high performance. These amounted to EUR 311.4 (242.4) million, with competitiveness in order to strengthen our projects are located only in countries where include educational and cultural exchanges the ten largest countries by sales accounting for position as one of the global leaders in the they are most needed and where local KONE and cooperation with universities, as well 75% of the taxes paid. Income taxes paid by elevator and escalator industry. With the help units can contribute practical support. as matching funds contributed by KONE the Finnish KONE companies totaled EUR 37.2 of our development programs (read more employees, such as support for the Singhadevi (31.0) million in 2015. on page 8), we work towards our vision of The Foundation’s latest project is the Xico Arte School in rural Nepal. providing the best People Flow® experience. art against violence initiative in Mexico. Xico KONE’s largest individual Employees Arte are a group of young people interested As the number of refugees globally and in Europe shareholder is Antti Herlin, Chairman Our biggest direct economic impacts come in art who come from a community on the rose and impacted the Foundation’s home of KONE’s Board of Directors, who from the employment opportunities we outskirts of Mexico City burdened by crime country, Finland, in an unprecedented way in controls over 20% of the share and unemployment. KCF is working with local 2015, the Foundation helped collect winter coats, capital and over 60% of votes. NGO Tanesque A.C.to help Xico Arte become shoes and other much-needed items from KONE CAGR 1980 –2015 an independent NGO that works closely with employees for refugee youth in Helsinki. Split-adjusted dividend per class B share, EUR, 1980–2015* +15% For KONE’s domestically registered major shareholders, see monthly 1.4 updated list on our website. 1.2 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.0 -80 -81 -82 -83 -84 -85 -86 -87 -88 -89 -90 -91 -92 -93 -94 -95 -96 -97 -98 -99 -00 -01 -02 -03 -04 -05 -06 -07 -08 -09 -10 -11 -12 -13 -14 -15 Read more *Note: Includes the basic dividend. Adjusted for share splits in 1999 (1:3), 2002 (1:3), 2005 (1:2), 2008 (1:2) and 2013 (1:2). about our economic performance 1 EUR= 5.9 FIM; not adjusted to constant exchange rate. Additional extraordinary dividends: for 2009, a double dividend was at www.kone.com/investors paid; for 2011, an extraordinary dividend of EUR 0.75 was paid and for 2012, an extraordinary dividend of EUR 0.65 was paid. Art against violence: Mexican kids taking part in the Xico Arte project, supported by the Foundation. 38 39 creating added value KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT creating added value COMMITTED TO FAIR AND ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES The Code of Conduct is The KONE Code of Conduct KONE has more than 1,000 offices in over 60 KONE’s Supplier Code of Conduct available in countries, and collaborates with authorized KONE’s Supplier Code of Conduct sets out the is an integral part of the distributors in close to 80 countries around the ethical business practice requirements that 32 languages company’s corporate world. As a global corporate citizen, we are we expect from our suppliers. It covers areas fully committed to the laws and regulations of such as legal compliance, business conduct, culture and values and the countries in which we operate. Our global anti-bribery, labor and human rights, health The Code of Conduct and sets out our commitment presence makes it crucial for us to ensure that and safety, and environment. KONE expects Competition Compliance we have clear rules and guidance in place its suppliers to conform to the requirements e-learnings are available in to ethical business when it comes to ethical business practices. of the Supplier Code of Conduct in their practices. It is equally important that these are easily dealings with KONE, their own employees 29 languages accessible to all our employees, our suppliers, and suppliers, as well as third parties including and our distributors, thereby enabling us to government officials and others. The Supplier conduct business in an ethically and socially Code of Conduct is available in over 20 The number of Supplier Code of responsible manner throughout our entire languages and is explained in more detail on value chain. The Code of Conduct sets out our page 44 of this report. Conduct language versions is commitment to integrity, honesty, and fair play. New online trainings launched 23 Topics covered in KONE’s Code of Conduct During 2015 KONE renewed its Code of KONE renewed its Code of Conduct and Conduct, Competition Compliance Policy, and Competition Compliance eLearning programs Compliance with laws • KONE is committed to full compliance with all applicable laws and Supplier Code of Conduct. and began training employees in 2015 and rules of society regulations with continued roll-outs during 2016. All • KONE respects prevailing cultural norms and practices, but where there KONE’s Code of Conduct KONE employees who have daily access to a are conflicts KONE’s employees are required to follow the KONE Code of Conduct KONE’s Code of Conduct (the Code) forms computer are required to complete the Code an integral part of KONE culture and defines of Conduct online training program which Work environment • KONE prohibits all forms of discrimination our standards of ethical conduct. The Code covers topics such as conflicts of interest, and human rights • KONE prohibits offensive behavior, including sexual harassment addresses the type of behavior expected of fighting bribery, respect for people and • KONE does not use child or forced labor and does not do business with KONE employees and KONE companies. assets, and excelling in sustainability. Some suppliers or subcontractors who use these practices Topics covered include compliance with the employees are also required to complete • KONE is committed to ensuring a safe and healthy working environment for all employees laws and rules of society, work environment the Competition Compliance online training and human rights, anti-bribery, health and program due to their role and position in the safety, fair competition, risks and conflicts, company. They include members of KONE’s Risks and conflicts • KONE prohibits direct and indirect bribes and unethical payments as well as excessive gifts and hospitality marketing of products and services, and Executive Board and employees involved for • KONE has a zero tolerance for corruption of any kind. The Code of environment and sustainability. All KONE example in management, sales, sourcing, and Conduct prohibits improper payments or benefits employees are expected to understand and trade association related activities. Individual abide by the Code and to report any violations business units can nominate additional Competition law • KONE is strongly committed to the promotion of fair and healthy using the channels available for this purpose. participants when necessary. competition, and prohibits any violations The Code is available in over 30 languages and applies to every employee of KONE and Enforcement of Codes and Policies Environment and • KONE is committed to minimizing the environmental impact of its KONE companies. Dedicated Compliance Officers help sustainability solutions, products, services, and operations employees comply with KONE’s Code of • KONE employees must avoid all conflicts of interest KONE’s Competition Compliance Policy Conduct, and global and regional compliance KONE’s Competition Compliance Policy committees oversee the functioning of the Handling of • KONE safeguards the confidentiality, integrity and availability of its information proprietary information promotes the principles of fair competition that compliance management system. Employees • KONE is committed to protecting personal data are presented in the Code of Conduct. The have several ways in which they can contact policy details our unambiguous position against KONE’s Compliance Officers. They also have Reporting concerns or • There are various channels available for employees to seek advice and anti-competitive practices. It sets out the the right to make contact in their native violations of the Code report any real or potential violations of KONE’s Code of Conduct to local rules and principles that all KONE employees language. This can be done anonymously, if of Conduct management, the KONE Legal Function or KONE’s Compliance Function. must follow to ensure that we comply fully the employee so wishes. KONE shall not retaliate against employees raising concerns in good faith. with competition laws. Also, the Competition • Suppliers and distributors can also report concerns to the KONE Compliance Function at compliance@kone.com Compliance policy is available in over 30 languages. 40 41 delivery and supply chain KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLY CHAIN KONE aims to develop its supply chain to be the best in the industry. In 2015 we had 8 production sites for elevators, escalators and building AIMING TO HAVE THE We collect customer feedback on our quality offices, factories, installation sites, and distribution doors, 10 global distribution centers for elevators, and 5 distribution centers for spare parts. INDUSTRY’S BEST performance systematically and analyze it using Six Sigma tools before taking corrective centers. We have also developed a Lean manual and management model of continuous Around 4,500 people keep KONE’s supply operations running. The SUPPLY CHAIN action. We also set targets and monitor key performance indicators (KPIs) such as the early improvement on implementing these principles. operations cover new equipment production, modernization, and spares failure rate of our products. By the end of 2015, over 1,800 people had supply. We also work closely with several material suppliers and logistics completed the Lean Passport E-learning Program, KONE delivers over 3.3 million packages service providers. At the end of the day, our customers’ views on which is available in 6 languages: Finnish, English, from distribution centers to installation sites, and around 1.2 million packages Quality, responsiveness, and efficiency are the how we are doing are what count. According Chinese, Italian, Spanish, and Czech. of spare parts from distribution centers cornerstones of KONE’s supply chain. It covers to the global NPI Customer Loyalty Survey to customer sites annually. 3.3 million all of the actions and processes that lead up to KONE carries out every year, our efforts to Our Lean Practitioners advanced training has packages correspond to 1,150 million kg the delivery of KONE equipment to a customer’s achieve supply chain excellence are bearing been rolled-out globally in all KONE regions, and 2.8 million m3. site. The chain ends when a customer accepts fruit with the 2015 results for both product with around 120 participants trained and an installation. Leading up to this, our job is quality and installation quality rising. certified by the end of 2015. Additionally, more to ensure that the right items are delivered to than 1,000 Lean projects were completed the right places at the right times throughout Continuous learning for better quality successfully in 2015. STEP CHANGE IN SUPPLIER all the phases of manufacturing, distribution, We at KONE employ a set of techniques and QUALITY installation, as well as in our suppliers’ processes. tools to improve the productivity and quality Over 300 KONE employees have been trained in of our operations. We apply Lean and Six Six Sigma, and a majority of them have received In the 10x Better Supplier Quality We want to develop the best supply chain in Sigma philosophies to eliminate waste and certifications. Some 120 new Six Sigma projects program, suppliers are expected to the industry, a goal that entails the continuous reduce process variation throughout the entire were successfully started in 2015, and the Six install quality control points into their analysis and improvement of the quality of supply chain as well as in product and process Sigma governance model for supply operations own production lines to monitor the everything we do. As a part of these efforts, transitions. We implement the 5S* method in our was introduced in Europe and China. product and process characteristics we launched the 10x Better Supplier Quality that are most critical to the quality of program in 2014. Through the program we aim the product supplied to KONE. This to define critical to quality parameters, improve *The name of the 5S methodology comes from the words sort, stabilize, shine, standardize, and sustain. enables any deviations or changes in process control to ensure that the critical the quality of the production process standards are met, and then implement change to be captured immediately during management practices, wherein each product production. Counter and adjustment and process change is first approved by KONE measures can then be initiated before and then implemented in a controlled manner. production processes run outside The program affects the daily work of thousands acceptable tolerances, preventing of KONE employees and hundreds of external quality issues from impacting later partners in all direct material categories. In 2015 stages of the delivery chain. we extended the program, which is expected to improve efficiency at factories and installation In 2015, KONE actively coached sites, to cover logistic service providers as well. and trained suppliers to implement these additional quality management In 2015 KONE started another supply chain methods through a series of workshops improvement program, the so-called 10x and continuous supplier quality Better Factory program, targeted at further management efforts. We expect improving in-house production quality (Read the program to significantly further more in the quality section on p. 30–31). improve the quality of KONE products. G4 INDICATORS RELATED TO SUPPLY CHAIN Meeting customer needs At KONE we believe in listening to customers. G4-12: Describe the organization’s supply chain Adapting our supply chain to meet the different requirements of different customers G4-DMA: Purchasing Practises is one way we do this. Customers with G4-EN32: Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using modernization projects for example, value environmental criteria timely delivery in order to keep elevator downtime to a minimum, while customers G4-LA14: Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor with demanding high-rise projects require wellKONE Park in Kunshan is KONE’s largest manufacturing unit in the world, with an engineering facility, R&D center, three Read more practices criteria planned and specified deliveries that seamlessly elevator factories and an escalator factory. KONE began operations in China in 1996, and opened its first Chinese factory in Kunshan in 1998. about our logistics on p. 26. integrate with the whole construction process. 42 43 SUPPLY CHAIN KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT SUPPLY CHAIN Breakdown of material and service costs LONG-TERM RELATIONSHIPS WITH SUPPLIERS All our new suppliers must sign KONE’s Supplier Code of Conduct. 14% (12%) Our suppliers and their sub-tier suppliers are a regular audits. All of KONE’s strategic suppliers 14% critical part of KONE’s supply chain. Without were audited in 2015. We review our audit (16%) 60% (60%) them, we could not provide high-quality plan every year to prioritize and schedule audits Strategic suppliers with products and services to our customers. Just according to KONE’s business needs. The audits 12% ISO 9001 certification: (12%) as internal efficiency is essential, so is working are scheduled to check on changes in products effectively with the approximately 20,000 or production processes, validate follow-through 97% suppliers who provide KONE with raw materials, on improvement initiatives, assess quality and components, modules, and logistics and environmental management systems, especially Strategic suppliers with Total 3,853 MEUR installation services – not to mention other when suppliers are not ISO certified, or pre-audit Direct materials and supplies suppliers who provide us with indirect materials the suitability of potential suppliers. ISO 14001 certification: and services. Subcontracting Other production costs* 93% Other indirect costs** We only produce selected components Assessing supplier risks in-house. Our production consists largely of KONE’s sourcing risk monitoring system is Strategic suppliers audited: * Mainly freight and packaging costs as well as other variable costs such as the assembly of sourced components. The main raw materials used in our elevators, based on a thorough assessment of suppliers, including analyses of their financial and 100% utilities, tools and operatives related escalators, and automatic building doors are business viability, and their dependence on freely associate and bargain collectively in The complete KONE Supplier Code of Conduct costs. various types of steel and stainless steel as well business from KONE. We also work closely compliance with all applicable laws. can be read at: www.kone.com/suppliers. ** Relate to for example administration as aluminum and copper. with our strategic suppliers to find competitive expenses, covering IT, marketing, raw material price levels. Health and Safety – Provision of a safe and Assessing supplier performance trainings, and insurances. We purchase approximately 80% of our healthy environment to employees; availability We monitor the performance of the main raw materials, components, and systems Supplier Code of Conduct of appropriate health and safety information, suppliers of our direct production materials supply for new equipment production from KONE requests all its suppliers to commit to training, and equipment for employees; active through a monthly KPI measurement and approximately 100 suppliers, the majority of KONE’s Supplier Code of Conduct. The code sets pursuit of safety programs covering at least follow-up process. We also run a supplier TOP 10 SUPPLIER LOCATIONS1) which are located in the same countries as forth KONE’s global values. Suppliers are expected human safety, emergency preparedness, scorecard system. This system evaluates key KONE factories or distribution centers (see Top to adhere to the code in their dealings with and exposure to dangerous chemicals and suppliers of direct materials as well as main China 10 Supplier Locations). KONE, their employees, and suppliers, as well as biological substances; ensuring that employees installation subcontractors within our country Italy third parties. KONE may terminate its contracts are not working under the influence of alcohol organizations. The scorecards combine Finland Managing the relationships with our with suppliers for failure to adhere to the code. or illegal drugs while working for KONE. quantitative and qualitative performance United States suppliers criteria, including quality and safety, cost Austria We work closely with our suppliers to develop KONE’s Supplier Code of Conduct was Environment – Efforts to reduce the impact competitiveness, logistics and responsiveness, India our business, and our aim is to build a longupdated during 2015 and the revised on the environment from operations and technical competence and quality maturity. Czech Republic term relationship with them. We manage our document is the basis of new contract products; compliance with environmental Estonia suppliers according to a tailored approach that negotiations and contract updates with laws and regulations and obtaining necessary We regularly discuss performance evaluations Germany evaluates their importance and criticality to existing suppliers. environmental permits; monitoring, controlling, with our suppliers. When their performance Mexico KONE. This is done through the regular, critical and treating appropriately wastewater, air does not meet our expectations, we initiate assessment of multiple factors such as the The Supplier Code of Conduct includes the emissions, and other waste; taking a systematic corrective actions or development projects 1) Suppliers that provide products for business scope and spend with the supplier, following key element: approach to considering environmental aspects; and conduct follow-ups. new equipment to KONE distribution the innovation potential of the supplier, the adhering to any applicable laws and regulations centers and factories criticality of provided materials or services, the Legal compliance – Compliance with local and KONE requirements regarding the Supplier Excellence Certification supply chain situation, and the investment or laws and regulations. prohibition or restriction of specific substances. KONE’s Supplier Excellence Certification integration level of KONE with the supplier. Program assesses key suppliers’ sites. Examined Business conduct – Compliance with IPR and publicity – Compliance with laws aspects include environmental and quality Based on supplier status, our management ethical conduct respecting human rights; and international treaties on intellectual management systems, performance scorecards, and measurement techniques include audits, zero tolerance for bribery and corruption; property rights; refraining from publication of and supplier audit results. ISO 14001 and assessment and mitigation of supplieravoidance and active disclosure of conflicts of cooperation with KONE or utilizing of KONE ISO 9001 compliance are also assessed. We related risk, the employment of standardized interest; fair conduct of business with regard trademarks without permission. aim to maintain a supply-base that complies contractual agreements that include the KONE to competition laws and regulations. with international quality and environmental Supplier Code of Conduct, the assessment Monitoring – Monitoring of compliance with standards as well as those of KONE. of supplier performance, and supplier Labor and human rights – Fair and equal the KONE Supplier Code of Conduct; provision certification. treatment of employees; non-usage of child of documentation upon request to KONE; In 2015, 97% of our strategic supplier or forced labor; ensuring a harassment-free right of KONE to audit the supplier in case factories were ISO 9001 certified and 93% Supplier Audits environment for employees; compliance of a suspected breach of the Supplier Code of them had ISO 14001 certification. We All of the main suppliers of direct materials to with any applicable wage-related laws and of Conduct; active communication of nonexpect all our key suppliers’ factories to attain KONE distribution centers or factories undergo regulations; respect of employee’s rights to compliance towards KONE. Supplier Excellence Certification. 44 45 Reporting scope KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Independent Assurance Report REPORTING SCOPE KONE has chosen to report using the areas for defining the report content (see service operations in Asia-Pacific, EMEA, and delivered straight from our suppliers to our collected from branch offices using a (marketand location-based method. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines more on p. 14–15). KONE’s approach to North America. The collected environmental delivery centers and onward to customers. customized data collection spreadsheet RES-GO guarantees of origin subject to in order to facilitate easier comparison of sustainability has also been described in data covers 86% (2014: 87%) of all KONE’s Inbound logistics of materials to KONE’s consolidated on the country level. The EECS (European Energy Certificate System) our performance with other companies the Interview with the chairman and the employees and 100% of the employees manufacturing sites is excluded from the country-level data has been entered into have been acquired ) for the purchased and to streamline our own corporate president and CEO on pages 4 –5, and in working at our manufacturing units. The reporting scope because of its minor impact the environmental performance system. green electricity. KONE’s greenhouse gas responsibility reporting efforts. KONE has the strategy description on page 8. facilities related energy data collected from (KONE prefers material suppliers located The data has further been consolidated emissions for scope 1 and scope 2 (direct published Sustainability Report annually the reporting country organizations has close to our manufacturing units, and a large globally in a combined effort with KONE’s and indirect energy consumption) and since 2008. The previous report was All major local and regional organizations been extrapolated for the entire KONE part of the modules are delivered directly global carbon footprint assessment. scope 3 (logistics and business air travel) published in June 2015. and all production units are included in organization. The goal is to gradually extend from suppliers to KONE distribution centers). The environmental performance has have been assured by Mitopro Oy. The the reporting scope. All financial data and our environmental reporting to cover all of The quality and coverage of data provided been reported in accordance with ISO emission factors are based on the data The report follows GRI (G4) reporting a significant proportion of the employeeKONE. by our logistics suppliers has over the years 14064 and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol sources of the International Energy Agency, guidelines as far as they are applicable, related data has been collected through continuously improved. Corporate Standard. The Scope 2 World Resources Institute GHG Emission and covers economic, social, and KONE’s enterprise resource management Business air travel data has been collected emissions for the reporting year 2015 Factors Compilation, Statistics Finland Fuel environmental responsibility. A table and financial reporting systems. All financial from 28 countries and extrapolated to KONE has used an environmental and base year 2014 are calculated Classification, and DEFRA (UK Department detailing how this report complies with the figures presented in this report are based on cover the entire KONE organization. Vehicle performance software system since 2011. according to the dual reporting principles for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs). GRI guidelines is shown on pages 48–49. KONE Corporation’s consolidated and audited fleet fuel consumption data has been The environmental data has been of the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance We have self-declared our reporting to be Financial Statements for 2014 and 2015. collected from 22 countries, covering 93% in accordance with the Core level. of the total fleet. Product and spare parts The personnel data is provided by our HR logistics data has been collected by KONE’s The reporting period corresponds with the organization– with the exception of the data corporate logistics team that also during calendar year and with KONE’s financial relating to gender and age distribution in 2015 developed a new in-house logistics INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT –KONE’S GHG EMISSIONS 2015 year of January 1–December 31, 2015. management. emission calculation system to replace the When developing the report content and previous system developed and managed choosing indicators, the driver has been the The environmental data has been collected by external consultants. The logistics data To the Management and Stakeholders • Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value • Review of Group-level systems and materiality to KONE’s operations. During from KONE’s 12 manufacturing units covers the transportation of products from of KONE Oyj Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and procedures to generate, collect and report 2015, we updated our 2013 assessment worldwide and from 31 major country KONE’s manufacturing units to customers • Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability quantitative data on GHG emissions. of material sustainability topics and focus organizations with sales, installation, and and the transportation of modules that are Scope and Objectives Reporting Guidelines (4.0). • Assessment of Group-level calculations and The Management of KONE Oyj data consolidation procedures and internal commissioned us to perform a limited third Assurance Provider’s Independence controls to ensure the accuracy of data. party assurance engagement regarding and Competence • Testing the accuracy and completeness of KONE FOCUS AREAS AND GRI G4 ASPECTS greenhouse gas emissions inventory data We have conducted our assessment as the information from original documents (“GHG emissions”) including Scope 1 and independent and impartial from the reporting and systems on a sample basis. 2 emissions (direct and indirect energy organisation. We were not committed to KONE Focus Areas GRI G4 Aspect (G4-19) Boundary consumption) and Scope 3 emissions any assignments for KONE that would Conclusion Safety: Within the Organisation (G4-20) Outside the Organisation (G4-21) (logistics and business air travel) disclosed conflict with our independence, nor were Based on the work described in this • Safety of products and services • Aspect: Customer Health and Safety • Occupational safety and well-being • Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety in KONE’s Sustainability Report for the we involved in the preparation of the GHG report, nothing has come to our attention • Customers • Sub-contractor safety • KONE Operations period of January 1st to December 31st emissions inventory data. Our team consists that causes us to believe that the GHG • Subcontractors 2015. The assurance engagement was of competent and experienced sustainability emissions inventory data disclosed in Quality: • Aspect: Product and • Quality of products and services Service Labelling • KONE Operations conducted in accordance with the AA1000 reporting experts, who have the necessary KONE Sustainability Report 2015 is not • Customer satisfaction • Aspect: Product Compliance Assurance Standard (2008). skills to perform an assurance process. reliable, in all material respects, based on • Aspect: Materials • Aspect: Energy the reporting criteria. Environment: • Low carbon solutions and • Aspect: Water • KONE Operations (Manu• Indirect (Scope 3) Energy Responsibilities Basis of Our Opinion • Aspect: Emissions operations facturing units + 31 Country use and GHG Emission KONE is responsible for the collection, Assurance providers are obliged to plan and Helsinki, 23rd March 2016 • Aspect: Effluents and Waste • Resource efficiency organisations) sources • Aspect: Products and Services calculation and presentation of GHG perform the assurance process so as to ensure Mitopro Oy • Water use • Aspect Transports • Aspect: Compliance emissions inventory data according to the that they collect adequate evidence for the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. The Management necessary conclusions to be drawn. The Our people: • Aspect: Employment • Employee engagement • Aspect: Training and Education of KONE has approved the information on procedures selected depend on the assurance • Competent management • KONE Operations • Aspect: Diversity and Equal GHG emissions disclosed in the Report. Our provider’s judgement, including their and employees Opportunity • Diversity and equal opportunity responsibility as assurance providers is to assessment of the risk of material misstatement Mikael Niskala express an independent conclusion on the adhering to the reporting criteria. Independent Sustainability Expert • Aspect: Economic Performance Creating value added: • Aspect: Market presence GHG emissions disclosures subject to the • Economic performance • Aspect: Anti-corruption • KONE Operations • Community • Ethical business practices limited assurance engagement. The reporting Our opinion is based on the following • Aspect: Anti-competitive Behaviour • Community involvement • Aspect: Compliance criteria used for our assessment include the procedures performed: following guidelines and standards: • Interviews with KONE specialists • Aspect: Procurement practises responsible for GHG data collection and • Suppliers/ • Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment Supply chain: Strategic suppliers • Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labour• Greenhouse Gas Protocol. A Corporate reporting at Group level and in selected Tomi Pajunen Practices Accounting and Reporting Standard sites. Independent Sustainability Expert 46 47 Global Reporting Initiative index KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT KONE 2015 | SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX G4-DMA GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures Generic disclosures on management approach (dma) Page 12 Further information and Omissions Aspect specific DMA listed by category or aspects ECONOMIC DMA: 36-37 Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 36 Market Presence G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation 38 Percentage not reported, local hiring practices described Procurement Practices DMA 42-44 Comparison with Global reporting initiative guidelines G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation Performance indicator G4-EC9 is not material GRI G4 Standard Disclosures Page Further information for KONE. Purchasing practises described in the DMA. Strategy and Analysis ENVIRONMENTAL DMA: 20-30 G4-1 Statement from the Chairman and the President and CEO 4-5 Materials G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 8-9, 12-14 Organizational Profile G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 24 G4-3 Name of the organization Back cover Energy G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 3, 10-11 http://www.kone.com/en/company/in-brief/ G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 7 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Back cover G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 26-29 G4-6 Countries where the organization operates 37-38 http://www.kone.com/en/company/in-brief/ G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 20-23 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 38-39 http://www.kone.com/en/company/organiWater zation/ G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 7, 28 G4-8 Markets served 37-38 http://www.kone.com/en/company/in-brief/ Emissions G4-9 Scale of the organization 6-7 G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (SCOPE 1) 7, 25-27 G4-10 Workforce 34-35 G4-EN16 Indirect GHG emissions (SCOPE 2) 7, 26 G4-11 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 35 G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (SCOPE 3) 7, 24 G4-12 Supply chain 42-45 G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity 25 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply 46-47 G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions 25-29 Financial Statements 2015, Corporate Goverchain. nance Statement, p. 60-65 G4-14 Addressing the precautionary principle Financial Statements, Review of Board of Effluents and Waste directors, p. 8-9. KONE is committed to the G4-EN23 Total waste by type and disposal method 7, 28 UN Global Compact’s ten principles. We Products and Services address the precautionary principle, especially in areas involving environmental risks. G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 20-23 G4-15 External charters, principles or initiatives endorsed 12 Compliance G4-16 Memberships of associations 13 G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with No significant fines or sanctions regarding Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries environmental laws and regulations non-compliance with environmental laws and G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements Financial statement 2015, Subsidiaries and regulations. associated companies, p. 56-58 Transport G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. 14, 46 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transport 26-27 G4-19 Material Aspects identified 14, 46 Supplier Environmental Assessment DMA: 44-45 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization 46 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 45 Percentage of strategic suppliers audited G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization 46 reported G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous reports. 47 Reported in connection with the indicators in SOCIAL question LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK DMA: 32-35 G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. 46-47 Employment Stakeholder Engagement G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region. 35 Total number of employees and employee G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 13 turnover by age group, gender and region G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 13 reported. G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement. 13 Occupational Health and Safety DMA: 16-17 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 13 G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of 17 Industry injury frequency rate (IIFR) reported, Report Profile work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, G4-28 Reporting period 46 and total number of work-related fatalities, G4-29 Date of the previous report 46 by region and by gender not reported in this G4-30 Reporting cycle 46 report. All injuries, including fatalities, are reported to the local authorities according to G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Back cover the local regulations. G4-32 GRI G4 ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. 46 Training and Education G4-33 Organization’s policy with regard to external assurance. 47 GHG Emissions assured externally G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning. 33-35 GOVERNANCE G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by 33-35 Governance structure and composition employee category. G4-34 Governance structure and committees Financial Statements 2015, Diversity and Equal Opportunity Corporate Governance Statement, p. 60-65 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender 32, 35 G4-35 Delegating authority 12 and age group. G4-36 Positions with responsibility 12 Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices DMA: 44-45 G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees. Financial Statements 2015, G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 45 Amount of strategic suppliers audited Corporate Governance Statement, p. 60-65 SOCIETY DMA: 40-41 G4-39 Position of the Chair of the Board Financial Statements 2015, Corporate Governance Statement, p. 60-65 Anti-corruption Highest governance body’s role in setting purpose, values, and strategy G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 40-41 Part of code of conduct training G4-42 Board’s role in setting the organisation’s purpose, values and strategy Financial Statements 2015, Anti-competitive Behaviour Corporate Governance Statement, p. 60-65 G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their Financial Statements, Review of Highest governance body’s role in risk management outcomes Board of Directors, 8 G4-45 Board's role in the identification and management of risks Financial Statements 2015, Compliance Corporate Governance Statement, p. 61 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws No significant fines or sanctions during the Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting and regulations reporting period. G4-48 Formal approval of the organisation's sustainability report Sustainability report is reviewed by KONE’s PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY management and approved by the President Customer Health and Safety DMA: 16-19 and CEO. G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for 18-19 Remuneration and incentives improvement G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives Financial Statements 2015, Product and Service Labelling DMA: 13, 31, 43 Corporate Governance Statement, p. 62-65 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 13, 31 43 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 40-41 www.kone.com/en/company/vision/ Compliance DMA: 16-17 G4-57 Mechanisms for Seeking Advice on Ethical and Lawful Behaviour 40-41 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and No significant fines during the reporting G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour 40-41 use of products and services period 48 49 KONE CORPORATION Corporate Offices Keilasatama 3 P.O. Box 7 Espoo, 02150 Finland Tel.: +358 (0)204 75 1 Fax.: +358 (0)204 75 4496 Business Identity Code: 1927400-1 KONE Corporation www.kone.com contact@kone.com Publication Liisa Kivelä Director, Communications Economic performance Katri Saarenheimo Director, Investor Relations Environmental performance Hanna Uusitalo Environmental Director Personnel and social performance Kerttu Tuomas Executive Vice President Human Resources This publication is for general informational purposes only and we reserve the right at any time to alter the product design and specifications. No statement this publication contains shall be construed as a warranty or condition, express or implied, as to any product, its fitness for any particular purpose, merchantability, quality or representation IC ECOL A RD of the terms of any purchase agreement. Minor differences NO BE L between printed and actual colors may exist. KONE MonoSpace®, KONE EcoDisc®, KONE Care®, KONE People Flow®, KONE UltraRopeTM and KONE NanoSpaceTM are PEFC/02-31-175 441 763 registered trademarks of KONE Corporation. Printed matter Copyright © 2016 KONE Corporation. Production and graphic design: Miltton Oy Print: Painotalo Plus Digital 9060
