UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 MAY STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that Mater reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. The Communication on Progress encompasses JUAL A/S & JUAL Metal Products (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Sincerely yours, Martin Thomsen Director, JUAL ABOUT JUAL quality standards has its origin in Denmark, Northern Europe! JUAL is a professional solution provider of roofing accessories. We design and manufacture roof outlets, ventilations, solar console system, solar window, roof safety protection and customized roofing and building accessory products. With 45+ year’s experiences in the roofing industry and leading technologies, JUAL offers the highest quality products and services to customers, creates better environment for people’s lives and contributes to the sustainable development of the society. HUMAN & LABOUR RIGHTS Vision It is JUALs policy to support all people directly influenced by our production. We understand that we have a commitment to conduct all of our business in a legal and ethical manner. We are driven by our values supporting transparency and do not wish to engage in any form of human rights violations. Our Human Rights policy remains constantly under review together with our business procedures. We endorse and are fully committed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and its nine conventions including the European Human Rights declaration as described in the EU charter. JUAL fully complies with local legislation where we operate. Our activities with regards to labour is to promote a healthy and safe workplace for our employees and push responsibility through to our subcontractors and suppliers. This is an ongoing process that will never change. Progress Violations of Human Rights will never be accepted and we do not hesitate to take proper action if prominent projects in countries and local regions seems questionable in terms of attitude towards Human and/or Labour Rights. We believe that Human Rights are indisputable universal truths and are determent to uphold the freedoms and rights of all. We encourage our manufacturers to support the principles of the 'UN Global Compact' within they possible reach and we are still experiencing continuous improvements. Our collaboration with our suppliers, and continued support for their ethical and environmental improvements, has proven to be of great importance. We continuously survey our suppliers in regards of improvements at the factories. Results In 2016 JUAL has experienced that our suppliers has developed the general training and strict focus on general work operation, with a special notice to avoiding violation in regards of safe working methods. In general we have noticed optimizations in regards to usage of different safety tools for the workers, which is something we noticed should be improved at the work sites. Equipment such as safety gloves, sand blasting masks and safety sensors to improve the safety at work is becoming normal practice. In order to ensure adherence to JUALs ethical standards, we have in collaboration with Chinese department conducted regular audits of our biggest suppliers in China. Some few findings were found that did not live up to our standards and expectations but none were major issues – is spite of that we still find it important to continuously become even more sustainable and responsible. Our collaboration with our suppliers, and continued support for their ethical and environmental improvements, is of great importance to us and we always strive to improve working conditions according to the principles of the UN Global Compact at the production sites. We still experience continuous improvements and thrive on creating a better environment for all parties involved and continue to work according to ISO 14001. ENVIRONMENT Vision At JUAL, reduction of our impact on the environment is a key element – both our direct and indirect impact. We want to create both environmentally friendly solutions with a balance between the needs of customers. We have our own development department, where we can design exactly the solution, that matches the specific requirements for safety and documentation, that are made in a given building project and in our technical department we test and align all relevant solutions. We believe that our focus on improving the environment will benefit all parties involved and the environment in general. We are obligated to comply with applicable Danish Environmental Laws and regulations, etc., and will impose on our suppliers to follow the environmental principles of the UN Global Compact. Progress By Danish law we are required to manage our waste in a sound manner. Recycling is a core principle and beneficial for the environment and our business. We live by this standard and so far, this process has successfully been adopted by our employees to avoid unnecessary waste. We continually monitor and seek to improve our performance both locally, abroad and on-site locations by regularly focusing on recycling, water efficiency, pollution prevention and energy savings. These thoughts is not only adopted in our behavior and habits but also promoted to our suppliers were no such rules applies. Results We reduce the scrap rate by improving the production and try to use the leftover materials. At our factory we classify the garbage and look for qualified institutions to recycle them. We have strict focus on the running time on the machines, during break time or lunch time, and try as much as possible to shut down machines if not in use to avoid power waste. We have made improvements to workshop lighting layout to reduce unnecessary use of lighting and monitor daily power and electrical consumption. If we discover any abnormally, we find the root cause so that we can fix and improve it. In environmental management, we have implemented the ISO 14001 system not only in our workshop but also to our relevant partners. We use external auditor schemes in China in regards of dust and noise monitoring & waste water and gas. ANTI-CORRUPTION Vision JUAL follows a policy of zero tolerance for all forms of corruption, including bribery. We will not accept any kind of corruption related to our business and we expect all our employees and partners in the supply chain to embrace this. It is the company policy to ensure that it will not associate, or accept commission from anybody, corporate, private or official, where their actions are questionable in regards to the UN Global Compact. Progress Through our international collaborations we constantly work to secure that no corruption or other illegal activities take place. An anti-corruption policy is included in the employee handbook, which is reviewed on an annual basis. The handbook also presents guidelines on presents and other gratitude’s. Results We have not registered or been made aware of any cases from our suppliers in relation to corruption. If this should happen, we will take it seriously and act immediately. If the violations is too comprehensive we will cease cooperation with the accused party.
