Ensuring a sustainable future Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Ensuring Contents a sustainable future At Polymetal, we are committed to delivering sustainable value for all our stakeholders. For us, this means generating returns for our shareholders Overview Environment Overview while fulfilling our responsibilities to society and the Safety and Sustainability Committee Chair’s statement 02 environment. By balancing our commercial interests The Group CEO’s statement 04 with those of local communities and natural habitats, At a glance 06 Where we operate 08 we are working to ensure a sustainable future. Business model 10 Our approach to sustainability 12 Environment How we manage sustainability 14 At the heart of our business ethos and operations we have Read more on Stakeholder engagement 20 developed long-term commitments to safety, efficiency, community pages 24-35 How we identify our priorities 22 engagement and environmental protection. We also help to deliver Environment economic development and prosperity in the regions where we Employees Minimising our environmental footprint 24 operate. In this way, we aim to ensure that our actions today do Case studies 34 Employees not compromise our ability to operate tomorrow, paving the way Employees for the long-term success and sustainability of our business. Investing in our people 36 Case study 43 Health and safety 44 Communities Communities Read more on pages 36-51 Creating a positive legacy for local people and communities 52 Case studies 60 Communities Economic Delivering strong and sustainable economic performance 62 Economic Case study 65 GRI G4-18 Appendices External assurance report 66 About this report This year we are following the GRI G4 While G4 alignment enables us to Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. communicate our disclosures in a GRI G4 General standard disclosures 67 Read more on With this, our fifth Group-wide Ensuring we focus on those issues globally-accepted form, PwC’s assurance GRI G4 Specific standard disclosures 69 pages 52-61 sustainability report, we are shifting that are most ‘material’, or relevant, confirms the accuracy of our data relating to our stakeholders, these guidelines are Other information 72 to the Company’s most critical economic, Appendices to an annual reporting model and using Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) designed to provide a clear view of our social and environmental impacts. G4 guidelines for a second time. These developments are a clear sign of our ambition to enhance Group-wide sustainability performance. We first adopted GRI G4 guidelines In combination, these two developments are intended to help us increase levels Economic our reporting performance. in 2014, and following the publication of stakeholder trust and understanding. of our 2013/14 report we received They also reflect the improvements we As in 2013/14, this report covers all of confirmation that our materiality have made internally, with the creation our wholly-owned operating mines disclosures were aligned with G4 of a new Safety and Sustainability and sites as well as our headquarters requirements. This year, in addition to Committee, the strengthening of the in St. Petersburg and other projects using the GRI Materiality Disclosures role of Chief Sustainability Officer, in Russia, Kazakhstan and Armenia. Service, our report is externally assured and the development of new by PwC, with a view to further enhancing sustainability initiatives and targets. the credibility of our reporting processes and outputs (see page 66). Read more on pages 62-65 www.polymetalinternational.com Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 01 Safety and Sustainability Committee Chair’s statement Embedding sustainability throughout our business Across our operations, we are dedicated to creating and By its very nature, mining is widely perceived to be a One of our key priorities is to continuously redefine what Overview maintaining a safe working environment for our people. high-impact industry which has the potential to affect local sustainability means to Polymetal as a company and to each However 2015 was a challenging year for Polymetal in this communities and the environment. Widely dispersed across of our stakeholders. In 2015, we continued to engage with area. I would like to offer my heartfelt condolences to the Russia and the CIS, we operate highly complex processes our stakeholders in order to better understand their needs families, friends and colleagues of our six fellow workers in remote areas where climatic conditions are often extreme and opinions; we reviewed the channels and platforms we who were fatally injured during the year. This is a heavy loss and infrastructure is virtually non-existent. As a result, we use to communicate about sustainability, and assessed for the whole Group, and we will forever honour the memory work hard to maintain high standards of employee safety, the targets, measures and messages that are most relevant of these workers and their contribution to Polymetal. community partnership and environmental stewardship to each group. We worked hard to identify areas where through the development of robust management systems we can make improvements, and will continue to do so Clearly we have work to do to improve safety, and the main and initiatives. We also contribute to local and regional by committing resources and investment going forward. Environment role of the Committee is to scrutinise the Group’s safety development through substantial tax payments, infrastructure record, as well as its environmental and social performance investment and social projects, helping to stimulate local and ethical conduct. It also oversees all issues relating to economies, regenerate urban and rural areas and improve sustainable development on behalf of the Polymetal Board, social resilience. while ensuring that our efforts to create economic, social and environmental value are balanced. The launch of the Safety and Sustainability Committee is a clear sign of our commitment to systems and processes Leonard Homeniuk Pursuing our commercial and operational goals responsibly, that will enhance our overall sustainability performance. Chair of the Polymetal Safety Employees we look to make a positive impact on society and on the During 2015, we continued our strong focus on safety, health and Sustainability Committee environment – and to deliver shared and sustainable value and the environment, reinforcing efforts to achieve zero harm to all our stakeholders. while maintaining operational excellence. We also renewed I am very pleased to have our focus on economic sustainability, working to ensure become the Chair of Polymetal’s that, through in-house exploration and acquisition of new assets, we can continue to do business for many years by newly-formed Board Safety replenishing our reserves. and Sustainability Committee, Communities while also being fully aware of the responsibility that comes with this position. The creation of this committee reflects Polymetal’s ongoing commitment to becoming an industry leader in sustainability. Economic Awards for Excellence During 2015, we received numerous Achievements Honours awards and citations. These include: Polymetal was included in international sustainability 19 of our employees received honorary diplomas, Appendices indices: FTSE4Good and Euronext Vigeo 70 certificates and Miner’s Glory Awards from various Emerging Markets. Government Ministries in Russia and Kazakhstan, Awards including the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry Best social partner award from the Magadan government. Our senior managers were ranked top in the of Natural Resources and Environment and the Ministry Best Managers lists compiled by different agencies. of Energy. Our ‘Healthy Environment’ programme was ranked We were included in the Top 10 for the best corporate in the Top 5 Best Projects by People Investor. communications and relations in Russia by Letters of gratitude Top-Comm 2015. We received 55 letters of gratitude from local community groups, NGOs, IMN groups and local authorities in the regions where we operate. 02 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 03 The Group CEO’s statement Firmly focused on ensuring a sustainable future Health and Safety Community engagement New locations Overview It is with great sadness and regret that we have to report We carried out a wide range of community engagement In 2015 Polymetal acquired a 100% stake in the company the tragic death of six of our colleagues in 2015. We care initiatives and consultations during the year, continuing which currently owns the Lichkvaz licence in Armenia, deeply about all our employees, and this loss of life has to invest in and support local education, health, culture extending the geographical reach of our operations. This caused acute distress to everyone at Polymetal. Of these and infrastructure. move provides a stepping stone into a new jurisdiction for fatalities, five occurred at underground operations and Polymetal, and in 2016 we aim to expand this high-grade one was the result of a road accident. We have conducted In Kazakhstan, for example, we achieved encouraging project through exploration and site development in Armenia, investigations to determine the specific causes of these and tangible results, with all information and correspondence while adhering strictly to our sustainability principles. tragic events and have taken steps to ensure they do not documented in compliance with global best practice. occur again in the future. Looking ahead Environment At our flagship Kyzyl project in East Kazakhstan, we Looking ahead, we have set ourselves some ambitious We will not spare any effort, and will continue to commit completed a full-scale environmental and social impact targets and goals to help keep our sustainability initiatives management resources and investment, to make sure that assessment (ESIA). The purpose of the ESIA is to outline on track. In 2016, we plan to: Polymetal creates a safe operating environment for workers priorities and benchmark the project so that we can address • further promote safe behaviour, reduce the level of the throughout the Group. environmental and social impacts in line with international most significant risks and continue the external audit best practice, such as the World Bank Environmental Health of our Health and Safety Management System; During the year we also conducted our own internal and Safety Guidelines. In 2015, we identified key project investigations. This process involved evaluating all possible stakeholders as part of our local social engagement plan. • develop and implement a community policy to consolidate Employees health and safety risks, from technological and technical This plan outlines how we will communicate with project all standalone regional programmes and initiatives; issues through to employees’ psychological and stakeholders in Kyzyl who are impacted at different project • launch biodiversity offset programmes and reporting; emotional influences. stages, from construction and operation through to postHealth and safety lie at the heart mining rehabilitation. In parallel with this assessment, we • heighten our focus on the prevention of environmental of our commitment to sustainability, As part of this process, we began a three stage external audit of our Health and Safety Management System. provided community support, educational opportunities and financial aid to the people of Kyzyl. We are rolling out similar accidents and review and improve our efforts in this area; and this year we further increased Four of our production facilities were audited in 2015. activities in Varvara, our other asset in Kazakhstan, and are • formalise our approach to carbon management in a dedicated carbon management policy document; our focus in this area across the also planning to do so in all other regions where we operate. Communities Carbon management • develop our new human rights policy; Group. We also introduced In December 2015 in Paris, the 21st Session of the Accolades and achievements • implement supply chain management policy; and measures to reduce our carbon Conference of the Parties to the United Nations, known We are pleased that the strong progress we have made in • develop new in-house training centres and courses as COP21, reached a landmark agreement on action and recent years in sustainability has been reflected in growing emissions and engaged with commitment on global warming. The Conference reaffirmed external recognition. Our key achievements in 2015 were to support talent pool promotions. global discussions on carbon the goal of limiting global temperature increase well below our inclusion in international sustainability indices, including Building on the good work we have undertaken across 2 degrees Celsius, and encouraged efforts to limit the FTSE4Good and the Vigeo 70 emerging markets index, management and the environment, increase to 1.5 degrees. and the success of our eco-project Healthy Environment, the Group, these plans are intended to ensure we maintain while continuing our community which ranked among the top five social projects at the momentum as we continue to embed sustainability Economic In Russia, Polymetal participated in a range of discussions annual Russian People Investor Contest (see pages 60-61). across our operations and engage with the highest levels support and engagement initiatives on carbon management throughout 2015. Following these of international best practice. in the regions where we operate. discussions, we adopted a new policy aimed at managing our carbon emissions in order to improve our overall impact on the global environment, society and economy, and reasserted our commitment to reducing the carbon emissions arising from company activities. Appendices We also took part in CDP’s global reporting and disclosure programme, submitting information on our energy use and greenhouse gas emissions. Our engagement with CDP Vitaly Nesis reflects our continuing commitment to transparent reporting Group CEO processes, and our efforts were recognised when we placed second among all Russian participants for reporting and performance in 2015. Additionally, we enhanced data collection processes across the Group, with safety and environmental figures now included in our corporate ERP system. 04 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 05 At a glance A dynamic business based 2015 sustainability highlights on quality and performance The Safety and Sustainability Staff turnover rate declined by 28% FTSE4Good index inclusion Committee was established and Vigeo 70 Emerging Markets Eco-project ‘Healthy Environment’ index inclusion ESIA completed at Kyzyl was ranked in the 5 top social projects by People Investor Safety system certification Polymetal International plc is a leading precious metals mining group was launched Overview operating in Russia, Kazakhstan and Armenia. Listed on the London Stock Exchange, Polymetal has a portfolio of seven productive gold and silver Performance mines, an impressive pipeline of future growth projects, and is a major employer in the regions where it operates. Goals 2015 outcomes Economic Sustainability is a vital component of our business strategy. For us, Environment it represents an investment in society and the environment, as well Ensure financial stability • Generated a healthy free cash flow of US$263 million; coupled with a strong and shareholder returns balance sheet this translated into cash returns for our investors as in the long-term future of our Company. Pursue further growth • Acquired Primorskoye, a silver/gold site 215 km from our Omsukchan concentrator opportunities • Increased our interest in Lichkvaz and began initial exploration drilling Key facts Our values Our strategy • Entered a new joint venture with Polyus Gold at Nezhdaninskoye, the fourth largest gold deposit in Russia based on GKZ resources Operating assets Dialogue Key goals – combining Employees 7 growth and dividend Maintain excellent working • Worked with large, global manufacturers who operate to the highest international  e promote stakeholder dialogue W relationships with suppliers standards on services, employment, quality and environment and local suppliers based on openness, honesty and transparency. Pay significant and sustainable who provide relevant legal and financial documentation. Around 48% of our dividends through the cycle supplier purchases come from within the regions where we operate. Employees Compliance Environment Continue to grow our business 9,238 We meet all legal obligations at local, without diluting its quality Reduce our environmental • Invested US$5.1 million in environmental protection – 36% on protection of water national and international levels. footprint resources, 54% on land reclamation and 9% on the reduction and purification Communities of air emissions Ethical conduct We expect employees, contractors Social Community investment (US$) and business partners to display the 3.6m Embed robust safety • Strengthened safety procedures, especially those aiming to prevent the risk highest standards of ethical conduct, procedures and safeguard of rock mass fall in underground mines with zero tolerance for corruption, employee well-being bribery and fraud. • Established a dedicated Safety and Sustainability Committee Strategic objectives • Began an in-depth review of the safety and environmental management systems Economic Fairness to achieve key goals • Developed measures and incentives for better safety performance Environmental incidents • Implemented safety monitoring and control software 0 We show fairness, equality and Ensure robust operating respect to our employees and performance and financial • Involved contractors in risk management and health and safety control procedures local communities. performance at existing mines Build a motivated, loyal and • Reduced turnover by 28%, from 11.4% to 8.3% Deliver medium-term growth capable workforce • Promoted internal employee mobility and achieved high job satisfaction levels Stewardship through building and ramping GE production across the business – on average over 65% in all areas We work to protect the environment, up Kyzyl 1.27 Moz Appendices • Invested US$678,000 in professional training, and as a result 88% of our maximise the health, safety and Opportunistically pursue employees received development training well-being of employees, and respect the rights of all constituents affected high-optionality M&A targets, Maintain strong links and • Developed community cooperation agreements – 21 agreements in 2015 by our operations. combined with own exploration relationships in the regions compared to 18 in 2014 Sales revenue (US$) Maintain high standards of where we operate • Invested US$3.6 million in social and support and territorial development Effectiveness 1,441m corporate governance and programmes, including US$1.2 million on 30 health and education projects, We aim to be effective in everything sustainable development US$200,000 on infrastructure programmes, US$1.3 million on sports and that we do. healthy well-being initiatives, US$735,000 on cultural activities and US$108,000 on support projects for indigenous people. 06 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 07 Where we operate Bringing significant investment to remote locations GRI G4-17 GRI G4-17 Operating assets Development projects Overview Hub 1 Dukat hub Operating mine 9 Kyzyl Operating mines: Dukat, Lunnoye, Development project Large high-grade gold project Goltsovoye, Arylakh in North-Eastern Kazakhstan Exploration project Key exploration project: Perevalnoye Pevek 4 Reserves: 7.3 Moz at 7.7 g/t Au (JORC) Processing: 1.6 Mtpa Dukat concentrator Head office Resources: 3.1 Moz at 6.8 g/t Au (JORC) and 400 Ktpa Lunnoye Merrill-Crowe plant + City/town Mining: Open pit followed by underground Environment Seaport Processing: Flotation + concentrate offtake 2 Omolon hub First production: H2 2018 Operating mines: Birkachan, Sopka, Tsokol, Life of mine of 22 years Dalneye, Oroch Development projects: Burgali, Olcha 2 Key exploration project: Yolochka, Irbychan, 10 Svetloye Nevenrekan 1 Part of Okhotsk hub Processing: 850 Ktpa Kubaka CIP Reserves: 0.6 Moz at 3.2 g/t GE (JORC) Employees and Merrill-Crowe plant 1,000 Ktpa open pit heap leach operation First production: 2016 Magadan 3 Amursk POX hub 11 Life of mine of 8 years Operating mines: Albazino, Mayskoye 12 6 Exploration projects Processing: 500 tpd Amursk POX plant Okhotsk Latvia + St. Petersburg 4 Mayskoye Lithuania 11 Viksha Processing: 850 Ktpa concentrator Kaliningrad Potential of 4.2 Moz of PGM in Pd equivalent 10 Communities 5 Albazino Belarus (internal estimate) Processing: 1.6 Mtpa concentrator + Moscow 12 Nezhdaninskoye Ukraine 6 Okhotsk hub Russia 5 Joint venture with Polyus Gold Operating mines: Avlayakan, Ozerny 7 3 Development project: Svetloye Processing: 600 Ktpa Merrill-Crowe plant + Ekaterinburg Khabarovsk + Economic 7 Voro Operating mine: Voro + Kostanay Key exploration project: North Kaluga 8 Vanino Processing: 950 Ktpa CIP and 900 Ktpa HL 8 Varvara Oskemen + Appendices Operating mine: Varvara Georgia Japan Key exploration project: Tarutin 9 North Processing: 4.2 Mtpa Float + Leach Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Mongolia China Korea South Uzbekistan Korea Armenia Turkmenistan Kyrgyzstan Tajikistan 08 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 09 Business model Robust business model delivering value to all stakeholders Overview Our capital Mining cycle What makes us different Value creation Financial Exploration Investing in exploration for stakeholders Strong balance sheet and We replenish reserves through active brownfield Investment in both greenfield and near-mine exploration a large portfolio of available and greenfield exploration and have a robust provides us with a cost-effective increase in our reserve Shareholders undrawn credit facilities; evaluation system to select high-quality assets base and, along with successful acquisitions, is the key We deliver on our promises while access to international equity for further development. source of our long-term growth. providing a sustainable dividend Environment markets and use of shares stream and future growth through as acquisition currency. quality assets. Development Hub-based system We have a track record of delivery on time Our centralised hub-based system handles ores from Intellectual and within budget, including growth projects Other capital providers different sources, achieving economies of scale by Investment in skills and in challenging locations without access minimising processing and logistics costs, as well as We have an excellent credit history expertise; mastering leading to infrastructure. capital spending per ounce. This facilitates production and strong partnerships within technologies in refractory at otherwise-uneconomical mediumand small-sized financial markets. Employees gold processing (POX); Mining ore near-plant deposits. selective mining; Employees We have a strong skill set in selective open-pit development of know-how. and underground mining, incorporating global Focus on high-grade assets We provide remuneration that is best practices and robust grade and dilution above the regional average and Return on investment in the precious metals industry Business control. comfortable working conditions, is reliant on grades and mining conditions. We achieve Key competencies in better returns and lower risks from our project portfolio along with career development refractory gold concentrate Logistics/transporting ore by setting appropriate thresholds on head grades and opportunities. trading; sustainable In the remote regions of our operation, we have largely focusing on open-pit mines. Communities relationships with suppliers acquired vital skills for inbound logistics of Communities and contractors. consumables, and outbound transportation Strong capital discipline We invest in our local communities, of ores and concentrates to make the best providing employment opportunities Human use of our hub strategy. We engender a strong focus on capital discipline and improving infrastructure, throughout the business; maximising risk-adjusted Attracting and retaining and engage with them to achieve return on capital is our priority in all investment decisions. high-potential employees Processing We do not retain excess cash and return free cash flow their support for the projects that across Russia and We employ both conventional (such as flotation we undertake. to shareholders through substantial dividend payments Kazakhstan; nurturing or heap leaching) and leading (such as POX) Economic while retaining a safe leverage level. young leaders to manage processing technologies that maximise Government further growth. recoveries at our plants. Exemplary governance We contribute to the national wealth and are a significant tax payer in Social Selling Selling We believe that good corporate governance is key to the regions of operation, supporting concentrate bars the ongoing success of the business and value creation local governments’ social projects. Mitigating the impact for our shareholders. We are compliant with all regulatory of our licence to operate; We were the first We sell gold requirements and adopt best practice in nurturing fostering and maintaining company in Russia to and silver Suppliers sustainable relationships with all our stakeholders in Appendices good relations with local start selling refractory bars, mainly government, industry and the communities in which We provide fair terms and are governments and gold concentrates to offto Russian we operate. developing long-term partnerships, communities. takers in Asia and have commercial while ensuring suppliers’ integrity transformed this into a banks. and ESG compliance. Natural competitive advantage. Operational excellence Unparalleled portfolio of We pride ourselves on our operational excellence and high-grade reserves ensuring Mining closure and rehabilitation delivering on our promises to shareholders. Despite difficult robust cost and operating We manage the end-of-mine life trading conditions, we beat our production guidance for performance through the responsibly, maintaining high standards the fourth consecutive year. Our gold equivalent production cycle; water, energy and of environmental compliance during the for 2015 was 1.27 Moz, exceeding the original production fuel to run our operations. closure/rehabilitation process. guidance for the year by 4%. 10 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 11 Our approach to sustainability Developing business over the long term GRI G4-18; G4-26 GRI G4-18; G4-26 Sustainability forms a core part of our overall business strategy. Standards, codes and compacts Once we have identified these core groups, we engage Overview with them and record all issues and concerns they raise. Shaping our interactions with society and the environment, it is essential Our sustainability strategy is designed to meet the principles of the UN Global Compact, a voluntary international standard This process gives us insight into the issues that matter to our licence to operate and long-term future as an organisation. which Polymetal first signed up to in 2009. For the past six most to our stakeholders and ensures that we incorporate years we have complied with the Compact’s ten principles their ideas and opinions into our decision making. To in relation to human rights, labour, environment and antireinforce these efforts, each year we conduct an in-depth corruption. We also participate in the UN Global Compact materiality analysis to identify the key ‘Aspects’ we need Network Russia. These standards, along with our corporate to tackle in our sustainability initiatives and reports values of dialogue, compliance, ethical conduct, fairness, (see page 22 for more information). Environment Our approach to sustainability is built upon regular consultation with stakeholders, the identification of material issues, stewardship and effectiveness, help to inform our sustainability policies and management systems. We define Sustainability risk management rigorous risk management and the observance of international standards and best practice. these policies at Group level and implement them via our Risk management is another key component of our head office and subsidiaries. We also ensure that, through approach to sustainability. Drawing on our engagement Identifying focus areas regular monitoring and auditing, we benchmark our and dialogue with stakeholders, we work hard to identify, performance against the most up-to-date regulatory manage and mitigate the sustainability risks Polymetal faces. requirements. Responsibility for this process lies with the Board’s Audit and Risk Committee and Safety and Sustainability Committee Employees Stakeholder engagement and materiality (see pages 14-17 for more information). It is essential that our sustainability programmes and Stakeholder initiatives address those issues that are most relevant, Focus areas engagement or ‘material’, to our stakeholders. For this reason, we adhere As part of our approach to sustainability, we have used our Governance Materiality closely to the principles of stakeholder inclusiveness and materiality that form a core part of the Global Reporting materiality analysis and stakeholder engagement processes to define six core focus areas. These focus areas, within framework Initiative’s (GRI) prioritisation guidelines. In order to identify which we organise our sustainability activities and initiatives, the stakeholders on which we have the greatest impact, are set out on the previous page. Communities we regularly conduct stakeholder mapping exercises (see pages 20-21 for more information). Risk assessment Economic Internal and external standards and policies Sustainability focus areas Internal standards LSE and MOEX listing Management system Sustainability standards and policies requirements standards Improving our health and  ttracting and retaining more A E  nhancing the rigour and Code of Conduct UK Corporate Governance ISO 14001:2001 UN Global Compact safety system through more high-quality people and transparency of our Code sophisticated visualisation, risk improving the quality and terms communications with suppliers, management systems and more of their employment (see subcontractors and partners Environmental Management OHSAS 18001 National Labour Codes rigorous monitoring within the Employees section). (see Overview). Policy Appendices Company and with our supplier Human Resources policies ILO-OSH 2001 network (see Safety section).  urther developing our F W  ater and energy efficiency certified environmental programmes. Safety and Sustainability Community Relationship GRI G4 Sustainability M  aintaining positive working management system and Committee terms of reference Management System Reporting Guidelines ‘in relationships with local embedding the system accordance’ option Core government, NGOs and into production operations communities by enhancing our (see Environment section). Sustainability values partnership agreements and Health and Safety Policy increasing the effectiveness of our investments (see Economic Policy on Social Investment and Communities sections). Employee development and training standard 12 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 13 How we manage sustainability Driving sustainability from the top Sustainability leadership We also have a Technical Council Board of Directors Overview The Board defines business strategy, which meets each month to assess assesses risks and monitors performance. At Polymetal, our Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for Polymetal’s progress against its sustainability targets and priorities. Board sustainability leadership. The Group Across the Group, all heads of CEO, Vitaly Nesis, oversees all management processes and ensures department report to the Technical we have the necessary structures and Council, which provides a platform for systems in place. Mr Nesis and the senior management dialogue on issues The Audit and Risk Committee helps the Board to identify and document risks; it assesses, quantifies Board are responsible for making any such as health and safety, employees, environmental management and Environment and classifies each risk; develops and implements risk changes required to ensure we retain Remuneration Safety and Audit management strategies, and reviews performance. our sustainability focus and achieve community outreach. Sustainability and Risk Committee Committee Committee our objectives in this area. The Chief Sustainability Board composition The Group CEO takes Officer coordinates sustainability As a whole, the Board plays as active Polymetal acts in full compliance with initiatives and activities to ensure role in shaping all strategies and targets the UK Code of Corporate Governance, ultimate responsibility for transparency and long-term delivering on strategy and value for investors and other around our social, economic and including the composition of the Board operating performance. stakeholders. environmental impacts. At each and the election of its members. Under Board meeting, health, safety and Employees Chief the stipulations of the Code, all our The Safety and Sustainability environmental performance reviews Board members must be re-elected Sustainability Committee monitors the Group CEO take priority over all quarterly Officer annually, while shareholders can Group’s social, ethical, Chairman operational data. The Board also appoint or remove individual environmental and safety Bobby Godsell N performance, and oversees reviews and signs off our sustainability Board Directors. all sustainable development reports before they are published. Agree priorities  roup CEO G issues on behalf of the and actions The Polymetal Board is made up of the In 2015, to support the Group CEO Vitaly Nesis S Board. The Technical Council non-executive Chairman, Group CEO Health and Safety and Board’s sustainability leadership, and seven non-executive directors. Communities agrees strategy and tactical The Chief Operating Officer  on-executive Directors N implementation across we established the Polymetal Safety Four of the seven non-executive together with our HSE department Konstantin Yanakov the business. sets targets and is responsible for and Sustainability Committee. With directors are independent. The Jean-Pascal Duvieusart performance in this area. a remit to monitor the Group’s safety Chairman and non-executive directors Technical Marina Grönberg S The Remuneration Environment record, social performance and ethical assess the Company’s management Committee is Council Define and conduct, the Committee oversees The Chief Operating Officer, supported and performance, review financial Independent non-executive responsible for review strategy by our Health, Safety and Environment all sustainable development issues information and monitor internal risk Group remuneration department, sets targets for maintaining Directors on behalf of the Polymetal Board. management procedures and controls. Christine Coignard A R N policy, and for health and safety performance. It also works to ensure that our efforts The interests of Directors are disclosed Russel Skirrow A S setting pay levels Economic and bonuses for Communications to create economic, social and on an annual basis and any changes Jonathan Best A R The Communications and Public Affairs Director environmental value are balanced and to those interests are made known senior management is responsible for identifying and engaging with Leonard Homeniuk R N S in line with individual the majority of external stakeholders, including impactful, and helps the Audit and Risk to the Company Secretary. performance. government and regional authorities, local Committee to identify, manage and Committees communities and NGOs. mitigate the sustainability risks we All current Board Directors were A Audit and Risk Committee Human Resources face. The formation of the Safety and appointed in September 2011 except R Remuneration Committee The Head of Human Resources Sustainability Committee is a clear for Ms Coignard, who joined in July N Nomination Committee defines and monitors employment contracts and employee performance. sign of our commitment to improve our 2014. At the time of this report’s S Safety and Sustainability overall sustainability performance. See publication, 22% of our Board Appendices Committee page 16 for more information about the members are women; three Directors Safety and Sustainability Committee. represent significant Company For Polymetal, responsibility for Operations Our operating mines and shareholders. sustainability lies with our senior development properties have Additional information on our Board heads of Operations, Human management and Board-level Resources, Environment and is included in the Governance section Health and Safety, who implement committees, reflecting its centrality and monitor corporate systems, of our Annual Report. and importance within the Company. supported by specialist public relations and engineering teams. Read more in our Annual Report 2015 pages 60-91 14 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 15 How we manage sustainability Implementing robust systems and processes Enhancing our sustainability performance Ensuring a balance of skills In addition, the Remuneration Committee sets pay levels The Board’s Audit and Risk Committee sets the agenda Overview Our Nomination Committee is responsible for making and bonuses in line with our overall health and safety for the Group’s risk management policies and procedures One of the Safety and Sustainability Committee’s key recommendations regarding the composition of the Board performance. Following the fatalities in 2015, we have and is responsible for reviewing their effectiveness. priorities is to scrutinise the Group’s safety record, systems and its committees. In advance of any appointment, the significantly increased the focus on safety KPIs within senior It helps the Board to identify, quantify and classify the and programmes. Under the Committee’s guidance, in 2015 Nomination Committee considers the balance of the Board management remuneration. This includes remuneration for risks we face, while also developing and implementing we continued our strong focus on safety, health and the in terms of knowledge, skills, independence, experience the Group CEO and the Managing Director of Operations. risk management strategies. environment, reinforcing efforts to achieve zero harm while maintaining operational excellence. We also renewed our and diversity. Based on this assessment, it then makes recommendations regarding specific roles and capabilities We have been fully compliant with new remuneration These processes are also aided and informed by our focus on economic sustainability, working to ensure that, required, also taking into account the challenges and disclosure requirements since they were introduced in 2013. interaction with government agencies, employees, local through in-house exploration and acquisition of new assets, communities, NGOs, the financial community, our suppliers Environment we can continue to do business for many years by opportunities facing the Company. Shareholders are given the opportunity to discuss and and our customers. replenishing our reserves. Regularly reviewing leadership needs and priorities, the vote on remuneration policy every three years. The current The responsibilities of the Safety and Sustainability Nomination Committee works to ensure the continued ability remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the Committee include advising the Polymetal Board on of the Group to compete effectively in the marketplace. It also 2014 AGM. It is expected to cover a period of three years matters of due diligence and compliance in their approach evaluates the Board’s performance and considers whether from that date. to sustainability, and conducting regular reviews of the or not non-executive Directors are spending enough time Polymetal continues to comply fully with remuneration 04 Company’s sustainability policies and strategies. It also discharging their duties. Monitor, report disclosure requirements and the Company’s remuneration Identify and Employees works to ensure that the Company engages key stakeholders and review and contributes, where possible, to the development of Full terms of reference relating to the Nomination report was approved, with 99.32% of votes cast in favour, risks document risks healthy and sustainable communities in the regions where Committee are available on the Company’s website: at the AGM held in May 2015. it operates. In addition, members of the Committee regularly www.polymetalinternational.com. liaise with the Audit and Risk Committee on matters relating We ensure that salary increases are consistent across all Risk 01 to the Group’s risk management and internal control. In 2015, there were two meetings of the Nomination levels of the Company. Additional information on management management Committee. During these meetings, the Committee remuneration is included in our Annual Report. 03 process Full terms of reference relating to the Safety and Sustainability continued to discuss the issue of succession planning within Committee are available on the Company’s website: the Company and the development of the Young Leaders Managing our risks Develop Communities www.polymetalinternational.com. Programme. This programme aims to evaluate the Group’s Risk management is another vital part of our sustainability and implement Assess, risk mitigation quantify talent pool and pipeline and devise training to meet programme. We are committed to minimising risks and strategies and classify In 2015, there were three meetings of the Safety and Polymetal’s future management needs. During the year, threats to our people, communities and the environment, and Sustainability Committee. During these meetings, the young leaders met with Board members to discuss to the long-term success and sustainability of Polymetal as 02 each risk Committee: opportunities for training and progression. an organisation. • reviewed the six fatalities that occurred across the Group, analysing the causes and response measures; Aligning remuneration to performance Our risk management system supports our strategic goals The Polymetal remuneration policy helps to incentivise, while identifying, assessing and mitigating our business and Economic • reviewed the Company’s sustainability strategy and sustainability risks as shown in the diagram. As described motivate and retain our staff at senior management level. reporting gaps; in the table on the next page, our Board of Directors takes The Remuneration Committee is responsible for Group • approved the Company’s annual sustainability reporting; remuneration policy, and for setting pay levels and bonuses responsibility for the monitoring and control of risk for senior management in line with individual performance. management efficiency, while the identification of business • approved the external audit of the 2015 sustainability report; risks is overseen by our Group CEO and Technical Council. With sustainable shareholder value creation as its guiding • analysed the Company’s incentive system to ensure unsafe principle, the Remuneration Committee works to ensure and unethical behaviour is not encouraged in any way; that Directors are fairly rewarded for responsibilities they • assessed the focus on risk within briefings and training; successfully undertake, and benchmarks salary levels Appendices annually against industry peers listed on the London Stock • organised a management visit to a competitor’s mine to Exchange. It also sets the executive remuneration strategy, share sustainability knowledge and experience; which is designed to enable the Company to attract and • assessed geotechnical situational awareness within retain the talent it needs to deliver long-term value to our standard safety procedures; and shareholders and other stakeholders. • reviewed emergency preparedness at tailings facilities. The Safety and Sustainability Committee remains firmly focused on achieving zero harm and creating a safe and enabling working environment for our employees across the Group. 16 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 17 How we manage sustainability Ongoing management of sustainability risks Risk management responsibilities Code of conduct Overview Board members approved Polymetal’s Code of Conduct, Board of Directors, Audit and Monitor and control risk management efficiency, approve risk management policies and guidelines, which was formally adopted in December 2011. The Code Risk Committee of the Board review risk management strategy and risk reports, take responsibility for key risk identification serves as a statement of principles and expectations that Group CEO and Technical Council Identify risks to the business and associated management operations guide ethical behaviour across the Company. As such, it is communicated to all employees, who must comply Internal Audit Department Define and monitor the risk management process and mitigation tools and actions, prepare risk reports with its strictures and associated policies. Operational Managers Identify and evaluate everyday risks and report them, implement risk mitigation programmes The Code covers employees’ conduct towards colleagues Environment and customers, business partners, state authorities and Key sustainability risks society, with a focus on equality, health and safety, Across our operations we have identified a number of sustainability risks. These include: government and community relations, environmental protection, transparency, competition and data protection. Employees Community Environment Economic It also sets out our zero tolerance approach to drug use, conflicts of interest, bribery and bullying. Employees can The Company may fail to Our operations may cause The Company’s management The title to mineral rights access all documents and policies associated with the recruit and retain enough potential harm to local systems may not negate or may be challenged and the Code through the Company’s central information system. talented people to maintain communities reduce harmful spillages or purchase of land may be Employees operational integrity releases into the environment, opposed locally, thereby which may also harm preventing or curtailing their Managing and monitoring behaviour employees and others living use by the Company. We are committed to systematically monitoring all commercial in the vicinity Failure to secure such actions and decisions taken across the Company. additional reserves will lead Responsibility for this process lies with our Internal Audit to a long-term reduction Department (IAD). The head of IAD reports to our Group in output CEO and to the Board of Directors (through the Audit and Risk Committee). The Company’s health Community members The Company may fail to Severe weather and climate Communities and safety systems may may oppose new mining comply with environmental conditions may disrupt Each year, the IAD operates under the auspices of an not protect employees construction projects or laws and regulations ongoing operations annual work plan approved by the Audit and Risk Committee. from harm mine expansions Conducting random audits of stocks and assets such as Unforeseen emergencies The Company may fail to Issues may arise relating to Access to and security fuel and equipment, the IAD assesses building and assembly may impact the health demonstrate shared value management, biodiversity of affordable energy may contracts and reviews decisions that relate to major and safety of employees and deliver on commitments and planning for mine closure become restricted construction projects. Labour relations may Company emissions may Ineffective use of materials Additionally, since 2011 we have been holding regular training Economic become strained over contribute to severe weather and energy may lead to sessions on bribery and corruption. In 2015, we conducted wages and benefits conditions and global unwanted financial cost/ these sessions at each of our operating sites. More information warming inefficiency on our anti-corruption policy and practices can be found The Company may fail to on pages 38-39. adequately manage third party suppliers, leading to financial inefficiency in the supply chain, delays and Appendices disruption 18 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 19 Stakeholder engagement Enabling in-depth stakeholder We are committed to regular, meaningful and transparent stakeholder engagement. Using a range of communications channels, we dialogue and consultation encourage open and honest dialogue with our stakeholders, building a clear understanding of the issues that matter to them and how we can address them. GRI G4-24, G4-25, G4-26; G4-27 GRI G4-24, G4-25, G4-26; G4-27 Overview Investors and shareholders Employees Suppliers and contractors Government and industry Communities and NGOs authorities Environment Why they are As a company, Polymetal exists Our people are one of our core strengths Our suppliers and contractors make We maintain good relations with the Polymetal depends upon communities and to create sustainable value for shareholders. and assets; the success of our business a significant contribution to our business. national and local governments under NGOs for its licence to operate in specific important to us In turn, our shareholders and investors depends upon their expertise, dedication We build stable, long-term relationships whose jurisdictions we operate. localities and regions. provide us with the capital we need and skill. with them, enabling us to achieve mutually to develop and expand our operations. beneficial terms of contract and We abide by all laws and regulations that We work with these stakeholders to create We hire the most talented staff and invest uninterrupted supply. apply to our business, and we enter into mutually beneficial conditions. We also significantly in their training open and transparent dialogue with industry respect the rights of local and indigenous Employees and development. In collaboration with our contract partners, authorities. In particular, we engage communities and invest in those areas we work to ensure compliance with with authorities on issues relating to that are important to them. environmental and safety standards improvements in mining legislation. across the Polymetal supply chain. Who is responsible • Board • Group CEO • All operational departments • Group CEO • Communications team within Polymetal • Group CEO • Chief Financial Officer • Legal team • Managing directors at our operations • Chief Sustainability Officer • Human Resources team • Polymetal Trading and procurement • GR team teams within operations Communities • IR team • Health and safety team • Communications team • Communications team • Legal team • Operations directors and chief engineers Channels of engagement • AGM/GM • Employee opinion polls • Direct correspondence • Working groups • Opinion polls and questionnaires • Annual and Sustainability Reports and questionnaires • Contractual relationships • Meetings • Public and face-to-face meetings • Investor conferences and • Workers’ councils • Meetings • Direct correspondence • Communication with Company managers Economic one-to-one meetings • Internal hotline, website, suggestion • Compliance with Polymetal’s • Industry conferences • Press conferences • Presentations/conference calls boxes and grievance mechanisms requirements (for example, • Working groups (for NGOs) • Site visits • Meetings and face-to-face health and safety) communication with management • Grievance mechanisms • Direct correspondence • Email and telephone helplines • Performance reviews • Annual direct line with the Group CEO Appendices Material issues • Financial, operational and sustainability • Wages, benefits and social packages • Contract specifications • Regulatory compliance • Investment performance • Working and living conditions • Tenders • Taxes • Employment • Dividends • Health and safety • Account management relationships • Labour issues • Infrastructure development • Regulation, economics and politics • Career progression and opportunities • Health and safety • Health and safety • Environmental and health impacts • Mergers and acquisitions • Social needs • Regulation • Environmental protection • Local culture, lifestyle, language • Labour • Training, development and education • Infrastructure and local development and traditions • Health and safety • Compliance with international environmental standards Read more in our Annual Report 2015 Read more in the Employee section Read more in the Economic section Read more on pages 26-27, 41, 46, 54-59 Read more in the Communities section of this report of this report of this report of this report 20 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 21 How we identify our priorities Focusing on material issues GRI G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-23 GRI G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-23 As part of our efforts to address Identifying material issues > Overview sustainability issues that matter most to our business and our stakeholders, Economic Labour practices 17 and as part of our commitment to 01. Economic performance and decent work 07 29 01 the GRI G4 reporting process, 02. Market presence 29. Employment Water Local Employment Economic 03. Indirect economic impact communities performance in 2014 we conducted a full-scale 30. Labour/management relations 35 15 06 materiality assessment. 04. Procurement practices 31. Occupational health and safety Supplier Supplier Energy 32. Training and education assessment for environmental 32 The assessment was conducted by a Environmental 33. Diversity and equal opportunity labour practices assessment Training and 31 working group of Polymetal’s managers 34. Equal remuneration for women Environment 05. Materials education Occupational who are responsible for those areas 06. Energy and men health and safety 39 of activity that correlate with relevant 07. Water 35. Supplier assessment for 33 Significance of Polymetal’s economic, environmental and social impacts GRI reporting Categories and Aspects.1 08. Biodiversity labour practices Freedom 12 Diversity of association 21 Firstly, the working group devised a 09. Emissions 36. Labour practices grievance and equal and collective Environmental questionnaire to elicit stakeholders’ 10. Effluents and waste mechanisms bargaining Compliance opportunity 05 compliance opinions on these Aspects and their 11. Products and services 03 degree of importance (low, medium Materials 43 12. Environmental compliance Human rights 36 38 Indirect or high). From the results of the 13. Transport Indigenous economic Employees 37. Investment* Labour practices questionnaire, the working group then 14. Overall (environment protection Non-discrimination rights impact 38. Non-discrimination grievance 16 created a list of Aspects for inclusion investments) mechanisms 39. Freedom of association and in the 2013/14 Sustainability Report. 15. Supplier environmental Environmental collective bargaining 27 grievance 04 assessment 09 40. Child labour* mechanisms The working group also analysed our 16. Environmental grievance Closure planning Procurement 41. Forced or compulsory labour Emissions practices interaction with various stakeholders mechanisms 42. Security practices* on certain issues, while the Company’s 43. Indigenous rights management reviewed the selected Society 44. Assessment 46 18 Communities Aspects. From these assessments, 17. Local communities 45. Supplier human rights assessment Human rights we were able to establish final Anti-corruption 18. Anti-corruption 46. Human rights grievance grievance materiality scores for all Aspects and mechanisms 19. Public policy mechanisms issues, which were then approved 14 by the Group CEO. The results of this 20. Anti-competitive behaviour 51 Overall process are presented in the table 21. Compliance Product responsibility (environment Legal 10 opposite. For the purposes of this 22. Supplier assessment for 47. Customer health and safety* 23 compliance protection 41 impact on society investments) report, we cover all Aspects listed 48. Product and service labelling* Grievance Effluents 23. Grievance mechanisms for impacts Forced or and waste in the dark grey zone. 49. Marketing communications* 30 Economic mechanisms 24 compulsory on society 50. Customer privacy* labour for impacts on society Labour/ Emergency All Aspects covered in the report 51. Legal compliance management preparedness are material for all entities within the Mining and metals 11 relations 34 organisation. There is no specific 24. Emergency preparedness 45 02 limitation regarding Aspect Boundary Products and 25. Artisanal and small-scale mining* Supplier services Equal Market remuneration for within the organisation. 26. Resettlement human rights presence women and men 27. Closure planning assessment 08 26 44 The materiality matrix identifies five 28. Material stewardship Appendices 13 Resettlement material issues for management and Human rights Biodiversity reporting which are applied to our 20 assessment Transport partners, contractors and suppliers. Anti-competitive 19 We do not deem issues that fall outside behaviour Public policy of the material zone to be unimportant – some of these aspects are not relevant The GRI defines relevant Aspects as those 1 Aspects material to Polymetal 22 28 Aspects Significance as Polymetal operates in countries that ‘may reasonably be considered important Important Aspects inside and outside for reflecting an organisation’s economic, environmental Supplier where issues covered by GRI G4 are and social impacts, or influencing the decisions of the Company assessment Material Important Aspect inside Material * Indicators not applicable to Polymetal the Company already regulated by national legislation stakeholders’. ‘Materiality’ is the threshold ‘at which for impact stewardship Low and we address these issues by Aspects become sufficiently important that they should on society Important Aspect inside and Not material be reported’ (source: https://g4.globalreporting.org/ outside of the Company complying fully with all regulations in how-you-should-report/reporting-principles/ principles-for-defining-report-content/materiality/Pages/ our countries of operation. default.aspx). Influence on stakeholder assessments and decisions > 22 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 23 Environment Minimising our Breakdown of our environmental Overview investments in 2015 (%) environmental Environment footprint Protection of water resources 36 Employees Land reclamation 54 Through innovation and continuous improvement, Reduction of atmospheric emissions 9 we aim to achieve greater efficiencies across our business and minimise the impact of our Other 1 operations, putting environmental sustainability at the heart of everything we do. Communities G4-24 Economic Who is responsible? What guidelines Stakeholders Priorities Material Aspects do we follow? Appendices • Group CEO, Chief Operating Officer, • UN Global Compact, Group Code • Employees, national government, • Maintain ISO 14001 at all production • Materials • Land reclamation HSE Director, Head of Environment, of Conduct, Group Environmental local government, specialist sites and head office; engage with • Energy • Effluents and waste regional environmental managers, Management Policy, ISO 14001:2001 government agencies, local government programmes and managing directors, chief engineers communities, indigenous peoples environmental legislation initiatives; • Water • Supplier environmental assessment and heads of environmental groups and other NGOs adopt most recent waste utilisation departments at our operations technologies; develop detailed • Biodiversity • Environmental grievance mechanisms management standards, including • GHG and other a carbon management policy emissions assessment 24 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 25 Environment Focusing on continuous improvement and best practice GRI G4-26; G4-27 GRI G4-26; G4-27 As our business grows, we are committed to balancing our The Polymetal EMS is underpinned by our environmental Environmental training As a Company we recognise the increasing importance of Overview commercial interests and operational goals with the need policy, which can be viewed at www.polymetalinternational.com. Training is critical to ensure our staff are up-to-speed with stakeholder engagement in ESIA projects. We are committed to protect the natural environment. To this end, we manage This policy shapes all our environmental activities, focusing key environmental issues and developments. Each year, we to improving the quality of our ESIA assessments and and mitigate our risks and conduct our business in an on continuous improvement, risk reduction, the use of supplement our professional development programmes with building community support by involving local individuals and environmentally responsible way. best practice, compliance and the management of key site visits and conferences. Our environmental managers communities in associated decision making and consultation. environmental issues, including incident and emergency attend the annual All-Russian Industrial Ecologists’ Seminar To achieve this, during 2015 we: Our approach control and the use of environmentally friendly materials. for an update on environmental legislation, and our Human • analysed baseline data on environmental and Across the Polymetal Group, each of our production sites Resources department reviews national and international Our approach to environmental sustainability is shaped social impacts; has its own environmental team. The role of these teams environmental training opportunities. In particular, we by our firm belief that we have a responsibility to make the is to help run and monitor the EMS and provide performance • analysed soil and water samples as part of a traffic review Environment world a better place. Therefore, we aim to tread lightly in encourage participation in courses focused on environmental reports to the Group each quarter. As part of this process, and community study; our operations and deliver environmental progress through management systems, water quality assessment, hazardous the teams collect surface water, ground water and air quality waste, environmental security and land reclamation. • carried out assessments of GHG emissions, noise and rigorous control and process management. samples, which are then analysed at internationally-certified hydrogeological modelling; and laboratories. Additionally, our in-house engineering company, In 2015, executive environmental personnel across the Group Of course, as with all mining companies, our work involves Polymetal Engineering, works to ensure that all ecological • conducted a number of public hearings. a number of environmental risks. For example, we carry received formal training in environmental audit. All those who aspects are taken into account during the design, passed the end-of-course exams received certificates and out highly complex processes which generate large volumes of emissions and waste materials. We also use certain toxic construction and operation of our mines and began implementing best practice at their sites, while also Biodiversity management processing facilities. disseminating key knowledge and learning among their teams. We are committed to treading lightly in the regions where Employees substances, such as cyanide, and oversee operations in remote rural locations which can impact the we operate and work hard to minimise our impact on local natural environment. Auditing and compliance Investment in environmental protection biodiversity. To this end, as a matter of policy we do not Across the Group we conduct regular auditing and operate in or adjacent to protected or vulnerable areas. During 2015, our overall investment in environmental To ensure we are able to manage and mitigate these risks, monitoring activities, which are incorporated into the We also respect, and will not encroach upon, land that protection was US$5.1 million1, a slight increase from we have developed a Group-wide environmental Polymetal EMS. In addition to complying with relevant has particular value – natural, historical or cultural – for US$4.9 million in 2014. Of this total, 36% went into the management system (EMS) which adheres to national and legislation and ISO 14001, we undergo audits by authorities Indigenous Minorities of the North (IMN). protection of water resources, 54% into land reclamation, international standards. The EMS is planned and coordinated such as the Russian Federal Service for Supervision of and 9% into the reduction and purification of by our Chief Operating Officer (COO) from our Russian Natural Resource Usage. We also use audits conducted Due to the extreme northern location of the majority of our Communities atmospheric emissions. headquarters in St. Petersburg. It is overseen by dedicated by external service providers to enhance our internal sites, where the surrounding territory is low in conservational environmental teams who now report directly to our environmental performance. In 2015, we continued our value, there are no significant biodiversity impacts linked to These amounts also reflect the quarterly payments we Environment Department, which is responsible for collating excellent compliance record in relation to environmental laws our operations. However, some of our sites are situated in make to governments in the regions where we operate for and managing all Group-wide sustainability data. In turn, the and regulations, receiving no significant fines or nonmonetary the forest and tundra areas of Russia’s Far East, which the negative environmental impact caused by our business. Head of the Environment Department reports directly to the sanctions for breaches or infringements. Historically, we provide natural habitats for various rare and endangered These payments are governed by environmental law and COO, our Group CEO and Chief Sustainability Officer. The had no major environmental incidents and there were no species of plant and animal. Some of our mineral fields are are defined by audits conducted at our sites by specialised system is based on international best practice and complies spills or leakages in 2015. located in such areas, which means we have to be mindful government agencies. with relevant legislation, with a core focus on driving resource of the following potential impacts: Economic and energy efficiency across the business, preventing Supplier environmental assessment • temporary extraction of land for mining and construction pollution, engaging employees with environmental issues Kyzyl environmental and social impact In our contractual agreements with suppliers, we insist assessment of facilities; and using modern equipment and technologies. on compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. • temporary change in conditions necessary to support We ensure our suppliers meet their requirements around In 2015, two top international consultants completed a detailed As a result of our work in this area, and following a certification review of the social and environmental issues linked to the flora and fauna; and issues like noise and pollution, and we ask equipment audit by an independent environmental assurance agency, in Kyzyl gold project in East Kazakhstan. Based on this review, • temporary change in conditions necessary to support suppliers to provide technical guarantees that their hardware 2015 we initiated a three-year transition programme designed a formal environmental and social impact assessment (ESIA) invertebrates. operates within established limits. In addition, our Supply to achieve compliance with the revised ISO 14001:2015 report, along with a project feasibility study, was issued, Chain Management Department (Polymetal Trading) is standard. This programme will enable us to ensure that our outlining priority action areas and benchmarking the project. Appendices developing a new supplier assessment programme which To mitigate these impacts, we have developed a robust EMS is compatible with key trends, such as increased focus Following detailed analysis of the management plan’s findings, biodiversity protection scheme focusing on sustaining local will enable us to conduct formal supplier assessments and on leadership and strategic planning processes. in 2016 we will propose best practice recommendations fish populations. This also involves the creation of buffer audits for environmental compliance and best practice. This programme will be implemented in 2016. and solutions at Kyzyl and other production sites. These zones to keep extraction, transport and construction ISO 14001 is the principal international standard specifying recommendations will help us address all social and activity away from vulnerable areas, as well as baseline requirements for the formulation and maintenance of an EMS. environmental impacts in line with international best practice, predevelopment monitoring. First achieved by Polymetal in 2013, our renewal of ISO 14001 Environmental grievance mechanisms namely the International Finance Corporation Performance certification demonstrates our ongoing commitment to robust We enable our stakeholders to articulate their concerns Standards and World Bank Environmental Health and Safety In addition, we insist that all site staff, including contractors, environmental management and compliance. In 2016, we and share their grievances by complying with rigorous Guidelines. For instance, looking ahead we will participate take part in environmental, health and safety awareness plan to extend the ISO 14001 certification audit to all our environmental impact assessment procedures, including in Local Authority meetings on land distribution for grazing. training to ensure they understand their responsibilities to production sites and head office, covering governance and public hearings and other mechanisms. At each of our sites We will also help resettled people find employment, providing protect local fauna and flora. We also engage in production processes. We will also continue to conduct we document comments from the public in a log book, and education and training where necessary, and work to improve comprehensive land rehabilitation once we have finished internal reviews of our EMS systems and processes. deliver a range of engagement activities to elicit stakeholders’ local noise management procedures. working in a particular area, focusing on the reparation of any opinions and feedback. In 2015, we received no new environmental damage that our operations may have caused. complaints or grievances about our environmental impacts. 1 Including payments for environment protection services provided by third parties. 26 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 27 Environment Progressing our environmental programmes GRI G4-22 GRI G4-22 Performance Water Total water discharged by the Company’s operations1 Overview During 2015, we made excellent progress in our environmental management programmes and initiatives. Across our operations we withdraw and use significant (thousand cubic metres per annum) volumes of water. All water is re-used, treated and 2015 2014 2013 Our major achievements in this period include the authorisation of all environmental control and accounting processes, and discharged as effluent to surface water. Alternatively it can Total water discharge 7,486 7,203 4,616 their transfer to Group-wide software; the completion of the ESIA in Kyzyl, with recommendations being rolled out across be treated and stored in tailings dams. We use water meters, 1  ny restatements and variances are due to changes in methodology and ensure A the project and other production sites; the training of our executive environmental personnel in environmental audit; and flow meters and indirect measuring to capture all water consistent estimation across current and previous year values. the complex auditing of our Omolon site by state environment and technology agencies, with no violations recorded. consumption and discharge data. Materials, waste and tailings Each year, local and state authorities consent to our In our production processes, we use large quantities of ore Environment GHG emissions intensity We strive to reduce our carbon footprint and 675 withdrawal of water from a wide range of sources near to 642 621 (CO2 equivalent tonnes per 10 Kt help fight global warming. In 2015 we managed our operating sites. As our operations are dispersed across and energy. During 2015, we mined 12,679 Kt of ore and of ore processed) to slightly decrease our GHG emissions. a wide geographical area, we are able to use water without processed 10,821 Kt. We also generate specific waste over-exploiting any one single source. Our usage always materials. In 2015, our total operations generated 69,900 Kt remains within acceptable limits, and we take very little of production and consumption waste, compared to 81,141 Kt (less than 10%) from surface water bodies such as rivers in 2013 and 79,435 Kt in 2014. or springs, with approximately 80% of our water sources 2013 2014 2015 located underground. Furthermore, we avoid withdrawing At our processing facilities we consume a range of materials, from surface sources in environmentally sensitive areas, with associated economic and environmental impacts. Employees Total air emissions Many of our core activities, including stripping, 7.5 7.8 and those found in areas where water is of great importance In order to minimise such impacts, we drive efficiency (tonnes per 10 Kt of ore mined) mined waste storage, ore processing and 6.2 to local or indigenous communities. in material use and closely monitor costs across all our energy use, all generate air emissions. These production processes. Once the ore is processed, our final emissions include carbon dioxide and nitrogen, products include Doré bars, zinc precipitate, and flotation sulphur oxides and non-organic dust. In 2015, In each of our sites, we are committed to reducing the amount of water we use per unit of output. We also aim and gravity concentrates. the 25% growth in emissions can be explained by the increased consumption of fuels. to minimise the volume and impact of the liquids we discharge into watercourses, while ensuring the safety The table on page 30 sets out the quantities of basic 2013 2014 2015 and sustainability of our tailings dams. consumable materials used Group-wide across our Communities production sites. Materials used for maintenance or the Major waste components The main waste materials generated by our 7.8 In 2015 Polymetal started operating new facilities, which construction of processing facilities have not been included. (tonnes per tonne of ore mined) operational activities include overburden and 6.4 tailings. 5.8 resulted in the increase of the total amount of water used across our operations by 23%. All the materials listed in the table are purchased from our contractors – see page 64 for more on our procurement In order to mitigate the risks associated with Over 2015, the volume of water re-used by all Group policies and practices. Gold concentrate is one of our these materials, our operational procedures are designed to maximise volumes of waste companies has averaged 65% of the total withdrawn. final products and we use big bags with a working load recycling and minimise potential impacts on In accordance with Russian and Kazakh environmental of 1.5-16 tonnes to pack and ship concentrate. 2013 2014 2015 Economic people and the environment. legislation, we treat and discharge the remaining volumes to surface water. The quality of this discharge water complies Overburden and tailings Discharges to surface water Across all of our sites and facilities, our aim 6.9 Overburden and tailings are the most significant waste (thousand cubic metres per 10 Kt is to reduce discharge intensity, improve the 6.4 with target indicators, and we have all the necessary discharge permits and agreements in place. streams associated with our operations, accounting for more of ore processed)1 quality of discharged water, enhance the 4.3 than 99% of the total volume. Overburden is the material efficiency of water use and increase recycling. that is extracted to uncover ore deposits, while tailings is Total water withdrawn by source1 (thousand cubic metres per annum) a by-product of ore processing. 2015 2014 2013 In 2015, we produced a total of 59.3 million tonnes of Appendices 2013 2014 2015 Total water withdrawn by source 11,713 12,246 8,297 overburden and 10.5 tonnes of tailings. Surface water 2,479 2,915 2,750 Energy intensity Currently, our remote subsidiary sites have to 765 791 Ground water 9,235 9,331 5,547 Recycled materials 728 (GJ per Kt of ore processed) generate their own electricity and heat, leading Our aim, wherever we can, is to recycle the waste we to significant diesel consumption. In response, generate. The proportion of recycled materials used across we are constantly reviewing associated costs, Percentage and total volume of water recycled1 and reused (% and thousand cubic metres per annum) our operations as a percentage of total waste produced impacts and alternatives. In 2015, we managed to decrease the intensity by applying our energy 2015 2014 2013 slightly decreased from 19.9% in 2014 to 18.6% in 2015. efficiency strategy. Water recycled and reused 7,670 6,482 4,029 Waste management 2013 2014 2015 Percentage of water withdrawal Across the Polymetal Group, we are firmly committed to – recycled and reused (%) 65.5 53 49 the responsible management of waste materials. To this end, 1 Any restatements and variances are due to changes in methodology and ensure consistent estimation across current and previous year values. we have developed systems and procedures that enable us to maximise the amounts we recycle and minimise our Read more about our performance in each of these areas on the following pages. negative environmental impacts. 28 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 29 Environment Managing water use and energy consumption responsibly GRI G4-22 GRI G4-22 Regarding the treatment of overburden, tailings and other Materials1,2 (t) Energy Energy intensity Overview waste materials, our audit teams carry out regular internal 2015 2014 Change, % The very nature of our work means that our operations 2015 2014 2013 checks and assess our levels of compliance with national Quicklime 21,718 18,553 17% involve significant energy use. Due to the wide geographical Energy intensity and regional standards. In addition, government agencies spread of our business, our facilities are also often situated Grinding balls 15,303 16,033 -5% ( GJ per Kt of ore processed) 728 791 765 conduct regular environmental performance spot-checks in remote locations, where extreme weather and limited grid at our facilities. Sodium cyanide 8,495 7,497 13% Ore processed (Kt) 10,821 11,300 10,749 power combine to make us dependent upon diesel as a Concrete 7,479 12,350 -39% fuel source. Along with the gas we procure from third-party As part of our approach to waste management, we reuse the Energy efficiency Perhydrate 6,870 5,590 23% suppliers, this diesel accounts for the bulk of our total direct In addition to expanding and maintaining our operational production and consumption waste we generate within our energy consumption – primarily for heating, powering Collectors 1,823 – NA power infrastructure, we are committed to achieving energy own production processes, outsource them to external Environment Soda 1,093 1,388 21% equipment and vehicles. efficiency and savings wherever we can. As part of this companies, and dispose of them in our own waste facilities. In the tables on this page, we show the amount of production Frothers 790 36 2093% commitment, we are also pursuing strategic options for In-house electricity generation renewable energy usage. and consumption waste. Caustic soda 621 815 -24% To ensure energy security for our operations, we also use coal Flocculants 513 462 11% mined at our production sites as an internal energy source, as Balancing our energy requirements with the need for Russian and Kazakh environmental legislation sets out well as company-owned diesel generators. In 2015, in-house strict requirements for the prevention of soil and water Butyl xanthate 505 721 -30% efficiency is, of course, a challenge. However, as part of our power generation accounted for 34% MWh of our total electric overall commitment to sustainability we engage in a range of contamination. Our taillings storage facilities have been built Sulphate of copper 460 797 -42% power consumption. Our existing power generation measures designed to improve our efficiency performance. in full compliance with these requirements, and also take Zinc powder 359 303 18% capacity includes: Employees into account detailed engineering and geological studies. Acetate or lead nitrate 275 255 8% For example, the underlying geology for each storage facility • stationary diesel power plants – increase of 2.8% in 2015 For example, we: Magnesium sulfate 269 40 572% compared to 2014; must demonstrate minimal surface or ground water filtration • carefully plan the amount of power resources we need rates. In addition, we use waterproof polythene screens Perlite, diatomaceous earth 233 228 2% to achieve operational reliability and effectiveness; • mobile diesel power units – increase of 9% in 2015 linked to highly advanced drainage systems, which prevents Activated carbon 154 285 -46% compared to 2014. contamination of the surrounding area by holding waste • provide our operations with the requisite amount of fuel Hydrochloric acid 98 97 2% material in place. within a set period of time; Hex 33 15 117% In 2016, we plan to increase power generation capacity by 29% by: • monitor power supply and consumption against approved Cyanide and hazardous waste management Sulfamic acid 18 56 -67% budgets and energy efficiency targets; Communities Our production methods involve several harmful Chlorinated lime 21 87 76% • commissioning two new stationary diesel power plants consumables. Among these the largest is cyanide, which and increase aggregated capacity by 19%; • conduct regular energy efficiency audits across our Used for processing, excluding mining. operations; and 1 generates hazardous waste components during the 2 Any restatements and variances are due to changes in methodology and ensure • commissioning six new mobile diesel power units and recovery of gold from the ore we process. In 2015, we used consistent estimation across current and previous year values. increase aggregated capacity by 6%; • appoint external agencies to inspect our operations and 8.5 thousand tonnes of cyanide, compared to 7.5 thousand resolve power supply issues. Total waste generated 2013-2015 (Kt) • revamping a diesel generator unit within the in-house tonnes in 2014. Within our process, cyanide can also exist as a chemical compound found in gas, water and solids, 2015 2014 2013 stationary power plant. In 2015 we continued to refurbish our main power which we later purify. Total waste generated 69,878 79,411 81,118 infrastructure and install new equipment to help improve Energy consumption1 (thousand gigajoules) Economic – transferred and neutralised 16 18 19 our operational efficiencies. For example, we: We are rigorous in our handling, management and monitoring – disposed 56,836 63,624 60,288 2015 2014 2013 of cyanide due to its hazardous potential. Our approach • refurbished the Kubaka plant heating system, connecting – reused 13,026 15,779 20,811 Direct the Merrill-Crowe heat line to the stationary diesel plant’s to this material involves: Reused of total waste (%) 19 20 26 Diesel (transport and mobile heat utilisation system; this development resulted in • identifying all associated hazards; machinery) 1,875 1,268 2,687 the decommissioning of a 2 MW modular boiler, saving • strictly controlling all cyanide levels in our tailings; Overburden and tailings (Kt) Diesel power plants 2,177 2,093 2,106 198 tonnes of diesel fuel during the winter season 2015 2014 2013 Electricity generated 822 774 735 • developed upgrade plans for 2016, including the • monitoring air, soil, surface and ground waters; Overburden 59,338 67,944 71,404 Heat generated 558 455 559 improvement and implementation of Automated Power Appendices • providing environmental monitoring results to public Coal 613 414 371 Consumption Management Systems at the Lunnoye Tailings 10,495 10,707 8,925 authorities; and and Kubaka plant energy complexes. Natural gas 180 227 243 • d  elivering environmental protection measures, including Waste management (Kt)1 Petrol for transport 41 36 32 the design, construction and monitoring of tailings dams, In addition to these measures, we have: 2015 2014 2013 Total 6,264 5,267 6,734 and the monitoring of water sources and quality, riverbed • installed Digital Control Systems (DCS) and Automated Hazardous waste 15 17 17 Indirect changes and associated drainage. Metering Systems (AMS) so we can manage operational Non-hazardous waste 69,843 79,356 81,060 Purchased electricity 1,618 1,580 1,489 processes online; Furthermore, to ensure there is no waste element, we always 1 Any restatements and variances are due to changes in methodology and ensure use 100% of the volumes of cyanide we purchase. We also consistent estimation across current and previous year values. 1 Any restatements and variances are due to changes in methodology and ensure • created optimal power backup systems; consistent estimation across current and previous year values. take a rigorous approach to the transportation of hazardous • introduced energy efficiency indicators to key stages of materials, and in 2015 we did not transport, import or export production, such as mining, processing, transportation, any waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel storage and power generation; and Convention 2, Annex I, II, III and VIII. • started to use electric underground equipment. 30 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 31 Environment Driving efficiency and improving environmental performance GRI G4-22 Alternative energy sources Between 2012 and 2014 we saw an increase in pollutant Planning for mine closures Progress against goals within our action plan Overview We are committed to assessing options for deriving energy emissions as a result of the expansion of our mining activities Mine closure planning forms an integral part of the 2015-2017 from alternative sources. During 2015, we conducted a and energy usage. However, during 2015 Polymetal emitted development of all our mines and projects. As all sites will feasibility assessment into the use of a heat pump station no ozone depleting substances and our organisational Our action plan for 2013-2017 is geared towards the eventually exploit their mineral resource and ore reserves, continuous improvement of our environmental footprint. for the generation of heat and the production of fuel and efficiency improved overall. In order to minimise future it is essential that we plan responsibly for the end of each lubricants. We also assessed the potential for using an emissions, we will continue to ensure that our vehicles and Our action plan targets, and the progress we have made mine’s operational life. For this reason, as soon as we begin against them, are set out below: organic Rankine cycle to generate power from low-grade mining equipment are modern and compliant with European developing a project we undertake an in-depth assessment heat sources at the Amursk POX plant. quality standards, and feature the most up-to-date of potential closure liabilities. technology. We said… We did… Energy savings Environment Our long-term remediation obligations include: We would rehabilitate the pits in Completed reclamation. In support of our sustainability commitments, across our the Ozerny area. GHG emissions intensity • meeting decommissioning and restoration liabilities sites we have implemented a range of energy saving (CO2 eq. t/10 Kt of ore processed) in compliance with the regulatory requirements of the initiatives. These include: We would reconstruct the Began reconstruction works, countries where we operate; dump facility for solid domestic due to be completed in 2016. • conducting feasibility studies for a range of new energy 675 and industrial waste in 642 621 • meeting suspension or abandonment costs; these are products and technologies; Lunnoye. covered by the Company or, in the case of joint ventures, • introducing fuel and energy resource metering; by Polymetal and its partners, with legal and rehabilitation We would increase throughput Completed feasibility studies • using heat from compressors to warm costs proportional to the share of ownership and of the emergency and storm and estimations to define Employees 2013 2014 2015 production buildings; determined by relevant national laws; and wastewater purification station methods for throughput at Voro. increases. • transitioning to electric underground equipment Greenhouse gas emissions1 (Kt) • carrying out geological, surveying and repair works to at Mayskoye; ensure that, once a mine is suspended or abandoned, We would construct a sewage Developed, constructed and 2015 2014 2013 underground operations, drilling sites and buildings are not collector linking the Amursk launched the sewage collector. • installing frequency control drives and soft starters; Total GHG emissions 672 725 725 POX plant to a mechanical hazardous or dangerous, and environmental rehabilitation – direct GHG emissions2 244 304 327 sewage purification station. • installing LED lighting; is also undertaken. – indirect GHG emissions3 428 420 398 We would recycle industrial Received licence for recycling, • conducting annual competitions for best ideas for energy Communities Disturbed and rehabilitated land1 (hectares) waste in Mayskoye. with operations due to start in saving; and GHG emissions intensity 2015 2014 2013 2016. • introducing Group-wide energy audits on a five-year basis. (CO2 eq. t/10 Kt of ore Amount of leased and owned processed) 621 642 675 land, total 14,543 12,343 11,762 Greenhouse gas emissions GHG emissions intensity Plans for 2016 and beyond Land disturbed as of 1 January 8,971 8,1361 7,411 (CO2 eq. t/Koz GE) 480 507 566 Looking ahead, we plan to: Heat and electricity from our diesel generators, as well as Land newly disturbed for our mining fleet operations, produce greenhouse gas (GHG) the year 1,078 803 744 • Complete the reconstruction of the dump facility for solid emissions. The burning of natural gas and coal and the use Other pollutants (t) domestic and industrial waste in Lunnoye; Land newly rehabilitated for Economic of landfill also contribute to our GHG output. 2015 2014 2013 the year 1,519 (42) (18) • Start the recycling of industrial waste in Mayskoye; Sulphur dioxide (SOx)4 614 304 276 Remaining disturbed and not We measure and monitor our CO2 emissions using NOx, (Nitrogen oxide + dioxide) 1,361 1,493 1,358 yet rehabilitated land as of • Carry out external audits and stability assessments established international methodology. In 2015, direct CO2 Inorganic dust (solid particles) 4,619 4,125 3,750 31 December 8,530 8,897 8,136 of tailings dams, and deliver project updates; emissions linked to our operations amounted to 244 Kt Carbon monoxide (CO) 1,823 1,852 1,684 1 Any restatements and variances are due to changes in methodology and ensure • Obtain approval for our carbon management policy; compared to 304 Kt in 2014 and 327 Kt in 2013. We set out consistent estimation across current and previous year values. the indirect emissions and other pollutants released during 1 From 30 June 2015, the Group began calculating GHG emissions according to the • Launch a biodiversity offset assessment programme production in the table opposite. guidance approved by the Ministry of Natural Resources of the Russian Federation at one of our production sites, and expand to other sites by the order N300 from 30.06.2015. if successful. Appendices 2 Direct emissions include: CO2 -equivalent emissions produced by combustion of fuel (diesel fuel, petrol, gas, coal) and use of electric power when operating own power-generating facilities, automobile transport, and main and auxiliary mining equipment. 3 Indirect emissions include: CO2 -equivalent emissions that relate to the generation of power purchased (imported) by the Company’s operations. 4 The increase of SOx emissions in 2015 is due to growth of heat energy generation and volumes of coal used. 32 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 33 Environment Main heading Land reclamation at Kubaka Air clean-up at Voro Overview In 2015, we installed At the heart of the new system “The main advantage of the new are Vorteks Multi-Cyclone Scrubbers, units, compared to the old frame a new generation ‘gas manufactured in Novosibirsk (Russia), ion exchange filters, is the efficiency wet cleaning system’ which employ state-of-the art of dust and trace gas removal from dispersed Vorteks technology. the flue gases. The Vorteks scrubbers at our Voro CIP (carbonPolymetal has planned for the can operate at much higher dust in-pulp) plant. Designed installation of five units at the Voro loads and do not require filter to remove dust and plant, with a view to replacing old regeneration or replacement. The air Environment and highly inefficient ion exchange going through the Vorteks filters is harmful gases from filters that have been in operation cleaned of dust and gases and then industrial emissions, since the site first came into released into the atmosphere. Based the new system delivers commission. on the performance so far, we may well look into rolling out these units air cleaning efficiency Following a period of intensive pilot across other sites within the Group.” of 90%, and will testing and assessment, two wet cleaning units were installed in Elvira Bas help to enhance the the plant’s hydrometallurgy area. Environmental and Industrial Employees overall environmental Three more units will be purchased Sanitation Manager performance of the site. and installed in 2016, as the Voro plant commits to clean up its act on air emissions and provide healthier and more environmentally friendly working conditions. Communities In 2015, the reclamation Our teams worked alongside staff phase of reclamation, which in due from the Northern Institute of course will see the former tailings pit of Kubaka plant’s Biological Issues, developing and site – a territory equivalent in size tailings pit and regeneration plans which balanced to 140 football pitches – given over surrounding land the interests of both miners and to rich Kolyma flora and natural scientists. These plans were awarded landscape. In autumn 2016, our entered its final phase. Economic a grant from the regional innovation scientific teams will analyse the health contest, which enabled our teams to and condition of the new grasses and Polymetal inherited the 90 hectare progress with the grassing of the site. plants, using Kubaka as a template site in the Kolyma Region from a for future reclamation projects at Canadian mining company, whose As part of these efforts, scientists other depleted Kolyma mining sites. early efforts at environmental tested more than 10 high-quality restoration were never completed. native plants at Kubaka, drawing on “After 20 years of ecological the expertise of the Yakut Research stagnation, this was the first With about 15 hectares in urgent Institute to assess seed resistance reclamation project of its kind in Appendices need of large-scale landscaping under deep frost conditions. They the Kolyma Region. With very works, in 2014 Polymetal began to then planted the most robust thin fertile soil layers up here in the prepare the land for reclamation, varieties, using a hydro-seeder North, we required a lot of expertise focusing on a return to healthy forest formerly belonging to the previous and innovation in order to re-establish area and fertile soil conditions. owner, together with annual oats to conditions that would be good help protect the young seedlings from for vegetation. But we did it, and In 2015 the Kubaka plant team direct sunlight and wind. Kubaka – once a lunar landscape – accelerated the restoration project, is now a beacon of environmental calling in geo-botanic specialists to In June 2015, the first of the new restoration.” assess the site and identify grass and grasses appeared, confirming the plant varieties that might thrive there. success and sustainability of the Anatoly Moskalev methods used at Kubaka. The new Environmental Engineer, grass marks the beginning of the final Omolon Hub 34 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 35 Investing in our people Committing Overview to our people, Environment committing to our future Employees The training, development and well-being of our employees is of paramount importance. Each year, we Communities invest heavily in these areas as part of our commitment to our people and the long-term future of our company. G4-24 Economic Who is responsible? What guidelines Stakeholders Priorities Material Aspects do we follow? Appendices • Group CEO, HR Director and his • UN Global Compact, Group Code of • Employees, specialised agencies, • Develop Human Rights policy; • Employment • Labour practices and grievance team, internal communications Conduct, National Labour Code, suppliers recruit and retain engaged and mechanisms • Labour/management relations department, managing directors Standard Regulation on Social motivated employees and interns, • Occupational health and safety and HR teams at our operations Conditions and Service Quality develop career pathways, improve • Training and education Control, Human Resources policies, communications with employees, • Non-discrimination Collective Agreements enhance training programmes • Diversity and equal opportunities • Freedom of association and collective • Equal remuneration for women bargaining and men • Human rights 36 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 37 Investing in our people Maintaining a fair and inclusive environment GRI G4-26 Building a motivated, loyal and capable workforce is critical It also sets out our positioning on issues like bullying Over the last six years, we have been steadily reducing The results show high satisfaction levels across the business – Overview to the expansion of our business. Every year we work to and harassment, bribery, drugs, entertainment and gifts, our average employee turnover rate (including fly-in/fly-out on average over 65% in all areas, and rising to 78% against develop our employees’ skills and knowledge and enhance government relations, anti-trust and anti-competition laws, operations). In 2011 this rate was 19.6%, compared to working environment criteria. Providing a comprehensive view our leadership capabilities, creating the human capital we community relations, insider dealing, data protection, 17.8% in 2012, 18.5% in 2013 and 11.4% in 2014. In 2015, of core aspects of our culture and operations, the survey need to sustain our operations long into the future. We are transparency and disclosure, and environmental protection. we reduced our turnover rate further to 8.3%. This sample comprised 3,400 employees across 13 production also committed to making Polymetal a highly attractive place achievement is partly attributable to the complex sites. Along with positive feedback, the survey also captured to work; to this end, we offer equal terms of recruitment and By ensuring our employees comply with our policies and macroeconomic environment which has impacted labour issues and concerns which we will address in 2016. employment and pay competitive salaries that benchmark strictures on these issues, and by listening and responding markets. However, our efforts to promote internal employee well within the industry. to their concerns, we are building a company culture based mobility have also made a key contribution, as have our Employee turnover (%) on mutual understanding, respect and trust. employee training and development programmes and the Environment Our approach favourable working conditions we have created. 19.6 19.2 Our approach to human resources involves creating a fair Headcount and turnover 17.8 Established in 2014, the Polymetal Human Resources and inclusive environment, which will enable us to attract At 31 December 2015, we employed 9,238 people compared Committee is responsible for planning staff rotations and and retain the best people. By rewarding good performance, to 9,180 in 2014 across the Group’s research, development, filling key positions internally. The Committee plays a vital developing talent and protecting health and safety, we aim design, exploration, production, logistics and management 11.4 role in helping to reduce employee turnover, and in 2015 to create an environment in which our people feel supported, activities. This increase in headcount was a result of new it reviewed a Group-wide employee job satisfaction survey. listened to and looked after. In return, we expect all project works getting underway at our Kyzyl and Svetloye Measuring satisfaction levels with, inter alia, compensation, 8.3 Employees employees to sign up to our Company Code of Conduct. sites. Due to the demanding nature of the work and our labour conditions, living conditions, organisational processes remote site locations, the majority of our people work on and corporate culture, the survey returned an overall a Our Code of Conduct is underpinned by a range of policies, a ‘fly-in/fly-out’ basis. Each year, on average around 51% Job Descriptive Index (JDI) of 72%, up from 65% in 2013. covering equality, professional development, appraisal, of our total headcount is made up of shift workers. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 training, resources and skills, organisational design, productivity, and motivation and reward. Communities Employment policies Our main employment objectives have been defined in Workforce diversity and discrimination D  uring the year, the instances of corruption identified Training and education line with the UN Global Compact and International Labour Deeply committed to equal opportunities and terms of within our business were limited to minor fraud relating to Each year we make significant investment in our employees’ Organisation Principles. They are primarily focused on employment, we actively recruit people on merit and do purchasing, equipment inventory, supplier lobbying and the capabilities and skills. Through training and development, building an employee base that is fully aligned to our not discriminate on any grounds, including gender, race, quality of materials and equipment. Three managers were we enhance employees’ performance and ensure they can organisational goals, and providing incentives and skin colour, religion, nationality, social origin and political sanctioned for fraudulent activities and 11 managers were meet the Company’s commercial and operational objectives. conditions that promote and protect personal safety. opinions. One of our core focus areas is creating dismissed. None of these cases had a material impact on At the same time, we support our people in their career Economic We are also committed to the continuous improvement conditions which promote the inclusion of women in our our operations or financial position, and no court cases development and advancement. of employee skills and capabilities to ensure we have the workforce and leadership teams. In addition, we are fully relating to corruption were brought against the Company right people in place to drive and grow our operations. compliant with national and international standards relating or any of our employees. Employee appraisal to staff and management quality, ensuring that we provide We conduct employee appraisals and assessments In support of our employment objectives, we have a working environment built upon fairness and respect. Motivation against performance targets, delivering constructive developed a range of policies and procedures which are Polymetal is deeply committed to motivating and engaging feedback to help maximise effectiveness for the benefit coordinated by our Group Head of Human Resources at In 2015, there were no reported cases of discrimination its workforce. We work to enhance our employees’ of the individual and the organisation as a whole. our Russian headquarters in St. Petersburg. Our Human within the Group. commitment and performance by inspiring them and Resources Committee and operating subsidiary managing recognising their achievements. Competitive salaries, Organisational design Appendices directors implement these policies in collaboration with Anti-corruption output-linked remuneration, effective feedback and good Operational and organisational efficiency form a core part of relevant HR teams. The policies cover: We work hard to raise awareness of corruption and its social benefits all serve as key motivation measures. our commitment to sustainability. To help achieve efficiency potential impact on our business. Across the Group, we at all levels, we have streamlined roles across our operating  have implemented a range of measures intended to help Induction companies, centralised our management functions, and prevent corruption and fraud among our employees, All new Polymetal employees are immersed in our Company where fitting implemented rotating schedules. contractors and suppliers. codes of conduct and culture. The successful integration of new employees helps us to ensure that our values are shared Headcount W  e continued our training curriculum on all aspects of and our mission and vision are upheld. Across our operations, we aim to achieve sustainable corruption in 2015. We held 62 seminars on anti-corruption cost reduction by automating inefficient manual processes. measures, which were attended by 1,000 Polymetal Through the use of cutting-edge automation technology, employees, including all regional managing directors. we are able to reduce costs without necessarily reducing employee headcount as employees are typically allocated to new projects across the Group. 38 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 39 Investing in our people A highly attractive place to work GRI G4-27 Diversity In addition, we provide annual bonuses for selected Training and development recruitment needs were met by Talent Pool candidates, Overview In 2015, women occupied 23% of our senior management professional employees. These bonuses are linked to targets We are continuously working to enhance the skills and 68% by other in-house promotions, and 16% through roles, compared to 22% in 2014, and represented 44% of based on Company KPIs. We have also developed a range capabilities of our people, and each year we invest in external recruitment. In total, we filled 37 of 44 top-level posts our qualified personnel. Women also made up 22% of our of social support and compensation measures, including: Group-wide training and development programmes. through in-house resource allocation. Board and 23% of our total workforce. • financial aid for those experiencing difficult life These programmes have been structured to help build the workforce we require to meet our Company objectives Programmes for young people circumstances; We have also been working with 12 universities and five over the long term, and to provide opportunities for our We also rolled out an activities schedule designed to prepare • partial sponsorship of a kindergarten, afterschool activities our younger employees for the leadership challenges of the technical colleges to enable internships, placements and employees to progress and develop in their careers. and a holiday camp; future. In 2015, these activities focused on management skills other opportunities for young people. During 2015, people development, including effective HR management, change Environment under 30 accounted for 25% of our workforce. • compensation of travel costs for those travelling to remote Our comprehensive training programme, which covers sites from other regions; general operational and technical aspects of our business, management and decision making. In 2016, we will be is delivered as part of an employee appraisal system. This focusing on professional skills development in relation to Gender composition (%)* • reimbursement of holiday travel costs for all family occupational health and safety, production control, system is designed to measure each individual employee’s members for those working in remote locations once construction, mine planning and business ethics. Senior management Qualified personnel development and structure their career progression. Each every two years; 22 22 23 44 43 44 time someone joins Polymetal, we conduct a preliminary • housing support; and appraisal which helps to shape and inform a detailed In keeping with past years, in 2015 we held a scientific and 78 78 77 training plan. industrial conference for young professionals. Taking place • covering interest payments on employee mortgages. in three regions simultaneously – Magadan, Amursk and Employees 56 57 56 For general managers and technical specialists, we provide Kostanay – the conference attracted 32 participants, compared In 2015, we maintained our reputation as a progressive and to 16 in 2014. During the conference sessions, young rigorous external training via our network of corporate training attractive employer in the regions where we operate. For the professionals were able to discuss their research interests centres. We have also created the Polymetal Talent Pool eighth time we were awarded an Attractive Employer Award, and explore career development opportunities. We also held with a view to developing the next generation of skilled 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 which demonstrates the trust with which candidates view a contest for best project proposal, the winners of which will managers. In addition, in order to expand their professional ● Male ● Female Polymetal, and confirms our credentials as a promising be presented at the International Forum of Young Scientists horizons and developmental stimuli, we give key employees company with a stable market position. at the Mining University of St. Petersburg in April 2016. the opportunity to attend training sessions held by other People under 30 in total headcount* international mining companies. Communities During the year we sustained stable wage growth in line Training (number of employees trained) 8,998 9,180 9,238 with inflation. We also continued to meet our commitments 25% 24% 25% For the past six years, we have offered a distance learning to improving working and living conditions for employees, 5,346 5% 8,111 programme for pre-certification training in industrial and particularly those engaged in shift work in remote locations. 18% 10% 75% 76% 75% occupational safety. This system complements the work Our main efforts in this area included infrastructure 10% 39% of our training centres and on-site teaching facilities; it aims 26% improvement and development at Varvara, Omolon and to enhance productivity and effectiveness, and is of particular Lunnoye. At Varvara, we built a new dormitory for 60 46% 46% benefit to employees in remote locations. employees and renovated the canteen facilities; and at the Omolon facilities we installed saunas and built a new gym; Economic Training in 2015 while at Lunnoye (Dukat hub) we renovated an entire housing In-house and external training 2014 2015 estate for duty personnel. 2013 2014 2015 In 2015, we invested US$678 thousand in professional In-house training ● Mining IT centre training across all areas of the business, which amounts to ● Other ● Young people Additionally, at Albazino we began constructing a large ● Polymetal in-house regional centres $149 per trained employee for the year. In total, more than ● Distance learning programme * Percentages are calculated for the average number of employees. dormitory for 100 people and in Mayskoye we completed 8,000 employees (88% of our headcount) received some ● Outsourced training a new gym, recreation room and dormitory. Salaries and benefits form of professional development training; In 2015, the Polymetal salaries compared to regional wages number of employees trained in-house increased by 53%. Employee relations We are firmly committed to acknowledging and rewarding Polymetal minimum salaries were 136% higher than the regional minimum The average number of hours of training received by both Appendices employees’ hard work and achievements. To help us attract As part of our commitment to progressive employment male and female employees was 63, while managers and practices, we support our employees’ rights to freedom and retain the best candidates, we offer competitive salaries qualified employees received 35 and 54 hours respectively. of association and collective agreements. In 2015, 100% and benefits which exceed regional averages in our areas of operation. Our long-term incentive programme, meanwhile, of our employees were covered by collective bargaining Talent pool agreements at our operating sites in Russia and Kazakhstan. links directly to share price performance. All employees enrolled in the Polymetal Talent Pool continued At each site, we have established Labour Relations to receive targeted assessments based on their professional Commissions (LRCs) which enable discussions on workThe Polymetal pay structure is built around a base salary. merits, as well as individual development plans designed to related issues to take place between our employees and Our operational staff receive a time-paid salary based meet their training requirements. Talent Pool candidates the Company. We have also created Workers’ Councils and on the number of hours worked and the amount of work 2014 2015 received training on effective communications and conflict devised a system of formal feedback sessions. We provide completed, plus monthly and annual bonuses. Our policies ● Regional minimum ● Polymetal minimum ● Industry average ● Polymetal average management, and seven of these candidates were promoted employees with an opportunity to communicate queries and procedures in these areas are fully compliant with, to key positions within the company. 16% of our internal or concerns to senior management via their line managers, and indeed exceed, all legal requirements in Russia and Kazakhstan. meetings, suggestion boxes, email or telephone. In 2015, 814 enquiries were received, all of which were responded to. 40 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 41 Investing in our people Enhancing employee opportunities The Polymetal Self-nomination Programme We have an excellent track record in regulating employee Changes to key employment terms and notice periods Overview relations. Our experience in this area is framed by a system In support of these social partnership principles, changes of social partnership based on the following principles: in working conditions and other significant events are communicated to employees in a timely and appropriate way. • equality of the parties; • consideration of mutual interests when developing, The amount of notice given to employees for changes to adopting and implementing decisions relating to key employment terms is covered by collective agreements Polymetal’s operations; and complies with appropriate legislation in the country of employment. • strict compliance with local social and labour regulations; Environment • constructive dialogue between social partners on all social In the Russian Federation, the notice period for changes in and labour issues; employment terms due to organisational change; changes In 2015, we introduced a new employee to operational working conditions; changes in, or introduction • zero tolerance on any form of slavery and or review of worktime standards; or upcoming dismissal due development scheme called the human trafficking. to Company liquidation is two months before changes come Self-nomination Programme. into effect. In the Republic of Kazakhstan, the notice period for these changes is one month. Comprising an innovative selected are then invited to take online platform, the Selfpart in a focused research and Employees Progress against goals within our action plan 2015 nomination Programme aims production programme. to offer all employees equal We said… We did… opportunities for development Since March 2015, 14 people We would enhance the efficiency of training received by employees Provided a new management course for the Talent Pool employees; and progression within the have applied through in the Talent Pool. delivered an internal communications course for young leaders in Company, while enabling us the portal to participate in the Khabarovsk Region. to locate potential future the research and production leaders and ambitious and programme, while 24 have We would expand training programmes and course diversity Increased the share of in-house training for 53% of staff; achieved resourceful young specialists. applied for Self-nomination across the Company’s training centres, and select external training ratio of internal to external training of 54% to 46%, primarily due to Communities providers more carefully. expansion of internal corporate courses, which allowed the membership with 6 employees Company’s training centres to compete with external providers. Hosted on the Company’s accepted. The programme will corporate web-portal, the new continue in 2016 and beyond, We would continue our collaboration with leading universities Continued to cooperate with leading universities and technical programme encourages young with a view to expediting the to attract talented young students to the Company via targeted colleges to attract talented students; in 2015 we employed 18% members of staff to put forward search for new talent within the internships. of the students who undertook internships at Polymetal. We their ideas, achievements and Company and developing a also developed and launched our Quick Start programme, which credentials and make a case for pipeline of expertise and aims to attract talented students graduating in economics and accelerating their professional capabilities for the future. provide financial and economic managers with the necessary development. Some of those Economic competencies to work in the Company; two candidates have been selected to date. We would develop training for specific roles where ‘skills Developed and implemented training programmes for technicians bottlenecks’ have been identified, e.g. Processing Plant and engineers working at plants, as well as for managers and key Superintendent, Chief Engineer and Maintenance Superintendent. technical workers. We would further develop employee feedback via new channels Increased promotion of the feedback channels and boosted with a view to improving our Internal Corporate Portal. awareness. Appendices We would maintain existing levels of employee turnover. Reduced turnover by 28%, from 11.4% to 8.3%. “I nominated myself for the Self-nomination Programme because I wanted to achieve a broader overview of the Company and apply Plans for 2016 and beyond my knowledge and skills to enhancing Polymetal’s mining and Looking ahead, our key objectives for 2016 and beyond • conduct targeted training for engineers; technological mapping capabilities. I wanted to work with various are as follows: deposits, including platinum group metals, and following my • launch new courses at our Mining IT centre; Self-nomination application I was promoted to Head of Mineralogy • promote safe behaviours and risk assessments to help • launch a new training centre in our regional at Varvara. It’s a dream come true. The Self-nomination decrease LTIFR; Khabarovsk subsidiary; Programme is a wonderful scheme and I urge other employees • keep our turnover rate level at less than 10%; to get involved.” • conduct targeted training for employees involved • develop our young leaders’ skills according to our new in underground mining; Nadezhda Guseva programmes implemented in 2015; • progress 30% of our interns to full-time employment. Head of Mineralogy at Varvava, and former Deputy Head of Mayskoye Lab 42 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 43 Health and safety Putting health Overview and safety first Keeping our employees safe and well is a key priority Environment for Polymetal. Our people are our greatest asset, and maintaining their health and well-being is critical to our future success and sustainability. We are committed to Employees creating safe working environments across our operations and meeting stringent health and safety standards. Communities G4-24 Economic Who is responsible? What guidelines Stakeholders Priorities Material Aspects do we follow? Appendices • Group CEO, Chief Operating Officer, • UN Global Compact, Group Code • Employees, specialised government • To achieve zero harm, reduce • Types of injury • Risk assessment and management HSE Director, Head of Health and of Conduct, Health and Safety Policy, agencies, independent auditors and effectively manage risks, and • Rates of injury • Emergency preparedness Safety, managing directors, chief OHSAS 18001, ILO-OSH 2001 maintain a safe working environment engineers and health and safety and management systems relating for all employees; promote safe • Occupational diseases managers at our operations, to labour protection, adhering to conduct; prevent workplace accidents HR department national occupational safety and work-related illnesses; comply • Lost days and absenteeism standards with relevant regulations and • Total number of work-related standards and embed responsible accidents safety behaviour across every aspect of our operations 44 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 45 Health and safety Strengthening safe practices GRI G4-26 GRI G4-22 Mining is, inevitably, a dangerous operation. Our employees During 2015, our health and safety focus areas were: In 2015, we identified falling rock as the greatest potential Contractor statistics Overview work in remote locations and environments where rigorous hazard at our sites, with other potential risks including mining 2015 2014 • identification and management of underground safety processes can be difficult to uphold. However, it is equipment damage, road transportation accidents, and Total accidents 4 9 mining risks; our responsibility to embed robust procedures across our building or equipment fires. – fatal 3 1 organisation and safeguard employees’ well-being. In recent • automation of production control and years we have renewed our focus on health and safety workplace conditions; Incidents 0 0 Performance performance, and we are improving the ways in which Occurrences 16 13 • further development of individual risk assessment; and Workplace accidents we engage our people with key issues and embed the LTIFR 1 0.12 0.25 It is with deep regret that we report that during 2015 there right attitudes and behaviours internally. This is a journey of • a continued analysis of our health and safety programme, were six fatalities across the Group. Five of these fatalities Definition of health and safety terms continual improvement and reassessment; we are committed in order to address the recent deterioration of performance Environment were at underground operations and the sixth occurred as Accident: an unfortunate event that occurs in the course of work, on the way to to achieving a zero harm culture in which everyone takes (see page 47). or from work, or in a Company vehicle, which leads to mental or physical harm. a result of a road accident. We offer our sincere condolences responsibility both for individual and collective safety. Incident: an event that gives rise to an accident, or has the potential to lead to an accident to the families and friends of those colleagues who lost their (for example, an unexpected explosion and/or the release of dangerous substances). Risk assessment lives; we are deeply distressed by their deaths and would Occurrence: a failure, near miss or dangerous event. Approach Risk assessment and management form the foundation like to pay tribute to their dedication and hard work. We are LTIFR: Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate per 200,000 hours worked. of our approach to health and safety. Each year, we identify Our employees’ well-being is paramount and shapes our of course covering any related costs and delivering ongoing 1 Any restatement and variances are due to changes in methodology: we now use and assess risks across the Group and create risk maps 200,000 man-hours rather than one million man-hours for the calculation of LTIFR. approach to health and safety. To this end, we consistently financial support to the families of the deceased. for all our working processes and locations. We then devise look to improve the systems we have in place to ensure our high-level plans and programmes to help us reduce Analysis and response Employees employees are protected. Our employees’ health and safety is our greatest priority. these risks. To help us understand weaknesses in our safety Our zero harm culture reflects our belief that any fatality, Since 1998, our underground mining operations have accident or injury within our operations is wholly performance, we implement ongoing analysis of our Within all our operations, we follow a shift-by-shift risk processes and procedures, and conduct specific expanded from two projects to nine, with the potential to unacceptable. Over the past few years we have increased assessment (SRA) model, the aim of which is to enhance investigation and analysis of all workplace accidents. increase further. Group-wide, we operate 120 production our focus on reducing workplace risks and improving the employee awareness of workplace dangers; identify and sites and processes, comprising open-pit and underground health and safety performance of our employees and manage risks promptly; and control the accuracy of our Of the fatalities that occurred during 2015, three were the mines, geological exploration sites, explosives depots and contractors. We are extremely troubled to have suffered risk assessments. SRA is implemented most rigorously result of rock mass fall in underground mines, two involved ore processing facilities. There are risks associated with each these fatalities in 2015 and we will continue to prioritise our in hazardous operational areas, for example automobile machinery and one resulted from a road accident. The site, and in Russia and Kazakhstan alone 93 of Polymetal’s health and safety activities to prevent further loss of life in Communities transport, mines, and plant and power supply. fatalities due to rock mass fall occurred on 11 February 2015 production facilities have been classified as ‘hazardous’. the future. In 2016, we aim to return to our previous record As a result, it is imperative that we promote excellent safety of zero fatalities across all sites and operations. in the Lunnoye underground mine, on 6 September 2015 in Risk management focus areas the Mayskoye underground mine, and on 10 October 2015 behaviours and create a culture that will ensure our people – In our approach to risk management, our underground in the Avlayakan underground mine. On 3 May 2015, a drift and our contractors – operate in safe environments. During 2015 there were also 10 non-fatal accidents in total mining projects are a key area of focus. In recent years the miner was fatally injured when replacing a drill bit in the across the Polymetal Group. Of these, two were severe intensity and scope of our underground work has increased. Goltsovoye underground mine, and on 7 September 2015 Our overall approach in this area is driven by the Company’s accidents and eight were minor. Again, these injuries Health and Safety Policy (implemented in 2013 and updated contravene our commitment to health and safety and cause a blastman suffered fatal injuries in an accident with a As such, we need to eliminate the risk of rock falls impacting charging machine at Mayskoye. On 30 March 2015, a truck in 2014) and underpinned by our Occupational Health and us considerable concern. We continue to dedicate significant employees. To supplement our risk assessments, we have driver was fatally injured following a road accident Economic Safety Management System (OHSMS). The Policy is available resources and implement additional measures to safeguard implemented a mentoring system whereby experienced at Lunnoye. on the Company website, www.polymetalinternational.com, our employees from future injury. workers can observe and evaluate colleagues’ activities, and and is well-communicated to all employees and other share best practice with new employees. To ensure that all To ensure the events that contributed to these fatalities stakeholders. Health and safety performance safety rules and technological processes are understood, cannot be repeated, we developed and applied the ‘5 Whys’ Company statistics we have intensified safety training, with 8,087 people trained principle to conduct our own internal examinations, separate We comply fully with health and safety legislation in the states 2015 2014 in 2015. to ongoing investigations by state authorities. Our process and regions where we work, as well as meeting all relevant Total accidents 16 11 international requirements. Additionally, our OHSMS is based involved evaluating all possible health and safety risks, from We are also working to ensure that each employee works – fatal 6 3 technological and technical liabilities through to employees’ on the most up-to-date health and safety standards, Appendices in accordance with our SRA system. Incidents 0 1 psychological and emotional influences. including ILO-OSH 2001, OHSAS 18001 and GOST R 12.0.007-2009. Occurrences 36 25 SRA forms part of an extensive feedback system which After thorough research and analysis, we have drawn provides employees with the opportunity to contribute to risk LTIFR1 0.22 0.13 All facilities across our operations are fully insured. Our health comprehensive conclusions and are implementing measures management across Polymetal. The Company also provides to ensure that factors that could cause such fatalities again and safety programme is structured to enable us to detect, employees with a ‘map of personal safety activities’ to follow are taken into account and addressed. We have informed all assess and mitigate production risks; safeguard employee at all times. employees and contractors of our findings and incorporated health and workplace safety; ensure equipment, buildings and other structures are used safely; and ensure that these new measures into our Company safety action plan. Each year, the Company enacts qualitative risk assessments In addition, we will execute all actions recommended by state supervision measures are carefully controlled and internal linked to the likelihood and potential consequences of a authorities, following completion of their investigations. audits are conducted effectively. hazardous event. We then inform employees of these results through a range of communications channels, such as information boards, leaflets, seminars and meetings. 46 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 47 Health and safety Applying rigorous assessment to improve health and safety performance To enhance personal safety and risk awareness across Following preliminary findings, in 2015 we implemented Emergency preparedness How we ensure emergency preparedness Overview our operating mines, we have put in place a number of a number of new safety initiatives, including: An important aspect of our health and safety programme processes to help identify issues and devise corrective and is ensuring preparedness for any emergency that may • reinforcing transport speed control and safety monitoring; preventative measures. Polymetal continuously monitors jeopardise the well-being of our employees. employees’ disciplinary procedures and reviews the safety • changing the incentive system where it has led to unsafe Our emergency preparedness and response procedure performance of the technical staff at the most problematic conduct for the jobs affected by certain risks (drifters, Each year, we perform simulated emergency events and (part of the Environmental Management System), operations. supporters and blasters); deliver training at least annually within each of our 93 comprises three stages and has been in effect since hazardous production facilities. Within the most high-risk 25 December 2014). • reviewing training programmes with a focus on key risks; Although our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) sites, we conduct more frequent emergency preparation increased 69% during the year, the reduction of our LTIFR • visualising risks, consequences and personnel conduct sessions, sometimes on a monthly basis. Environment in specific situations; The design stage ensures: and attainment of a zero Fatal Injury Frequency Rate (FIFR) remain critical KPIs. Achieving these objectives is our • improving the quality of safety checks and increasing In our processes to ensure emergency preparedness, we foremost priority, and we are working to improve our the number of checks by independent external auditors; comply with the requirements and legal obligations of the performance in these areas in the future. countries in which we operate. In addition, each Polymetal • ensuring the geotechnological conditions assessment facility possesses Accident Prevention plans, developed • design standards’ compliance, pilot launches New system implementation and actions and management loop function effectively; and collaboratively with local emergency authorities. We also and testing; As part of a Group-wide response to these fatalities, in 2015 • expanding and upgrading our geotechnical capabilities. train our in-house rescuers and have contracted professional • independent project expertise; and Polymetal took immediate action to tighten safety procedures. companies who specialise in life-saving services and Employees We launched pilot projects to test a more protective We also automated data and safety reports delivered by accident prevention. • permission for operation and maintenance. underground development system, and increased and ERP software. Information is now available in a unified, upgraded our mining fleet. To counter persistent geotechnical searchable database and processes can be overseen To maintain our emergency preparedness we: problems with ore stability, we also accelerated a planned The operation stage ensures: online. This improves workplace safety and reduces time • continuously enhance our OHSMS implemented across transition from drift-and-fill mining to sublevel open stoping spent waiting for information, performance indicators all our operations; with backfill at Mayskoye. This will ensure employees are or reports. This new system serves to simplify tracking not exposed to rock falls in the partially broken slopes, and management; eliminate manual processes; improve • ensure our operations possess full licensing for relevant as all development and production drilling will be done from operational efficiencies; minimise emergency response safety activities; • the compliance of design during operation; Communities waste openings. The Company also significantly increased times; ensure proper review of new materials; • enact safety audits across all buildings, constructions • personnel training and obtaining licence to operate; the weighting of safety KPIs for senior management and reduce safety and compliance risks. and technical facilities used in hazardous activity; and remuneration, including the Group CEO and operations • operational control; managing directors. • sign mandatory liability insurance agreements to indemnify In addition, we launched a system to scan shift-by-shift risk • environmental monitoring and comprehensive harm caused by potential accidents in hazardous assessment cards. This enables us to collect information and inspections under the chief engineer’s supervision; As a consequence of fatalities and injuries during between production facilities. implement a system to detect data automatically, categorise 2013 and 2015, we continue to refine our existing OHSMS. • environmental safety compliance by suppliers and risks, respond to urgent cases and analyse dynamics. This system is currently undergoing a three-stage external To identify potential accidents that could adversely impact contractors; and audit, for which we hired the external assurance agency the environment we: Economic • training during simulated emergency events. Bureau Veritas. Covering a three-year period, the first stage • prepare the list of relevant accidents; was completed in 2015, when four production sites were audited. During 2016-2017, four more subsidiaries will be • ensure that our hazardous facilities are included in the The emergency response and audited randomly each year to evaluate the efficacy of official state register; investigation stage involves: our system. • prepare emergency response plans; and • provide insurance for hazardous industrial facilities. • assigning responsibilities in case of emergency; Appendices Responsive measures for the increased number of fatal occupational injuries in 2015 We analyse the following: Organisational Technical Motivational • ensuring financial provisions are available to • historic accidents that have negatively impacted compensate negative impact; and the environment; • Development of safety culture training • Underground mining technology • Development of an individual risk • amending designs where applicable. optimisation assessment system • audits and inspection results and reports, environmental • Review of the extreme risks list impact assessments, project safety examinations and • An additional external audit of OHSMS • The purchase of mining equipment, • Development of a risk visualisation which reduces the use of manual labour system hazardous production facilities inspections; • Reinforcement of transport speed • Shaping and promoting the Company’s • audit reports of state controlling bodies; and controls and safety monitoring ‘Golden rules for safety’ • environmental monitoring data. 48 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 49 Health and safety Ensuring safe procedures and systems throughout our operations GRI G4-26; G4-27 Employee engagement and training We actively engage and motivate employees in safety Progress against goals in 2015 Overview Training and engaging employees is critical to establishing matters. This can include contests to improve safety or In our 2013/14 Sustainability Report, we set our health and safety priorities for 2015-17. safe practices. Polymetal’s human resources system has rewards for zero occurrences and incidents in departments. defined procedures for recruiting and assigning employees We also publish the safety chart (or ‘safety barometer’) in We said… We did… with specific skills, and providing training to develop our corporate newspaper, on information desks and portals. We would focus on the risk of rock mass fall in underground Integrated geomechanical assessment into the daily routine of miners. employees’ skills. We also clarify competence requirements environments. Introduced additional machinery for auxiliary underground activities. for each relevant job description. Occupational diseases Developed procedures for the regular updates of support designs. Each year, all our employees undergo at least one medical Training needs are identified by the heads of business check to evaluate their health and well-being. We also have We would promote safe conduct culture. Developed a formal procedure to inform employees about hazards, units. At the expense of the Company, specialists are a team of in-house medical professionals who monitor Environment risks, consequences and mitigation measures. comprehensively trained in occupational health, and employee health on an ongoing basis and respond to any Utilised feedback from employees under the shift-by-shift risk industrial, electric and fire security. They also receive related issues as and when they arise. In certain cases, assessment system to better analyse and eliminate hazardous refresher training and undergo special-purpose training. our medical team will advise a specific course of treatment conditions. or time away from work if necessary. Visualised dangerous elements of work to form a physiological In 2015 Polymetal’s employees attended the following safety barrier before entering the risk zone. courses: As in the previous three years, there were no cases of occupational diseases recorded in 2015. We would automate safety control. Implemented the safety monitoring and control software. • Introductory safety courses: 1,974 employees (24%) Employed the incidents pyramid to identify priorities of risk Employees • Specialised training in internal environmental audit and management. environmental safety training: 1,764 employees (22%) We would cooperate with contractors. Involved contractors in risk management and assessment. • Work safety and industrial safety courses, also related Equipped vehicles with speed control devices. to hazardous production risks: 1,741 employees (22%) Conducted joint meetings and events on health and safety analysis • Other training and development courses: 2,608 employees and control. (32%) Health and Safety objectives 2016-2017 Risk assessment analysis Communities OHSMS audit To rigorously analyse monthly risks assessments (MRA) To ensure we have a rigorous and robust OHSMS in place, results and devise appropriate and impactful measures in certified in excellence by a three-stage external audit by response to any inefficiencies or weak points revealed. Bureau Veritas. Risk reduction Rock fall risk isolation To reduce the level of the most significant risks that cause To isolate the risk of rock fall in underground environments, injuries, and to ensure that monthly injury rates are reduced and to prevent injuries caused by this risk. by 10% against average quarterly indicators from the same period. Economic Safety behaviour To create conditions for our employees that promote Extending Occupational Health and Safety safe behaviour, and to ensure each employee works in Management System accordance with our shift-by-shift risk assessment system. To continue extending our OHSMS to all production processes and work performed by Polymetal employees Employee locating and tracking and by contractors on our premises. Locating and tracking people and objects is crucial for Appendices underground working conditions. We are keeping on top of safety by applying the technology to locate workers in emergency situations. 50 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 51 Communities Main heading Creating a Overview positive legacy for Environment local people and communities Employees As part of our commitment to sustainability, we work closely with local people in the regions where we operate. Communities Our aim is to ensure that our activities have a positive impact on local communities, and through a range of initiatives we build strong relationships and support local development. G4-24 Economic Who is responsible? What guidelines Stakeholders Priorities Material Aspects Appendices do we follow? • Group CEO, PR Director, • UN Global Compact, • Employees, national • Expand the range of • Local communities • Formal agreements with indigenous Technical Council, subsidiary Group Code of Conduct, government, local government, community partnership people and local communities • Public policy managing directors working Policy on Social Investment, specialist government agreements, improve the • Grievance mechanisms for impacts with heads of Finance, Community Relationship agencies, local communities, quality of life for communities, • Investment on society Communications Management System indigenous peoples’ groups improve communication and other NGOs and cooperation with • Development and impact of • Rights of indigenous people communities, promote infrastructure investments sports and cultural activities • Resettlement 52 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 53 Communities Providing meaningful investment and engagement G4-26; G4-27 G4-26; G4-27 Our interactions with local people and communities are Ultimately, our aim is to balance our commercial priorities Our social investment priorities We believe strongly in public access to information, and Overview numerous and varied. Across all our sites and facilities, we with the interests and needs of local communities. To achieve Each year, we determine our investment flows through we use local media outlets and public communications provide employment opportunities and use local services this balance, we have developed community cooperation open and honest dialogue with community stakeholders. boards to inform local communities about our activities and to help generate supply and demand. In addition, we invest agreements in most of the areas where we operate. In 2015, Fundamental to this process is the rigorous assessment operations. We also enable people to contact us directly by in local education, health, culture and infrastructure, putting we had 21 of these agreements in place, compared to 18 in of local community issues, concerns and requirements. phone or email to discuss local issues, and in remote areas community interests at the centre of our local activities. 2014. We also make regular social investments, develop Once we have defined their needs, we then work closely of Russia and Kazakhstan we regularly organise field trips industries to help stimulate local economies, and enhance with local people to understand how social investment could and face-to-face consultations. In this way, we are able to We have also developed rigorous measures designed to and expand local infrastructure. We also pay taxes regionally, be used to change their lives for the better. Through close react swiftly to local community concerns and ensure our mitigate the negative impacts of our operations, such as the commission local professionals to help tackle urgent social collaboration, we define the most urgent local issues and efforts continue to be targeted, relevant and impactful. generation of waste materials and emissions. Each year, we issues, and regularly use regional resources and services. discuss the extent of the support required to address them. Environment exceed our regulatory obligations in an effort to ensure that In 2015, we received over 100 enquiries from local local communities and environments are not affected by Internally, we ensure all investments are rigorously managed The Polymetal Board of Directors and management teams communities, mostly relating to employment opportunities, these aspects of our business. by following the principles set out in our Community review our annual community investments and associated development plans, impacts on quality of life, and requests Relationship Management System, which comprises our targets. They base their decisions on the perceived potential for support for cultural, sporting and environmental initiatives. Our approach Corporate Code, our Social and Charitable Investments of a project to deliver meaningful change to local people During the year, we convened 26 meetings, public gatherings Policy, our Public Corporate Regulation and other key and communities, focusing in particular on: and hearings for local community members and indigenous As a mining company, our licence to operate depends upon procedures. These policies enable us to promote people. In addition, we undertook 13 site visits for members the goodwill, trust and understanding of local communities • healthcare and education; transparency by offering public access to information, of the public and community representatives. Employees and authorities. Building strong links and relationships in and cover activities such as the development of Company • infrastructure; the regions where we operate is a core part of our corporate operations, enabling dialogue as part of impact Feedback mechanisms ethos and commitment to sustainability, and each year • sport and lifestyle; assessments, and the mandatory consultation of In keeping with our social commitments, we ensure that we we oversee a range of communication and engagement local people. • culture and creative potential; are always open and responsive to stakeholders’ inquiries, initiatives. • Indigenous Minorities of the North (IMN); and questions and concerns. We believe it is important that all Regional teams stakeholders, not just direct beneficiaries, have access to Our operational activities cover a vast geographical area, • environmental protection. Company information and are regularly consulted on our encompassing the Chukotka Autonomous Territory, Across our operations, we have dedicated teams overseeing activities. Khabarovsk Territory, Magadan Region, Yakutia, Sverdlovsk our community investment and engagement programmes. Communities Investments are separated into in-kind and commercial Region, Kazakhstan and Armenia. Each year, the scope of Working to ensure regular cooperation with community donations. In 2015, our in-kind investments included: Our stakeholder feedback mechanisms allow for the efficient our operations expands, which means our local community groups, these teams submit social investment proposals • humanitarian aid to reindeer herders, with donations planning of developments across all our territories, and for interactions are becoming increasingly diverse. internally and coordinate and monitor feedback. including food, fuel, lubricants, firewood, gas stoves the inclusion of stakeholder consultation within this process. and medicines; We aim to incorporate local community requests and Our approach to community relations in these areas is Each time we invest in a new mining site or project, it is the requirements at all stages of planning and development. underpinned by our belief that, as our operations increase, responsibility of our corporate office to assess the effect our • delivery of food and medicine to remote communities We are also always looking for more practical ways of so do our responsibilities and commitments to the people activities may have at local and regional level. Our teams and indigenous minorities in the Magadan, Khabarovsk engaging with communities in remote areas that take whose lives we impact. As part of our work in this area, we work to determine the indirect economic impacts and, based and Chukotka territories; and into consideration local traditions and ways of life. Economic adhere to relevant international standards and conventions, on these evaluations, develop long-term mitigation strategies. for example the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous We also engage with local communities, institutions, • construction and maintenance of roads in remote areas. The feedback mechanism enables us to: Peoples and the UN Global Impact. authorities and organisations to ensure we can deliver our work and programmes in a way that delivers maximum value Community engagement • identify community requirements and gather information We have also developed and improved our in-house to local people. Polymetal has been consistently and systematically building on community needs and social situations; standards and policies in line with international best practice. its relationships with stakeholders since 2008. Our Community • monitor and file all inquiries received; For example, we currently have a successful Community Investing in communities Relationship Management System enables regular and Relationship Management System functioning at all our comprehensive analysis of community needs, requirements • deliver prompt responses to all stakeholder questions The effective management of social investment is critical to subsidiaries, helping to ensure regular interaction with the and queries; Appendices sustainable development. In our social investment activities, and suggestions; feedback mechanisms whereby public and providing communities with current, relevant and stakeholders can relay queries or concerns; and regular which extend to all territories in which we operate, we use • inform the public about the Company’s activities on comprehensive information on the Company’s activities. community meetings and polls. These measures help us to industry benchmarks and standards to assess our progress a regular basis; and A corresponding community policy is being developed for identify our key corporate responsibility goals and objectives and performance. We have expanded the scope of our social sign-off in 2016, while our Corporate Code of Conduct for each region, pursue the most efficient social policy and • receive assessment of our social performance, and plan investments, injecting US$28 million into local projects guides our employees’ conduct towards their colleagues and regularly assess our social performance. and approve our social investment priorities based on local between 2010 and 2015. In 2015, we invested US$3.6 million customers, business partners, state authorities and society requirements and in collaboration with local communities. on social support and territorial development programmes. as a whole. In addition, for the past eight years we have been While this is less than the amount invested in 2014 in US developing a Group-wide communication system, which dollar terms (US$5 million in 2014), it is higher year-on-year includes a range of procedures to help us assess the needs in Russian and Kazakh currencies due to devaluation. of local people and capture their ideas and opinions. 54 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 55 Communities Ensuring quality of life for local people G4-27 Community needs assessment Community feedback In education, we commit considerable funds to the • supported the ‘Leather Ball’ football tournament in Overview To ensure the successful management of our social In 2015, Polymetal and its regional subsidiaries received over renovation and improvement of educational buildings Magadan, plus two mini-football tournaments in the investments, designated departments at each of our 55 letters from community groups expressing gratitude for and facilities and provide educational opportunities. Khabarovsk Territory. In total, the three competitions operations regularly collect data relating to our social our efforts and initiatives. These letters came from a range attracted over 2,500 young participants; and projects. They also evaluate the social and economic of stakeholders, including local communities, who thanked During 2015, we: • held a volleyball tournament in Chukotka for our employees performance of implemented programmes; set social us for providing medical care for children and assistance to • funded building renovations in nine schools and eight and communities, as well as competitions for the Polymetal performance review meetings, and conduct community vulnerable people, and for taking an active part in addressing kindergartens; and Go Game Cup in the Khabarovsk, Magadan and polls for social project evaluation. All of these mechanisms social issues. Sverdlovsk regions. allow the Company to respond flexibly to changing situations, • provided educational grants for four school graduates adjust investments, and eliminate any possibility of funds Key performance and investment areas at Kazakhstan and continued to fund university Environment Culture and creative potential being inappropriately diverted. They also provide local programmes for 18 students. For many years Polymetal has supported cultural activities communities with the opportunity to participate directly in Social investments in 2015 (%) and helped local people explore and protect their identity. the formation of social programmes and control their efficacy. Infrastructure We work to preserve local history, traditions and ways of life, As part of our commitment to local communities, we also and support a range of schemes designed to promote local In all territories, we identify the recipients of Polymetal ■ Sport 36 invest heavily in local and regional infrastructure. By carrying arts and crafts. Each year, we provide financial support for social investment funds by monitoring current situations ■ Health and education 34 out repairs and improvements to bridges, roads and built ethnographic museums, indigenous language programmes and cooperating with local administrations. We also assess environments, we create employment opportunities and ■ Culture and creative potential 21 and music groups. In 2015, we invested US$735 thousand their needs through community consultation, drawing on contribute to the socio-economic development of villages Employees ■ Infrastructure 6 in such cultural initiatives. Specifically, we: the opinions, ideas and aspirations of local people, including and towns. In 2015, we invested US$200 thousand in ■ IMN support 3 members of community organisations and associations infrastructure projects, including: • funded six renovation projects at cultural centres and in remote settlements and ethnic villages. offices; • continued investment in the Well-Lit Village Programme in Khabarovsk Territory, which aims to improve public lighting • purchased equipment for a children’s art school in the In 2015 we conducted community polls in nine districts. in remote villages; Amursk Region; These polls enabled us to capture local opinion and aggregate suggestions for future socio-economic • investment in the gas distribution network in Vorontsovka • provided funding for more than 20 artistic, cultural and Health and education cooperation programmes. During the year, they also helped village, Sverdlovsk Region; educational events and competitions for talented The quality of life of local communities depends upon access Communities us to assess other community needs, including increased young people; to healthcare and education. Indeed, health and education • renovation of the water supply system in Zharma district, access to information on the Company’s long-term Kazakhstan; and • organised a holiday camp project called ‘Kids of Amursk: are vital issues which underpin sustainable development development plans and environmental impacts. Based on Life and Art’ in the Amursk Region, designed to facilitate at local, regional and national level. As such, they are major • road maintenance, including the financing and construction the poll results, we have developed a range of community a cross-generational exchange of art, ideas and identity social investment priorities for Polymetal. of winter roads in remote regions, enabling the free engagement and social programmes for 2016. for IMN children; and movement of people, food and medical supplies. During 2015, we implemented over 30 projects designed • continued to provide support to IMN folk singing and Impact assessment to facilitate and support healthcare and education. These Sport and lifestyle dancing ensembles. Each year we commit significant resources to assessing the projects included 18 renovations of healthcare and Another key aspect of our social investment programme is indirect impacts of our business on local communities. We Economic educational institutions and the purchasing of equipment for the promotion of health and well-being through sport and Indigenous Minorities of the North (IMN) collaborate with regional administrations and organisations six hospitals. In total, we invested over US $1.2 million in this lifestyle initiatives. Our primary focus in this area is supporting As part of our commitment to local communities, we engage to monitor the progress of individual projects and assess area in 2015. mass sporting events and youth sports projects. In 2015, in a range of support programmes aimed at enhancing our social and economic impacts. This collaborative approach ensures our assessments draw on local insight we invested over US$1.3 million on such schemes. living standards for indigenous people in Chukotka, the In health, our aim is to deliver high-quality medical aid, Magadan Region and Khabarovsk Territory. We develop and understanding, and means we can respond flexibly to healthcare and disease prevention, with a core focus on Specifically, we: these programmes with indigenous community members, changes in local need and adjust investments accordingly. remote and underdeveloped regions. During 2015, we: ensuring our work truly addresses IMN issues, needs and • helped to overhaul and equip the wrestling hall at a During 2015, our assessments showed no negative • provided necessary medical equipment for the local expectations. In particular, we focus on enabling IMN children’s sports centre; Appendices repercussions from our operations, while the positive hospitals at Dukat and Okhotsk; integration into modern life while protecting their cultural impacts arising from our work included: • financed the purchase of a boxing ring for a local boxing identity and heritage. For example, we promote employment • provided funding for dental equipment at hospitals school in Taran district, Kazakhstan, which is attended opportunities and protect employment rights among • tax payments; in Omsukchan, Kherpuchi and Taran; by more than 50 children. The ring can also be used for indigenous people and other local communities. • support of infrastructure and auxiliary industries; • funded repair works at hospital buildings and purchased regional competitions; new medical equipment in Auezov town, Kazakhstan; • continued to support four bandy teams; We also work in consultation with the Association of • environmental protection and ecological projects; Indigenous Peoples, as well as spiritual leaders, social • purchased an ambulance for Taran district hospital; and • conducted a complete renovation of a school’s sports • regional population increase due to spread of industry; leaders, local authorities, veterans’ groups and other • delivered an all-terrain ambulance to help reindeer herders hall and changing rooms in Khabarovsk Territory; organisations focused on cultural protection. Each year, we • local employment opportunities; and and residents of remote settlements access a local hospital hold meetings with these stakeholders to assess local needs • social investment and community support. in the Magadan Region. and devise plans for social development and investment. 56 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 57 Communities Fulfilling our promises to communities G4-27 To date, Polymetal has established nine cooperation Environmental protection Progress against goals in 2015 Overview agreements and programmes with indigenous communities Over the years, Polymetal has created a strong culture In our 2013/14 Sustainability Report, we set our community priorities for 2015-2016. located in the areas where we operate. So far, our operations of environmental protection and responsibility. During 2015, have not adversely affected traditional land, monuments, we carried out a range of activities to help raise awareness We said… We did… protected areas or cultural sites in any way, and we aim to of ecological issues and safeguard the natural environment. We would identify additional stakeholders, establish Held public meetings and visits to our sites for local people and public ensure that our presence continues to enhance quality of life These included: stakeholder relations and assess stakeholder needs. associations in our new territories in the Urals and Kazakhstan. for IMN communities long into the future. Implemented a feedback mechanism for external parties in our new territories; • enhancing our ‘Healthy Environment’ programme in the Khabarovsk Region (see case study on pages 60-61); installed information desks and feedback mail boxes for stakeholders. In 2015, we invested US$108 thousand in support projects Conducted two surveys in our new regions and organised a poll on our social for indigenous people. Specifically, we: • purchasing equipment and tools for the children’s ecoEnvironment investment proposals. tourism association Eturs in the Khabarovsk Territory; • began renovating staging posts for reindeer breeders Developed local community engagement programmes and planned initiatives in the Magadan Region; • acquiring laboratory equipment for schools in the for 2016 based on poll results. Khabarovsk and Magadan regions; • acquired two snowmobiles to support indigenous peoples’ We would develop social partnership programmes, Developed social partnership programmes for 2015-2016 in line with local traditional activities in the Magadan Region; • supporting voluntary works and tree planting in sign cooperation agreements and implement social requirements. collaboration with employees and local people; projects in our new territories. Signed three cooperation agreements in the Urals and in Kazakhstan. • continued to assist reindeer herding groups by purchasing and delivering fuel, medicines and food; and • organising stakeholder visits to our production facilities Completed all social projects for 2015, with results reported during public and environmental laboratories; and meetings and via local media. Employees • continued to assist in the organisation of annual awards for the promotion of national languages and traditional • continuing to support the Children’s Environmental We would enhance the quality of our monitoring Doubled the number of people surveyed in our social project assessments from herding activities among young people in Chukotka and School squads. of social programmes. 276 in 2014 to 568 in 2015. Khabarovsk Territory. Received quality assessments from local people relating to each of our social Tax payments projects. In 2015, our protection of indigenous peoples’ rights The timely payment of local, regional and national taxes is We would develop and regulate additional methods Conducted five additional meetings with residents in remote areas and IMN. continued to underpin our commitment to building trust and another of our major contributions to social development of needs assessment for vulnerable groups, Enhanced our methods of communication with local communities by organising understanding with local community groups. Similarly, our and sustainability. Over the last five years (2010–2014), including IMN. regular employee visits to remote areas and launching additional phone lines. Communities compliance with the UN Global Compact and UN Declaration Polymetal has paid US$1.27 billion in taxes, and in 2015 on the Rights of Indigenous People reinforced our efforts in our tax payments across the Group amounted to Signed an additional partnership agreement aimed to support IMN. this area. During the year, there were no recorded violations US$172 million. Conducted a survey on preferred focus areas and channels of feedback across of the rights of minority groups. We also received no eight regions. complaints relating to land tenure or use. In addition, we In the reporting year Polymetal did not incur any significant Used the survey to determine local community and IMN needs, and included continued to inform IMN groups of our plans, activities fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with these needs in our social support and donation plans for 2016. and operations during meetings and via mass media, and laws and regulations. answered all IMN queries and requests for essential goods We would build on past success in the implementation Analysed the most successful projects and applied our experience to the of environmental and social projects, drawing on our development of further work. and fuel. Economic people’s experience from all areas of the business. Identified the needs and potential of people in the regions where we operate, and made a precise and effective plan to implement our projects in other regions Resettlement in 2016. In 2015, we negotiated a land acquisition and resettlement agreement with 26 households in a small residential area Organised 21 events as a part of our Healthy Environment project, with participation from our employees and local communities. in Kyzyl. Landowners were offered the choice between a land-for-land replacement and cash compensation, and in each case opted for cash compensation. As part of this Plans for 2016 and beyond • enhance the quality of our social programme monitoring. process, we took particular care to identify and provide Looking ahead our objectives for 2016 and beyond are In 2016, we intend to hold six meetings with local residents Appendices additional assistance to vulnerable households. In 2016, as follows: in our new business regions and receive their feedback we will look closely at how these resettlements were on implemented social programmes; • develop, sign and implement a comprehensive conducted and retrospectively integrate any necessary • extend the coverage of our social project assessment community policy; measures or improvements. We will also build these to 650 people; measures and observations into an ongoing livelihood • identify any additional stakeholders, establish stakeholder monitoring programme, which in turn will help to create relations, and assess stakeholder needs; • expand our Healthy Environment project to four new areas direct and indirect employment opportunities for local and involve 4,500 people; and • implement a stakeholder feedback system and carry out people. • develop the quality and scope of our stakeholder regular surveys in our new business areas; engagement by improving our corporate website. • increase the efficiency of social investments by engaging local communities in cooperative projects and social partnership programmes; 58 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 59 Communities Top five spot for Polymetal community In 2012 Polymetal analysed the letters sent to its PR department and Impressed by the scope, scale and creativity of the programme, the engagement programme discovered there were many local Russian People Investor jury cited people in the communities where Polymetal among the best five we operate who were asking the projects submitted for the 2015 Company to support events aimed contest. Building on the success at helping the environment. Their of ‘Healthy Environment’ in Amursk, suggestions were combined and the programme will be rolled out developed further into the ‘Healthy in other regions in 2016. Environment’ programme. “We are working together to make Over 40 events have been held since life better. People remove garbage, Overview ‘Healthy Environment’ was launched. plant trees and come to explore the The programme has grown in reach natural world around them.” and impact each year – the number of people has almost doubled, from Natalia Surkova 2,688 in the first year, to 4,330 in Project Coordinator and 2015, with the proportion of children PR professional, Polymetal and young people participating increasing from 83% to 87%. Since Environment the programme started, the events have generated over 70 media articles and videos within the Khabarovsk Region. Employees Communities Economic Number of participants in In 2015, Polymetal’s The project, rolled out in the town of community projects events Amursk in the Khabarovsk Region, ‘Healthy Environment’ encourages local people to develop, community engagement plan and implement events and activities aimed at enhancing programme was among environmental awareness and 4,500 4,330 the top five projects responsibility. From landscape 3,814 4,000 entered for the annual gardening to litter collection and Appendices playground rehabilitation, local Russian People residents developed a range of 3,500 Investor Contest. project ideas designed to improve 3,000 2,688 quality of life by creating a healthy local environment, with the winners 2,500 receiving financial support to put 2,000 their plans into action. Other initiatives included developing a map 1,500 of ecological hazards to help plan municipal clean-up days, an 1,000 environmental photo contest, a recycling carnival show, and planting 500 over a thousand trees in the town. 2013 2014 2015 60 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 61 Economic Main heading Delivering strong Overview and sustainable Environment economic performance Employees The long-term sustainability of our business depends upon economic success. Each year, Communities we work to generate profits and deliver strong financial performance, thereby safeguarding the future of the Company. G4-24 Economic Who is responsible? What guidelines Stakeholders Priorities Material Aspects do we follow? Appendices Who is responsible? What guidelines Stakeholders Priorities Material Aspects • Group CEO, Technical Council, do• UN weGlobal follow? Compact, UK Corporate • Employees, national government, • Increase community investments, • Economic performance • Indirect economic impact subsidiary managing directors Governance Code, Group Code of local government, specialist maintain all relevant tax payments, • Xxxxx working with heads of Finance, • Xxxxx Conduct • Xxxxx government agencies, local • create Xxxxx shareholder value Market presence • •Xxxxx Product responsibility • •Xxxxx Communications, Operations, HR communities, indigenous peoples’ • xxxxxx • xxxxxx • xxxxxx • xxxxxx Procurement practices • •xxxxxx • xxxxxx groups and other NGOs, suppliers • xxxxxx • xxxxxx • xxxxxx and contractors • xxxxxx • xxxxxx • xxxxxx 62 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 63 Economic Contributing to regional economic The transformation growth and development of Okhotsk seaport GRI G4-22; G4-26; G4-27 As a progressive modern Company, our aim is to deliver references and conduct site visits for smaller suppliers Overview sustainable value to our stakeholders. We also have a major when necessary. positive impact on the economic development of the regions In 2013, Polymetal Three years on, and the Okhotsk seaport has been transformed. Fully “This port is a wonderful legacy. When Polymetal first came here, the port where we operate, helping to improve living standards through Due to the geographical remoteness of our sites and their leased five shipping equipped with complex and modern was in a very sad condition. Now our investment in local communities, facilities and infrastructure. extreme climactic conditions, our relations with regional suppliers port facilities, Okhotsk is now capable the site is ready and we can load are vital for the Company. On average, around 48% of our terminals at Okhotsk of receiving more than 200,000 tonnes and unload ships quickly, with around Our approach supplier purchases come from within the regions in which seaport on the Pacific of cargo per year. Installing cutting3,000 tonnes handled per day. We’re we operate. edge crane runways, cranes, slopes, happy and proud because it is such Our business model is predicated upon the delivery of long-term coast in the Russian and berthing hardware, Polymetal was a visible, tangible achievement.” value for shareholders, employees, partners and other We have a greater choice and diversity of suppliers in more Far East. At the time, also able to load and transport cargo Environment stakeholders. To deliver value, we provide social investment, developed regions, such as Khabarovsk and the Urals. In the and heavy mining equipment to the Aleksander Goroditskiy create employment opportunities and stimulate economic more remote regions, such as the Omolon, Okhotsk and Amursk the terminals were Svetloye deposit. Shiploads can be Deputy managing director development. We also invest in upgrades and improvements across our operations, and contribute to regional economic hubs, all equipment is delivered by sea during the navigation season, and we are dependent on regional suppliers. In the out of commission processed quickly and efficiently, and for capital construction of food products and consumable goods the Okhotsk hub progress through the payment of national and local taxes. geographically remote Magadan Region, building strong supply and in urgent need can be regularly received by the local chain relationships is critical, due to the limited transport options Tax payments available. At Mayskoye we achieved a 34% share of local of renovation, repair people of the North. Our Group makes a direct positive impact to local suppliers in 2015, the highest since operations began there and investment. With Meeting the production needs of the in 2011. communities through the payment of taxes to Russian and a project budget Company, and significantly enhancing Employees Kazakh state and local authorities. In 2015 our tax payments the surrounding area, the rehabilitation across the Group amounted to US$172 million compared to In this way, each of our operations has adopted its own approach of US$4.7 million, of the Okhotsk seaport will be US$213 million in 2014. These payments include mandatory to procurement. We engage local and regional suppliers wherever delivering sustainable value for many contributions to state social funds, including Pension Funds possible, although specific site requirements mean goods and Polymetal set about years to come. of the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan. services are sometimes procured centrally. The complexity of a major overhaul of the our business processes and equipment needs also means that supplier options may be limited, particularly in remote areas port’s infrastructure. Local employment where there may only be one supplier for the services and By actively recruiting from local communities, we create materials we need. In these instances, we often combine Communities in-country employment opportunities at our major operational components from different suppliers to broaden our options sites. In turn, these opportunities help to create local value and and optimise our procurement budget. We also use Trading improve people’s lives. In 2015, 94.9% of our employees were Platforms software to enable us to find the best supplier local nationals (Russian and Kazakh, depending on the solutions and alternatives. location of the site), which is higher than in 2014. Product responsibility Social investments Since 1998, we have not received any significant fines for We are committed to making meaningful social investments non-compliance with laws and regulations relating to the use Economic in the regions where we operate. Read more on pages 54-59. and provision of products and services. Procurement Financial highlights1 (US$m) 2015 2014 We help to stimulate regional and national supply chains through the procurement of local goods and services. Revenue 1,441 1,690 Cash operating costs (excluding Our specialised company, Polymetal Trading, provides depreciation, labour costs and mining tax) 405 587 purchasing, supply, logistical and maintenance services to each Appendices Wages and salaries; other payments and of the Polymetal Group’s production companies. It is also benefits for employees 203 248 responsible for our procurement policies and practices. Payments to capital providers 56 39 Payments to shareholders 216 173 At each site, we separate our supply chain expenses into capital expenditure and operating costs. Our capital Taxes (excluding payroll taxes included in expenditure suppliers – for example those providing plant labour costs) infrastructure material and equipment – are often large, global – Income tax and excess profit tax 55 72 manufacturers, which means we can reduce risk and cost and – Taxes, other than income tax 12 22 secure beneficial terms of delivery. – Mining tax 97 110 Our internal policy on supplier estimations enables us to – Social payments 8 9 Okhotsk port new capacity 200 Ktpa rigorously assess product quality and commercial terms and Undistributed economic value retained 390 430 conditions. We also insist that our suppliers provide relevant 1 Any restatements and variances are due to changes in methodology and ensure legal and financial documentation. In addition, we check all consistent estimation across current and previous year values. 64 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 65 External assurance report GRI G4 Content Index Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Shareholders of Polymetal International plc Introduction Our Independence and Quality Control All indicators included in the appendix ‘GRI G4 Content Index’ have undergone external certification by an independent auditor Overview We have been engaged by management of Polymetal International We have complied with the independence and other ethical (see the Independent Limited Assurance Report on the previous page) plc (hereinafter – the Company) to provide limited assurance1 requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants on the Selected Information described below and included in issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, the Sustainability Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, GRI G4 General standard disclosures (hereinafter – the Sustainability Report). professional competence and due care, confidentiality and General standard disclosures Scope* Pages/notes professional behaviour. Selected Information Strategy and Analysis We assessed the qualitative and quantitative information that is Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 1 p. 2-5 disclosed in the Sustainability Report and included in the Tables accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control of the Global Reporting Initiative for standard disclosures in including documented policies and procedures regarding G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 1 p. 7, 11, 17-18 Environment environmental, workforce, safety and socio-economic areas in compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards Organisation Profile the reporting scope of the Sustainability Report (hereinafter – the and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. G4-3 Report the name of the organisation 1 Cover Selected Information). The scope of our assurance procedures was limited to Selected Information for year ended 31 December 2015. Work Done G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services 1 p. 6-7 Our procedures included: G4-5 Report the location of the organisation’s headquarters 1 p. 8-9 Reporting Criteria • enquiries of the Company’s management; G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries 1 Inside front cover, p. 8-9, 22 We assessed the Selected Information using the Global Reporting • interviews of personnel responsible for sustainability reporting where either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant Initiative Sustainability Reporting Framework, including version G4 and data collection (interviews were held in St. Petersburg); to the sustainability topics covered in the report of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (hereinafter – GRI G4). We believe that these reporting criteria are appropriate given the G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form 1 Annual Report, p. 178 • analysis of the relevant policies and basic reporting principles Employees purpose of our limited assurance engagement. and gaining an understanding of the design of the key structures, G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types 1 p. 8-9, 20-21 systems, processes and controls for managing, recording and of customers and beneficiaries) Responsibilities of Polymetal International plc reporting the Selected Information; Management of the Company is responsible for: G4-9 Report the scale of the organisation 1, 8, 9 p. 6-9 • limited substantive testing of the Selected Information on G4-10 Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender 9 p. 6, 38, 40 • designing, implementing and maintaining internal systems, a selective basis to verify that data had been appropriately processes and controls over information relevant to the measured, recorded, collated and reported; and G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 7 p. 41 preparation of the Selected Information that is free from G4-12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain 3 p. 10 material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; • reviewing the Selected Information for compliance of the disclosures with the requirements of GRI G4. G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organisation’s 1 p. 5, 4-16 • establishing objective reporting criteria for preparing the size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain Communities Selected Information; Reporting and Measurement Methodologies G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by 1 p. 49 • measuring the Company’s performance based on the There are no globally recognised and established practices for the organisation reporting criteria; and evaluating and measuring the Selected Information. The range of different, but acceptable, techniques can result in materially G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, 2 Inside front cover, p. 13, 25, • accuracy, completeness and fair presentation of the different reporting outcomes that may affect comparability with or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses 37, 45, 53, 63 Selected Information. other organisations. The reporting criteria used as a basis of the G4-16 List membership of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international 3 p. 57-58 Company’s sustainability reporting should therefore be read in advocacy organisations Our Responsibilities conjunction with the Selected Information and associated Our responsibility is to form an independent conclusion, based on statements reported on the Company’s website2. Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries our limited assurance procedures, on whether anything has come to G4-17 List all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements 5 p. 8-9, 72 Economic our attention to indicate that the Selected Information is not stated, Limited Assurance Conclusion or equivalent documents in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. As a result of our procedures: G4-17a List all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements p. 8-9, 72 We conducted our engagement in accordance with the International • nothing has come to our attention that causes us to or equivalent documents Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance believe that the Selected Information for the year ended G4-17b Report whether any entity included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements p. 8-9, 72 engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial 31 December 2015 has not been prepared, in all material or equivalent documents is not covered by the report information. This standard requires that we comply with ethical respects, in accordance with the requirements of GRI G4; and requirements to plan and perform the assurance engagement G4-18 Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 5 Inside front cover, to obtain limited assurance on the Selected Information. • nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe p. 12-13, 22-23 that the Selected Information does not meet the Core G4-18a Explain the process for defining the report content Inside front cover requirements in accordance with the Guidelines GRI G4. Appendices This report, including our conclusions, has been prepared solely G4-18a Explain the process for defining the Aspect Boundaries p. 12-13, 22-23 for management of the Company to assist management in reporting on the Company’s sustainability performance and activities. We G4-18b Explain how the organisation has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining p. 22 permit this report to be disclosed in the Company’s Sustainability Report Content Report, to enable management to show that as part of their G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 5 p. 22-23 governance responsibilities they have obtained an independent G4-19a List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content p. 22-23 limited assurance report in connection with the Selected Information. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume AO PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit responsibility to anyone other than management of the Company Moscow, Russia for our work or this report except where terms are expressly 13 April 2016 agreed and our prior consent in writing is obtained. 1 A  ssurance, defined by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB), gives the user confidence about the subject matter assessed against the reporting criteria. Limited assurance gives less in confidence than reasonable assurance, as a limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope in relation to both the assessment of risks of material misstatement and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. The term ‘assurance’ hereafter is not used as defined in the Federal Law 307-FZ of 30.12.2008 ‘On Auditing Activities’ (edition of 28.12.2010). 2 T  he maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website is the responsibility of management; the work carried out by us does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the reported Selected Information or Reporting Criteria when presented on the Company’s website. * See Reportable segments on page 72. 66 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 67 GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 General standard disclosures continued Overview General standard disclosures Scope* Pages/notes General standard disclosures Scope* Pages/notes G4-20 Report the material Aspect Boundary within the organisation 5 p. 22-23, 72 Report Profile G4-20a For each material Aspect, report whether the Aspect is material within the organisation p. 23 G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided 1 Inside front cover G4-20a If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organisation (as described in G4-17), select p. 23. The Scope column G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 1 April 2015 one of the following two approaches (if applicable): in the GRI G4 Content G4-30 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial etc.) 1 Inside front cover The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or Index refers to the entities The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is material for which a certain aspect G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 1 sustainability@ is material or not material. polymetalinternational.com Environment These entities are shown in G4-32 GRI content index 1 p. 67 the table on page 72. G4-33 External assurance 1 p. 66 G4-20a Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organisation p. 23, 72 Governance G4-21 Report the material Aspect Boundary outside the organisation 5 p. 22-23 G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organisation 5 p. 14-15 G4-21a For each material Aspect, report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organisation p. 22-23 G4-35 Process for delegating authority 5 p. 14-19 G4-21a If the Aspect is material outside of the organisation, identify the entities, groups of entities p. 22 G4-36 Executive-level positions 5 p. 14, 18, 19, 25, 37, 45, or elements for which the Aspect is material (optional) 53, 63 G4-21a If the Aspect is material outside of the organisation describe the geographical location p. 22 G4-37 Consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body 5 p. 20 Employees where the Aspect is material for the entities identified (if applicable) G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body 5 p. 15 G4-21a Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organisation p. 22 G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 5 p. 15 G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports and the 5 In the footnotes on reasons for such restatements p. 28, 29, 30, 31, 33, 47, 64 G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees 5 p. 15-16 G4-22a Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports In the footnotes on G4-42 Highest governance body’s role in setting purpose, values, and strategy 5 p. 15-19, 26 p. 28, 29, 30, 31, 33, 47, 64 G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of risks 5 p. 15-19 G4-22a Report the reasons for such restatements In the footnotes on G4-49 Highest governance body’s role in evaluating economic, environmental and 5 p. 14-19 p. 28, 29, 30, 31, 33, 47, 64 social performance Communities G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and Aspect Boundaries 5 p. 22-23 G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives 5 p. 16-17 G4-23a Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope p. 22-23 Ethics and Integrity G4-23a Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Aspect Boundaries p. 22-23 G4-56 Organisation's values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 1 p. 6, 12-13, 19 Stakeholder Engagement G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical 1 p. 19, 39, 41-42, 54-56 G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 1 p. 20-21, 24, 36, 44, 52, 62 or unlawful behaviour G4-24a Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation p. 20-21, 24, 36, 44, 52, 62 GRI G4 Specific standard disclosures G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 1 p. 20-21 Economic G4-25a Report the basis for identification of stakeholders with whom to engage p. 20-21 Category GRI G4 Code Topic Scope* Pages/notes G4-25a Report the basis for selection of stakeholders with whom to engage p. 20-21 Economic G4-26 Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement 1 p. 12-13, 20-21, 26, 27, 38, Economic performance G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 2 p. 64 46, 50, 54-55, 64 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2 p. 64 G4-26a Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement (if applicable) p. 12-13, 20-21, 26, 27, 38, Market presence G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 2 p. 38, 54, 64 46, 50, 54-55, 64 G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage to local minimum wage 2 p. 40 G4-26a Report the frequency of stakeholder engagement by type p. 20-21, 26, 27, 38, 46, 50, at significant locations of operation 54-55, 64 G4-EC6 Employees hired from the local community at significant locations 1 p. 64 Appendices G4-26a Report the frequency of stakeholder engagement by stakeholder group p. 20-21, 26, 27, 38, 46, 50, of operation 54-55, 64 Indirect economic impacts G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 54, 64 G4-26a Indicate whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report No specific engagement G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments 10 p. 57, 64, 65 preparation process was undertaken Procurement practices G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 3 p. 54, 64 G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 1 p. 20-21, 26-27, 41, 50, 54-55, 56, 58, 64 G4-EC9 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on local suppliers at 3 p. 64 significant locations of operation G4-27a Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement p. 20-21, 26-27, 41, 50, 54-55, 56, 58, 64 Environment G4-27a Report how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns (if applicable) p. 26-27, 41, 50, 54-55, 56, Materials G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 2 p. 26, 29-30 58, 64 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 2 p. 29-30 G4-27a Report how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns through p. 26-27, 41, 50, 54-55, G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 2 p. 29 its reporting 58, 64 Energy G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 26, 31-32 G4-27a Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns p. 20-21, 26-27, 41, 50, G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation 1 p. 31 54-55, 56, 58, 64 * See Reportable segments on page 72. * See Reportable segments on page 72. 68 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 69 GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Specific standard disclosures continued Overview Category GRI G4 Code Topic Scope* Pages/notes Category GRI G4 Code Topic Scope* Pages/notes G4-EN5 Energy intensity 1 p. 31 Training and education G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 38-39, 41, 50 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 1 p. 31-32 G4-LA9 Average hours of training by subject 13 p. 41 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 1 p. 31-32 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 13 p. 41, 43 Water G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 2 p. 26, 29 and career development reviews G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 2 p. 29 Diversity and equal G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 38 opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown 11 p. 40 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 2 p. 29 Environment of employees G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 2 p. 29 Labour practices G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 15 p. 38, 41 Biodiversity G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 4 p. 26, 27, 33 grievance mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour practices filed, addressed, 14 p. 41-42 G4-EN11 Operations in protected areas or areas of high biodiversity 4 p. 27 and resolved G4-EN12 Significant impacts on biodiversity 4 p. 27 Human Rights and Policies G4-MM1 Amount of land disturbed or rehabilitated 4 p. 33, 34 Non-discrimination G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 38 Emissions G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 2 p. 26, 32 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective 1 p. 38 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 2 p. 32 actions taken Employees G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 2 p. 32 Freedom of association G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 41 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 2 p. 32 and collective bargaining G4-HR4 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 1 p. 41 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 2 p. 32 Indigenous rights G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 54, 57 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 2 p. 32 G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of 1 p. 58 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 2 p. 32 indigenous peoples Effluents and waste G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 2 p. 26, 29, 30 G4-MM5 Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to 1 p. 58 indigenous peoples’ territories and formal agreements made G4-EN22 Total water discharge 2 p. 29 Society Communities G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 2 p. 29-30 Local communities G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 15 p. 54, 55 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 1 p. 26 G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community 1 p. 54-56 G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste 1 p. 30 engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes deemed hazardous G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts 12 p. 56 G4-MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges 2 p. 29-30 on local communities Environmental compliance G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 26 Anti-corruption G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 19, 38 G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number 1 p. 26 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies 11 p. 19, 38 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance and procedures Economic Overall G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 2 p. 26 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 1 p. 39 G4-EN31 Environmental protection expenditures and investments 2 p. 27 Compliance G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 54 Supplier environmental G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 26 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number 1 p. 58, 38 assessment G4-EN32 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 1 p. 26 of non-monetary sanctions Environmental grievance G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 26 Grievance mechanisms G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 54, 55, 56 mechanisms for impacts on society G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, 1 p. 55, 56 G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts 1 p. 26 and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Social Resettlement G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 54, 55, 56 Appendices Labour Practices and Decent Work Employment G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 38-39 G4-MM9 Sites where resettlement took place, the number of households 1 p. 58 resettled in each, and how their livelihoods were affected in the G4-LA1 Total number and rate of employee turnover 11, 2 p. 38-39 process Labour/management G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 2 p. 38-39, 41-42 Closure planning G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 4 p. 26, 54 relations G4-MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding 1 The Company had G4-MM10 Number and percentage of operations with closure plans 5 p. 33 one week’s duration no lockouts or strikes Product Responsibility in 2015 Compliance G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 64 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 1 p. 42 G4-PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning 1 p. 64 Occupational health G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 46, 47-49 the provision and use of products and services and safety G4-LA6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and number 12 p. 47-50 of work-related fatalities * See Reportable segments on page 72. * See Reportable segments on page 72. 70 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc 71 Other information GRI G4-17; G4-20 Reportable segments Scopes Reportable segment Company name 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 Voro CJSC Gold of Northern Urals Okhotsk operations Okhotskaya Mining and Exploration Company LLC Okhotsk operations Svetloye LLC Dukat CJSC Magadan Silver Omolon Omolon Gold Mining Company LLC Varvara JSC Varvarinskoye Amursk-Albazino Albazino Resources Ltd Amursk-Albazino Amur Hydrometallurgical Plant LLC Mayskoye Mayskoye Gold Mining Company LLC Kyzyl Bakyrchik Mining Venture LLP Kyzyl JSC Inter Gold Capital Other* Omolon Polymetal Underground Development LLC Viksha Industria LLC Varvara Vostochniy Basis LLC Voro Maminskaya Mining Company LLC Voro Bureau LLC Svetlobor JSC Urals – PGM Lichkvaz CJSC LV Gold Mining Okhotsk operations Kutyn Mining and Geological Company LLC * JSC Polymetal Engineering, JSC Polymetal Management, Polymetal Trading and their subsidiaries. Note: a shaded box indicates that the reportable segment is included in the relevant Scope. Abbreviations Units of measurement CIS Commonwealth of Independent States g/t gram per tonne eq equivalent GJ gigajoules GE gold equivalent km kilometres IMN Indigenous Minorities of the North Koz thousand ounces JORC Australasian Joint Ore Reserves Committee Kt thousand tonnes JSC joint stock company Ktpa thousand tonnes per annum NGO non-governmental organisation m metres PGM platinum group metal Moz million ounces POX pressure oxidation Mt million tonnes SE silver equivalent Mtpa million tonnes per annum MWh megawatt-hour Oz or oz troy ounce (31.1035 g) t tonne (1,000 kg) tpd tonnes per day This report is printed on paper which is FSC certified (the standards for well-managed forests, considering environment, social and economic issues). Designed and produced by Instinctif Partners www.instinctif.com 72 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2015 Polymetal International plc The Esplanade St Helier Jersey JE4 9WG Channel Islands Registered No. 106196 www.polymetalinternational.com
