Communication on Progress 2016 WWW.TRANSLATIONBACKOFFICE.COM Avenida Colón 778, Piso 4 Phone: +54 351 568 5103 info@translationbackoffice.com bdt@translationbackoffice.com TABLE OF CONTENTS LETTER OF CONTINUOUS COMMITMENT ........................................................................................ 3 CORPORATE PROFILE ........................................................................................................................ 4 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT .............................................................................. 8 DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICAL ACTIONS & MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES ..................................... 9 www.translationbackoffice.com • +54 351 568 5103 – bdt@translationbackoffice.com LETTER OF CONTINUOUS COMMITMENT Global Compact Chief Executive I am glad to express our continuous commitment to support the ten principles of the Global Compact and renew our aim to increase the acceptance and scope of human rights, labor rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption practices within our sphere of influence. My team and I hereby express our intention to advance in these principles and renew our support to the initiative. The Communication on Progress (COP) included herein is intended to inform stakeholders about our efforts to strengthen United Nations’ development goals and implement the principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact. With sincere and kind regards, Córdoba, Argentina – 9 September 2016. 3 www.translationbackoffice.com • +54 351 568 5103 – bdt@translationbackoffice.com CORPORATE PROFILE Translation Back Office S.A. is a Sociedad Anónima, similar to a US Limited Liability Corporation, with a publicly registered charter, over twelve years of experience in the translation industry, and a proven track record at a global level. The company is committed to providing high quality translations on a sustainable basis in full observance of customer requirements and industry best practices. The Common Sense Advisory’s Language Services Market: 2015 report ranked Translation Back Office as the top language service provider in Latin America. Background: Translation Back Office S.A. was founded as an export oriented world-class language Services Company over a decade ago. Due to an important business expansion in 2005 Translation Back Office S.A. was incorporated in Córdoba, Argentina. Translation Back Office S.A. was originally named Spanish Back Office S.A., but in 2009 after several years of rapid growth, the company expanded into multi-lingual translation and the name was changed to reflect the new business model. During the period of 2005-2009, Translation Back Office S.A. was mainly focused on serving intermediary clients located worldwide. From 2010 onwards Translation Back Office S.A. began to work with United Nations organizations on an increasingly frequent basis. In order to accompany business grow, the company changed the entrepreneurial approach of its early days and restructured itself to bring its resources directly to its clients. This resulted in the development of a robust production framework that includes several organization units, in-house translators and a flexible pool of freelance resources; and in the development of production and export capacities to supply regional or international markets. Translation Back Office S.A. is an approved UNGM vendor (ID No.: 168050), and has long standing 4 www.translationbackoffice.com • +54 351 568 5103 – bdt@translationbackoffice.com relationships with multiple United Nations departments, divisions, and programs namely: UNICEF UNDP (the United Nations Development Program) UNOPS Copenhagen Office, Denmark. UNEP/UNREDD Programme Secretariat, International Environment House. Switzerland. UNREDD Programme (UN Collaborative initiative on Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and forest Degradation (REDD) in developing countries). Panama. UNAIDS (the Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS) UNIDO (the United Nationals Industrial Development Organization) UNU (the United Nations University) UN-OCHA Translation Back Office S.A. has executed translation projects for the following UNDP Offices: UNDP (the United Nations Development Program) o UNDP NY Office o UNDP Lebanon Office o UNDP Office of Communications/ Partnerships Bureau/New York  UNDP -Office of Communications/Partnership Bureau NY – UNDP Geneva Office  UNDP Bureau for Policy and Programme Support NY  UNDP -Bureau for Development Policy Democratic Governance Group  UNDP Knowledge Management Unit (KMU) El Salvador.  BDP/UNDP-GEF United Nations Development Programme.  UNDP –MDG TEAM and Human Development, Regional Service Centre for Latin America and the Caribbean. (Panama).  UNDP -MDG Team Poverty Practice, Bureau for Development Policy United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). NY.  UNDP-MDG Fund. Translation Back Office S.A. provides dedicated translation services to the following International Organisations: The World Bank (ID No.: 117878). Global Partners Education (GPE) The company is also an approved vendor for the following UN agencies and programs: IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency) ILO (International Labor Organization) ITC (International Trade Center) UN SECRETARIAT/UNOG (Vendor ID 83047) UNDP, UNESCO UNFPA (United Nations Population Fund) UNOPS (United Nations Office for Project Services) UNPD (Vendor ID 34350) UNRWA (United Nations Relief and Works Agency) WIPO (World Intellectual Property Organization). OSCE (Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe) 5 www.translationbackoffice.com • +54 351 568 5103 – bdt@translationbackoffice.com Headquarters location: Avenida Colón 778, Piso 4, X5000EPU, Córdoba, Argentina. URL: www.translationbackoffice.com Countries of Operation: Argentina. Years in business: Translation Back Office S.A. began operations over twelve years ago as a pioneer on a regional level. Year founded: After sustained growth the company was incorporated in Córdoba, Argentina, on August 29, 2005. Certifications: Translation Back Office S.A. has been certified under ISO 9001:2008 since 2010; and is also accredited by AILIA, the Language Industry Association of Canada. Translation Back Office S.A. has also obtained the AILIA certification: CAN/CGSB-131.10-2008 Translation Services, a national standard developed by the Canadian General Standards Board and approved by the Standards Council of Canada. Awards: Translation Back Office S.A. has received numerous awards from local business associations and publications, including “Most Innovative Services Exporter” in Argentina, awarded by Diario La Nación and Banco Galicia, and “Best Technology Company in Córdoba”, awarded by a local business magazine. SERVICES Language Services  Multilingual Document Translations.  Linguistic Quality Assurance.  Terminology Management.  Language Consulting.  Transcription. Translation and Localization Services  Website Localization.  Software Localization.  Transcreation and Marketing Translations. Engineering & New Media Services  Desktop Publishing (DTP). Project Management Office Services  Managed Services.  Vendor Management. 6 www.translationbackoffice.com • +54 351 568 5103 – bdt@translationbackoffice.com EXPERIENCE Translation Back Office has over 12 years of experience in the translation industry at a global level. To date, Translation Back Office S.A. has completed over 115,500 projects accounting for approximately 250 million words in different language combinations. AREAS OF SPECIALIZATION Our areas of expertise include but not limited to the following: International Trade & Development, Human Development, Governmental & Parliamentary, Business, Legal; Medical, Health Care, Pharmaceutical, Biosciences, Environmental, IT, Telecommunication, e-learning, Technical, Marketing, Finance, Accountancy, Travel & Tourism, Hospitality, Education, Entertainment. We also have experience in projects involving a combination of these areas. ORGANISATION  Translation Back Office S.A. is organized around the following functional areas: Business Development (BD) Project Management Office (PMO) o Project Management Units Quality Assurance (QA) department  Language Support o Language Development Language Technology Vendor Management  Desktop Publishing Technology Department  Finance and Administration Human Resources 7 www.translationbackoffice.com • +54 351 568 5103 – bdt@translationbackoffice.com THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles are derived from: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention against Corruption. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that businesses are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 8 www.translationbackoffice.com • +54 351 568 5103 – bdt@translationbackoffice.com DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICAL ACTIONS & MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES We aim to support UN Global Compact Principles in a sustainable manner. We pursue this goal in executing practical actions that are carried out as part of our day-to-day activities, and also within the compass of regular and/or ad-hoc projects. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that businesses are not complicit in human rights abuses. Practical actions Our initiatives to support human rights in the workplace include but are not limited to the following: o We put significant efforts into creating and maintaining a relaxed work environment that is inclusive of all, which facilitates the development of healthy interpersonal relationships in the workplace; HUMAN RIGHTS as well as freedom of opinion, thought, expression, conscience and religion; and communication and social interaction among employees. o We have a deep concern for children and family as the natural and fundamental group unit of society; and believe that motherhood and childhood are entitled to protection, special care and assistance. Support actions may include:  Flexible hours or flexi-time schemes, and Part-time work. These arrangements help employees handle situations in which flexibility is essential, for example, starting work later or leaving early to allow time to get adequate rest in case of sickness, do personal business; or take a child to school or to the dentist/doctor; etc. thus facilitating their upbringing and care. (These arrangements are better described below. Please see actions in support of Labour-related principles) o We maintain security in the workplace and ensure safe and healthy working conditions that are adequate for the health and well-being of employees. Our office is fully equipped with security devices, and maintained in accordance with hygiene standards required by local Security and Safety regulations. o Regular/ Ad-hoc Projects: o Education/ Student Internship Programmes. We have Internships agreements with local Educational Institutions like Mariano Moreno Institute of Training, IICANA, and Universidad 9 www.translationbackoffice.com • +54 351 568 5103 – bdt@translationbackoffice.com Empresarial Siglo XXI and University Blas Pascal (Covenants for foreign Internship Programs). These programmes are geared towards contributing to students’ education o Participation in social fund raising and donation campaigns for small local institutions requiring funds to support social protection, education and aid initiatives in lowincome areas. Measure of outcomes We measure the outcome of our initiatives by using a series of indicators, ratios, and other specific tools like reports; among which we can mention: o Internal statistics and indicators, such as turnover rate, burnout and engagement indicators, and absenteeism rate, among others. o Employee Satisfaction Survey report. Employee surveys help us gauge our employees’ satisfaction on a number of issues, like the overall climate of our organization; and identify those factors which are contributing to employee satisfaction. An excerpt of our last Employee Satisfaction Survey report is included below. Engagement 4,00 Happy 3,65 Worker Burn Out 1,56 Rank: 1 to 4 o For Internship Programmes we use forms and documentation provided by the corresponding University / Educational Centre. o Security and Safety in the work place are gauged by on-site external audits carried out by local Government Bodies. 10 www.translationbackoffice.com • +54 351 568 5103 – bdt@translationbackoffice.com Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 11 www.translationbackoffice.com • +54 351 568 5103 – bdt@translationbackoffice.com Practical actions o We embrace cross-cultural diversity and are open to new experiences. Our hiring procedures follow the principle of equal opportunity. We work against all forms of discrimination in employment and occupation, which may be based on items such as race or gender, age, nationality, religion, sexual orientation, etc.;. o We are aligned and committed to the existing legal provisions and regulations on labour matters. Our staff is formally registered, LABOUR remunerations are paid according to corresponding Collective Labor Agreements, and all contributions made in a timely manner. We do not employ children or minors. o Although working hours and holiday periods are established in accordance with our General National Labor Act and Labour Agreements, we have Flexible Work Arrangements in place that enable our employees achieve better balance between work, family and personal life. These may include:  Flexible hours or flexi-time schemes (i.e. an employee is allowed to work from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. rather than from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m.), and Part-time work. These arrangements help employees handle situations in which flexibility is essential, for example, starting work later or leaving early to allow time to do personal business; or take a child to school or to the dentist/doctor; etc.  Flexible work locations and working on the move. This helps employees reduce the time spent commuting to and from work, increase control over when work is done; and have an improved balance between work and home life.  Extended holiday periods may be authorized in special cases (i.e. to facilitate the attendance to a family event that takes place in a different country, the visit to relatives living abroad; or a long trip for personal experience. o All our employees are covered by Labour Risk Insurance in case of accidents occurred in the work place, or by in itinere accidents. Our Work Risk Insurance (ART) offers courses in prevention and training, appropriate to the interests of the company and the needs of the worker. o Our Safety and Health at Work policy and action plan includes a series of initiatives to encourage the active participation of employees in the identification and prevention of risks in order to minimize accidents and possible diseases of the staff. 12 www.translationbackoffice.com • +54 351 568 5103 – bdt@translationbackoffice.com Measure of outcomes We maintain the necessary mechanisms for the control and monitoring of situations designed to prevent acts of discrimination. As previously indicated, we measure the outcome of our initiatives by using a series of indicators, ratios, and other specific tools like reports; among which we can mention: o Internal statistics and indicators, such as turnover rate, burnout and engagement indicators, and absenteeism rate, among others. o Employee Satisfaction Survey report. Employee surveys help us identify those factors which are contributing to employee satisfaction. An excerpt of our last Employee Satisfaction Survey report is included below. Instructions Satisfac Feedback ction with 3,45 RecognitionTeam Engagement 4,00 efforts Leader Recognitionoutcome Collaboration Satisfac Happy Coordination 3,65 ción with 3,44 Worker Efficiency WorkTeam Creativity Challenge Burn Out 1,56 Satisfaction Time 3,33 with task Materials Skills Satisfac Compensation ction with Proudness 3,09 TBO as a Values company Remuneration Rank: 1 to 4 13 www.translationbackoffice.com • +54 351 568 5103 – bdt@translationbackoffice.com Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Practical actions ENVIRONMENT o Plastic bottle lid collection campaigns in support of the recycling programme promoted by Garrahan Foundation. This initiative is carried out with the aim to collect plastic bottle lids for recycling purposes; and to support environmental protection. Recycling is performed by Recycling Organisations. The funds raised from recycled lids are then donated to the Garrahan Children Hospital Foundation, and used to finance several initiatives and actions carried out by the Foundation, like the treatment and rehabilitation of thousands of children across the country. 14 www.translationbackoffice.com • +54 351 568 5103 – bdt@translationbackoffice.com o Rational paper use. We constantly promote good practices and encourage our employees to limit unnecessary paper use, and, at the same time, choose paper with a small environmental impact. o Introduction and usage of electronic invoicing system. o Unless otherwise and specifically required, we work with and deliver our work in digital and electronic format. Whenever possible, on-screen consultation and editing of documents is encouraged instead of reading of texts from printed documents. We use shared network printers that print double-sided by default. o We use internal communication to raise awareness on the importance of rational paper use and its impact on the environment. Paper recycling initiatives: We are currently analyzing the possible acquisition of a paper shredder machine so as to continue paper recycling initiatives with Instituto Papelera del Plata (Paper Recycling Organisation). 15 www.translationbackoffice.com • +54 351 568 5103 – bdt@translationbackoffice.com Measure of outcomes We do not count with a specifical method to measure the outcomes of these initiatives. We aim to support these organisations by giving the best of ourselves. We do not have an average result of the campaigns we carry out but a good feeling of fellowship from the other side which is far more important to us than numerical results. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Practical actions ANTI-CORRUPTION Our client building policy is based on fair competition. We pursue transparency in all communications, and fairness in all negotiations with our stakeholders We incorporate customers’ expectations and requirements into quality metrics and performance standards. Measure of outcomes • Focus on values to prevent robbery or misconduct between colleagues. • Internal Structure to receive, investigate and resolve doubts and claims. • We develop internal audits to check and early identify deviations before they reach the client. • All transactions are documented and treated confidentially. • Customers’ quality requirements are taken into account as major guidelines to define the quality metrics that will be used for a particular client account and/or project. Quality compliance requirements are also included in our quality performance scoring criteria 16 www.translationbackoffice.com • +54 351 568 5103 – bdt@translationbackoffice.com
