Communication on progress 2016 Global Compact Report Contents Message from the CEO 3 About Gruau 4 Key figures 5 Our Strategy 6 Our 7 Values 7 Our Vision for 2017 9 Our Sustainable Development approach 10 Societal and social dimension 11 Security Involvement in the life of the city Economic dimension 13 Eco-conception Economy Ecological dimension 15 Communication on progress 2016 16 Human rights 16 Working Conditions 17 Environment 20 Fight against Corruption 23 Message from the CEO We have built our first Company Project in 1988, highlighting People and Communication. Our Company Project has grown over the years and in 2011 we have built our 2017 project, which outlines our vision and our commitments to the employees of the Company, but as well our social commitment, which means protection of the planet as stakeholders’ satisfaction. This project is prepared with the involvement of all Gruau group employees. In this context, we have implemented many actions of progress, considering the dimension of our Company, which participate in Global Compact Principles. Some are small, others more structural. We have chosen to present four actions we are especially proud of. We confirm the support to the UN Global Compact. Patrick GRUAU CEO About Gruau Global Player in the LCV Market Since 1889, the Gruau Group, N°1 in Europe for conversions, designs and manufactures global transportation solutions for its customers : manufacturers, dealers, fleet customers , purchasing associations, professionals, communities or individuals thanks to its core business: Converter-Manufacturer. Under the leadership of Patrick Gruau, 5th generation, our family Group continues to grow. The company's 18 locations (including 5 abroad: 2 in Poland, Spain, Algeria and USA) employs a total of 1,300 people and achieves a turnover of € 220 million, and a network of 125 European distributors. Multi-specialist, multi-site, Gruau is able to convert more than 50,000 vehicles per year for companies around the world. The Group is now a referenced supplier by 34 international car brands and offers more than 20 product lines: minibuses, transport of persons with reduced mobility, transport of goods (Box body, refrigerated or insulated vehicles), construction industry (tippers, crew cabs …), safety and security for the police, customs …, company cars, ambulances and emergency, funeral, electric, specific vehicles (medical, mobile offices, training units …)… Key figures Our Strategy • Be either n°1 or n°2 in France, and in targeted countries in each of our activities, by getting a sustainable profitability and focusing high-addedvalue products. • Build on our Teams, our plants Competitiveness, our organisation Flexibility, Quality, eco-conception and Innovation in all our offers of Products and Services. Our 7 Values These are the values underpinning our success in the past and that we wish to develop for our success in the future. They apply to each employee, to each company and to the whole Group. They are the cornerstones of our Gruau Culture, combining discipline with “added warmth”. OUR PEOPLE AND OUR TEAM SPIRIT These are the two key assets of the Gruau Group. Each individual contributes to the success of the Team and is recognised for his or her “Added Value”. Our employees take part in the Project, help one another and develop a sense of cohesion contributing to the Group’s success CUSTOMER FOCUS This refers to the capacity of each individual to listen to Customers, and to put themselves in the Customer’s place in order to deliver the beste possible solution in terms of Products and Services, as part of a long-term relationship built on a mutual respect of commitments. Our 7 Values LONG-TERM COMMITMENT This refers to our capacity to adopt a long-term approach, to deal fairly at all times , and to promote medium-term and long-term objectives in all our decisions. EXEMPLARY BEHAVIOUR This imeans enforcing the same rules to all, respecting our commitments, and to maintain expected standards in our behaviour. RESPECT This means taking others into consideration, respecting their working environment and creating a “positive” attitude to the company based on individual rights and duties. POSITIVE ATTITUDE This refers to the capacity of each individual to be constructive and to highlight “the positive side of things”. This attitude contributes to motivation and optimism, makes it easier to find solutions, and promotes positive relations OPENNESS This means taking an interest in others, discovering different cultures and horizons, developing our capacity to explore and accept new ideas without pre-conceived prejudices. Our Vision for 2017 GRUAU, A GLOBAL PLAYER IN LCVs Gruau is an independent family-owned group with international reach. It is a European leader in its field. Innovative and responsible, Gruau is recognised for its clean solutions to mobility and transportin the urban environment. Continuity and Development are the two forces driving its strategy and underpinning a corporate culture based on industrial and human aims. A VISION FOR OUR CUSTOMERS Our customers trust us and speak positively about the company. They approve our actions as a responsive company that listens to their needs and that is able to delvier a range of innovative global solutions with productservice ranges combining functionality, reliability and design. A VISION FOR OUR EMPLOYEES Our employees are motivated and collaborative, mobile and committed to their mission. They contribute to the efficiency of a Group that encourages them to push back their limits, while recognising talent and seeking to transmit/develop new skills. A VISION FOR OUR PARTNERS Our partners are proactive, contributing their expertise to a Group that encourages loyalty and promotes mutual trust in pursuit of a shared, longterm objective: a competitive e service for Customers. A VISION FOR SOCIETY We are a responsible Group that is aware of the impact of our decisions and activities on the community and on the environment. We are committed to sustainable development and to promoting the involvement of all individuals in the life of the community. Our Sustainable Development approach In keeping with our Company Project, our family-owned Group decided to develop a ECONOMIC SOCIETAL policy of social, societal and environmental & SOCIAL responsibility with practical objectives. BlueGreen, ourSustainable Development approach set up in 2008,, is one of the 3 ECOLOGICAL cross-cutting priorities of our Company Project. The 3 BlueGreen Missions “Utily-Terre by Gruau” expresses both our attachment to our industry and our commitment to this approach, which we aim to make more visible in order to be even more efficient.. Being “useful to the Planet” also means innovating so as to combine the best transport solutions with environmental protection. Over and above the specific actions undertaken in recent years, the continuing expansion and durability of the Gruau Group provides the best publicity for its commitment to Sustainable Development. Everybody has a role to play! Our Sustainable Development approach Societal & Social dimension 1. SAFETY  The application of a Prevention Programme that promotes the exchange of best practices between sites with regard to: shared hazards (occupational health risks, ergonomics, chemical hazards, etc.); safety training and activities to raise awareness of safety and environmental issues; the 5S method; and the role of Workplace First Aid Officers. • Ergonomics in the workplace: including ergonomics in the design of Product Processes, applying a participatory approach to the improvement of working conditions, the solving of problems (QRQC, 5S, etc.) • Safety Circuits: the introduction of a pre-defined circuit with a view to checking different safety-sensitive points within a specific work space. • Traffic Plans: the identification and separation of traffic flows at each site (visitors, staff, pedestrians, two-wheeled vehicles, transporters, etc.) Our Sustainable Development approach Societal & Social dimension 2. ENGAGING WITH LIFE IN THE COMMUNITY • Prioritizing civic actions in each company within the Group, through partnerships with secondary schools and universities. Participation in actions promoted by the French automotive bodywork federation (FFC) and metalwork industry associations. • Involvement in competitiveness clusters and professional or social networks. • Integration of handicapped persons: recruiting employees from sheltered establishments. • Participation in local activities: including sporting, cultural or humanitarian activities, the promotion of industrial tourism, etc., organised by local authorities, associations, clubs, etc. Our Sustainable Development approach Economic dimension 1. ECO-DESIGN  Identifying new, clean transport solutions Bluebus (95% recyclable and reusable), Electron II van (100% electric, no CO2).  Developing products in kits to limit shipments of our conversions and encourage local action.  Investing in lighter products s to increase the payload and reduce the volume of materials to be recycled. Optimizingaerodynamics in studies of shapes and design.  Reducingpackaging.  Measuring the ecological performance of product developments (selection and evaluation of equipment, capacity for recycling, weight performance). Our Sustainable Development approach Economic dimension 2. ECOLO-NOMY (producing and using fewer materials and in a more effective way)  Definition of Conduct Guidelines: for employees of the Group and its service providers  Installation and use of video-conferences for all inter-site meetings, in order to reduce travel.  Relationships with local partners: Reduce travel by preferring local partners  Raising awareness of public transport for longer distances (e.g., travelling by train instead of by car), cycling, car-sharing, etc. Our Sustainable Development approach Ecological dimension REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT  Reducing our consumption of chemical products and replacing them by “greener” products (for maintenance products, eliminating all products classified as “toxic”, etc.)  Limiting VOCs (Volatile Organic Compounds): using more efficient paint guns, reducing the quantities and concentrations of solvents and replacing them with more environment-friendly products  Monitoring consumption: Electricity, water, gas, paper, sheet metal, wood, etc.  Waste processing: Sorting and processing organized for all types of hazardous industrial waste (HIW), non-hazardous waste, recyclable materials (paper, cardboard, wood, metal, plastic film, etc.)  Beautification of sites: annual budget dedicated to the enhancement of the working environment (maintenance of buildings, plantations, beehives, etc.) Communication on Progress 2016 Human Rights In the European context, we apply the rules currently in force, and we remain alert with regard to all issues relating to human rights. Our Purchasing policy leads us to work as often as possible with local suppliers (i.e., from within France, or even from within the Mayenne region). The practices of our suppliers are therefore subject to the same regulatory requirements. Communication on Progress 2016 Working Conditions Progress Initiative No.1 This progress initiative consists of ensuring the best working conditions for our employees. •The introduction of a plan for the prevention of occupational hazards, including ergonomic improvements to work stations, and reductions in exposure to factors affecting health. •Eradication of the root causes of accidents in the workplace by the ‘8D’ method of problem-solving, and the construction of ‘safety walks’ (daily Safety and Environmental Health circuits). •Plus this year: The implementation of major actions to improve working conditions, taking advantage of the remodelling of industrial facilities, e.g., insulation and light levels for roofs. Note 1: 8D is a method of problem solving often used to solve product nonconformities. We have adapted it for the purposes of analysing and eliminating the causes of occupational accidents. Note 2: The ‘safety walk’ is a daily circuit, defined and constructed when a team is formed, and which ensures the safety of a work zone, in terms of both personal safety and environmental health. Completed action plan 71% 75% 80% 50% 60% 40% 20% 0% 2014 2015 2016 Communication on Progress 2016 Working Conditions Progress Initiative No.2 This progress initiative consists of implementing an action plan to promote access to employment and integration into the working world for young people. • For this purpose, Gruau receives school students for training courses, at a rate of approx. 30 places per year (with 39 trainees in 2015 and 2016). • We promote holiday jobs during the summer break, at a rate of approx. 10 places per year (with 14 summer jobs in 2016). • We offer training contracts for work-study schemes, at a rate of approx. 10 per year (with 11 places in 2015, and 12 in 2016). • We receive school visits so as to present our industry to the schoolchildren concerned. In 2015-2016 we had one visit about once every two months, reserved for schools and for other audiences – except customers and suppliers. • We take part in the Forum of the Professions at Laval. • Since 2015, we have made available our prototype workshop to enable apprentices to perfect their work, accompanied by one of our professional advisers. … Communication on Progress 2016 Working Conditions Progress Initiative No.2 • Gruau is also a partner in training schemes linked to our own automotive bodywork industry.  Partnership with the Bodywork Design and Production vocational diploma at the Réaumur Training College: on-site visit and presentation of our specialisations, training courses (2 places this year), preparation of parts for classes, participation in open days.  Partnership with the ‘Compagnons du Devoir’ craft apprentice guild: 2 ‘compagnons’ received.  Partnership with the ESTACA Engineering School: sharing of subjects of study, receiving of trainees in 1st and 3rd years, company visits, participation in theme-based round table discussions (innovation, specialisations of the future, etc.).  Participation in the ‘ESTACA in the Salt’ project.  Sponsoring of an engineering student from ESTACA for a 3-year doctorate with a thesis on an innovation-related subject  Participation in juries to authorise Qualification Certificates for Metallurgy (CQPM) 60 4 50 3 40 30 2 20 1 10 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 Welcoming young people Partnership for trainings Accueil de jeunes Partenariat formations Communication on Progress 2016 Environment Progress Initiative No.3 This progress initiative involves promoting anorganisation that respects the environment. • Making the Gruau Laval site compliant with standard ISO 14001 in the context of the Gruau Group's sustainable development approach: BlueGreen. • The validity of our approach is reflected in the ISO 14001 certification obtained in 2010. • In 2011, we confirmed the result obtained in 2010, and initiated the certification procedure for a second site (Gifa–St Laurent). • We have certified this second site • We have also initiated the certification procedure for a third site (Petit– Picot) • Creation and publication of a BlueGreen booklet aiming to raise awareness of our Sustainable Development approach among all Group employees. • Presentation of the approach to all our visitors (customers, general public, etc.) … Communication on Progress 2016 Environment Progress Initiative No.3 (cont.) • ISO 14001 certification authorised for the third site in the Group in 2013 • Introduction of inter-site ‘synergy meetings’ so as to further develop and improve waste management along inter-departmental lines. • In 2014, we participated in the ‘Ecoprodduire53’ voluntary initiative, so as to confirm and implement the eco-designing of our products • In 2015, we intensified our initiative for energy control, and confirmed this commitment through an ISO 50001 certification. • We indicate the level of the recycling capacity of our conversions in some of our product catalogues. Year 2013 2014 2015 Actions ISO 14001 Certification of a third plant -Ecoprodduire 53, to -Implementation of an (Petit-Picot) validate and improve our approach energy eco-design process consumption Implementation of synergistic intermanagement plant meeting -improve awareness of our customers to eco-ISO 50001 certification design through products list Communication on Progress 2016 Environment Progress Initiative No.4 This progress operation aims to promote the development of clean LCVs. • After developing our first 100% electric vehicle in our capacity as a manufacturer (Bluebus), and selling about one hundred electric vehicles for parcel deliveries in city centres, • In 2014 and 2015, the Group concentrated its experience and skills on the development of a new Electric Vehicle activity. The development of the Electron II range will contribute to the deployment of urban transport with 0g of CO2/km starting from 2016. Year 2015-2016 Actions Design electrification, and develop the range on new models Refrigerators Parcel delivery Tipper trucks Transporting passengers Funeral vehicles Ambulances Communication on Progress 2016 Fight against Corruption In the French and European context, we apply the rules currently in force. We remain alert concerning the subject of corruption, and in this respect we obtained detailed information in 2012 so as to be aware of all forms of corruption. We apply strict guidelines concerning the supply chain, and favour the use of local suppliers. In 2015, we created a Gruau Code of Professional Conduct, which establishes a framework for our activities, in terms of compliance with both ethical values and legal requirements.
