Building a healthy and thriving society SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 Contents In the Introduction to this report, we describe how Discovery meets its sustainable development reporting obligations: > Our 2016 reporting 2 > Stakeholder engagement 3 > Commitment to the United Nations Global Compact 3 Statement from the Discovery Social and Ethics Committee Part 1 describes the Vitality Shared-Value The Social and Ethics Committee oversees Insurance model and explains how it is applied transformation, ethics and sustainable development to contribute to sustainable development goals in Discovery in support of the long-term strategic at a local and global level: objectives of the business. The Committee has the role of ensuring transparent communication and > Reflections from Dr Penny Moumakwa 4 engagement with stakeholders and has reviewed > Our values 8 and provided input into this report and the associated website. > A business model to meet society’s needs 10 The Committee is satisfied that the 2016 Sustainable Development Report, together with the associated > Our contribution to global and website and the Integrated Annual Report, provides local sustainable development goals 12 a comprehensive and accurate view of Discovery’s sustainable development performance for the past financial year. Part 2 offers a more detailed description of three ways in which Discovery contributes to sustainable Sindi Zilwa development: Chairperson Discovery Social and Ethics Committee Products and services which make people healthier and better protected > Healthy and responsible products and services 18 We are constantly working to improve our reporting processes and measure our impacts and outcomes Workplace health interventions, resulting in more effectively. healthier, more productive and engaged We welcome stakeholder feedback on our strategy, employees initiatives and reporting, which can be sent to > Healthy and productive DiscoverySustainability@discovery.co.za. workforces26 The contact person for this report is: Dr Penny Moumakwa Engagement with communities and Head of Discovery People and Sustainable stakeholder-led organisations to develop Development community infrastructure and capacity which supports improved health > Healthy and prosperous communities 36 Our actions in all of these areas contribute to a healthier and thriving society, and help fulfil our ambition – to be a powerful force for social good. > Building a healthy and thriving society 44 Discovery and sustainable development Discovery is a South Africa-based SharedValue Insurance company with operations on four continents, revenue of R33 billion and over 11 800 employees globally. Our core purpose is to make people healthier and to enhance and protect their lives by delivering positive structural change to the markets and industries in which we operate. Through our shared-value business model – Vitality Shared-Value Insurance – we create economic value while simultaneously addressing society’s needs and challenges. DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 1 Our 2016 reporting Our sustainable development reporting seeks to meet the information needs of a broad stakeholder audience, complementing our Integrated Annual Report, which is targeted primarily at the providers of financial capital. In 2016, our sustainable development reporting is composed of two elements: This Sustainable A Sustainable Development Development Report Reporting website charts Discovery’s relationship with provides additional detail on our society and describes how we work management systems for sustainable with social and business partners to development and data in compliance achieve common goals with the G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Together, these provide a comprehensive account of our sustainable development performance for the financial year ending 30 June 2016. Report scope and boundary Reporting on non-financial data Information included in our reporting covers As indicated throughout this report and on our the material sustainability risks, threats and reporting website, some of the non-financial data opportunities identified for the ongoing success published for the 2016 financial year covers South of our business. African operations only. This focus reflects the materiality of our South African operations to the As this report targets a broad stakeholder business, as they account for 68% of our revenue audience, we placed particular emphasis on and employ 83% of our workforce. stakeholder-developed standards, such as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, Recognising the fact that international operations the United Nations Global Compact principles and are making a growing contribution, we have started the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines, to extend our processes for collecting non-financial to select our report content. data to cover operations located internationally. This report includes some data from our UK-based In 2016, we are reporting against the GRI G4 operations and we aim to expand this coverage guidelines for the first time, on a core basis. further in our next reporting cycle. All data and factual statements contained in this report have been subjected to a comprehensive internal audit review. External assurance has been undertaken on a number of material indicators. 2 Stakeholder engagement Our business interacts with various local and international stakeholder groups to meet sustainable development objectives. A key stakeholder group for Discovery is our and sustainable development outcomes beyond clients. Our everyday interactions with clients help our immediate client base. define the nature of our products and services At a national level, we engage with government and the way in which they are delivered. and regulatory authorities on a regular basis, as Our employees are critical to our success as they we operate in a highly regulated business sector. are the first line of contact with our clients and At a global level, we participate in international provide the energy and innovative ideas that fuel governmentand stakeholder-led initiatives to our business. By acting in line with our values, contribute to international debate on two issues they contribute to our purpose and ambition. which are highly relevant to our business – the At a local level, engagement with communities, role of health in sustainable development and the local government and other businesses is application of shared-value business principles in undertaken to effect improvements in health the insurance sector. Commitment to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Discovery is fully committed to the work of the UNGC – a coalition of over 8 000 businesses seeking to align their We firmly believe strategies and operations with universal principles on that business has a human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. key role to play in improving health Discovery became a signatory to the UNGC Together with the UNGC and the Danish outcomes and in June 2015. Throughout this report, which pharmaceutical company Novo Nordisk, achieving sustainable is also our first annual Communication on we will be leading an initiative to increase development goals. Progress to stakeholders, we set out the understanding of the role health plays in steps we have taken to incorporate the ten sustainable development and to develop UNGC principles in our business. metrics that can be used by business to improve disclosure of health-related issues. See the table on pages 46 We firmly believe that business has a key to 47 of this report. role to play in improving health outcomes and achieving sustainable development The multi-stakeholder approach embodied goals as described in the United Nations in the UNGC enables it to play an extremely 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development valuable role in addressing the complex and and in other national development pressing global sustainability issues we face programmes, including the National today. Development Plan of South Africa. We are proud to report that we have been able to contribute in a substantive way to the work of the UNGC during the first year Adrian Gore of our membership. Discovery Chief Executive DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 3 Discovery’s contribution to sustainable development Reflections from Dr Penny Moumakwa Head of Discovery People and Sustainable Development “Having a strong sense of ‘why’ inspires us to do the impossible.” To watch a webcast with Dr Penny Moumakwa on Discovery’s purpose and ambition and how they are translated into our business and sustainable development strategy, see our Sustainable Development Reporting website: www.discovery.co.za/info/2016SDreport 4 Optimism and tenacity are two of Discovery’s core values, and our business journey to date has demonstrated very Health and sustainable development clearly how we have put these into practice. Undeniably, the last year has been challenging, with difficult economic conditions taking a toll, particularly In the context of this introduction to our Sustainable in our home market of South Africa. Within this context, Development Report, it is important to explain the role we have identified numerous priorities for growing our Discovery plays in sustainable development. business through the development of new products, In its early days, the sustainable development agenda new business lines and new markets. We are excited was dominated by the need to simultaneously address about our achievements to date – in particular our track pressing environmental concerns, poverty and economic record in bringing to market products and services that development. That debate has moved on to a broader have made life-changing differences to our clients and framing of sustainable development, balancing in our communities. At the same time, we recognise that environmental, social and economic objectives. we are taking on a tough agenda for business growth in a capital-constrained business environment, not just in Today, there is growing recognition that health is an South Africa, but globally. integral part of sustainable development, and in particular that it plays a critical role in poverty reduction. This challenge doesn’t dampen our optimism or temper our tenacity. On the contrary, it illustrates even more Even now, however, debate on the role of health in clearly the value that we can create through our clear sustainable development tends to focus on the needs of sense of purpose, as we reflect on our role in society the sick, rather than on prevention, screening and health and our contribution to sustainable development. promotion. Both are important, as progress on sustainable development cannot be achieved if there is a high prevalence of illness and poverty. However, inappropriate development resulting in the overconsumption of resources also has serious implications for wellbeing. Our core purpose – the reason We see a clear opportunity to slow and potentially reverse the current high level of growth in non-communicable Discovery exists – is to make diseases by placing people’s consumption patterns and lifestyles on a more sustainable and healthy footing. people healthier and to This thinking is acknowledged in the United Nations enhance and protect their lives. Sustainable Development Goals, which includes targets for a one-third reduction in premature mortality from non-communicable diseases by 2030. It is clear that Discovery’s products have a role to play in helping to achieve this target, along with other health and sustainable development objectives. Fulfilling this purpose in a way that creates benefit beyond our business requires us to rethink traditional business paradigms and develop products that are designed to address societal needs. Discovery therefore pioneered the Vitality Shared-Value Insurance model, to create insurance products which contribute to meeting society’s needs. We continuously refine and develop this model, as we increase our understanding of the drivers of healthier and lower-risk behaviours and as we develop products incentivising clients to put these behaviours into practice. Our Integrated Annual Report provides an explanation of the way in which our Shared-Value Insurance business model is applied in each business unit. See pages 46 to 95 of our Integrated Annual Report. DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 5 PART 1: Discovery’s contribution to sustainable development continued Discovery’s contribution to sustainable development Turning to the specific contribution Discovery makes to sustainable development, I would like to highlight three areas where our business has a significant positive impact. These are described in more detail in part 2 of this report. 1 Firstly, we contribute to fulfilling societal For example, there has been rapid growth in the use needs through our innovative products and of personal devices. During the year under review, we worked with the US-based companies Qualcomm and services, such as Vitality Active Rewards, where Microsoft to develop guidelines and a scorecard for we realise our core purpose of making people the responsible use of data resulting from wearable more engaged in improving their own health. technology. We also seek to minimise the environmental footprint A sea change is taking place in the structure of insurance of our products. Through a successful employee markets, which are starting to take on a behavioural engagement programme in South Africa we approach to changing lifestyles and increasing longevity. have achieved our objective of reducing energy In the USA, for example, our partnership with consumption per employee at the same time John Hancock has struck an exciting chord with our as growing our business. business partners and with their clients, who are starting to embrace our products in support of healthier lifestyles. Discovery is in the vanguard of this change. Not only do we develop products and services which address societal needs and challenges, we also deliver them in a See pages 20 to 21 for information on responsible way, with close attention to data privacy and our products and pages 24 to 25 for sovereignty, which is governed by regulation in all of our information on product responsibility major markets. and environmental impact. Discovery in Fortune’s list of companies that “Change the World” In August 2015, Discovery was recognised as a global leader in behavioural insurance, through its 17th place in Fortune’s index of 51 companies that are “changing the world”. The ranking recognises companies that address major global problems as part of their competitive strategy. 6 Secondly, and in line with our values, we are seeking to progress current thinking on the linkages between health and employee productivity. We believe that there is not only a clear moral case for business to safeguard and improve employee health, but also a solid business case, as we know that healthier employees are more engaged and more productive. Vitality data supports this perspective. We are active in our own business in helping to improve the health of employees and have achieved some success at the US-based subsidiary of Discovery, The 2 Vitality Group, which won the Global Healthy Workplace Awards in the smalland medium-sized enterprise category. In South Africa, our target is to lead the Discovery Healthiest Company Index, a benchmarking study of employee health. Health outcomes among South African employees showed that we still have progress to make to place ourselves firmly in this group. In the coming year we will be placing much more emphasis on this area, with a fast-paced programme of employee health engagement centred on Vitality Active Rewards. We are also stepping up our engagement with other businesses on the issue of healthy employees, both through The Vitality Group, whose core purpose is to support employee health programmes, and through initiatives such as Britain’s Healthiest Company. See pages 28 to 33 for more detail on our initiatives in support of healthier workforces and pages 34 to 35 for information on the health of our own employees. 3 Thirdly, in seeking out improved health We have therefore identified a third area of contribution outcomes for both clients and employees, to sustainable development outcomes – local and global stakeholder partnerships in support of healthier communities. we have come to realise the fundamental importance of fostering healthy and more In South Africa, we partner with city authorities and emerging productive communities. Community entrepreneurs, particularly in the health sector, to promote infrastructure that facilitates health plays the infrastructural development, facilities and activities that enable people to live healthier and more prosperous lives. a significant role in supporting health Globally we engage with international organisations such as outcomes, just as poor infrastructure and the United Nations, through the United Nations Global the lack of facilities can obstruct it. Likewise, Compact, the World Economic Forum and the World Health productive and prosperous communities are Organisation to contribute our insights to ongoing debate more likely to be healthy places to live and work. on how to build a healthier world. See pages 38 to 43 for more detail on our partnerships in support of healthy and productive communities. A healthy and thriving society Taken together, our actions in these three areas help support a thriving and healthy society and contribute towards a balanced view of sustainable development, in which health plays an important role in contributing to poverty reduction and development. This is what we mean when we speak about our ambition to be a powerful force for social good. DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 7 Our values Great people Our values frame our decisions and are the Liberating the best in people foundation of our actions. They are brought alive by our leadership and Innovation and optimism employees, in how we think and act. Our values reflect our fundamental belief in Intellectual leadership people as the driving force behind the delivery of our products and services. We aim to recruit and retain motivated and skilled employees who share our values. Through a range of training Dazzle clients and engagement activities, we strive to liberate their potential to the full. During the last financial year, an ethics Business astuteness and framework for the business was formalised prudence and communicated to employees. Our ethics framework reinforces the emphasis we place on values and is being rolled out more widely in our business through the Ethics Office. Regular Drive, tenacity and urgency checks are undertaken to assess risks relating to corruption. One incident of corruption was confirmed Integrity, honesty and during the year. The incident occurred in fairness November 2015, when an employee requested payment from a member to overturn a non-disclosure decision. The employee resigned pending a disciplinary hearing. 8 DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 9 A business model to meet society’s needs The Vitality Shared-Value Insurance business model creates value beyond our membership base by increasing the value placed on illness prevention and a healthy lifestyle and by showing how the pursuit of health is important for business and individuals. Our social programmes help to build healthier and more productive communities, and ultimately a healthier and more prosperous society that can achieve its sustainable development goals. Pioneering business model MEMBERS ❚❚ Improved health Better value through improved Stakeholder❚❚ price and benefits driven purpose and es He ambition iv a Membe y lth r in ha ce be Our core purpose is to make people nt healthier and viour enhance and protect their lives. Our ambition is to be the best insurance Ins urer savings organisation in the world and a powerful force for social good. SOCIETY ❚❚ Healthier society ❚❚ Lower disease burden ❚❚ Reduced healthcare costs ❚❚ Better workplace health INSURER ❚❚ Lower claims and improved productivity ❚❚ Higher margins ❚❚ Improved financial resilience ❚❚ Positive selection ❚❚ Lower road casualty and lower lapses and injury rates 10 Innovative products and services Incentivised wellness Dynamic pricing Sustainable development Health-related investment outcomes enhancements Incentives promoting safer driving behaviour Healthier and See pages productive 26 to 35. workforces See pages 18 to 25. Healthier and See pages prosperous 36 to 43. Member communities engagement 2.4 million Vitality now has over 2.4 million Healthier and thriving members, and has seen an society that can See pages eightfold increase in actively achieve its 44 to 45. engaged members since 2008 sustainable development goals In research undertaken among over 700 000 employees in US-based companies, highly engaged Vitality members exhibited lower median body mass index (BMI), systolic and diastolic blood pressure and blood glucose levels and less stress. They were less likely to smoke and more likely to have a higher positive perception of their own health. DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 11 Our contribution to global and local sustainable development goals The United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals As part of an ongoing review of our (SDGs) were agreed in framework for evaluating business performance, we are looking at September 2015 and integrating relevant SDGs with offer a blueprint for the our business focus areas. This will include measurement of business planet’s sustainable performance in relation to the SDG targets. development. Through Reflecting our core business focus, our Vitality Sharedwe see targets relating to SDG 3 Value Insurance – Good health and wellbeing – as particularly important. We have business model, already accumulated data that we make important is helpful in quantifying our contribution to targets on HIV contributions to and AIDS and non-communicable diseases. achieving the goals and their associated targets. South Africa’s National Development Plan (NDP) sets out a National development goals 2030 vision for health have been developed in many of A health system that works for everyone and produces positive health outcomes is not Discovery’s markets. In South out of reach. It is possible to: Africa, for example, the National Development Plan’s Vision for ❚❚ Raise the life expectancy of South Africans to at least 70 years 2030 touches on many areas ❚❚ Ensure that the generation of under 20s is largely free of HIV that are covered in the SDGs, ❚❚ Significantly reduce the burden of disease one of which is health. ❚❚ Achieve an infant mortality rate of fewer than 20 deaths per thousand live births, including an under-five mortality rate of fewer than 30 per thousand 12 Support for the “Every Woman Every Child” Movement Discovery has committed to support “Every Woman Every Child”, a global movement that mobilises and intensifies international and 3 national action by governments, the UN, the private sector and civil society to address the major health challenges facing women, children and adolescents. GOAL Discovery’s commitment will be in three areas: Discovery Vitality Our target is to improve maternal and child health by sharing our intellectual property and providing financial and other resources to make physical activity, nutrition education and the delivery of primary healthcare more accessible. Discovery Foundation We will continue to strengthen health systems and Relevant targets: investment in the education of health specialists and the >  By 2030, reduce premature mortality development of academic medicine to benefit maternal from non-communicable diseases by and child health. one third through prevention and treatment, and promote mental health and wellbeing >  By 2030, end the epidemics of AIDS, Discovery Fund tuberculosis, malaria and neglected In partnership with Discovery Insure, we have committed to tropical diseases and combat hepatitis, share Discovery Insure’s intellectual property in telematics waterborne diseases and other technology and to provide financial and other support to communicable diseases organisations committed to the safety of children. >  By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents The NDP targets a significant reduction in non-communicable chronic diseases, identified in the plan as one of the four major areas of disease burden in South Africa. It also targets the improvement of primary healthcare in communities and the development of skilled, committed healthcare professionals, which are important focus areas for the Discovery Fund and the Discovery Foundation. DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 13 Part 1: Our contribution to global and local sustainable development goals continued The UN Sustainable Development Goals are interconnected, and our ability to achieve the SDG health targets will depend on progress made in a number of other goals. Through our core business and our social programmes, we make substantive contributions to other SDG targets. Several of these contributions are described below. GOAL 2 End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture B  y 2030, end all forms of malnutrition, including achieving the internationally agreed targets on stunting and wasting in children under five years of age by 2025, and addressing the nutritional needs of adolescent girls, pregnant and lactating women and older persons 11 Health outcomes are intrinsically linked to nutrition. Unsustainable agricultural practices leading to the accumulation of harmful pesticides in soil and watercourses have the potential to damage the health of those people who depend on being able to use these resources safely. GOAL Food price volatility affects the health outcomes of vulnerable communities, who may opt for cheaper, less nutritious food in times of high food price inflation. The goal of the Vitality HealthyFood benefit is to make nutritious foods more affordable and accessible, by rewarding healthy food choices. Supporting improved nutrition Dr Makanda Itaka is a nutrition expert, whose work with vulnerable communities in South Africa is funded by the Discovery Foundation https://www.youtube.com/ watch?v=iVm68RDraJ4 14 GOAL 8 We support this goal and associated target in a number of ways: > Through Discovery People, where we aim to create a values-based culture of opportunity and innovation, free from See our Sustainable discrimination Development Reporting website for more > Through our work with other information and data on businesses, to promote healthy diversity in our business workforces www.discovery.co.za/ In South Africa in particular, there is an info/2016SDreport/people imperative to achieve an inclusive and Promote inclusive transformed workforce that equitably and sustainable represents all sectors of society. economic growth, Recruiting and retaining black South Africans employment and in senior positions remains a key priority. decent work for all We have set a target of B  y 2030, achieve full and productive 25% representation by equity candidates employment and decent work for all in each of our business unit executive women and men, including for young committees, and have met this target in all people and persons with disabilities, but two business units. and equal pay for work of equal value 68% of candidates undertaking leadership development programmes run by the business during the year were from equity groups. Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable B  y 2030, ensure access for all to adequate, safe and affordable housing and basic services, and upgrade slums  y 2030, provide access to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport systems B for all, improving road safety, notably by expanding public transport, with special attention to the needs of those in vulnerable situations, women, children, persons with disabilities and older persons There is a clear link between the health of employees, members and the communities from which they originate. We have established a strong partnership with the City of Johannesburg to support health and safe infrastructure and address pressing challenges relating to issues such as safe school transportation. See pages 40 and 41 for more detail. DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 15 This section of our report provides further information on our actions and performance on: Healthy and Healthy and responsible productive PRODUCTS AND WORKFORCES SERVICES Page 18 Page 26 Outcomes in these areas meet the expectations of stakeholders and support a healthy and thriving society. 16 Part 2 Healthy and prosperous COMMUNITIES Page 36 “The simple idea of making people healthier has taken us on a journey ...” To watch a webcast with Group Chief Executive Adrian Gore on Discovery’s purpose and the Vitality Shared-Value Insurance business model, see our Sustainable Development Reporting website www.discovery.co.za/info/2016SDreport 17 Healthy and responsible PRODUCTS AND SERVICES In line with Discovery’s ambition and purpose, our products are designed to deliver shared value by incentivising people to engage in behaviours that promote better health, wellbeing and longevity. 18 DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 19 PART 2: Healthy and responsible products and services continued Making people healthier, and enhancing and protecting their lives Vitality Shared-Value Insurance helps members around the world to become healthier and better protected by giving them access to the tools, knowledge and incentives that support behaviour change. Applying Vitality Shared-Value Insurance in different business areas The Vitality Shared-Value Insurance business model is applied differently in each area of our business, but in each case the product Continuous innovation – design principles remain the same. The purpose embodied in our products is the creation of social and member value alongside value the example of Vitality for the insurer. Active Rewards with See pages 10 to 11 for an explanation Apple Watch of our business model. Each year, we launch new products and In our health insurance business, Vitality provides members with access services to refine the Vitality model further to a broad range of exercise and illness-prevention pathways and guides, and to innovate and grow each of our and incentivises members to make use of them in their daily lives. business areas. Drawing on the expertise developed in the health A successful innovation during the 2016 insurance sector, our unique approach to shared-value financial year was Vitality Active Rewards insurance has been replicated in other aspects of the with Apple Watch, which encourages business. increased physical activity, better nutrition and higher uptake of health screening by For example, short-term car insurance offered through Discovery Insure providing more immediate and personalised rewards improved driving behaviour, enabling a reduction in poor incentive structures that are tailored driving and a decrease in the number of serious and fatal road according to participants’ exercise history accidents. Discovery Insure’s clients are offered rewards such as and health risk factors. substantial rebates on fuel to incentivise lower-risk driving behaviour. Dynamic pricing of policies is being rolled out to reinforce the link Initial results have shown dramatic and between safe driving and vehicle premiums and to enable clients to sustained behaviour change, with a 20% benefit from lower-cost policies that are underpinned by better driving. increase in physical activity for those who engaged in the benefit and 81% for those In the same way, the group’s investment products reward clients who also took the Apple Watch. for behaviours that lower health risks and contribute to longevity. For example, data on clients’ health and driving patterns is used to See our Integrated Annual Report (pages 42 assess and underwrite client risk dynamically, resulting in clients paying to 45) for a more detailed explanation of premiums that reflect their risk profile, as well as lower lapse rates for the impact of the Vitality Active Rewards the insurer and improved health outcomes for clients. programme. 20 CASE STUDY Establishing The Global Vitality network The Vitality Network is a system of partner insurers who employ the Vitality business model. Partner insurers participate in collective network assets such as technology collaborations, global reward partnerships, and academic and media partnerships. The Vitality Network has been extended to 14 global markets, including the USA, Australia and several key markets in Southeast Asia. A recently-signed agreement with the Sumitomo Life Insurance Company and the The Everyday SoftBank Group will see the network rolled out in Japan, the second-largest life insurance market globally. Athlete programme A highly successful example of implementing the Vitality Shared-Value Insurance model in the UK market has been the Everyday Athlete programme. Analysis of data relating to over 6 600 UK-based Vitality members showed that previously sedentary individuals who increased their activity levels to the minimum level of 150 minutes per week, as recommended by the UK government, were able to increase their expected life span by more than three years. We therefore introduced a programme that advocated making small improvements to physical exercise. These didn’t need to involve going to the gym or engaging in sport, but could be everyday activities that made health accessible – the “democratisation of health”. We engaged clients in this philosophy through a creative branding process that recast sedentary individuals as “Everyday Athletes”. We are proud of the results this programme has achieved. Its objective was to create a movement of healthy people, including, for example, individuals doing exercise that would not ordinarily be thought of as sport – taking their dog for a walk or washing their car. The programme also acknowledges and supports grassroots and amateur sports events and was promoted using well-known professional athletes, for example through the Vitality ambassador Jessica Ennis-Hill, British heptathlete and Olympic medallist. DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 21 PART 2: Healthy and responsible products and services continued Service excellence, responsible products and minimising the use of natural resources Innovating products and services that meet our purpose is essential, but it is equally important that these products and services are delivered in a responsible way, ensuring service excellence to our clients and minimising the use of natural resources. Employees who thrive at Service Potential Discovery are excellence and intellect exceptional Superior intellect We seek out the best person Learning agility for every role. We have a clear Trailblazer understanding of the qualities we are seeking out in new employees and we set the Our objective is to employ, bar at exceptional. retain and develop engaged and committed people who operate according to high standards of service excellence and in line with our business values. Values Discovery aims to create a values-based culture of opportunity and innovation. Highly ethical This implies a focus on the integration of our Integrity values into our business culture and ethics, Social conscience as well as providing a stimulating and rewarding environment. As we operate in a service industry, employees play a critical role in enabling us to achieve our business objectives. They are typically the first point of contact for clients with our business. Through them, new business may quickly be won or lost. 22 The objectives of Discovery’s people strategy are: To attract, develop and 1 retain talent that creates economic and social value To work actively towards 2 achieving inclusivity and transformation 3 To make Discovery employees healthier Optimism We measure the effectiveness of our delivery and EQ against our people ambition through three sets of metrics, relating to recruitment, engagement Idealistic and optimistic and business impact. High EQ We also focus on developing an inclusive and transformed workforce that equitably represents all sectors of society. Recruiting and retaining black South Africans in senior positions remains a key priority. We have set a target of 25% representation by equity candidates in each of our business unit executive committees, and have met this target in all but two business units. Drive for We strive to eliminate discrimination in our business, both by managing people fairly and by results ensuring that our products and services do not Bias for action discriminate against any group. One incident of discrimination was reported through our tip-off Resilience line in November 2015, relating to benefits for Energy and drive pregnant members. These benefits have now been revised. See our Sustainable Development Reporting website for additional employee data. www.discovery.co.za/info/2016SDreport/people Information on the health of our employees is included in this report, on pages 34 to 35. DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 23 PART 2: Healthy and responsible products and services continued The increased use and sophistication of personalised health technology, for example wearable tracking devices, has the potential to reduce the prevalence of chronic Product diseases by targeting the leading risk factors of physical inactivity, unhealthy diet and non-adherence to medication. responsibility However, the use of data resulting from this technology can invade individual privacy and compromise confidentiality. Facilitating the sustained uptake and acceptability of personalised health technology therefore requires adherence to a product responsibility framework that evaluates and addresses its ethical, legal and social implications. Discovery adopts a proactive approach to issues such as health data privacy and has worked with the US-based companies Qualcomm and Microsoft to develop guidelines for the responsible innovation of personalised health technology and the appropriate stewardship of data obtained from its use. A self-evaluation tool measuring compliance with the guidelines has been developed to aid management and external reporting. The guidelines propose a blueprint for evaluating and optimising the use of personalised health technology, based on five objectives: 1 2 Build health Scale affordable technology health informed by technology science 3 4 5 Guide Protect and Govern the interpretation of secure health responsible use health data data of health technology and data The responsible marketing of products and services is also a critical area for our business and incidences of non-compliance with regulations are tracked and reported. During the year under review, one incident of non-compliance with regulations relating to the marketing of products and services was reported in our short-term insurance business, Discovery Insure. An offer relating to the use of the Gautrain in Johannesburg was viewed by the South African Financial Services Board (FSB) as product inducement. The offer was made by Discovery Insure because it held the view that the use of the Gautrain lowered the risk of accident to clients. The FSB found that this risk link was not justified and the case was escalated to the Enforcement Committee, which issued a R100 000 fine. In addition, six substantiated complaints were received regarding breaches of customer privacy or the loss of customer data were received during the year. Investigations were conducted in each case and customer data was found to have been removed without proper business reason or authorisation. Six employees have resigned as a result of these violations and one employee has received a written warning. See our Sustainable Development Reporting website for additional data on our product responsibility performance. www.discovery.co.za/info2016SDreport/compliance 24 Managing our environmental footprint Due to the nature of our business, our environmental footprint is relatively small. We are not intensive users of energy or other natural resources. However, as a responsible business that understands the environmental imperatives we face, we strive to minimise the environmental impact of our operations. Our environmental policy and strategy articulate the need for a comprehensive approach to understanding and addressing environmental issues. Our main focus is on logistics and facilities, where we closely manage our two major impacts – electricity and waste. To further support our environmental management efforts, we are implementing the ISO 14000 (2015) management system. In 2018, Johannesburg-based employees will move into a new five-star green-rated building, which will enable us to reduce our environmental footprint even further, through features such as rainwater and greywater harvesting and natural lighting control systems. Locally sourced and recycled materials have been used in the construction of the building. Cleverly designed to consider physical, emotional and mental wellbeing in the workplace, we anticipate that the new building design will further encourage innovation and collaboration, provide an energyand resourceefficient workplace and reduce our operating costs. Energy consumption and emissions reduction Climate change In South Africa, energy usage and emissions are increasing at a rate far and the insurance below that of our business growth. We focus both on achieving energy savings by making buildings and infrastructure more energy-efficient and industry on employee engagement to reduce energy consumption. Electricity remains our largest emissions source, accounting for 54% of total measured emissions (2015: 61%). Extreme weather events related to climate change have an impact on the risk profile of the insurance industry, and In 2016, Usage are a particularly relevant energy use per employee consideration for the evaluation increased by decreased by of risk in our short-term 2.3% 6.5% insurance business, Discovery Insure. Our current efforts are focused on increasing our understanding of the nature of potential changes in the risk Data on energy and waste is collated for South African operations only. Data on energy usage profile of our clients and in per employee includes full-time contractors and support staff. mitigating their impact. Waste We continue to make progress towards achieving our ambitious target of zero waste to landfill by 2018. Our recycling rate across all offices in South Africa increased to 80% in 2016 (2015: 69%). See our Sustainable Development Reporting website for additional environmental data. www.discovery.co.za/ info/2016SDreport/environment DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 25 Healthy and productive WORKFORCES Over and above the moral responsibility of business to safeguard the health and wellbeing of employees, we believe there is also a strong business case to do so, with a clear and proven relationship between employee health, engagement and productivity. 26 Initiatives relating to healthy and productive workforces focus on three areas: Engagement with business internationally 1 by playing a leadership role in a multi-stakeholder process mandated by the UN Global Compact (UNGC) Engagement with corporate clients, 2 particularly in South Africa and the UK, to encourage and foster interventions that support employee health 3 Interventions targeting our own employees, particularly in South Africa, to facilitate improved health outcomes DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 27 PART 2: Healthy and productive workforces continued Pioneering improved health reporting for business We continue to pursue our pioneering advocacy work in support of a more systematic approach Our vision is that by business to monitor and improve the health by 2020, workforce of employees, and greater engagement by health metrics will be an integral indicator of overall business in the opportunities that are created organisational performance within by the articulation of global health goals. the broader corporate accountability framework. They will be core to existing corporate social Pursuing this vision has required a systematic programme of engagement with responsibility, sustainability international organisations and other businesses, to collate and present the and integrated reporting, and compelling evidence linking employee health, engagement and productivity. critical for consideration by all Together with the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and Novo Nordisk, a shareholders and potential Danish pharmaceutical company that has been at the forefront of triple bottom line investors. reporting and sustainable development for a number of years, Discovery will lead a multi-stakeholder process, inclusive of UNGC’s members. The initiative will entail working with global businesses to identify future opportunities in health, including better integration of health and wellbeing into reporting platforms to advance the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. The UNGC is well positioned to support this work, through its partnerships with Over 8 000 businesses and 4 000 other stakeholder organisations from 160 countries, as well as its track record in leading and advancing sustainable business practices. 28 The critical importance of health to business was underlined in the results of a recent survey of over 5 500 privateand public-sector leaders by the UNGC. The survey identified health and wellbeing as a significant business and sustainable development opportunity. Discovery’s own work indicates a strong case for engagement on this issue, and this perspective has been supported in various academic studies. According to a 2010 Harvard Business Review article, for example, the return on investment (ROI) of comprehensive, well-run employee health and wellbeing programmes can be as high as six times their cost. DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 29 PART 2: Healthy and productive workforces continued “Every business can improve the health of their employees … and have a big impact on morale, retention and healthcare costs.” To watch a webcast with Dr Derek Yach on the opportunity that improving oversight and reporting of employee health represents for business, see our Sustainable Development Reporting website. www.discovery.co.za/info/2016SDreport Dr Derek Yach Chief Health Officer, The Vitality Group Healthy workforces and the importance of health reporting Investment in employee health represents a long-term approach by companies to fostering a committed, engaged and productive workforce. The measures that are being debated for Increasing transparency in relation to health reporting (the so-called fourth bottom employee health will enable investors to line of sustainability measurement) therefore arrive at better-substantiated judgements on include a focus on strategic actions in the ability of a company to create long-term support of improving health outcomes, such value, both financial and societal. The work as leadership, culture and communication. underway also acknowledges the relationship Measures are focused on outputs between communities, employees and and recognise that health does not only businesses, as well as the impact of business relate to physical, but also mental wellbeing. products and services on health outcomes. 30 Business opportunities in health Workplace Marketplace Community Invest in Innovate healthy Improve community employee health products health and services The business case for health – some examples $4.7 million 3 billion 7%-16% Lives reached by a Out-performance by Saving in healthcare costs companies with best-in-class single foods achieved by a Fortune 500 workplace health programmes and beverage company through their compared to the company health and wellbeing S&P 500 Index programme Health is material to the bottom line, but needs metrics for MANAGEMENT Community relations measurement Corporate capacity and Workforce employee needs needs Health programmes, policies and Sharedpractices value Strategic health Leadership communications metrics Physical environment Proposed health scorecard EV CE ID EN elements NA N CE R OF VE SU GO Health CC Assessment ES status S of health Job satisfaction risks and turnover DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 31 PART 2: Healthy and productive workforces continued CASE STUDY Working with other businesses to improve employee health Finding Britain’s healthiest company In the UK, four risk factors – poor diet, physical In line with our pioneering work on inactivity, tobacco use and excessive alcohol intake – lead to four chronic diseases, cardiovascular disease, the development of health reporting diabetes, chronic lung disease and various types of cancers. These non-communicable illnesses metrics for business, Discovery also contribute to 60% of deaths worldwide and 80% engages with corporate clients to of the disease burden. facilitate improved employee health. The awards are sponsored by Vitality Health and the human resources consulting firm Mercer, and are undertaken in an academic partnership with RAND Europe and the In the USA, Discovery has established a subsidiary company, University of Cambridge. The Vitality Group, which provides workplace health promotion programmes to corporate clients, with a total membership of In the most recent competition close to a million. in 2015, 112 companies submitted voluntary responses to a range of survey questions relating to wellbeing. Analysis of the responses not In both South Africa and the UK, Discovery engages with only assisted in identifying the award winners – corporate clients to support interventions that promote companies making exceptional efforts to safeguard workplace health. Wellness days have proved to be a successful and improve employee health – but also generated tool in increasing employee engagement on health in useful data to guide Vitality Health’s future South Africa. programmes. The competitive spirit In the UK, our annual competition to find Britain’s healthiest company has proved to be a successful way of raising engendered through the competition clearly awareness of this important issue. makes a difference, with 79% of companies participating in two or more of the competitions seeing an improvement in their score. 32 Percentage of people with unhealthy behaviours A core indicator researched through the survey is the Vitality Age of participants. This is the age of an individual, adjusted to take clinical and lifestyle 35.5% 18.6% 49.8% Physical activity Alcohol Nutrition health risks (such as smoking, physical 150 minutes or Exceeding Not eating five less moderate to recommended fruit or vegetable activity and body mass index (BMI)) high-intensity units. Three for portions per day into account. sessions per week men, two for women 37.3% 35.7% 76.4% Health Average difference between Smoking Chronic Current or former conditions screening actual age and Vitality Age smokers (quit less At least one Blood pressure, than 15 years ago) chronic condition cholesterol and glucose not Actual age 18-30 31-40 41-50 51-60 61+ screened in past year Vitality Age +3.4 +3.79 +4.0 +4.1 +4.0 20.9% 4.1% BMI Mental Body mass wellbeing adjusted for waist Symptoms of circumference severe depression The results showed that the gap between actual age and Vitality Age is consistently worse for men than women (on average by nine months) 87.1% of respondents have and that lower-paid a Vitality Age older employees also tend to than their actual age. be less healthy. Many employees have multiple risks 12.6% 4+ risk factors 19.5% 3 risk factors Financial concerns 23% Workplace intimidation 28.8% 2 risk factors Sleep deprivation 16% 26.8% 1 risk factor 28% sleep for six or less hours per night What worries 12.2% 0 risk factors employees Work-related stress 87% Mental wellbeing is closely related to physical health and is an important contributor to productivity. The survey results revealed a close correlation between musculoskeletal complaints and poor mental health. DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 33 PART 2: Healthy and productive workforces continued The health profile of Discovery’s employees Our vision for employee health is to play a deliberate role in supporting the wellbeing of our employees by providing awareness, education and tools to assist with decision-making and behaviour that will improve and promote health. Employee wellbeing philosophy Our holistic approach, which includes initiatives relating to physical and mental wellbeing, is an engagement model that promises longer-term benefits for the transformation of individuals, our business and the community at large. At Discovery, we believe that great The process of making people people are the foundation of our success. healthier and better protected starts We offer an environment that supports at home. and enhances wellbeing. We play a deliberate role in the wellbeing It is through liberating the best in of our employees by providing awareness, our people that we will achieve education and tools to assist with decisionour vision and ambition. making and positive behaviour change. To support this philosophy, employee-wellbeing interventions are designed to: Facilitate holistic Improve employee Foster Discovery's Provide meaningful wellness wellbeing over time own–your–life reporting culture Strengthen employee engagement, performance and retention, creating a stable talent pool for generations of great leaders 34 Employees benefit from access to on-site exercise In 2016, our South African operations achieved a score of 72% facilities and support to improve their health in support against the metrics that have been of their personal health journeys. Programmes and developed for comprehensive employee policies cover a range of health topics, including health reporting and fully met the occupational safety and health, the provision of medical scorecard criteria on a core basis. benefits, a smoke-free workplace, physical exercise and nutrition, and mental wellbeing. However, we recognise that we still need to make progress to ensure that our employees are as healthy as they can be. Health promotion and communications are adapted to target all demographic groups within our workforce and Measured against the performance of the top five an Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) is available to companies in Discovery’s Healthy Company Index, provide counselling and intervention for those suffering a benchmarking index in South Africa, health outcomes from issues such as stress and depression. among our employees are still falling short in some areas, including physical activity, cholesterol levels and hypertension. In the 2016 financial year: 4.8% 62% of employees attended prevalence of hypertension (2015: 4.7%) wellness days 17.7% of our workforce are smokers (2015: 20%) 23% of employees had a Vitality Age lower than their actual age 1.7% prevalence of diabetes Note: Data above relates to South African-based employees only (2015: 1.6%) Our aim is to lead the Healthy Company Index A critical success factor will be our ability to support by 2018, by stepping up our efforts to engage employees with the awareness, education and employees and appointing health ambassadors tools to guide individual decision-making and drive in our business. The Vitality Active Rewards positive behaviour change. We will be harnessing programme will be the cornerstone of a our technical knowledge and expertise to construct reinvigorated approach using fast-paced, engagement programmes, using predictive analysis six-weekly challenges to motivate employees. to determine the most appropriate formula. DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 35 Healthy and prosperous COMMUNITIES In this section we look beyond our impact on members and employees and present examples of work undertaken to promote community health and wellbeing. We also highlight the work being undertaken on economic inclusion and financial security, particularly in our home market of South Africa. Our objectives are to promote a more equitable and prosperous society and support entrepreneurship and small business development in line with local development imperatives. 36 DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 37 PART 2: Healthy and prosperous communities continued Fostering community development There is no clear divide between our business, our clients, our employees and the communities in which we live. We contribute to building healthier and more prosperous communities both through our core business, and through our social programmes. The Vitality Shared-Value Insurance business model creates We build on this platform through our social programmes, which value beyond our membership base by increasing the visibility include the work of the Discovery Fund and the Discovery and demand for healthy food, the value placed on exercise, Foundation, as well as a vibrant employee volunteer scheme. We screening and illness prevention and by showing how the understand that the public and private healthcare systems are pursuit of health is important to business as well as to intricately linked, and the burden of healthcare impacts both. individuals. Therefore, it is our role to invest in strengthening the healthcare system and expanding access to care. Our health products seek to counter healthcare inflation, encourage the use of technology to deliver healthcare better We also recognise that our ability to grow and be sustainable and more cost-effectively, and to broaden access to high-quality relies on an active economy and a productive workforce. We healthcare through affordable products that accurately price therefore focus on economic inclusion through enterprise and risk. When we make our members’ lives better protected, for supplier development, as well as through preferential example through car insurance products that encourage safer procurement programmes, that aim to create opportunities for driving, we also reduce risk for other road users and new business entrants and entrepreneurs. pedestrians. Understanding the challenges in healthcare Discovery has undertaken independent and in-depth research to understand what medical skills and expertise are needed to give disadvantaged communities in South Africa access to better healthcare, and what steps are needed not only to keep those skills, but to develop them further. South Africa needs more medical skills South Africa does not The country is not Medical education is a have enough skilled currently training long and expensive medical professionals in enough people to fill process, so a long-term all areas of healthcare to these gaps approach is required to meet its people's needs address this problem There are not enough Medical skills are There are several skilled and experienced concentrated in urban environmental issues specialists to teach areas and medical – such as working and medical skills specialists are leaving living conditions – that rural areas where they also contribute to are most needed healthcare challenges in South Africa 38 Our work in South Africa aims to strengthen the healthcare system and expand access to quality care through three vehicles: The Discovery Fund, which works to strengthen community health 1 organisations in the areas of maternal and child health, HIV and AIDS and tuberculosis (TB), by the provision of support for human capital and skills development The Discovery Foundation, which funds specialist training with the objectives of 2 retaining doctors in public health, advancing research in crucial areas of medicine and supporting improved health outcomes in rural areas Discovery for Good, an employee volunteer programme, through which employees go into the heart of communities to work on development projects. During the year, an online platform was launched to connect individuals to causes 3 and organisations needing their help. The partnership with the City of Johannesburg (see the case study on page 40) is an important part of the volunteer programme and allows for sustained input from Discovery employees into projects in the Johannesburg area The Discovery Celebrating ten years of the Fund in 2016 Discovery Foundation Established in 2006, the Discovery Foundation is an independent trust that During the year, the Discovery Fund has invested over R160 million in grants towards the education and conducted a strategic review of its training of 280 healthcare specialists over a period of ten years. operations. As a result, it has shifted its strategy to working with community health South Africa is experiencing a critical shortage of healthcare resources. organisations addressing issues relating to Grants disbursed through the Discovery Foundation Awards aim to maternal and child health, HIV and AIDS and address this challenge by training specialists for rural areas, developing TB, to improve their human capital academic medicine and research centres and increasing the number of management and skills development. sub-specialists to meet the country’s healthcare needs. A traditional approach to social investment Through the interventions of the Discovery Foundation in the healthcare targets service delivery through individuals and industry, we believe we can bring quality healthcare infrastructure and organisations operating in relative isolation. services within reach of many communities which have previously not Our revised strategy presents the opportunity benefited from adequate access to healthcare. to develop longer-term partnerships with a During 2016, 60 Discovery Foundation award recipients were supported smaller number of funding partners and to through donations of close to R28 million. contribute meaningfully to the sustainability of these projects. Discovery’s total contribution to public In conjunction, the Fund is strengthening its health projects in 2016 was over R57 million. monitoring and evaluation processes, aiming to develop measures that accurately reflect the Fund’s actions in alleviating health challenges. These are supported by both qualitative and In addition to the capacity-building work undertaken quantitative data. through the Discovery Foundation, Discovery has contributed approximately During the 2016 financial year, the Fund supported R22.4 million 57 projects to the Public Health Enhancement Fund since it was established in 2012 and approximately at a cost of close to R29.5 million. R4.7 million in 2016. The Fund is a vehicle enabling business to partner with government in enhancing the capacity of the public health sector. DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 39 PART 2: Healthy and prosperous communities continued Partnering with the City of Johannesburg Our partnership with the City of Johannesburg is currently in its second year, and has been established with the objective of making a meaningful contribution to the development of this unique and vibrant city. In line with our business objectives, interventions are focused on areas where we can facilitate improved health outcomes for residents by leveraging our employees and our expertise. 1 Healthy Lifestyles Schools The Programme partnership Incentives to schools that improve indicators covers four of student health. Schools are supported in improving all factors that can impact health, areas: including cleanliness and sanitation. The City of Johannesburg aims to grow this programme to become the largest schools intervention in Johannesburg by 2020. Discovery Insure and 2 Childsafe Safe Travel to School programme This programme aims to make the commute to and from school safer for school children by working with the drivers who are responsible for their safe transportation, leveraging technology to monitor and improve the driving behaviour of the drivers who transport children. 40 CASE STUDY To watch a webcast including Wandile Zwane, Executive Director of Social Development from the City of Johannesburg, see our Sustainable Development 3 Reporting website. www.discovery.co.za/ info/2016SDreport Sandton engagement Our head office is located in the Sandton area of Johannesburg, and in October 2015 we launched a programme of events in the suburb to mark its Ecomobility Festival. Ecomobility was a City of Johannesburg initiative which Discovery supported through various internal initiatives to reduce driving to work, as well as through the launch of the Johannesburg Duathlon. 4 Employee volunteer programme This initiative is focused on the Orange Farm community in Johannesburg and is a joint volunteer programme with the City of Johannesburg. Interventions target three priority areas – unemployment, health and youth – identified through an assessment of needs in the community. The number of volunteers involved in the programme is growing. In 2016, 3 905 employees participated in the programme, which represents 42% of our South-Africabased workforce. All four projects are overseen by a partnership steering committee of Discovery and City of Johannesburg representatives. DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 41 PART 2: Healthy and prosperous communities continued Supporting enterprise and supplier development at a community level Through its enterprise and supplier development programmes, Discovery invests in entrepreneurs from under-resourced backgrounds and helps them grow high-impact businesses that create jobs, improve lives, communities, and contribute significantly to the economy. During the 2016 financial year: Our efforts in this area target the Discovery’s contribution to the economic inclusion South African market, where there of smalland medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurs is an acknowledged need for small and the youth was R9.6 million. business support, extending from a micro level to the development of medium-sized businesses capable of becoming larger employers and R3.3 billion contributors to the economy. (89% of total procurement spend in South Africa) was channelled towards preferential procurement groups (including groups previously excluded from the formal economy). 51 independent The Horizon Programme, developed entrepreneurs were by the business development group supported. Raizcorp on behalf of Discovery, aims to nurture four selected social entrepreneurs, reducing their dependency on external funding and helping them to achieve business sustainability and a greater social and economic impact. 42 Helping small and medium enterprises survive tough economic conditions Weathering the current tough economic conditions in South Africa poses a difficult challenge for small and medium enterprises, who may not have the financial strength and flexibility needed to survive. During the 2016 financial year, a private sector fund was established, and has been supported by Discovery, with the objective of helping these enterprises through current economic conditions. The fund is still at an early stage of development, and additional detail will be included in future reporting. Discovery is honoured to be the 2016 recipient of the Ubuntu Economic Diplomacy Award. The Ubuntu Awards are conferred by the South African Government, in recognition of service promoting South Africa’s national interests and values globally. They celebrate and distinguish businesses that contribute positively to South Africa’s reputation and to its goals of creating jobs and attracting investment. In addition to financial support for incubators and entrepreneurs, business development advice is provided to existing and potential enterprise development beneficiaries to overcome business-related challenges. These beneficiaries include organisations that have received funding through social investment, for example beneficiaries of the Discovery Fund, who typically need assistance in creating income-generating activities to sustain themselves beyond the term of their funding from Discovery and other donors. In April 2016, 22 of South Africa’s most promising medical and health innovators, beneficiaries of funding through our programmes, were invited to participate in a visit to Israel, exposing them to one of the world’s most exciting healthcare markets, promoting African business and encouraging the group to create companies suitable for a global platform. DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 43 PART 2: Healthy and prosperous communities continued Building a healthy and thriving society In this report, we Our ambition is to be a have described our powerful force for social business model and good. the way in which we In 2017, we will move further towards strive to meet the realising this ambition by undertaking the following actions in these areas: needs and expectations of stakeholders to contribute to sustainable development. We have also described how we work with international organisations, communities and small business owners to build stronger and healthier communities and improve health outcomes. These activities contribute to a bigger picture – building a thriving society that meets societal needs. HEALTHY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES ❚❚ Refining the Vitality Shared-Value Insurance model further by improving and consolidating the measurement of societal value delivered through our goods and services. During the year ahead we will also continue the process of aligning our measurement framework with the UN Sustainable Development Goals ❚❚ Continuing to ensure that our products are responsibly marketed and that we comply with all regulatory requirements relating to data privacy and sovereignty across all of the jurisdictions in which we operate ❚❚ Continuing efforts to minimise our environmental footprint, in advance of our move into a new five-star green-rated building in Johannesburg in 2018 44 We look forward to sharing the results of these initiatives with you in our 2017 report. HEALTHY WORKPLACES ❚❚ Providing leadership, in partnership with other industry players, to raise the profile of health issues in business and to introduce guidelines for corporate health reporting ❚❚ Engaging with corporate clients to improve the health of their employees, through initiatives such as Britain’s Healthiest Workplace and through work undertaken by our subsidiary in the USA, The Vitality Group ❚❚ Improving employee health outcomes in our own business, and progressing towards leadership on employee health metrics in our peer group of companies HEALTHY COMMUNITIES ❚❚ Enhancing our community development impact through a new system for monitoring and evaluating the outcomes of community initiatives DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 45 Appendix: Location of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 disclosures in our reporting General standard disclosures In the interests of presenting this report in a concise and accessible format, certain data and information required to comply with the GRI G4 guidelines is included on our Sustainable Development Reporting website at www.discovery.co.za/info/2016SDReport. Indicator number Indicator description Placement Strategy and analysis G4-1 CEO Letter Integrated Annual Report, pages 6 to 11. In addition, a podcast focusing on sustainable development and shared value can be referenced on the Sustainable Development Reporting website G4-2 Key impacts, risks Integrated Annual Report, pages 30 to 33. and opportunities Organisational profile G4-3 Organisation name Front cover G4-4 Primary brands, products Integrated Annual Report, pages 20 to 21. and services G4-5 Headquarters location Johannesburg, South Africa G4-6 Where the organisation operates Integrated Annual Report, pages 20 to 21. G4-7 Nature of ownership and Integrated Annual Report, pages 130 to 131. legal form G4-8 Markets served Integrated Annual Report, pages 20 to 21. G4-9 Scale of the organisation Integrated Annual Report, pages 26 to 27 and Sustainable Development Report page 1. G4-10 Total number of employees Sustainable Development Reporting website by type G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements Sustainable Development Reporting website G4-12 Supply chain description Sustainable Development Reporting website G4-13 Organisational changes during Integrated Annual Report, pages 6 to 17. the reporting period G4-14 Precautionary principle See information included under Principle 7, Sustainable Development Report, page 46. G4-15 External charters, principles Sustainable Development Reporting website or other initiatives G4-16 Membership of associations Sustainable Development Reporting website Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Entities included in financial Integrated Annual Report, pages 136 to 139. statements 46 Indicator number Indicator description Placement G4-18 Process for defining report Inputs from the business were assessed alongside an evaluation of boundaries and content stakeholder priorities and concerns. The resulting report structure and content was approved by the Social, Ethics and Sustainability Committee of the Board. As noted on page 2 of the Sustainable Development Report, non-financial information relates primarily to South Africa-based business units, which account for the majority of our revenue and employees. Identified material aspects and boundaries continued G4-19 Material aspects included The following material GRI, aspects were identified: in the report ❚❚ Economic performance ❚❚ Non-discrimination ❚❚ Energy ❚❚ Local communities ❚❚ Emissions ❚❚ Anti-corruption ❚❚ Effluents and waste ❚❚ Public policy ❚❚ Employment ❚❚ Anti-competitive behaviour ❚❚ Training and education ❚❚ Compliance (Sub-category: Social) ❚❚ Diversity and equal opportunity ❚❚ Customer privacy ❚❚ Compliance (Sub-category: Product responsibility) G4-20 Descriptions of material The material GRI Aspects included in this report were selected as they are aspect boundaries within material to all entities within the organisation. the organisation G4-21 Descriptions of material aspect Key stakeholder groups include clients, employees, government, regulatory boundaries outside the authorities, business partners, medical professionals and suppliers, small organisation business, communities and, more broadly, society. The material GRI Aspects included in this report are relevant to all of the groups above, particularly in the South African market where Discovery occupies a strong competitive position. G4-22 Restatements No restatements have been made. G4-23 Changes from previous reports in This is the first report produced by Discovery in accordance with the GRI G4 terms of scope and/or boundaries guidelines. Stakeholder engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups See the response to G4-21 above, and the Sustainable Development Report, page 3. G4-25 How stakeholders were identified The identification of stakeholders is a dynamic process that takes into account the materiality of the concerns expressed by a particular stakeholder group to the business (their impact and influence on the organisation) as well as the potential for the business to impact or influence the stakeholder group concerned. We regularly review stakeholder engagement practices, including the content and presentation of this report, to ensure that we communicate openly and transparently with stakeholders and adequately address concerns raised. G4-26 Approach to stakeholder Sustainable Development Report, page 3. engagement G4-27 Topics raised during stakeholder Sustainable Development Report, page 3. engagements DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 47 Location of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 disclosures in this report continued Indicator number Indicator description Placement Report profile G4-28 Reporting period 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016 G4-29 Date of most recent report 3 November 2015 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Report contact Penny Moumakwa, Head of Discovery People and Sustainable Development Email: discoverysustainability@discovery.co.za G4-32 In accordance option, GRI Index “In accordance” option – core and report assurance The GRI index and details of indicators covered by external assurance are available in this online Sustainable Development Report, pages 46 to 50. G4-33 Policy regarding report assurance A rigorous internal assurance process was undertaken to verify financial and non-financial information contained in the group’s Sustainable Development Report, in the course of which the internal audit team worked to: ❚❚ Obtain an understanding of: −− The stakeholder engagement process −− The selection and application of integrated and sustainability reporting policies −− How management has applied the principle of materiality in preparing the Integrated Annual Report and the specified key performance and GRI indicators in the Sustainable Development Report ❚❚ Make enquiries of management, employees and those responsible for the preparation of the Group’s reporting and the specified key performance and GRI indicators as were considered necessary ❚❚ Inspect relevant supporting documentation and obtain the necessary external confirmations and management representations for the purposes of our engagement ❚❚ Perform analytical procedures and limited tests of detail responsive to our risk assessment and the level of assurance required, including a comparison of judgementally selected information to the underlying source documentation from which the information was derived External assurance was undertaken as detailed in this table. The external assurance statement is further available as a downloadable document here. http://www.discovery.co.za/info/2016SDReport/pdfs/Discovery_SD_Online_GRI. pdf Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the Integrated Annual Report, pages 112 to 119. organisation G4-35 Process for delegating authority In accordance with our Shared-Value Insurance business model, the delegation for sustainability topics from the of authority for sustainability topics follows the same process as for other areas board to senior executives and of the business. See the Governance Review on pages 112 to 119 of the other employees Integrated Annual Report for more detail. The Social and Ethics Committee assists the Board in monitoring social and economic development, as well as ethics and transformation within the Group. The Committee consists of non-executive and executive directors and the Chairperson is an independent non-executive director. Ethics and integrity G4-56 Code of conduct Sustainable Development Report, pages 8 to 9. 48 Location of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) disclosures in this report Indicator number Indicator description Placement External assurance Economic Aspect: Economic performance Disclosure on management approach Integrated Annual Report, in particular pages 12 to 17. G4-EC1 Economic value added Sustainable Development Report website Yes Environmental Aspect: Energy Disclosure on management approach Sustainable Development Report, page 25. G4-EN3 Energy consumption Sustainable Development Reporting website Yes Aspect: Emissions Disclosure on management approach Sustainable Development Report, page 25. G4-EN15 Direct Greenhouse gas emissions Sustainable Development Reporting website Yes (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Indirect Greenhouse gas emissions Sustainable Development Reporting website Yes (Scope 2) G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity Sustainable Development Reporting website Yes Aspect: Effluents and waste Disclosure on management approach Sustainable Development Report, page 25. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste Sustainable Development Reporting website Yes Aspect: Overall Disclosure on management approach Sustainable Development Report, page 25. G4-EN31 Environmental protection Sustainable Development Reporting website Yes expenditures Social Aspect: Employment Disclosure on management approach Sustainable Development Report pages 22 to 23. G4-LA1 Number and rate of new employee Sustainable Development Reporting website Yes hires and turnover Aspect: Training and education Disclosure on management approach Sustainable Development Report, pages 22 to 23. G4-LA9 Average hours of training for Sustainable Development Reporting website Yes employees G4-LA11 Employees receiving performance Sustainable Development Reporting website Yes and career development reviews DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 49 Location of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) disclosed in this report continued Indicator number Indicator description Placement External assurance Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity Disclosure on management approach Sustainable Development Report, page 23. G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies Integrated Annual Report, pages 38 to 39. Yes and employees Sustainable Development Reporting website Aspect: Non-discrimination Disclosure on management approach Sustainable Development Reporting, page 23. G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination Sustainable Development Reporting website Yes Aspect: Local communities Disclosure on management approach Sustainable Development Report, pages 38 to 43. G4-SO1 Local community engagement, Sustainable Development Reporting website No impact assessments and Sustainable Development Report, pages 38 to 43. development programs Aspect: Anti-corruption Disclosure on management approach Sustainable Development Reporting website G4-SO3 Risks related to corruption Sustainable Development Reporting website Yes G4-SO5 Confirmed instances of corruption Sustainable Development Reporting website Yes Aspect: Public policy Disclosure on management approach Sustainable Development Reporting website G4-SO6 Political contributions Sustainable Development Reporting website Yes Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour Disclosure on management approach Sustainable Development Reporting website G4-SO7 Anti-competitive behaviour Sustainable Development Reporting website Yes Aspect: Compliance (Sub-category: Social) Disclosure on management approach G4-SO8 Fines for non-compliance with laws Sustainable Development Reporting website Yes G4-PR5 Surveys measuring customer Sustainable Development Reporting website Yes satisfaction G4-PR7 Non-compliance with regulations Sustainable Development Reporting website Yes concerning marketing communications Aspect: Customer privacy Disclosure on management approach Sustainable Development Reporting website G4-PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of Sustainable Development Reporting website Yes customer privacy and losses of customer data Aspect: Compliance (Sub-category: Product responsibility) Disclosure on management approach Sustainable Development Reporting website G4-PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws Sustainable Development Reporting website Yes and regulations concerning products and services 50 APPENDIX: The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles In this table, we provide information on how we have integrated UNGC principles into our business. Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect Discovery has put in place and published a human rights policy statement, which is the protection of internationally available from the landing page of our sustainability reporting website. It sets out the proclaimed human rights principles that are applied by the business in support of universally proclaimed human rights. These encompass a wide-ranging definition of human rights, including child labour, forced labour and freedom of association as detailed below. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure they are Due to the nature of our business as a supplier of financial services and insurance not complicit in human rights abuses products, human rights issues have not been considered to be a material issue to date. However, we understand the need to evaluate whether there are direct or indirect impacts on human rights as a result of our business and to address these if required. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Our human rights policy covers the freedom of association. We uphold the freedom association and the effective recognition of association in businesses where we have a controlling interest, and recognise the of the right to collective bargaining right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination Our human rights policy includes provisions upholding the elimination of all forms of all forms of forced and compulsory of forced and compulsory labour. labour Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective Our human rights policy includes provisions upholding the elimination of all forms abolition of child labour of child labour. Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination In South Africa, where 83% of employees are located, we ensure that our workforce of discrimination in respect of adequately represents the demographic profile of the country. We are making employment and occupation progress in achieving employment equity goals in this region, as detailed on our sustainability reporting website. Principle 7 Businesses should support a We have put in place an environmental policy, which is available from the landing precautionary approach to environmental page of our sustainability reporting website. challenges The policy affirms our commitment to providing products and services in a manner that ensures a safe and healthy workplace for employees and minimises our potential impact on the environment. It provides for a range of actions to reduce our environmental impact, including the integration of considerations relating to environmental concerns and impacts into all of our decision-making and procurement processes and the promotion of environmental awareness among employees. Page 25 of this report describes the actions that were taken during the year under review to further the objectives of this policy and minimise our environmental impact. Additional detail and data is also contained on our Sustainable Development Reporting website at www.discovery.co.za/info/2016SDreport/environment. Our environmental policy additionally provides for disciplinary action to be taken in instances of non-compliance with the policy and for all instances of non-compliance to be included within the regular risk reporting process. DISCOVERY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2016 51 Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives Our environmental policy commits us to reducing our environmental impact where to promote greater environmental possible, including through the following measures: responsibility ❚❚ Operating in compliance with all relevant environmental legislation and striving to use pollution prevention and environmental best practices in all that we do ❚❚ Integrating the consideration of environmental concerns and impacts into all of our decision-making and procurement processes by promoting environmental awareness among our employees ❚❚ Training, educating and informing our employees about environmental issues that may affect their work ❚❚ Promoting the efficient use of materials and conserving resources throughout our facilities, particularly those that are non-renewable ❚❚ Applying renewable energy alternatives and other green technologies within our facilities, wherever these alternatives are available, economical and suitable Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the Our products are mainly concerned with improving health outcomes rather than with development and diffusion of the development of environmental technology. However, within the scope of our environmentally friendly technologies business, we work to encourage the development of environmentally responsible behaviour. For example, in our insurance division we have innovated products that encourage safer and therefore more environmentally friendly driving behaviour. In addition to these actions taken through our core products and services, we strongly support the development of urban and community infrastructure that supports the use of public transport. For example, in Johannesburg we supported the Ecomobility Festival (a series of events promoting the use of public transport) through our partnership with the City of Johannesburg. Principle 10 Businesses should work against Our governance structure is detailed in our Annual Integrated Report, pages 112 to 119. corruption in all its forms, including The Ethics Office is an independent function tasked with assessing and promoting extortion and bribery the ethical corporate culture of the Discovery Group. It provides information to the Social and Ethics Committee of the Board on the formal structures safeguarding ethics within the organisation, their effectiveness in promoting an ethical culture, and the way in which employees perceive the Group’s efforts in pursuit of integrity. The functions of the Ethics Office are detailed in our Ethics Charter, which governs the role and functioning of the Ethics Office. For additional detail, our sustainable development reporting website can be accessed at www.discovery.co.za/ info/2016SDreport 52 Discovery +27 11 529 2888 | DiscoverySustainability@discovery.co.za | www.discovery.co.za Subsidiaries of Discovery Limited are authorised financial services providers.
