Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 Table of contents From our CEO As 2015 came to an end, so did the Millennium Development • ­ Our technologies, products and programs will always be Goals (MDGs), eight globally accepted targets to improve grounded in data driven evidence. From our CEO .........................................................................................3 the health and well-being of people on our planet. They’d be morphed into a more comprehensive set of 17 Sustainable • ­ We’ll put as much energy into advancing science, Exceptional humanitarian products....................................................4 Development Goals (SDGs) that would guide global priorities. promoting innovative delivery mechanisms, and A leading edge commitment................................................................6 ensuring end user compliance as we put into As a company that combines doing good business and doing product development. Humanitarian impact............................................................................8 good, Vestergaard put its full support behind the MDGs over the past 15 years and it has been an incredible journey. In • ­ W e’ll be inclusive of stakeholders, partners and end users, A principled approach.........................................................................10 fact, two of the biggest achievements of the MDGs have our and favor interconnectivity over silo thinking. Protecting workers and our world.....................................................12 name on it: The fight against malaria and efforts to eradicate Guinea worm disease. • ­ We’ll be transparent and accountable, to employees, Donations.............................................................................................14 partners and end users. It makes perfect sense, then, for Vestergaard to use the Where we work...................................................................................15 Sustainable Development Goals as the blueprint for our This year’s corporate responsibility report offers a snapshot future business goals. At the end of 2015 our Board of of our company today, showcases our humanitarian impact, Directors endorsed the decision to begin a strategy process and highlights steps we’ve taken to ensure that we operate where we align our priorities with the SDGs. This will be a with integrity. Next year, we’ll unveil our strategic focus for six-month process involving many staff members in exciting the years ahead. work, as we decide what we want our future to look like, for us, for the company and for the people we serve. To partners joining us on this adventure, let’s forge onward. For everyone else who appreciates our mission, We’ve built an exciting platform to grow Vestergaard to new please stay tuned. heights. We have strong core competencies in public health, safe drinking water and food security, and clear mandates for the way we work. Mikkel Vestergaard CEO Vestergaard 2 3 Exceptional humanitarian products Vestergaard’s bed nets, water filters and food security Public Health Products products can have dramatic impact – preventing lifeVestergaard is the largest manufacturer of insecticidal bed threatening diseases and increasing agricultural outputs. nets under the PermaNet® brand. More than 1.3 billion With such significant outcomes at stake, we take our people have benefited from PermaNet® bed nets which commitment to develop and deliver high-impact products prevent malaria. This insidious disease kills a child every very seriously. 60 seconds and claims 438,000 deaths annually. PermaNet® 2.0, introduced in 2004, was the first long-lasting insecThe company makes heavy investments in scientific ticidal net brought to scale, and PermaNet® 3.0 is the research and development to spur the creation of new first long-lasting insecticidal net with increased efficacy products and refine current products when appropriate. against insecticide resistant mosquitoes. •V estergaard’s team of experts involved in various Water Products aspects of product development, optimization and evidence creation includes engineers, chemists, The evolution of LifeStraw® began in 1996 when Vestergaard pharmacologists and entomologists. partnered with the Carter Center to develop the LifeStraw® Guinea Worm filter which removes Guinea worm larvae from •S tate-of-the-art research facilities include a laborawater it contaminates. LifeStraw® water filters and purifiers, tory in Hanoi, Vietnam where vector control and water which remove microbiological contaminants from water, filtration products are analyzed, and the Vestergaardwere introduced in 2005 and have been used in 64 countries NMIMR Vector Lab in Accra, Ghana, an insectary that since then. Photos tests our vector products. LifeStraw® products for public health include LifeStraw® to come •E xtensive field testing is conducted by independent Family 1.0, LifeStraw® Family 2.0 (with built-in safe storage) third parties who verify product performance and user acceptability. These are run by renowned research and LifeStraw® Community. All received top ratings in the first round of the WHO Household Water Treatment Combination institutes such as the Centers for Disease Control, the Evaluation Scheme published in 2015. of people and London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and product the United States Department of Agriculture. For outdoor enthusiasts and travellers LifeStraw® offers the personal LifeStraw®, LifeStraw® Go refillable water bottle, LifeStraw® Mission for large groups, and LifeStraw® Steel, the original “straw” evolved to include two-stage filtration, introduced in 2015. Strict criteria guide product development: Food Security Products • Simple but technologically advanced ZeroFly® Screens, Targets and Traps have insecticide incor• Fit for the specific purpose porated into the screen to protect livestock from nuisance • Long lasting even in harsh environments and biting flies, including tsetse flies, which transmit sleeping • Easy to use sickness. ZeroFly® Storage Bags incorporate insecticide into • Affordable at scale the bag to prevent pest infestations that cause post-harvest crop losses. In 2015, the Bags were the recipient of Australia’s GOOD award for innovation. 4 5 A leading edge commitment In the arena in which we work, producing innovative Increasing Speed of Delivery products is just half the battle. We devote considerable Innovation is also focused on speed of delivery. Vestergaard resources to understand emerging challenges inherent has the capacity to quickly scale up production when to the diseases we work to prevent and to overcome necessary. We demonstrated this in 2004 when we scaled up barriers that slow down delivery of our products to production of PermaNet® bed nets to meet the enormous people who desperately need them. demand. By doing so, we made bed nets affordable and created a viable market for them. Vestergaard has also Furthering Scientific Knowledge developed a strategic network with many local partners to • T  he Vestergaard-NMIMR Vector Labs in Ghana is a ensure fast delivery of our products to in-country destinations partnership with the Noguchi Memorial Institute for rather than simply shipping them to the container port. Medical Research where it resides. The state-of-the-art insectary conducts testing of Vestergaard’s vector products and is used by NMIMR’s department of parasitology for many of their tests. • A  s a partner in a Gates-funded consortium working to • V  estergaard’s ISO/IEC 17025 accredited water laboratory • IR Mapper is a database and interactive mapping tool eliminate Human African Sleeping Sickness by 2020, in Vietnam is dedicated to research, development developed by Vestergaard in collaboration with KEMRI Vestergaard is supplying ZeroFly® Targets and Traps for and testing activities for LifeStraw® products. and ESRI, East Africa and is the most comprehensive vector control and participating as an implementer. online tool for mapping insecticide resistance in • O  ur partnership with Jaguar Land Rover and Climatemalaria vectors. It consolidates reports onto filterable Care brought safe water to 300,000+ school children in maps to guide decision making for deployment of the Kenya in October. most effective insecticidal tools in specific areas. • Working with the USAID Feed the Future Innovation Lab, Piloting Innovative Financing Models Vestergaard is supporting a five-year project aimed at One of the biggest barriers to sustaining global health identifying ways to reduce post-harvest crop losses. initiatives is the limited availability of public funds amongst so many competing needs. Vestergaard continually tests innovative financing models to overcome this problem. One of our current successes is the LifeStraw® Follow the Liters program. Through this initiative, for every purchase of a LifeStraw® product by a consumer Engaging in High-Impact Partnerships in the developed world, one school child in a developing Vestergaard partners with like-minded organizations, country is provided with safe water for an entire school globally and locally, on important initiatives. Some year. This is possible because a portion of the proceeds examples in 2015 follow. from consumer sales is pooled to purchase and distribute high-volume LifeStraw® Community water purifiers for schools in developing communities without access to a safe water source. Since the purifiers are only purchased after the funds are collected, the distributions are guaranteed to be executed and sustained. 6 7 Humanitarian impact Accelerating HIV Testing and Treatment CarePack® is an integrated prevention campaign that bundles health tools given away for free as an incentive for Vestergaard has witnessed the power of business to mass government HIV testing. Vestergaard partnered with drive humanitarian change. Here are some of our the Kenyan government to initiate a CarePack® campaign proudest accomplishments. which reached nearly 41,000 people in the village of Kakamega (80.27% of the target population) in seven Contributing to Guinea Worm Eradication days and exceeded universal access targets for HIV testing. In 1996 Vestergaard partnered with the Carter Center to To ensure that people who tested positive for HIV develop a filter that could remove Guinea worm larvae received ongoing treatment, Vestergaard subsequently from water it was contaminating. Over the past two financed the creation and staffing of the Emusanda decades we have supplied more than 37 million LifeStraw® Health Center in Kakamega. Guinea Worm filters, and they have contributed to the near-eradication of the disease. In 1986 more than 3.5 million people suffered from Guinea worm disease. In 2015 there were only 22 cases. Once this number drops Preventing Waterborne Disease to zero, Guinea worm will be the first disease that will UNICEF Kenya has estimated that only 37% of schools have been eradicated without the use of a vaccine. have access to safe drinking water within 200 meters of school grounds. Drinking contaminated water at school causes illnesses and absences, but a comprehensive program of safe water in schools can result in a 42% Reducing Malaria Deaths reduction in absenteeism. The LifeStraw® Follow the The World Health Organization (WHO) touts global Liters initiative provides sustainable access to safe water malaria control as the greatest public health success of for school children. In November, 2015 the second Follow the past 15 years and malaria deaths have been reduced the Liters distribution campaign in Kenya took place. Now, by 60% since 2000. Long-lasting insecticidal bed nets some 4,500 LifeStraw® Community purifiers are providing (LLINs) have largely been credited for this impact. They approximately 361,000 primary school students with are responsible for a 68% reduction in malaria deaths sustainable access to safe drinking water at school. in Africa where half of the population sleeps under a bed net. Over 1.3 billion people have benefited from PermaNet® bed nets. PermaNet® 2.0 was the first insecticidal bed Enhancing Food Security net to be brought to scale and today it is the best-selling bed net. PermaNet® 3.0, introduced in 2007, is the only Experts believe that sleeping sickness can be eradicated. LLIN recommended by WHO for increased efficacy against This would create an enabling environment to lift millions insecticide resistant mosquitoes. of people out of poverty through improved agricultural productivity. For the past 20 years, Vestergaard has been the sole supplier of long-lasting vector control tools to fight sleeping sickness, under the ZeroFly® brand. In a field test in Ghana, ZeroFly® was able to bring back pig production in areas where African Animal Trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness) meant no livestock production was possible; in another field test in Kenya, use of ZeroFly® was credited for a 25% increase in milk yields. 8 9 A principled approach to doing business Valuing Employees Vestergaard respects and values each employee as a In 2015, Vestergaard maintained a multi-cultural treasured member of its corporate family. All employees, and multi-disciplinary workforce. regardless of gender, ethnic origin, religious faith, • 17 nationalities were represented by the staff sexual orientation or disability, are treated fairly and have the same opportunities and the same prospects. • 42% of employees were women Several policies help underpin and support this mandate. • 67% of company jobs were held by citizens of • Equal Employment Opportunities Policy developing countries • Child Labour Policy •N  early half of all employees had been with the company for 5+ years • Flexible Working Hours Policy • Anti-Harassment Policy Vestergaard enjoyed excellent scores against criteria • Maternity, Paternity, Adoption & Parental Leave established by the International Labour Standards in 2015. • 100% of full-time employees enjoyed ≥15 vacation days/year Engaging Employees • 100% of women had access to maternity programs Vestergaard believes in the importance of exposing its employees to the communities the company supports. • 100% of subcontracted sites ruled out child labour as In 2015, 35 staff members from several offices defined by ILO Convention 138 Vestergaard continuously strives to be a business based Compliance Council, which reports to Vestergaard’s Board travelled to rural Kenya to help with the installation on responsibility, transparency and integrity. The company of Directors, is responsible for enforcing appropriate of LifeStraw® water purifiers in hundreds of schools has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2006. behaviour and for defining, then implementing effective without access to a safe water source. Employees We fully embrace the universal principles set forth in the internal and external controls. Employees are encouraged to were trained on how to install the purifiers and Compact as they relate to human rights, labour, environreport instances where the principles have been infringed educate students on their usage and safe water ment and anti-corruption. upon through an anonymous whistle-blowers system. behaviours. Over one week, employees from diverse backgrounds and equally diverse job functions Vestergaard’s Business Code of Conduct governs our Responsible Supply Chain worked hand-in-hand. They shared long but rewarding responsible approach to doing business. The principles in Vestergaard’s Responsible Supply Chain management days in the field and the joy expressed by the children this Code closely mirror the United Nations Global Comteam ensures that all suppliers as well as other third-party and their teachers. They left Kenya with an intimate pact. The company has a zero-tolerance policy regarding business associates adhere to strict standards of ethical understanding of what makes Vestergaard unique, corruption, extortion and bribery. This is detailed in our business practices as detailed in the company’s Supplier and with bonds forged with fellow employees they Anti-Bribery Policy which exists in tandem with the Code Code of Conduct. All first tier suppliers must communicate may not have met otherwise. of Conduct. these principles to their supply chains and ensure compliance by sub-contractors related to Vestergaard’s supply Compliance chain. Supplier employee training is also conducted All Vestergaard employees are trained to fully understand regularly and a formal auditing and monitoring system the Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery Policy. An Internal tracks employee behaviour to confirm compliance. 10 11 Protecting workers and our world Occupational Health and Safety Vestergaard works with suppliers to ensure that the product production lifecycle is handled in an efficient, environmentally responsible and safe manner. Enhancements in 2015 to augment workplace health and safety include the following. • I mproved working conditions at the sewing operation by installing a dust removal system and better lighting on all sewing machines. • Reduced heat at the extrusion workshop by implementing a cooling piping system near the extrusion lines. • Improved the air exhaust treatment of the impregnation machines by installing an air exhaust piping system which treats the air through a water scrubber. • Provided relief from extremely hot work places by providing cooling vests for workers during the summer time. • Improved safety conditions in the chemical warehouse through installation of an automatic dry powder fire extinguishers system at the ceiling of the warehouse, installation of retention areas and physical reorganization of the warehouse. Environmental Stewardship Vestergaard continuously seeks to reduce the environmental impact of its operations. Highlights in 2015 include • Increased awareness of workplace safety rules these activities. by training supplier employees on safe work practices and increasing visibility of safety signage. • Saved water consumption of 30,000 cubic meters and energy consumption of 650 MW a year by reducing the use of the jet dry process of white netting through (i) sourcing colored yarns for knitting colored netting and (ii) using a direct disperse dye process to color the netting during its heat setting. • Reduced the environmental impact and costs of shipping by 30% for PermaNet® bed nets, by optimizing the stuffing of bales of PermaNet® into containers shipped from Vietnam. • Decreased the solid waste at extrusion process by 42% through implementation of direct beam winding during the manufacturing of the yarns used to make the roofs of PermaNet® 3.0. • Reduced the waste at compounding from an average of 8.8% to 2.3% by recycling and through the use of a combi-masterbatch, which incorporates several master batches into one. • Reduced water consumption for the compounding process for each production run by 100 liters of water by upgrading the technology of the cooling system. 12 13 Donations Where we work Vestergaard routinely contributes funds and products to worthy causes around the globe. A partial list of donations in 2015 follows. • D  onated 100 LifeStraw® Go water bottles to the • M  ade a contribution of one million PermaNet® Oromia Regional Health Bureau for community bed nets to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, health workers in Ethiopia. Tuberculosis and Malaria. • P  rovided 200 PermaNet® bed nets to Heart to • Donated LifeStraw® water filters and PermaNet® Heart International to help with the Ebola crisis. bed nets for distribution as part of the Kingsley Holgate Rift Valley Expedition. • G  ave ZeroFly® Screen to the Pan African Tsetse and Trypanosomiasis Eradication Campaign for • Provided 100 PermaNet® bed nets to Song Saa use in several countries including Niger, Ivory Foundation for distribution in Cambodia. Coast, Democratic Republic of Congo, Chad and Sudan. • Pledged a donation of LifeStraw® Guinea Worm filters to the Carter Center valued at $365,000 • S  upplied 7 LifeStraw® Community water purifiers to be given through 2015 and 2016. (With this to families in Nairobi to support a Project L.I.N.C. pledge, Vestergaard has provided a total of in-kind middle school initiative involving a partnership gifts and pledges valued at $1.56 million to the of middle school students from Andover, Kansas Center’s health programs from 1999-2016.) and Trikala, Greece. • Donated 600 PermaNet® bed nets to the World Offices Health Organization (WHO) for villagers in Bangladesh. Switzerland (HQ) USA Vietnam Vestergaard Frandsen Vestergaard Frandsen Inc. Vestergaard Frandsen Vietnam Place Saint Francois 1 1020 19th Street NW 9/253 Minh Khai Street • Provided 250 rolls of ZeroVector® wall lining to 1003 Lausanne, Washington, DC 20036 Hai Ba Trung District TDR for a visceral leishmaniasis study in Switzerland Tel: +1 571 527 2180 Post code: 114034 Tel: +41 (0) 21 310 7333 Fax: +1 703 997 3235 Hanoi Vietnam Bangladesh. Tel: +84 4 36369279 Fax: +41 (0) 21 310 7330 Kenya Fax: +84 4 36367661 • Supplied 643 PermaNet® bed nets to the Family India Vestergaard Frandsen (EA) Limited Vestergaard Frandsen (India) Pvt. Ltd ABC Towers, 5th Floor Legacy Mission for children in an orphanage in 309, Rectangle One, Waiyaki Way Zambia. D-4, Saket (Behind Sheraton Hotel) P.O. Box 66889 00800 New Delhi – 110017 Nairobi Tel: 011-40553666 Tel: +254 20 4444758/9 Fax: +254 20 444452 14­­­­­ www.vestergaard.com 15 vestergaard.com
