CSR REPORT 2016 Co r p o rate S o c i a l R e s p o n s i b i l i t y R e p o r t Tabl e of Contents B u s in ess Su p p o rt a n d Co n tri b u ti o n 02 Top Management Message 19 Social Contributions by KURODA ELECTRIC Group 20 Educational Support Activities 03 About KURODA ELECTRIC Financial Support for New Building Construction Project for Ban Parai Elementary School in Thailand ① Company Information KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs Support Activities for Elementary ② Financial Reporting Schools in Thailand ③ Principal Subsidiaries ④ Working with our Partners 21 Environmental Contribution Activities ⑤ Working with our Shareholders and Investors ① KURODA ELECTRIC Company Forest (Ome, Tokyo) ② KURODA ELECTRIC Company Forest (Kurokawa, Kawanishi, Hyogo) 07 KURODA ELECTRIC Group CSR Outline 22 Regional, Household and other Social Contributions ① KURODA ECO Point System ① Corporate Philosophy̶Company Motto̶ ② Used Stamps Collection Drives Mission Statement ③ Hold Basketball Clinics ② The KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of ④ Donations from Vending Machine Sales Conduct ⑤ Cleanup of Road Surrounding HQ Location ③ Joining the United Nations Global Compact（ GC） ⑥ Donation of Newspapers and Newspaper Shelves to Local ④ The Relationship between the Sustainable Development Elementary and Junior High Schools Goals and CSR Activities ⑦ Provision of Work Experience Opportunity for Local Junior ⑤ 2015 CSR Goals with Principal Corresponding Activities High-School Students ⑥ CSR Activity Goals for 2016 Financial Year M a n a g e me n t S y s te m 13 Initiatives at KURODA ELECTRIC 23 Quality and Environmental Management Systems 14 Corporate Governance ① Quality / Environmental Policies ② Quality and Environmental Controls 15 Compliance ③ Environmental Performance ① The KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct w i th E m p l o y e e ② KURODA ELECTRIC Group Hotline 27 Working with our Employees 17 Risk Management ① Developing Skilled Human Resources ① The Corporate Action Committeeʼs Response to ② Employee Welfare Programs Compliance and Risk Management ③ Mental Healthcare Programs ② Information Security 31 The KURODA ELECTRIC Roadmap Editorial Policy The purpose of this document is to report on KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs activities and approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). As a vital communicative tool, the objective of this CSR report is to promote dialogue among all stakeholders for the overall betterment of society. We sincerely hope that by introducing the CSR activities of KURODA ELECTRIC Group we will be able to further promote such dialogue. The month of issue June, 2016（The date of issue last time：June 29, 2015） Target Period This report will deal with KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs 81st period, the 2015 ﬁnancial year (April 1, 2015-March 31, 2016) (some information, targets and forecasts from outside this period will also be included). The next report is currently scheduled for June, 2017. Scope of Report This report will cover CSR activities by KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. as well as aﬃliated domestic companies (KURODA TECHNO Co., Ltd., KOMURA-TECH Co., Ltd., Sohwa & Sophia Technologies Inc., NICHIDO-DENKO Co. Ltd.) and major aﬃliated companies overseas. Reference Guidelines ISO26000:2010「Guidance on social responsibility」 UN Global Compact Policy on Communicating Progress 01 Top Management Message With the fusion of electronics and telecommunications, highest caliber which circulates the latest our economic system is moving towards a new technologies and information. era. The competition over technological development has led to ever lower costs and Additionally we expressed our intention to join the higher functionality across a wide range of United Nations Global Compact (GC) in February, electronic and electrical goods, resulting in a 2011 and we were formally registered as one of pronounced spike in the development of new the signatory companies in March, 2011. Signatory products over a short period of time. Additionally, companies are expected to achieve better with the increasing globalization of economic corporate management by incorporating the 10 systems, the creation of production and GC principles into their management strategies, circulation networks which cross national day-to-day operations and corporate cultures. boundaries has become a more pressing matter It is our intention at KURODA ELECTRIC, under the than ever. We must continue to adapt pertinentry various principles of the GC, to manage according to these changes in business circumstances. At to global standards, to pursue greater growth and the same time, we face with the new challenges proﬁtability for our company, to develop our such as harmonious coexistence with the business from a global standpoint, to increase the environment, conservation of biodiversity and worth of our enterprises, and to always fulﬁll our human-rights/labor issue in supply chain which corporate social responsibilities (CSR). need to be addressed. S i n c e i t s e s t a b l i s h m e n t i n 1 9 4 5 , K U R O DA ELECTRIC has remained active as an independent trading company dealing in electric materials, general electronic parts, semiconductors and machinery. Most important of all, as a supplier of manufacturing parts and materials to the electronics industry, we at KURODA ELECTRIC have always developed our business in close contact with our customers. And since establishment our guiding policy has been to provide services vital to our customers without interruption, in a timely and eﬃcient manner, thus contributing to the development of both the world-wide manufacturing industry and to society, and growing in trust as a corporation. Currently, under this policy, KURODA ELECTRIC Group is running a business in 25 locations within Japan and another 32 in 14 countries overseas. As a customer-oriented supplier of parts, materials, products and services, as well as an active Chairman and President and company in the ﬁelds of design and manufacturing, Chief Executive Oﬃcer Chief Operating Oﬃcer we continue to build a global network of the Takashi Kaneko Koichi Hosokawa 02 Abo u t KUR O DA E LE C TR I C Business 03 1 Company Information ⑴ Corporate Name KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. ⑵ Start of Operations October 1945 ⑶ Capital 10,045,761,000 yen (as of the end of March, 2016) ⑷ Annual Turnover 285.6 billion yen (2015 ﬁscal year ending March 31st, 2016 on a consolidated basis) ⑸ Company Rep. Chairman and Chief Executive Oﬃcer Takashi Kaneko President and Chief Operating Oﬃcer Koichi Hosokawa ⑹ Number of Employees 330 (standalone, as of the end of March, 2016) 4,159 (consolidated companies, as of the end of March, 2016) ⑺ Listed Stock Exchange First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange 2 Financial Reporting (Aggregated Account Summaries) Sa l e s Ope rating P ro ﬁts (Mil l ions of Y e n) First Half Second Half ( M i l l i on s of Yen ) First Half Second Half 9,895 3 5 0,000 3 2 6 ,4 1 2 10,000 8,669 3 0 0,000 28 7 ,8 3 9 28 5 , 6 0 5 8 , 108 7,500 2 5 0,000 6,445 5,653 1 8 6 ,7 1 3 120,877 4,572 194,960 15 2 ,4 2 5 3 , 556 2 0 0,000 5,000 1 5 0,000 3,736 110,409 1 0 0,000 164,728 2,500 4 , 552 13 5 ,4 1 4 1 3 9 ,6 9 9 4,097 4,242 5 0,000 84,551 2,709 78th Period 79th Period 80th Period 81th Period 78th Period 79th Period 80th Period 81th Period March, 2013 March, 2014 March, 2015 March, 2015 March, 2013 March, 2014 March, 2015 March, 2015 Or d i n a r y P r oﬁ t s Cu rre nt Te rm N e t P ro ﬁts (Mi l l ions of Y e n) First Half Second Half ( M i l l i on s of Yen ) First Half Second Half 1 2,500 7,000 6,765 1 0 ,3 0 3 6,000 5,792 1 0 ,000 9,0 7 5 5,000 3,698 7 ,7 1 9 4,135 2,706 7 ,500 5 ,9 5 0 4,000 3 , 871 6,566 4,7 6 9 3,1 8 3 7 80 5 ,000 3,000 2,201 3,791 2,000 2 ,500 3,086 3,067 3 , 091 4,3 0 6 4 ,3 5 3 4,5 3 6 2,775 1,000 1,934 78th Period 79th Period 80th Period 81th Period 78th Period 79th Period 80th Period 81th Period March, 2013 March, 2014 March, 2015 March, 2015 March, 2013 March, 2014 March, 2015 March, 2015 Yearl y N e t P r o ﬁ t pe r St ock Ye arly Divide nds pe r Sto ck (Y e n) First Half Second Half ( Yen ) First Half Second Half 200 18 6 .9 3 1 8 9 .4 4 70 67 60 20 150 8 6 .8 9 134.03 10 1 .4 8 50 102.86 40 36 100 71.33 30 32 20 . 7 1 30 20 15 17 47 20 50 10 0 .0 4 8 7 .9 6 82 . 1 5 62.70 10 15 15 16 78th Period 79th Period 80th Period 81th Period 78th Period 79th Period 80th Period 81th Period March, 2013 March, 2014 March, 2015 March, 2015 March, 2013 March, 2014 March, 2015 March, 2015 For more detailed business reports, please refer to the following URL links. Business Reports http://www.kuroda-electric.co.jp/ir/library/report/ Factbook http://www.kuroda-electric.co.jp/ir/library/factbook/ 04 3 Principal Subsidiaries Domestic 4 1 KURODA TECHNO CO., LTD. 2 2 KOMURA-TECH CO., LTD. 3 Sohwa & Sophia Technologies INC. 4 NICHIDO-DENKO CO., LTD. 3 3 1 1 4 2 Overseas 1 Z. KURODA (Singapore) PTE. LTD. B KURODA ELECTRIC (SHENZHEN) CO., LTD. 2 KURODA ELECTRIC (Malaysia) SDN. BHD. C KC AUTOMATION (SHENZHEN) CO., LTD. 3 PT. TRIMITRA CHITRAHASTA D RAINBOW METAL TECHNOLOGIES CO., LTD. 4 PT. KURODA ELECTRIC Indonesia E KURODA PRECISION TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. 5 Z. KURODA (Thailand) CO., LTD. F SHANGHAI KURODA TRADING CO., LTD. 6 KURODA Auto-Tech (Thailand) LTD. G TIANJIN KURODA TRADING CO., LTD. 7 KURODA ELECTRIC (Philippines) INC. H TAIWAN KURODA ELECTRIC CO., LTD. 8 BORAMTEK (Vietnam) CO., LTD. I KURODA ELECTRIC U.S.A. INC. 9 KURODA ELECTRIC KOREA INC. J NANKAI Enviro-Tech Corporation : KURODA ELECTRIC INDIA PVT. LTD. K NANKAI Mexico, S.A. DE C.V. A Z. KURODA (HONGKONG) CO., LTD. L KURODA ELECTRIC CZECH S.R.O 22 17 9 19 21 20 15 16 10 13 12 14 18 5 11 17 6 7 9 8 2 1 15 16 3 4 13 12 14 18 11 5 6 7 8 2 1 3 4 05 4 Working with our Partners At KURODA ELECTRIC Group we regularly purchase a wide range of materials, parts and other supplies. At the heart of all our operations, however, is the positive relationship we build and maintain with our trading partners. Therefore, when selecting suppliers, we always adhere to the strictest codes of fairness and impartiality and are careful to observe every applicable law when purchasing. 5 Working with our Shareholders and Investors The support of our shareholders and investors is vital for sustainable development at KURODA ELECTRIC. This is why we emphasize the importance of timely and pertinent information disclosure and communication in investor relations. ⑴ I n for m atio n Disclo s ur e and ⑵ S t ock Informat ion I n v e s t o r R elatio ns P o lic ies Total Number of Authorized Shares 120,000,000 At KURODA ELECTRIC We disclose important information pertaining to Total Number of Outstanding Shares 39,446,162 our social responsibilities in terms of ﬁnancial, environmental and social ( Of them, treasury stocks 1,811,145) standpoint to our stakeholders timely and pertinently. We value transparency, fairness and continuity when dealing with each and every Total Shareholders 9,381 one of our shareholders and investors. Not only do we disclose (as of the end of March, 2016) information required by the securities exchangeʼs rules on timely disclosure, but in order to proactively promote fair disclosure of information we also publish documents regarding ﬁnancial results brieﬁngs directly to our website. In addition to the disclosure of information, in order to ensure an accurate and equitable assessment of our company, we also engage each of our shareholders and investors in direct communication thereby creating a proactive dialogue which then enables us, in the course of operations, to consult the many opinions of our stakeholders before making decisions. Our earnest wish is that, in order to maintain the fair and smooth circulation of our marketable securities (KURODA ELECTRIC stocks), we are able to utilize this dialogue to even further raise the value of our enterprises at KURODA ELECTRIC. 06 KURODA ELECTRIC Group CSR Outline Business 07 1 Corporate Philosophy̶Company Motto̶Mission Statement ⑴ C or p or ate P hilo so p hy The items listed below, which form KURODA ELECTRICʼs corporate philosophy, are the root of the company groupʼs CSR policy. It is through this philosophy, unchanged since the companyʼs inception, that we recognize our dues to the community and environment and continue to develop our business with freedom and creativity. It is this very philosophy which speaks to the heart of our existence as a company and our sense of social responsibility. Life Freedom Creativity Dynamic enthusiasm, To allow our employees Most importantly, to grow in independence to always avoid complacency, and appreciation for all and capability through and to pursue new territories that the community and the delegation of and possibilities environment allow. responsibility. with bold resolution. ⑵ C om p a ny Mo tto For human existence, the two most fundamentally important things are Life and Freedom. Thus, for a company to continue developing in perpetuity it must respect and seek to actualize these two philosophies, and to build a corporate culture where the workplace overﬂows in both. With this logic in mind, KURODA ELECTRIC Group chooses the following as its Company Motto: Let us stretch our vital roots deep into the earth, and spread our limbs freely unto the sky. ⑶ M i s s i on Statem ent Additionally, at KURODA ELECTRIC Group, our employees are united in a single fundamental approach which is deﬁned by the following mission statement. Let us remain mindful when dealing with others that we owe our existence 1. to society at large and treat them with honesty and gratitude. Let us value the gift of life, cherish our freedom, 2. and so pursue vital living development. Let us reﬂect always on our actions and, through originality and ingenuity, 3. seek prosperity through business; Let us resolve to build character through our work. 08 2 The KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct ( Herea ft er ʻ Cod e of Co ndu c tʼ ) The Code of Conduct was established as guidelines or principles which every oﬃcer and employee of the KURODA ELECTRIC Group must comply with in all his/her daily business activities. Our Code of Conduct does not stop at only the observance of laws and regulations but also gives heavy consideration to social and corporate ethics. The purpose of the code, rather, is to fulﬁll our social responsibilities and ensure the trust of our stakeholders by providing a set of fundamental rules for employees to follow in the course of their daily activities. The Code of Conduct is comprised of seven core themes, including those prescribed by ISO26000 guidances (Organizational Governance, Human Rights, Labor Practices, Environment, Fair Business Practices and Consumer Issues) as well as Community Participation and Development. These seven themes reveal KURODA ELECTRICʼs fundamental approach to its corporate activities. 3 Joining the United Nations Global Compact（GC） In order for KURODA ELECTRIC to support the universal principles regarding human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption proposed by the United Nations, KURODA ELECTRIC expressed its intention to join the United Nations Global Compact and was formally registered as one of signatory companies on March 2, 2011. Guided in this decision by our Corporate Philosophy, Company Motto and Mission Statement, in addition to supporting the 10 fundamental principles regarding these issues put forth by the Global Compact we have also chosen the Sustainable Development Goals (Please Refer to ※ in Page 10.) as the backbone criteria for our CSR activities. As a global corporation and conscientious corporate citizens, it is our duty to contribute across all corporate fronts towards the realization of a sustainable society on a global basis. Th e 10 Prin c iple s o f t he G C Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Human Rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Labor Principle 5 the eﬀective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment Principle 8 responsibility; and encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally Principle 9 friendly technologies. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Anti-Corruption Principle 10 including extortion and bribery While the wording may vary slightly, the 10 principles listed above can, for the most part, also be found in the Code of Conduct. Meaning that, even before KURODA ELECTRIC formally joined the UN Global Compact, we had already enforced these principles through the establishment of and compliance with our own code of conduct. 09 4 T h e R elatio ns hip b et ween t he S ust ainable D e velo p m ent Go als and C S R Act ivit ies Environmental Sustainability and Universal Primary Education are two of the goals put forth by the UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and we feel that it is our personal duty to contribute to these two matters to the best of our humble abilities. For this reason, we promoted Environmental Contribution Activities and Educational Support Activities. Additionally, in order to encourage individual employees to pursue environmental action and volunteerism in their own communities and households, we have introduced the KURODA ECO Point System as company's oﬃcial program since February, 2012. We have been promoting these Activities as the 3 Pillars of our Social Contribution Activities. ※ The UN Sustainable Development Summit was held at UN Headquarters in New York from September 25 to 27, 2015. The heads of over 150 UN signatories participated, and the result of this summit was the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The Agenda presents various declarations and targets to serve as an action plan for people, the planet, and prosperity. These objectives, termed the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), are the successors to the Millennium Development Goals and consist of 17 goals and 169 targets. More speciﬁcally, the MDGs were adopted as goals to be achieved by 2015; these were carried over into the SDGs (eﬀective January 1, 2016), including several MDGs which had yet to be achieved. As such, the standard for our CSR activities going forward will be the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals. KURODA ELECTRIC CSR Activities KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. Corporate Philosophy̶Company Motto̶Mission Statement The DNA of KURODA ELECTRIC The UN Global Compact Formal Entry on March 2, 2011 The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals (as the successor to the MDGs) The Backbone of our CSR Activities The 3 Pillars of our Social Contribution Activities Un i ver sal E n viro n m e n t al P rimar y E ducat i o n S ust ain ab ilit y Educational Periodic Release of CSR Report Environmental Support Activities Contribution Activities Financial Support for New Building Construction KURODA ELECTRIC Company Forest (Ome, Tokyo) Project for Ban Parai Elementary School in Thailand KURODA ELECTRIC Company Forest (Kurokawa, Kawanishi, Hyogo) Community Activities & Household Environmentally-Conscious Action in the Community Environmentally-Conscious Action in the Home KURODA ECO Point System 10 5 2015 CSR Goals with Principal Corresponding Activities Evaluation Method ◎：Exceeds Goal (value of 120% or higher) ○：Meets Goal △：Unsatisfactory 201 5 F i n a nci a l Y e a r 2 0 1 5 F i n an c i al Year Eval Page No. ̶ G o a l s a nd P l a n s ̶ ̶P ri n c i p al Ac t i vi t i es̶ Strengthening of CSR Activities and Preparation of the “CSR REPORT 2015” (reporting activities in 2014 Information Disclosure in Accordance ﬁnancial year) and other Information Disclosure ○ ー with Participation in the GC Organizational Governance ①Inclusion in the securities report of new items deemed necessary by revised ordinances as well as previous timely disclosures in addition to compliance with the corporate governance codes established by the Implementation of Highly Transparent Tokyo Stock Exchange and the Financial Services Agency Management Practices and Strengthening ②Inspection of Management Practices by an Audit Committee in which ○ 14 of Practices Related to Governance Outside Directors (Three Persons) Form a Majority ③Nomination of One Independent Company Director (Reporting to Tokyo Stock Exchange) ①Held Financial Results Brieﬁng for analysts and institutional investors Continued Strengthening of in May, 2015 Communication with Investors and ②Held Individual IR meeting for analysts and institutional investors after Securities Analysts as well as Timely and Pertinent Disclosure in order to Promote disclosing quarterly results ○ 06 ③Arranged plant tour of a domestic manufacturing company (one of Penetration of KURODA ELECTRIC's KURODA group companies) for a Foreign institutional investor in Management Policies and Strategies March, 2016 ①Implementation of Human Rights Education as Part of New Employee Training Further Promotion of Human Rights Awareness ②Publication of 12 (Once Per Month) CSR Columns Featuring Human ○ ー H u man Rights as Their Main Theme in KURODA Channel, which Has Been Established as Our Internal Communication Medium R i g ht s Initiatives for Appropriate HR (Human Promotion of Locally Hired Employees (Employees of Overseas Resources) Utilization Aimed at Total Group KURODA Group Companies) into the Management Division of KURODA △ ー Optimization for Diversiﬁcation of HR ELECTRIC (Parent Company) Development and Implementation of ①Web Training for All Employees Employee Training Programs in alignment ②Global Personnel Training Program intended for Selected Employees ○ 28 with Position Class and Job Category ③Support Program aimed at Language Skill Improvement for Employees Labor Practices ①Implementation of Medical Checkups(Company burden) for 35-year-old or Older Employees ②Support for Brain Exams and Lung Cancer Screenings for 40-year-old Continuation of Employee Physical and or Older Employees Mental Health Measures ③Support for screening for cancer of the cervix and mammography for ○ 29-30 Female Employees ④Implementation of Mental Healthcare Program (Company Burden) for all Employees Conduct Environmental Conservation Activities at KURODA ELECTRIC Company Forests (Kurokawa in Kawanishi City) ○ 21 Implementation of KURODA ELECTRIC ECO Point System, with Envi ron men t Approximately 270 Employees Participating in ECO Activities ○ 22 Strengthening of Environmental Implementation of Web Training on the Waste Management and Conservation Activities Public Cleaning Law (hereinafter, “Waste Management Law”) ○ 26 Continue using Forest Management (CoC) Certiﬁed Copy Papers throughout the company ○ 25 Eﬀorts for Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations based on Our List of Environmental Laws, Regulations, and Other Requirements ○ 26 Fair Business ①Implementation of Group Training for All Employees Compliance with related laws and ②Implementation of Group Training for Employees with Management regulations, and thorough dissemination Position to Comply with Legal Requirements and Company Rules ○ 15 Practices of the compliance code of conduct ③Posting of Awareness Raising Posters in Workplaces and Distribution of Educational Cards Designed to Be Kept on Oneʼs Person to Employees Strengthening of the KURODA Group Customer / Proper Understanding and Adoption of the Subcontractors Act via System for Legal Compliance in the Training and Awareness Raising Mentioned Above ○ ー Procurement of Supplies Client Interaction ①Maintenance and Renewal of Globally-Integrated ISO Certiﬁcation Further Improvement of KURODA ②Transfer of the Quality Assurance Section from the Management ELECTRIC Group Quality Measures Division to the Sales Division in Order to Quickly Provide Quality ○ 24-25 which Meets Customer Demands Community Implementation of a Childrenʼs Day Event as Part of Education Support Activities by Volunteers from KURODA Group Companies ○ 20 Continued Social Contribution in each Participation and of KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs Support for Overseas Aﬀorestation through the Collection of Used Stamps ○ 22 Established Areas Development Hold Basketball Clinics ○ 22 11 6 CSR Activity Goals for 2016 Financial Year Our goal every year at KURODA ELECTRIC is to elevate our CSR activities even further than before. In addition to projects carried over from 2015 or earlier, we plan to set the following goals for 2016 and hope to meet them with more than 100% success. ⑴ Or ganiz atio nal G overnance ● Continued Strengthening of CSR Activities and Information Disclosure in Accordance with Participation in the GC ● Implementation of Highly Transparent Management Practices and Strengthening of Practices Related to Governance ● Continued Strengthening of Communication with Investors and Securities Analysts as well as Timely and Pertinent Disclosure in order to Promote Penetration of KURODA ELECTRIC's Management Policies and Strategies. ⑵ Hum an Right s ● Provision of CSR/Human-Rights Education for Compliance with the Code of Conduct ⑶ Lab o r P r act ices ● Development and Implementation of Employee Training Programs in alignment with a class and a job. ● Continual Support for Employeeʼs Physical Measures ● Enrichment of Mental Healthcare Program (Implementation of “Stress Check System” based on Revised Industrial Safety and Health Act) ⑷ E nvir o nm ent ● Strengthening of Environmental Conservation Activities ⑸ Fair B usiness Pract ices ● Compliance with related Laws and Regulations, and Familiarization of the Code of Conduct ⑹ Cus to m er / C lient I nt eract ion ● Strengthening of the KURODA ELECTRIC Group System for Legal Compliance in the Procurement of Supplies ● Further Improvement of KURODA ELECTRIC Group Quality Measures ⑺ Co m m unity Part icipat ion and D evelopment ● Continued Social Contribution in each of KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs Established Areas 12 Initiatives at KURODA ELECTRIC Business 13 C orp ora te Governa nce At KURODA ELECTRIC, in order to fully realize our management philosophy and further raise the value of our enterprises, we consider corporate governance to be an issue of prime importance. It is to this end that we conform to the corporate governance codes established by the Financial Services Agency and the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and strive to follow healthy management systems, to strengthen internal controls, and to preserve administrative transparency through the timely and pertinent disclosure of information. Additionally, we at KURODA ELECTRIC consider compliance to be a vital foundation to fulﬁlling our social obligations, and recognize thorough compliance as an indispensable element of business operations. As we strengthen corporate governance, we are also proactively addressing compliance management. It is for this reason that we have established the KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct, a set of principles which all oﬃcers and employees are required to follow in the course of business. At KURODA ELECTRIC we deﬁne the issue of compliance broadly, comprehending not only adherence to laws and internal regulations but also to greater items such as corporate ethics. Thus, the Code of Conduct becomes a concrete standard for the professional behavior in business operations that all group member oﬃcers and employees must comply with. As a company that has adopted a committees system, we have appointed several outside directors. Outside directors are independent from the company in terms of investment, control, project management, proﬁt and ﬁnance, and are free from any conﬂicts of interest. These directors work from an objective standpoint to strengthen oversight and maintain the transparency of decision making. The separation of execution and supervisory functions is fundamental to the management of corporations that have adopted a committees system, including a nomination committee. At KURODA ELECTRIC, this means that the right to direct management of corporate aﬀairs is transferred to the president and other executive oﬃcers, while the Board of Directors overlooks their operations. Additionally there are three outside directors on the board and all of them are qualiﬁed as an independent oﬃcer by the regulation of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. So we ﬁled a registration form for the qualiﬁed independent oﬃcers to the Exchange. KURODA ELECTRIC Corporate Governance Gener al St ockholdersʼ M eet ing Nomination Selection of Candidates for Board Nominating Committee Board Members (Internal / External) (Majority Outside Directors) Board of Directors Selection Compensation Committee (Majority Outside Directors) (Important Supervision of Decision Making, Management, etc.) Reporting Inspection Committee (Majority Outside Directors) Compliance / Validity Inspection Nomination Reporting Compliance / Validity Inspection Executive Oﬃcers Executive Board (Decision Making, Management, etc. (Decision-Making about management is Carried under Delegation of the Board of Directors) out in Conference by Executive Oﬃcers) 14 C omplia nce At KURODA ELECTRIC Group we consider successful compliance as key to fulﬁlling our social obligations, and recognize thorough compliance as an indispensable element of business operations. Accordingly, we take a proactive stance towards compliance management. To be more precise, the KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct has been established as a guideline which employees must follow during all business activities. Compliance Education based on the Code of Conduct is carried out on an annual basis for all employees to be informed about thorough compliance awareness. The KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct System Basic stance as a corporation ⑴ Observance of ordinances ⑵ Observing in-house rules ⑶ Respecting human rights ⑷ Severing of relationships with anti-social forces ⑸ Promoting CSR Basic stance regarding trading ⑴ Strict adherence to the conclusion of a written Relationship with our employees contract with the client and also observance of the contract conditions ⑴ Duty to work honestly ⑵ Fair market competition ⑵ Prohibition against harassment ⑶ Relationship with subcontractors ⑷ Rules related to export and import Compliance Code of Conduct of ⑶ Observance of work-related ordinances ⑸ Safety of products and services ⑹ Environmental protection Kuroda Electric Group ⑷ Elimination of forced labor and child labor ⑺ Giving gifts or providing entertainment ⑻ Receiving gifts or being entertained ⑸ Maintenance of the environment in ⑼ Prohibition against giving gifts to, or providing the workplace entertainment for, public servants Coping with the computerized society Development of sound ﬁnancial activities ⑴ Protection and appropriate use of ⑴ Protection of intellectual property corporate assets ⑵ Respecting the intellectual property of ⑵ Fair accounting procedures a third party ⑶ Accounting and ﬁnancial reports ⑷ Disclosing information to shareholders ⑶ Control of our information and investors ⑷ Control of client information ⑸ Prohibition of insider trading ⑸ Protection of personal information ⑹ Promotion of common beneﬁts for stakeholders 15 1 The KURODA ELECTRIC Group Compliance Code of Conduct Basic stance as a corporation : Observance of ordinances and contribution to society Laws are rules that apply equally to the constituent members of a community such as our corporation. They also indicate orderliness concerning the activities of a corporation or individuals in a society.Observance of the laws is a basic rule of a society, and can be said to be a condition for ensuring the continued existence of a corporation. We observe these basic rules, and also promote activities that contribute to society, aiming at the realization of a bountiful society. Relationship with our employees : Our responsibility for enabling employees to work and employeeʼs responsibility for working The relationship between our corporation and our employees with regard to work includes working conditions such as working hours and holidays, provision of salary, and also the preparation of a safe, satisfactory working environment, which is our responsibility as a corporation and an employer.However, a working environment is not something that can be realized by the eﬀorts of the company alone. Improvement of the working environment is joint work based on the intention of each and every employee comprising the company and the workplace to create a company that is pleasant to work for, and also the wish to work at the company for a long time.It is important for the company to be aware of its responsibility to enable its employees to work, and also for the employees to be aware of their responsibility to work. Basic stance regarding trading : Fair dealing that does not contravene the law The aim of trading is to create sound proﬁts.To this end, we carry out severe negotiations with the client, and there are also cases in which we argue with the client. However both parties must observe the trading conditions that are ultimately agreed upon.If we were to carry out trade using an illegal method, we would be in danger of losing our social standing, even assuming that such behavior were to result in large proﬁts over a short period.Trade itself must be something that is fair and free from illegality. The observance of this basic stance supports high-trust trading and also increases the standing and proﬁts of the corporation. Coping with the computerized society : Correct control and utilization of informational assets Along with the rapidly advancing changeover to a computerized society, we are being surrounded by all manner of information. Among this information is beneﬁcial information including intellectual property such as patents, and customer information that can be used in trading.This kind of information can be used in business as important management resources and informational assets, so we will not simply store it away. However, it is also necessary to appropriately control such information.It can be said that appropriate control and utilization of information resources are necessary for sound business development. Development of sound ﬁnancial activities : Acquisition of a ﬁrm ﬁnancial foundation and the trust of the stakeholders Our shareholders and investors, who are ﬁnancial backers, look forward to receiving highly reliable ﬁnancial reports. These reports are also required by law.We must carry out management activities that do not deceive our shareholders and investors. Also, in order to acquire suﬃcient proﬁt and capital to support the entire Kuroda Electric Group which is aiming to development and expand its business, it is necessary to carry out appropriate accounting procedures and ﬁnancial activities. 2 KURO DA E LE C TR I C G r o u p H o t l i ne KURODA ELECTRIC developed and operated an internal reporting system called Kuroda Electric Hotline, as a method for employees to blow the whistle when they have encountered a violation either of the law or company regulations or witnessed actions of an unethical or immoral nature. The company has now expanded this hotline globally to all group companies as the Kuroda Electric Group Hotline. Not only can this hotline be used to report anonymously, it can also be used to select an external legal adviser as sole reporting destination. The Corporate Action Committee (for addressing company-wide risks) and Legal / Intellectual Property Division deliberate how to respond to suspected compliance violations. Anonymous Hotline Reporting Destination ❶ Blow the whistle ❸ Notiﬁcation sent using the Hotline by Email Internal ted Controller r it y is Protec Sec u . port No ❹ Conﬁrm Content ❷ Report No. Issued by a Re sword of Report s and Pa Selectable Informant ❺ Report on Resolution ❻ Conﬁrm Resolution or Progress of or Progress Investigation External Server Legal Adviser (Provided by D-Quest, Inc.) 16 Ri s k M a na ge ment 1 The Corporate Action Committeeʼs Response to Compliance and Risk Management Our response to Compliance and Risk Management is one of most important problem to our Corporate Social Responsibilities. The Corporate Action Committee was established in order to raise the value of our enterprises, prevent against loss of credibility and to enforce trustworthy risk management practices. The Role of the Corporate Action Committee Regarding Risk Management ● Formulation of Basic Policy and Risk Management Control ● Risk Extraction and Analysis Risks Extracted by all Departments (via Committee Members) (Assessment by Risk Factor Analysis) Factor Analysis Company-Wide Risk Departmental Risk Risks Pertaining to a Departmental Cross-Section of the Company Risks to be Handled by a Speciﬁc Department Assign Priority Assign Priority Priority Risks Requiring Risks Requiring Attention Priority Risks to be Handled Risks Requiring Attention Action by the Committee but no Immediate Action by Each Department but no Immediate Action ● Measures for Prevention of Important Priority Risks Extracted and Analyzed Risks are Selected by the President for Priority 1st Priority ❶ Business / Investment Risk Investment Review Subcommittee Company-Wide Risks Addressed by 2nd Priority ❷ Product / Credibility Risk Corporate Action Committee (Expert) Committee ❸ Information Risk Information Security Subcommittee ❹ Legal Risk Legal / Intellectual Property Division Departmental Risk Risks to be Handled ❺ Employment Risk Personnel Division by a Speciﬁc Department ❻ Crisis Management General Aﬀairs Division ● Prevention Measures and Risk Management Systems Inspection / Revision Continual Improvement of Risk Management Through PDCA Risk Extraction → Factor Analysis → Assign Priority → Select Prevention Measures Plan Correction by Management Act Do implementation of Measures Awareness / Training / Familiarization Check Inspection / Revision of Prevention Measures and Risk Management Systems 17 2 I n f o r m a t i o n Se c u r i t y In 2008, in order to protect personal information and business secrets of clients and stakeholders alike, we formed the Information Security Subcommittee, establishing rules for Basic Information Security Policies, Rules for Information Security and Information Security Standards. Using these regulations as a guideline we strive to maintain and improve security through periodic web training for employees as well as Information Security Self-Check. KURODA ELECTRIC Basic Information Security Policies At KURODA ELECTRIC, we consider informational assets to be one of our vital management resources. The Basic Information Security Policies were established to ensure appropriate management and protection of our own informational assets as well client assets in our holding. KURODA ELECTRIC Basic Information Security Policies ● KURODA ELECTRIC will enforce appropriate security measures regarding its informational assets in accordance with their priority. ● KURODA ELECTRIC will also take the utmost care to ensure the security of informational assets of clients which are handled in the course of business, and will take constant measures to prevent risk of loss, destruction, falsiﬁcation or unauthorized disclosure. ● Together with the establishment of the Information Security Subcommittee, KURODA ELECTRIC will appoint managers to oversee the information security of all departments handling informational assets and through the company organizational structure will work to enforce and promote strategies for the security of informational assets. ● KURODA ELECTRIC will implement continuous information security training for all oﬃcers and employees and work to spread general and total awareness of information security policies. ● KURODA ELECTRIC will periodically conduct a self-check in terms of the operational status of information security and take corrective measures, as necessary, to ensure security. ● KURODA ELECTRIC will adhere to any laws and regulations pertaining to personal information and information security. 18 Soci al Co n t ribu tio n s by KURODA E LE C TR I C Gro u p Support upp an d Contribution 19 E d u cati on al S upport Activities Financial Support for New Building Construction Project for Ban Parai Elementary School in Thailand Located approximately 500km northeast of the capital of Bangkok, in the Phayu District of Thailandʼs Sisaket Province, Ban Parai Elementary School is located near the Cambodian border, in an area where there are a lot of people who speak local languages such as Lao and Khmer. The three pillars of Social Contribution Activities at KURODA Phayao LAOS MYANMAR ELECTRIC are “Educational Support”, “Environmental Phrae Sakon Nakhon Contribution and “Community & Household Activities”. In Nong Bua Lamphu Kalasin August of 2010, as a link in our overseas educational support activities, the executive committee approved a ﬁnancial Sisaket support for the new school building construction project for Kanchanaburi Ban Parai School resulting in donating 1.7 million baht Bangkok Sisaket Province (approx. 4.7 million yen) to the public interest incorporated Phayu District foundation, Plan Japan. CAMBODIA KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs Support Activities for Elementary Schools in Thailand Occasional Thailand National Children's Day, which is set on the second Saturday in January, is to give children the opportunity to have fun and to create awareness about their signiﬁcant role towards the development of the country. January 9th is the day for 2016. Z.KURODA (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (hereinafter, “ZKT”) has a chance to be a part of National Children's Day Events every year. In 2005, volunteers from ZKT went to Ban Parai elementary school in Sisaket Province to celebrate with teachers, students and villagers nearby. In 2006, total 25 volunteers from ZKT and KURODA Auto-tech (Thailand) LTD. (hereinafter, “KURODA volunteers”) joined 4 activities as follows. ZKT donated bicycle, notebooks and pencils to ZKT donated bicycle, notebooks, pencils and snacks to Ayothaya temple to celebrate National Wat Champa Elementary School to celebrate Children's Day with kids and villagers nearby the temple on Jan 7, 2016. National Children's Day on Jan 7, 2016. In addition to the donation, on Jan 7, 2016, KURODA volunteers also cleaned some part of Ayothaya temple and King Naresuan Maharat Shrine which is located in the temple. King Naresuan Maharat was the King of the Ayutthaya Kingdom. KURODA volunteers joined National Children's Day Event at Wat Sambundid Elementary School. KUODA volunteers used to provide short English course to this school kids during Sep to Oct, 2014 and continue supporting this school as much as possible since most of kids are poor and have divorced parents. KURODA volunteers treated children ice-cream and played some games with them on Jan 8, 2016. 20 E nvi ron men tal Contribution Ac tivitie s Kurokawa Kurokawa Kurokawa Kurokawa KURODA ELECTRIC Forest Building (Company Forest Program) Since 2004, as a component of our Environmental Contribution Activities, KURODA ELECTRIC has implemented aﬀorestation, planned thinning, and other forest preservation and agricultural experience projects in Thailand, Kagawa, Kumamoto and elsewhere. Additionally, beginning in 2008, in order to oﬀer the opportunity for steady participation in areas closer to home, our forest preservation projects were extended to Ome City, in the Tokyo Metropolitan Area. In 2011, similar activities began in Kurokawa, Kawanishi City, Hyogo Prefecture. 1 KURO DA E LE C TR I C C o m pa n y F o r e s t ( O m e , To k y o ) The KURODA Company Forest in Ome, Tokyo was initiated with the event of planting low-pollen cedar saplings in 2008. Since then, an annual forest maintenance event has been held to weed undergrowth that hinders the trees growth. In 2015, the cedar trees had grown to approximately ten meters in height, which is suﬃcient to not requiring weeding. 2 KURO DA E LE C TR I C C o m pa n y F o r e s t ( K u r o k aw a, K aw an is h i, H y og o) The high-grade “kiku-zumi” charcoal used in tea ceremonies has been made in Kurokawa, Kawanishi, in the Hokusetsu region, since the Muromachi period. At the Kurokawa Company Forest, KURODA ELECTRIC cultivates the sawtooth oaks from which this charcoal is produced, helping to promote biodiversity and contribute to local scenery and culture. In 2015, nearly 70 employees and their family from KURODA ELECTRIC, Nichido-Denko, and Komura-Tech weeded undergrowth around the sawtooth oaks which were planted four years ago. 21 Regional, Household and other Social Contributions Strengthening Our Bond to Society and Community KURODA ELECTRIC Group is involved in a variety of social and regional activities both within and without the company. Through these contributions, we hope to strengthen bonds not only within the company but with the society and community at large. 1 KURODA ECO Point System KURODA ELECTRIC have introduced the Kuroda ECO Point System in February 2012 in order to encourage environmental contribution activities on the part of employees and their families, not only within the company but in the broader society and community as well. KECO (KURODA ECO) points are distributed based on activities carried out. In ﬁscal 2015, around 270 employees (including employees loaned to aﬃliated companies in and outside Japan) participated, engaging actively in environmental initiatives at work, home, and in the community. 2 Used Stamps Collection Drives KURODA ELECTRIC supports overseas aﬀorestation via the Defense of Green Earth Foundation. In 2015, we collect one full cardboard box worth of used stamps, etc. The proceeds earned through these collection drives are used to purchase seedlings for use in aﬀorestation at Mt. Nansi in Tongchuan, China or at Mt. Kilimanjaro in Tanzania. 3 Hold Basketball Clinics As part of activities which contribute to the local community, we hold basketball clinics for students of elementary school age and up in Shinagawa in order to help promote interest in sports in the city. Staﬀ and current members of the KURODA ELECTRIC Bullet Spirits, a Division 1 Kanto Industrial and Commercial Basketball Federation team, held such a clinic on February 28, 2016 this year once again to help children experience the fun and excitement of basketball. 4 Donations from Vending Machine Sales KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. and Group company KURODA TECHNO Co., Ltd. donate 1% of monthly sales from the beverage vending machines at their headquarter as Green Funds. These funds go to the Tokyo Development Foundation for Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries supporting the KURODA ELECTRIC COMPANY FOREST (Ome, Tokyo) initiative. 5 Cleanup of Road Surrounding HQ Location Striving to beautify the local environment as a member of the local community, Group company KURODA TECHNO has established Monday as a day of cleaning and periodically engages in cleanup activities on company grounds and nearby roads. Donation of Newspapers and Newspaper Shelves 6 Local Elementary and Junior High Schools In order to contribute to the local community, Group company KOMURA-TECH Co., Ltd. donates newspapers and newspaper shelves to local elementary and junior high schools. By encouraging children to read the newspaper on a regular basis, the company hopes to raise their interest in current events and improve their reading skills. KOMURA-TECH Co.,Ltd. donated newspapers (equivalent to the amount for a year) for elementary school students and newspaper shelves to Higashi-Osaka municipal ISHIKIRI JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL in August, 2015 and KUSAKA ELEMENTARY SCHOOL in February, 2016. Provision of Work Experience Opportunity 7 for Local Junior High-School Students Group company Nichido-Denko accepts second-year junior high school students in the town of Shimamoto to its head oﬃce plant to gain hands-on work experience as part of regional contribution activities. From November 11 to 13, 2015, three students from Shimamoto Daiichi Junior High School experienced the fun and arduousness of work while also learning about appropriate language, greetings, and professional manners through simple assembly, distribution, and light work. They also expanded their views of occupations and learned desirable attitudes to work and labor. 22 Q u ali ty and E n v iro n m en t a l M anage m en t S y st em s Management System 23 QUALITY POLICY As a supplier of products and solutions oﬀering a clear added value to the customer via design / prototyping, provision of components, distribution of inventory and more, KURODA ELECTRIC Groupʼs ﬁrst priority is to ensure the trust and satisfaction of our customers by oﬀering a reliable source of quality which fulﬁlls customer demand. We therefore adhere to the following policies regarding quality at KURODA ELECTRIC : ⑴ As a business primarily concerned with supplying materials for production it is our duty to fully grasp the business environment, to conform to our clientʼs vision and demands, and, furthermore, to proactively oﬀer products and services which will contribute to our customersʼ proﬁts. ⑵ In the area of manufacturing, we will work with associated domestic and overseas companies in order to form a global response and further maintain and improve partnerships with our customers. ⑶ We will fulﬁll our social obligations by adhering to all applicable laws and regulations, will establish pertinent quality management systems, and through punctual implementation of the PDCA cycle will continually work to improve the eﬀectiveness of quality management. ⑷ In order to reduce the environmental burden and contribute to a recycling society we will manage our environmental burden and promote environmentally friendly products, thus raising environmental quality. ⑸ In order to continually oﬀer higher quality products and services we will analyze prior problems and complaints and adopt appropriate prevention measures. In addition, through eﬀective development of this analysis, we will also work to prevent possible future problems and complains. We will fully fulﬁll our administrative responsibilities, including the provision of appropriate management resources, in order to ensure, through the concrete objectives and plans of individual departments, all possible implementation of the above policies. June, 2009 K U RO D A ELECT RI C Co ., Lt d . Pre si d e n t a n d Ch i e f Ex e c u t i v e O ﬃ c e r T a k a sh i K a n e k o 1 Quality / Environmental ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Policies As environmental awareness grows increasingly Fundamental Philosophy pressing, ecological care has become a valued At KURODA ELECTRIC we are aware that, in every sphere of business, global environmental conservation is the most important issue shared by component in the development of new products. us as human beings. In order to promote environmental awareness and conservation we aim to proactively contribute to such issues as energy In addition to recycling and the elimination of and resource conservation, waste reduction and the recycling of resources. SOC(Substance Of Concern), the presence of radiation, noise pollution and electromagnetic Environmental Policies ⑴ To pursue work in a manner which reduces the environmental burden to waves are all important issues for companies to its utmost minimum and to engage in environmental conservation and precautions against pollution. address. ⑵ To set environmental objectives and targets, to provide a framework for revision, to periodically review our environmental actions and to work for continual betterment. ⑶ To adhere to all laws and internally accepted regulations regarding At KURODA ELECTRIC, in order to eﬀectively environmental conservation while addressing the following: deal with problems of quality and the environment ① CO 2 Reduction ② Waste Reduction we have established oﬃcial quality and ③ The Sale of Environmentally Friendly Products ⑷ To show appreciation for the ecological services we are gifted with through environmental policies, as well as specialized the supply chain, to work to reduce the eﬀect of business activities on biodiversity, and to promote biodiversity conservation. in-house organizations. ⑸ To concretely manifest and maintain these policies, and promote their awareness among all employees. ⑹ To publish these policies widely and also furnish other appropriate information. Revised March, 2012 (Original Policy Adopted June, 2009) KURODA EL ECTRIC Co., L td . P resid en t an d Ch ief Ex ecu tiv e Oﬃcer Tak ash i Kan ek o 24 2 Quality and Environmental Controls ⑴ G l ob a l l y-Integr ated ISO Cert iﬁcat ion KURODA ELECTRIC acquired globally integrated ISO certiﬁcation in September 2009 and has been maintaining its certiﬁcation since then. The latest renewal was made in September, 2015. ⑵ R ec ogn iz ed as a E co P o wer C ompany by Sh i n agaw a War d The Shinagawa Ward of Tokyo, where KURODA ELECTRIC's headquarter is located, recognizes environmentally-friendly businesses that take an initiative in carrying out greener operations as Eco Power Companies. The KURODA ELECTRIC Tokyo headquarter was recognized as an Eco Power Company in March 2014. However, as the Eco Power Company certiﬁcation project was terminated in ﬁscal 2015, this report will be the last in which information on this certiﬁcation is published. ⑶ Continue using Forest Management (CoC) Certiﬁed Copy Paper throughout the company KURODA ELECTRIC changed the copy paper it uses, company-wide, from the previous paper used (undisclosed raw materials, not environmentally friendly) to Forest Management (CoC) Certiﬁed copy paper. ※Forest Management (CoC) Certiﬁcation: An international certiﬁcation system that ensures that lumber and wood products are obtained from an appropriately managed forest. ⑷ Management of Chemical Substances in Products In order to comply with all domestic and international laws and to meet customer demand, we at KURODA ELECTRIC are strengthening the reasonable management of chemical substances in products along all stages of the supply chain. Additionally, in order to provide pertient information to suppliers, we will hold periodic information sessions, maintain the newest version of client Green Procurement Guidelines, hold audits and more. In order to enforce reasonable management of chemical substances in products, we strive to work as a capable medium between our clients and suppliers. 25 ⑸ I n v e s t i gatio n o f Co nﬂ ict M inerals Detailed rules based on Section 1502 of the Dodd‒Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), which were adopted by the US Securities and Exchange Commission (hereafter: SEC) on August 22, 2012, require companies listed on the US exchange to report on eﬀorts to avoid the use of conﬂict minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold) originated in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and /or adjoining countries to the SEC. While the KURODO ELECTRIC Group is not listed on the US exchange, through its supply chain, in order to respond to customer requests (for investigation), KURODO ELECTRIC gathers information on conﬂict minerals from its suppliers. In 2015, in response to requests from a total of 390 customers, KURODA ELECTRIC gathered information on conﬂict minerals from a total of 1,285 suppliers and provided customers in question with responses based on the information gathered from its suppliers. ⑹ Eﬀorts for Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations ● We are working to strengthen our compliance with laws and regulations by improving the understanding of our employees concerning legal requirements. We have also investigated approximately 90 environmental laws and regulations to create our List of Environmental Laws, Regulations, and Other Requirements, which presents information on applicability by location, notiﬁcation documents, and periodic report deadlines. ● We have implemented Web Training on the Waste Management Law for all sales divisions and certain management divisions. We have also worked to improve understanding concerning appropriate methods of waste disposal, particularly regarding that of molds, dies and jigs which are no longer necessary. ● In order to comply with the Waste Management and Public Cleaning Law and appropriately dispose of industrial waste generated as part of our business activities, we have established a system for the advance veriﬁcation of the content of disposal applications via our ISO Oﬃce. By issuing electronic manifests, the ISO Oﬃce (a portion of which is located at the Chubu Logistics Center) helps ensure thorough compliance with the Waste Management and Public Cleaning Law. ● When conducting an internal ISO audit at each location, the ISO Oﬃce not only evaluates ISO 9001/ISO 14001 conformity but also compliance with environmental laws and regulations, helping to ensure thorough compliance. ● As the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons came in to force on April 1, 2015, we are conﬁrming compliance with the law by requiring the implementation of simple inspections of subject machinery each quarter at relevant locations based on inventory surveys of Class 1 Speciﬁed Products (subject machinery), as well the presentation of inspection results to the ISO Oﬃce. 3 Environmental Performance KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. Data Concerning KURODA ELECTRICʼs Environmental Performance 2013 Financial Year 2014 Financial Year 2015 Financial Year ① Business Paper Use（ Unit : 1,000 Sheets） 3,023 2,816 2,657 ② General Waste（ Unit : kg） 82,631 86,986 95,328 ③ Recycled Waste（Unit : kg） 67,210 69,764 78,074 ④ Recycling Rate（Unit : %） 81 80 82 ※ The coverage of Kuroda Electric Co., Ltd.'s environmental performance data includes all the contracted outside warehouses as well as the sites covered under the GloballyIntegrated ISO Certiﬁcation. KURODA ELECTRIC Group（Domestic Only） 2013 Financial Year 2014 Financial Year 2015 Financial Year Energy Consumption Electric Gasoline CO2 Electric Gasoline CO2 Electric Gasoline CO2 & CO2 Emissions Gas Oil Gas Oil Gas Oil Usage Consumption Emissions Usage Consumption Emissions Usage Consumption Emissions （m3 ） （ kℓ） （m3 ） （kℓ） （m3 ） （ kℓ） （MWh） （kℓ） （t-CO2） （MWh） （kℓ） （t-CO2） （MWh） （kℓ） （t-CO2） KURODA ELECTRIC Co., Ltd. 2,126 84.6 0 0.0 1,309 2,055 78.4 0 0.0 1,264 1,901 68.3 0 0.0 1,100 KURODA TECHNO Co., Ltd. 227 1.7 13 0.0 123 261 1.1 17 0.0 141 279 1.2 16 0.0 144 KOMURA-TECH Co., Ltd. 4,208 4.0 353,763 0.0 2,961 4,072 4.1 381,065 0.0 2,985 3,944 4.2 328,597 0.0 2,836 Sohwa & Sophia Technologies Inc. 504 5.8 3 0.0 364 517 5.6 15 0.0 299 467 5.1 20 0.0 255 NICHIDO-DENKO Co., Ltd. 1,934 70.9 344 5.0 1,181 2,109 65.5 367 4.7 1,268 2,001 62.0 319 3.6 1,219 ※1: Gas=municipal/LP gas. Oil=diesel/kerosene. ※2: The reason that electricity usage and CO2 emissions in ﬁscal 2013 and 2014 for KURODA ELECTRIC diﬀer from (are higher than) the 2015 CSR Report is that, as of this report, all contacted warehouses are now being included in the scope of calculation. As a result we have revisited calculations for ﬁscal 2013 and 2014, revising them to include electricity usage at these locations. ※3: Previously reporting for Sohwa & Sophia Technologies was limited to the companyʼs headquarters. As of this report, however, the scope of calculation has been expanded to four locations, including the headquarters. As a result we have revisited calculations for ﬁscal 2013 and 2014, revising energy usage in the same manner. ※4: Previously, when calculating CO2 emissions, only electricity and gasoline were taken into consideration. For this report, gas and oil were also taken into consideration when calculating CO2 emissions. 26 Wo rki ng wit h o u r E m p l o y ees with Employee 27 1 Developing Skilled Human Resources ⑴ Ed u c a t io n and T r aining by Job C at egory KURODA ELECTRIC has implemented Web-based education and training by job category. These programs, which target not only regular employees but also part-time and dispatched employees, help them improve their professional skills by providing them with the opportunity to receive education and training without any distinction. The Web-based trainings which were carried out in 2015 consisted of 6 modules utilized by a total of 1,635 trainees. Every year, introductory training is also carried out for new employees when they ﬁrst enter the company, as well as follow-up training after they are assigned to a department. ⑵ Ed u c a t io n and T r aining by Posit ion C lass We conduct education and training by position class to improve relevant skills for young personnel, new management staﬀ, and human resources anticipated to serve as management candidates in the future. In ﬁscal 2015, participants were selected from the section head to division head classes to receive trainings over an approximately six month period in order to acquire the skills needed as a next-generation leader. Going forward, we will continue to cultivate human resources, with such training being expanded to other position classiﬁcation. ⑶ S k i l l M anagem ent and Lifelong Learning We have introduced a system for education and training by position class and job category. We are focusing in particular on lifelong learning that provides employees not only with knowledge and information on their professional duties but also enables them to grow as members of society and of their organization. In addition, in order to tackle the challenges of globalization, we are also working to support our employees in learning English, including promoting TOEIC testing and the provision of English language lessons by ability. Training For Candidates of Next-Generation Leaders Global Skills ● Fundamental Knowledge On Business Accounting ［ Expatriate Employees ］ Management and Accounting ● Analysis Of Business Challenges ● Training Conducted Before ● Competitor Analysis Being Transferred Overseas ● Linguistic Ability Training ［ New Management Training ］ ● Management ● Labor Management ● Accounting ［ Training To Cultivate Management Skill(s) ］ ● Managerial Fundamental Ability ● Communication Skill(s) ［ Basic Awareness Reinforcement Training ］ Compliance Presentation ● Communication ● Information Security ［ Specialist Skills ］ ※ External ● International Trade Training / Follow-up Training ● Distribution for New Employees ］ ● Accounting ● Morale Training ● Business Manner & Specialist Skills Business Communication ● Work Process (PDCA Cycle) We b T rai ni ng All Employees Linguistic Training (Self-Study / Recommended Lectures) Training For Life Plan 28 2 Employee Welfare Programs G r ou p L ong T er m Dis ab ility I ncome Indemnit y I nsurance (G LT D) At most companies, when an employee is unable to work for an extended period of time due to illness or injury they are often entitled to Special Paid Absence so long as their tenure continues. But if they are still unable to return to work at the end of their appointed leave and their employment is thus terminated, the strain of hospitalization and doctorʼs fees on their household budget can be extreme. However, in order to create a work environment where employees can enjoy consistent peace of mind, and to help guard against any worst-case scenario, we at KURODA ELECTRIC provide Group Long Term Disability Income Indemnity Insurance (GLTD), guaranteeing a portion of an employeeʼs regular salary as compensation, potentially until the age of retirement, should they be unable to work for an extended period due to illness or injury. Additionally, this insurance provides ﬁxed period compensation for employees who take a temporary leave due to mental disorder. 3 Mental Healthcare Programs In order to help support our employeesʼ mental health, an employee assistance program was introduced in 2007. In order to ensure primary, secondary and tertiary precautions concerning workplace mental health, the program has adopted the following measures. Mental Checkups In order to ensure early detection and treatment of those at risk for mental disorders, all employees undergo web based stress checks once per year. Follow-up by External Specialists Just as follow-up exams are carried out when cause is found to worry after a physical exam, in the event that a stress check should show that something is amiss follow-up exams and treatment guidance are carried out by external specialists (psychiatrists or clinical psychologists) (consultation regarding employees or family members also available). EAP Consultation A consultation window is open for those with physical or mental health concerns. In principle, this window is available 24 hours a day to oﬀer support via email, phone and direct consultation（Consultations are also open to the families of employees）. Mental Training This training, for management, focuses on mental illness prevention tactics and the appropriate response to those with mental disease in the workplace. 29 The Ment al H e a l t h ca r e P r o g r a m An Employee Assistance Program (EAP) oﬀering support to employees and family via external specialist institutions. Overview of Support Programs The incidence of mental health related workmanʼs comp claims and settlements is on the increase, with some reports placing the ratio of disabled workers out due to mental disorders at 40%, thus making workplace mental healthcare more important an issue than ever before. In previous years, while employees were required to have periodic physical checkups, no such checkup was carried out for similar mental issues. With the addition of mental checkups to regular physical exams, our goal is to provide more comprehensive total healthcare. Periodic Examination Results & Feedback Reexamination as Necessary Appropriate Treatment Phys Yearly Diagnosis of Notiﬁcation / Diagnosis of Health Health Exam Physical Results Reexamination Physical Results Mental Health Diagnosis of Follow-up Early Treatment Mental Counseling Health Check Mental Results via Clinic, etc. with Doctor Implementation of period mental checkups makes regular diagnosis simple and possible. Additionally, EAP consultation need not only apply to personal problems, but may also concern coworkers, family members and other people close to the consulting person. When necessary, medical treatment and consistent follow-up care by a doctor is also possible. Diagnosis / Consultation Treatment / Countermeasure Mental Checkup via Counseling Specialist Assessment By Specialist or Counselor At Fixed Intervals as Appropriate per Individual EAP Consultation Medical Treatment Medical Care Geared Towards Physical and Mental Consultation Early Treatment and Recovery, via Reliable Specialists as Necessary 30 T h e K U R O DA E L E C T R I C Roadm a p This is an image after joining a company until we retire. Preparation will be made to fullﬁlling employment life by three systems, Personnel and Labor Relations,HR Development, Employee Beneﬁts&Welfare. ● Retirement Allowance ● Reemployment ● Special Incentive Leave ● Life-Planning Seminar The KURODA Alumni Club GOAL ● Nursing / Family Care Leave ● Adjusted Hours Commendation ● Employee Aid Programs for Long Service ● Employee Stock Options ● Promotion to Management ● Transfer to New Work Category Personnel and Labor Relations HR Development ● Volunteering Leave Commendation for High Results Employee Beneﬁts & Welfare ● COMPREHENSIVE INSURANCE ● GLTD INSURANCE ● Maternity Leave ● Childcare Leave / ● Job Speciﬁc Training Adjusted Hours Skills Training by Welcome to Position & Work Class the Company! ● Housing Subsidies for TOEIC Examination Young Workers ● Promotion of Property English Conversation Asset Building School Subsidies Mentoring System ● Jiseikai Club Support START ● Honeymoon 31 Publisher KUR O DA E L E CT R I C Co . , L t d Te l（ : 0 3 ）5 7645505 Inquiries CSR / ISO Division M a i l : k r d-c s r@kuro da e le c tric .c o m
