A message from our CEO As is so often the case, 2015 saw many events reminding us of the societal challenges we all face and the power of humanity to come together to try and find lasting solutions to the pressing issues that impact our economy and society. We witnessed at first hand the impact of natural recognised through a series of awards in 2015, forces with floods and storms in the UK in December including the Customer Experience Champion which served as a reminder for the ongoing need to Award for our company-wide improvements. create resilient communities. We are helping manage our customers’ daily risks. We played our role in doing this by delivering a swift In the last year we have run a series of consumer and efficient claims service to those in need and by safety campaigns to help customers tackle fire, supporting Government-backed initiatives such as water and road safety. In Sweden, our fire safety Flood Re in the UK which will provide affordable game helped educate the 30,000 children who cover for those most at risk. We also supported the played it and our award-winning ‘Don’t Drink and landmark UN agreement signed in Paris that will play Dive’ campaign engaged 250 million adults about an essential role in safeguarding our future against the dangers of swimming after consuming alcohol. a changing climate. In the UK, we launched a film about the potentially devastating impact of driving without control which We know that being a responsible business starts with received national television coverage. our impact on customers and all our stakeholders. Last year was a year of significant achievement as We help communities thrive by supporting we made key improvements in both our business entrepreneurship and enterprise and sharing our and operational performance through our turnaround business knowledge to increase employability skills. action plan that is now nearly completed giving us Across the UK, we grew our successful skill-sharing a more stable and effective platform from which to workshops and our partnership with the School of support those who rely on us. Social Entrepreneurs expanded to Canada. As a result, we have reviewed our Corporate We remain at the forefront of efforts to develop a Responsibility Strategy and targets in 2015 to more sustainable future by insuring new renewable make sure they continue to address the issues technologies, such as floating windfarms. We are also most relevant to our business and our customers: reducing our own environmental impact, focussing supporting customers live safer, more secure on our energy consumption; waste generation and lives; building thriving communities to alleviate business travel. unemployment particularly in the youth; and responding to changing environmental risks and These achievements would not be possible without opportunities. We address these issues through the dedication and support of the employees at useful, everyday tools and initiatives with the idea RSA who last year donated £1,661,760 in time and that everyday actions today will have a lasting money to our local communities and good causes. impact on the future. I remain grateful for their hard work and loyalty and look ahead to 2016 with confidence and with the Our customers remain at the very heart of our expectation that we will continue to live our values business and we are pleased that this has been and Make Things Better Together. 3 Contents Our strategy A message from our CEO 3 From our origins safeguarding communities after the Great Fire Our strategy 5 of London, to modern day road and water safety, we have been Our Issues 7 helping our customers look after things that matter most to them for over 300 years. SAFE, SECURE WORLD 11 We want to be a responsible business that makes Our strategy themes all our stakeholders proud. We cannot do this alone. Which is why our Corporate Responsibility Strategy Our strategy focuses on four distinct themes, all of THRIVING COMMUNITIES 13 is called Making Things Better Together. which have a direct impact on our company. For more information on why we chose these themes, Our Making Things Better Together vision see our issues below. SUSTAINABLE FUTURE 17 Today’s social and environmental challenges are Safe, Secure World means keeping people safe complex – from greater demand for fewer natural in their daily lives – on the road, in the water RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 23 resources to limited employment prospects for and in their homes and businesses. young people. Thriving Communities, shows how we are As society’s risk managers, we know that individual educating and inspiring future talent, supporting choices can create a more secure future for all. social entrepreneurs and dedicating time to So as we protect customers on their journeys, causes our people are passionate about. we also work to make the roads safer. As we protect homes, families and businesses, we help Sustainable Future details our commitment to communities to thrive. And as we support people in aiding the transition to a low carbon future. managing uncertainty, we try to tackle our greatest environmental threats. And in Responsible Business, we demonstrate that our company can operate in a way that Addressing tomorrow’s risks requires action today. makes our stakeholders proud. Our vision for a responsible business that helps meet society’s challenges means we are Making Things Better Together in practical, down-to-earth ways. 5 Key Safe, Secure World Responsible Business Thriving communities Other Sustainable Future Our Issues Making Things Better Together is our ambitious five-year Corporate Responsibility Strategy, launched in 2014. It is the result of extensive consultation with our customers, colleagues, investors, regulators and industry associations to identify the most relevant corporate responsibility issues for a leading insurance company. Guiding us to the end of 2018, Making Things Better Together sets targets across four areas of focus, addressing the issues identified as most connected to our business and where we can have the greatest impact: Safe, Secure World, Thriving Communities, Sustainable Future and Responsible Business. Each year, we review what’s most important. For example this year, we raised the importance of climate change due to the increased number of global severe weather events and the December 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris. Trust, reputation and transparency of communication will also receive greater attention. We are experiencing rapid change in our world. Consequently, we are planning a formal review with our stakeholders in 2016 to ensure we continue to focus on the most pressing issues. 7 Our governance approach Our CR Strategy is managed by our Group Corporate Our strategy is underpinned by corporate CR Responsibility Function with oversight and challenge polices outlining our approach to human rights, from our Director of External Communications. the environment and community and charities. The Chief Executive and Group Board has ultimate Applicable to all operating countries and subsidiaries, accountability and is updated bi-annually on activities these policies help manage our operational, and progress against targets. Within each region, regulatory and reputational risks while putting country-level senior management has oversight of corporate responsibility at the heart of our business the strategy and the implementation and delivery of activities to meet targets is managed by local CR Our regional CR representatives implement our Representatives. Regional activities are coordinated strategy and comply with minimum controls through by the Group CR Function. the CR policies. Each policy has a Group Executive Owner and Group Managing Owner who, with We are strengthening sustainability across the Group the assistance of Local Managing Owners, ensure by working with functional departments such as compliance. They do this by working alongside Human Resources, Risk Management, Corporate Real business experts to identify and implement key Our Targets Estate and Procurement to continue to integrate controls. A robust monitoring framework makes sustainability into our core business processes. sure these controls are continually evaluated. The Through collaboration, we initiate projects and drive Risk function administers the policy framework and employee engagement to encourage each and every monitors adherence to each policy. If any controls As our business continues to adapt, we have Therefore this year, we are reporting our progress one of us to Make Things Better Together are not working effectively, a remediation plan is reviewed all of our CR targets to make sure they against our original targets set in 2013, as well as agreed to quickly restore adherence. both remain a challenge and appropriately reflect setting out how we will achieve our new targets our organisational size and focus. in the future. Our CR governance framework CR Theme Current targets New targets Safe, Secure Run at least one annual road safety Run at least one safety campaign every year in World campaign in each of the countries each core region we operate in by 2018 we operate Thriving Double our community Run a community programme in each core region Communities contribution from a 2013 baseline* that engages and develops our people, supports our local communities and makes a difference for our customers. Sustainable Reduce our group carbon footprint Reduce our group carbon footprint by 12% per Future by 20% per full time employee employee to 1.9t CO2e from a 2015 baseline by to 2 tonnes of CO2e from a 2013 2018. baseline by 2018. Responsible Support our customers respond to Deliver at least one awareness driving or support Business changing environmental risks and campaign every year in each core region we opportunities through our products operate to support our customers adapt to and services climate change and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by 2018. *community contribution includes the value of our payments to charities, hours volunteered and funds raised for charity by our employees 9 Why is it How do we tackle important? the issue? Household and personal motor insurance are We work to protect millions of people around among our bestselling products, so we have both the world every day, helping them live safer, a commercial and human interest in keeping more secure lives. people safe. From a shared strategic starting point, each operating Our actions are guided by major safety country has the freedom to address the issues that concerns, including: are important to their community. The CR team plays a coordinating role, sharing examples of best • Roads – Each year, 1.24 million people die on practice and Group-wide case studies. We track our roads. That’s one person every 25 seconds. progress through quarterly updates provided by each Another 50 million per year are injured; territory’s CR representatives and, every year, conduct a review to confirm our results. • Fire – In Sweden, 100 people a year die in domestic fires. Canada deals with around 8,000 wildfires every year and over 300 SAFE, SECURE WORLD people died in a fire in the UK in 2014/15; • Water – 2014 saw 137 people drown in Sweden, the highest number for 12 years. Our products and services help make communities safer 116 were men and 60% of those over 50 places to live, work and travel. Our road safety campaigns raise had alcohol in their blood. awareness of potential hazards to customers and colleagues alike. We issue high-visibility clothing and encourage safer driving, particularly among young drivers. Recently, we extended our efforts into other risks that connect our customers to our business, such as theft, fire and water safety. 11 Targets This year, we are reporting our progress against our original targets set in 2013, as well as how we will achieve our new targets in the future. Current target Progress By 2018, all countries where RSA operates will be running at least one On target annual road safety campaign. In 2015, due to our strategic refocus and the success of our disposal programme, we consolidated many of our offices. Despite this, we delivered road safety campaigns in 10 of our operating countries, raising awareness amongst our customers and employees of how to stay safe on the road. Revising our targets This year, we introduced new targets to make sure our CR targets reflect the size and strengths of our organisation. Key Performance New target Indicators (KPIs) Run at least one safety campaign every year in each core • The number of safety campaigns region we operate in by 2018 run each year in each core region. Future plans • The number of people reached by each campaign. We believe ensuring a Safe, Secure World requires Plans to achieve our new target coordinated action across our business coupled with localised knowledge and delivery. Each country From fire to water, we already deliver a range of we operate in faces particular community issues. safety campaigns to support our customers and Having reviewed what’s most relevant to our regional people. We will focus on issues that are particularly communities, we are planning a range of safety relevant within our operational regions. In Sweden, campaigns in 2016. for example, water safety is really important, so we will focus our campaigns on preventing accidents in In the UK and Ireland, we will continue to focus on and around water. road safety and telematics. In Scandinavia, our efforts will centre on road and water safety. In Canada, we will deepen our awareness work with brokers, providing information and education about wildfires, tropical storms and hurricanes. 13 Thriving Communities means three key things to us: supporting education and employability, working with enterprise and social entrepreneurs and being big hearted – aiding causes our colleagues are passionate about. We remain committed to volunteering our time to support local causes, donating 7,158 volunteering hours in 2015 Why is it How do we important? tackle the issue? Our actions are guided by major social and We approach Thriving Communities in three main economic issues, including: ways. By being Big Hearted, we look to create positive social impact wherever we do business and, • Youth unemployment – In 2014, 73.3 million through initiatives such as matched funding and young people worldwide were unemployed; time off for volunteering, encourage our colleagues to support causes they feel passionately about. • Work readiness – A 2014 survey of 3,000 firms found 9 out of 10 believed school leavers were Our two other areas of focus are managed in a more not ready for employment. Over half said the structured way. Teams are encouraged to partner same about graduates; with schemes and organisations that allow them to share relevant knowledge and experience. • SMEs – Globally, small and medium enterprises account for around 90% of businesses and over So through our Education and Employability 50% of total employment; and programme we assist young people to develop the skills and confidence required for the workplace. • Social entrepreneurship 31% of social enterprises operate in the top 20 most Supporting Enterprise and Entrepreneurship deprived UK communities. includes working with social entrepreneurs to THRIVING COMMUNITIES influence local community issues in ways we otherwise could not. This also provides our people with the chance to build their own skills and generates invaluable insight into the thinking As a global business, we can see the effects of the financial of our SME customers. crisis still being felt around the world. In many of the Within this framework, each operating country communities in which we operate, job losses and has the freedom to address the issues that are unemployment remain high, particularly for young people. important to their community. The CR team plays a coordinating role, sharing examples of best We are helping to address these effects by providing practice and group-wide case studies. We track opportunities for employment and by sharing the skills progress through quarterly updates provided by each territory’s CR representatives and, every year, and experience of our people. conduct a review to confirm our results. 15 Targets This year, we are reporting our progress against our original targets set in 2013, as well as how we will achieve our new targets in the future. Current target Progress By 2018, we will double our annual community contribution Not achieved based on a 2013 baseline*. *community contribution includes the value of our payments to charities, hours volunteered and funds raised for charity by our employees. Over the past two years, the scale of our business charitable contributions and our employees showed and the number of operational units has reduced just how big hearted they are by raising £222,762 for significantly. As a result, we will not achieve the the causes they care about. Despite not achieving our target we set in 2013. In 2015, the total value of initial target, we are proud of the progress we have our community contributions was £1,661,760. Our made in our core regions in supporting employability people spent 7,158 hours volunteering in our local programmes, social enterprise and the charities and communities and dedicated 24% of that time to causes our people are passionate about. supporting employability skills development and social entrepreneurs. We made £1,282,336 in direct Revising our targets This year, we introduced new targets to make sure our CR targets reflect the size and strengths of our organisation. Key Performance New target Indicators (KPIs) * community contributions include payments to charities, employee fundraising and value of volunteering We will run a community programme in each core region • The value of corporate donations we operate in that engages and develops our people, supports our local communities and makes a difference for our customers. • The number of volunteering opportunities/hours Future plans • The value of employee funds raised In the UK, we are trying to enhance the employability investigating further opportunities to provide for charity prospects of young people in our local communities. support and advice. • The percentage volunteering We want more of them to join our own team so, opportunities supporting employability building on the success of 2015, we will work closely In Scandinavia, we will continue to help the good skills or social enterprise with our HR function to coordinate our employability causes our colleagues feel passionate about by workshops and recruitment programmes. supporting their Christmas and emergency appeals. Plans to achieve our new target We also want to maintain our proud volunteering Our partnership with the School for Social record, providing volunteers for road safety We are proud of the community programmes that we continue to share the skills and expertise of our Entrepreneurs in Canada is set to expand. We will campaigns and many other opportunities through we run. Next year, we will review them to ensure people in a way that generates the greatest impact. increase the number of risk workshop webinars our bespoke volunteering portal. and extend the mentoring scheme while 17 As a major global business, we must limit our own impact and encourage our colleagues, customers and suppliers to do likewise. This year, we improved the quality of our environmental performance data and restated our baseline year for our carbon reduction target. We continue to be a lead insurer of renewable energy projects and work hard to raise awareness of climate change issues through our products and services, such as severe weather alerts in Europe. Why is it How do we tackle important? the issue? Our actions are guided by major sustainability We support a transition to an environmentallyissues, including sustainable world by helping our customers deal with changing risks and by promoting new ways • Severe weather events – In 2015, insurers of working that save energy, resources and create paid out around $27 billion for natural disaster less waste. and weather-related claims; We set targets globally for all operating countries • Global warming – Average temperatures to reduce carbon emissions. A CR representative are widely predicted to rise above 2°C during in each country embeds our environmental policy, the 21st century; and guarantees legal compliance, limits pollution and SUSTAINABLE FUTURE • Resource scarcity By 2030, the world will need 50% more energy and 35% more food improves environmental performance. They also facilitate collaboration between finance, travel managers, facilities teams and procurement to than it does today measure and report our impacts. The risks and opportunities of a changing climate are of critical importance to our business and stakeholders. It is vital that we continue to engage colleagues effectively, empowering people to contribute We aim to help society mitigate those risks and respond towards our sustainability goals. to changing environmental conditions. 19 Our environmental performance Current target 2015 2014 2013 Greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2e) Scope 1A 6,115 12,279 12,968 Scope 2A 17,275 24,717 25,787 Scope 3 15,907 16,376 23,901 Business travelA 13,050 TOTAL (gross) Gross tonnes of tCO2e per FTE 39,297 2.20 53,372 2.37 62,656 2.60 Targets Carbon offsets 20,000 21,827 27,278 Total (net) 19,297 31,545 35,378 Current target Progress Net tCO2e/FTE 1.08 1.40 1.47 By 2018, we will reduce our carbon emissions by 20% The emissions for 2015 have been calculated using Energy consumption (MWh) 74,320 106,693 114,325 per employee from a 2013 baseline. a different organisational scope to previous years. Therefore, we have restated our baseline year as Water consumption (m3) 210,553 282,334 270,572 2015 and are unable to compare 2014 data with Paper consumption (tonnes) 1,515 1,734 1,920 2015 data. Waste production (tonnes) 6,930 5,262 5,014 We will support our customers through the On target development of products and services that help Waste recycling (%) 79 67 60 them respond to changing environmental risks A Selected data has been independently assured by PwC. For further information, please download the Key Environmental Data (PDF) and opportunities. from our Corporate Responsibility webpages (www.rsagroup.com/responsibility). Data notes: The emissions for 2015 have been calculated using • Scope 2: Emissions from the consumption This year, we are reporting our progress against our we are reducing the risks and costs associated with a different organisational scope to previous years, of purchased electricity, heat or steam. original targets set in 2013, as well as how we will renewable energy, helping support the transition to a reporting all sources of emissions from operations achieve our new targets in the future. lower carbon future. with 50 or more full time equivalent (FTE) employees. • Scope 3: Emissions from non-owned sources In previous years, emissions from offices with less that are related to the Group’s activities, This year, we focused on improving the quality of We promote climate awareness amongst our than 50 employees were estimated, but these have including business travel and the use of our environmental performance data within a more customers by providing support and tools which been removed from the scope of the 2015 reported water, paper and waste generated. tightly defined organisational boundary. Throughout enable them to better prepare for severe weather emissions. Previously, some Scope 3 emissions were the Group, we implemented numerous carbon saving events. Some of our insurance products and services misreported as Scope 1 emissions. Therefore, we • Business travel: Emissions from flights, initiatives. Read more about these achievements in also encourage our customers to adapt to climate have restated our baseline year as 2015 for our carbon trains, taxis, hotels and vehicles not owned our Highlights here. change and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. reduction target and amended our target accordingly. by organisation. This has been separately assured and reported in 2015. We continue to be a leading insurer of renewable • Scope 1: Emissions from the Group’s sources energy. We are evaluating the risks of new renewable that are controlled by us, including the technologies and prototypes to expand our combustion of fuel, company owned expertise in these areas. Through these products, vehicles and the operation of our facilities. 21 Revising our targets Plans to achieve our new target This year, we introduced new targets to make We will continue to actively reduce our highest In the Atlantic region of Canada, we expect to sure our CR targets reflect the size and strengths sources of emissions through improved operational move into a LEED-certified building in August. of our organisation. efficiency, purchasing more environmentally friendly We are undertaking a review of our Irish offices products and empowering employees to work too, having already consolidated two of our more sustainably. Galway offices into one. Key Performance Indicators New target Several of our regions delivered awareness-driving Our actions inside our workplaces can also help (KPIs) campaigns in 2015 to help our customers adapt to reduce carbon emissions. We continuously raise climate change, including a Group-wide WinterSmart awareness of more sustainable working practices BReduce our Group carbon footprint by 12% per employee The tonnes of carbon dioxide initiative providing tips on how to prepare for winter. like double-sided printing, recycling and switching to 1.9t CO2e from a 2015 baseline by 2018 equivalent per employee. off electrical equipment. Next year, as in 2015, we Future plans will use World Environment Day to demonstrate how We will deliver at least one awareness driving or support campaign The number of awarenessour colleagues can help meet our carbon reduction each year in each core region we operate to support our customers driving or support campaigns. We will continue to collaborate with customers and target and protect our environment. adapt to climate change and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. brokers to raise awareness of our changing climate. Through our products and services, we will support customers to reduce their own carbon contribution. We continue to review our property footprint across the Group. In the UK, we are managing our spaces more efficiently to reduce our environmental impact. We are also planning an Energy Management System, designed to ISO 50001, to limit our carbon emissions. 23 When creating Making Things Better Together, we ensured that being a Responsible Business underpinned all our CR activities. However, with our strategy evolving, in 2016 we intend to measure progress here too, setting targets for our relationships with our customers, people and suppliers. Why is it How do we important? tackle the issue? Our actions are guided by major responsibility We take steps to integrate corporate responsibility issues, including: into our daily business, building trust with our stakeholders by increasing the transparency of • Transparency trust in the financial services how and what we communicate. sector rose 8% in the last five years, but As a responsible business, we have a longoverall trust in the industry is still low at just term commitment to ensuring our organisation 51%. Greater transparency and collaboration operates in a way that makes all our stakeholders with customers is needed, with a recent proud. We achieve this through our policies report suggesting product transparency and and communication, by our approach to risk rewarding loyalty is the best way to promote management and by actively listening to customer, greater trust; colleague and investor feedback. • Support for vulnerable customers – the RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS industry is committed to supporting vulnerable customers. In September 2015, the UK Financial Services Vulnerability Taskforce was launched to improve the experience of customers who We are pleased to have a reputation as a business that may be in vulnerable positions; and delivers on its promises. It is inherent in our engagement with customers, colleagues and suppliers and in our • Gender balance – Women only make up 26% of FTSE 100 boards and the percentage of approach to risk management, investment and public affairs. female executive directors in the FTSE 100 sits at just 8.6% (2016). 25 OUR CUSTOMERS Responsible customer service Customers are the reason we exist. So we treat them We are committed to marketing our products as we would wish to be treated ourselves, providing responsibly. In the UK we have a robust framework value for money products, communicating in a clear to ensure that promotional material, including and transparent way and measuring, monitoring and financial promotions, are designed to achieve dealing with claims quickly and efficiently. good outcomes for our customers and comply with relevant regulatory standards. Our sevenWe were delighted to receive the Customer Experience stage launch process means every new product Champion Award this year, with the judges highlighting is reviewed by senior management in Legal and how we use our measurement frameworks to improve Compliance, Product and Customer, Technical products and services for customers. Underwriting and Marketing & Communications. This makes certain that it meets our customer In 2015, we invited 10 UK customers, both advocates needs, is compliant and fit-for-purpose. and detractors, to join a meeting of our Personal Lines Board. This provided our leadership team with Every year, we handle hundreds of thousands of valuable insight into the customer experience. claims. Whatever the size of the claim, we take care of our customers when they need us most. We employ a number of tools and resources to We believe in proactive prevention and tailoring the listen to customers, gauge satisfaction and improve claims process to benefit customers. Our dedicated our services as a result. For example, we work with claims handlers work with customers to reduce risk the General Insurance Market Research Association and, therefore, the likelihood of a claim. Our ‘Express (GIMRA) and monitor both Customer Service Measure 5’ proposition has streamlined commercial property (CSM) and Customer Voice (CV). Customer sentiment claims under £2,500, settling the majority within 24 in 2015 remained supportive and retention across the hours after receipt of five key pieces of information. group is around 80%. Access to insurance Our customer We work closely with charities and partners to trained to understand the loss of independence retention break down barriers to financial exclusion, tailoring and mobility that being without a car can bring rate across products to customers with specific needs. our disabled customers. Our customer satisfaction scores reflect our approach with a Net Promoter the group is This year, our Codan business in Denmark Score of +79. 80% celebrates a 20-year partnership with mental health charity LEV. Together, they have created bespoke Contents and Liability insurance for customers with specific disabilities. In the UK, our work with the Motability Scheme means we provide insurance to over 630,000 disabled customers with access to a lease vehicle, scooter or powered wheelchair. Our teams are 27 OUR PEOPLE High performing, motivated colleagues are our most important asset, which is why we invest so much in them. We strive to be a company which people want to join, love to stay with and are proud to be a part of. We communicate regularly about our strategy We are also committed to constructive relationships and listen to feedback. One of our most effective with recognised, independent trade unions around mechanisms is our employee engagement survey, the world, ensuring on open dialogue and early YourSay. Last year, we received over 70,000 individual consultation on any changes affecting our people. comments that help shape our future approach. In the UK, we partner with Unite, who cover collective bargaining on behalf of non-managerial By introducing the social networking site Yammer, colleagues whilst The Management Association we encourage cross-border collaboration. More than (TMA) represents managerial staff. 250,000 messages have been sent through Yammer and in the UK internal email traffic dropped by 30% since the system was introduced. In 2016 we will further improve company-wide communication with the rollout of a new SharePoint site. Training and development We believe in a culture of high performance and In 2011 we became one of the first insurance provide continuous development to help our people companies to establish an apprenticeship expand their skills. programme, giving young people the opportunity to develop business skills without the need for higher As such, we run three global, high potential talent education qualifications. To date, we have trained programmes: Fast Track, Senior Talent Acceleration 35 apprentices in our UK underwriting business. and the Executive Development Programme. Participants have the opportunity to strengthen their Our online training hub, Learning Zone, hosts capabilities and develop their leadership styles as well thousands of resources in multiple languages for our as get a unique opportunity to network with talented global workforce. We continue to evolve and invest peers across a wide range of functions and locations. in the platform and plan to introduce user-generated Our Technical Academy supports specialist expertise content, video learning clips and a new approach to around the world, providing technical training for mandatory training in 2016. underwriting, claims and actuarial colleagues. 29 Diversity and inclusion OUR SUPPLIERS We are committed to embracing and encouraging It is encouraging to see a significant number of diversity. From a business perspective, a diverse gender networking groups now set up across the workforce generates significantly higher earnings business, providing supportive new relationships and multicultural networks promote creativity and helping achieve career goals. and drive growth. We are raising awareness of the benefits diverse perspectives bring and encourage all colleagues to complete our Diversity and Inclusion online learning module. Our customer base is extremely diverse and it is important our organisation reflects this. Through our recruitment strategy, we not only look for technical capabilities but behavioural qualities too. Along with searching outside the insurance sector, we believe this approach has brought fantastic people into RSA who challenge us to think and act differently. Health, safety Responsible and wellbeing supply chain Encouraging a healthy workplace is important to For example, our Latin American offices organised an Corporate responsibility for our supply chain is We prioritise suppliers with robust environmental us. We want our people to enjoy a balanced lifestyle inspirational Work Life Balance programme in 2015. mandated within our Group Third Party Contracts policies and encourage them to both minimise their featuring physical activity, peer-to-peer collaboration Each country planned events and over the year, all Policy as our reputation and regulatory compliance environmental impact and be able to demonstrate it. and flexible working in a safe environment. 1,500 colleagues took part in at least one activity – rely on it. from sushi classes in Chile to basketball tournaments We aim to reduce the social and environmental Health and safety forms part of our Operational Risk in Colombia, fruit days in Uruguay and the inaugural Each operating country determines its supplier costs of the products and services we buy. For Management framework and our Human Resources Insurance Soccer Championship in Brazil. code of conduct which ensures they always meet example, by working with a new UK supplier, team owns and develops the relevant policies, as local requirements. Magicman, instead of replacing damaged building well as looking after workplace safety. Day-tofeatures we have been able to carry out ‘invisible’ day health and safety management varies by site, In the UK, our Supplier Relationship Management repairs, prolonging the life of baths, sinks, kitchen although every site has at least one Health and Safety (SRM) function, working alongside business managers worktops, floor tiles and windows. Coordinator. All our colleagues receive mandatory and a centralised Strategic Sourcing, is responsible training on the topic. for engaging suppliers. Our SRM programme has been managing supplier relationships of high value or risk Many of our employees have time-demanding for over seven years. responsibilities outside of work. Our range of flexible working patterns help them find a balance between life and work commitments. All our policies and procedures comply with regulations and we endeavour to support colleague wellbeing through various, local initiatives. 31 OUR BUSINESS We understand that what we say and do matters. We expect all our colleagues to comply with our Guide to Business Conduct. This details the way we must put customers first, support each other to act ethically, respect our local environments and communities, keep regulators updated and deliver a sustainable, profitable performance to our shareholders. We take our commitments to preventing bribery and confidentially raise genuine concerns about corruption very seriously. These are not tolerated suspected wrongdoing and malpractice. Where anywhere in our business. Our anti-corruption and a breach is material or not in compliance with conflicts of interest policies apply Group wide, both regulations, we will report externally. supported by extensive resources and guidance. We provide mandatory training on recognising and Across the Group, a Cultural Risk Index and combatting corrupt behaviour, as well as on what Assessment helps our leaders and HR teams constitutes appropriate corporate hospitality. All manage cultural issues that could lead to a operating countries are required to complete regular possible failure of ethics, controls or governance. anti-corruption risk assessments. Our Human Rights policy exists in support of a number of internationally recognised declarations We strongly encourage our people to have the including the UN Global Compact, of which we are courage and integrity to speak out when they have a signatory. We report our progress against the concerns. Our annually-reviewed Group-wide Compact’s ten principles annually. whistleblowing policy, available on our intranet, sets out the procedure for colleagues to Investment Management We hold approximately £13 billion of investments, available Annual Reports and Accounts 2015, we the majority of which is in bonds. Our investment communicated our strategy to maintain a core fund managers include Deutsche Asset and Wealth high quality, low risk portfolio. Management, Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, AXA Investment Managers, TD Asset Management and To date, we have not formally incorporated climate PH&N Investment Services. change into our investment policies. We will continue to assess the risks and opportunities of responsible Our Group Investment Committee manages investment, as well as how to deliver maximum investment policy and strategy and oversees shareholder value whilst reducing carbon emissions the Group’s investment portfolios within and improving human capital. strictly defined frameworks. Within our publicly 33 Public Affairs ESG risks We engage with political opinion formers and policy We also held two roundtable sessions with MPs, We considered environmental, social and governance We comply with all relevant law and regulation makers on issues relevant to our business. We do so transport officials and industry experts to discuss (ESG) risks when engaging stakeholders to create concerning financial and economic sanctions. A openly and transparently, ensuring the information the future of motoring. In this way, we endeavour Making Things Better Together. dedicated committee oversees our procedures and we provide is unbiased and accurate. We utilise our to work with the government to ensure new our approach to dealing with countries we perceive memberships of industry sector bodies to help voice technologies, like telematics and driverless cars, bring Our aim is to both provide products that protect our as higher risk. This approach is reviewed at least our concerns. real benefits to people, such as reduced premiums. customers from the impact of risk and to make sure twice a year. Several global agreements on sustainability were the risks we accept are managed collaboratively. reviewed and amended in 2015, including 17 UN In Sweden, we have linked up with other insurers This has the twin effect of maximising returns for Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted as part of the Swedish Insurance Society, to lobby investors and benefitting the environment and in September and the historic Paris Agreement decision makers on climate-related issues and actions. societies we operate in. of the UN Framework Conventions on Climate The Board’s Risk Committee (BRC) ensures we Change signed by 190 world leaders in December. operate a robust risk management system and the Through our memberships of the United Nations Group Chief Risk Officer shares any material ESG risks Environment Programme Finance Initiative within a quarterly update to the BRC. We consider it Principles for Sustainable Insurance (UNEP FI PSI), imperative to continually evaluate any emerging risks. Association of British Insurers (ABI), Confederation of British Industry’s (CBI) Energy and Climate Change We monitor global developments that could present Committee and ClimateWise, we have supported social or political risks, such as human rights statements, attended meetings with policy makers, issues. As signatories of the UN Global Compact, published opinion statements and contributed to the we are committed to protecting human rights and outcomes of these processes. eliminating discrimination. We report our progress against the Global Compact’s ten principles annually. In the UK, we are part of the Government-backed Flood Re initiative, helping those in high risk flood areas maintain access to affordable insurance. 35
