2 0 1 6 United Nations Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) June 2015 – June 2016 Company Name CESVA instruments, s.l.u. Address C/ Maracaibo, 6 08030 Barcelona Country Spain Contact name Joan Casamajó Monclús Contact Position General Manager Contact phone no. (+34) 934 335 240 Date 9 May 2016 Membership date 9 June 2008 Number of employees 25 Sector Instruments for acoustics UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2016 | page 3 CONTENT COMPANY DESCRIPTION ........................................................................ 5 GENERAL MANAGER’S STATEMENT OF SUPPORT.............................. 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SUMMARY ...................................... 8 HUMAN RIGHTS ........................................................................................ 9 Policy and Processes ............................................................................. 9 Results.................................................................................................... 9 LABOUR................................................................................................... 10 Policy and Processes ........................................................................... 10 Results.................................................................................................. 10 ENVIRONMENT ....................................................................................... 12 Policy and Processes ........................................................................... 12 Results.................................................................................................. 13 ANTI-CORRUPTION ................................................................................ 22 Policy and Processes ........................................................................... 22 Results.................................................................................................. 22 UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2016 | page 4 COMPANY DESCRIPTION CESVA is company specialized in the design and manufacture of equipment for noise control and measurement, it was founded in 1969 in Barcelona and has since been working to offer acoustic solutions to end problems related to noise and vibration and help protect the environment and improve the quality of people’s life. Our mission is to help our customers to measure and control both noise & vibration. We do this by designing and manufacturing systems that are extremely easy to use, but which do not compromise on power & functionality. Our activities are centered mainly on the development and manufacture of precision microphones and acoustic instruments and software applications for all of them, which makes them more powerful and competitive in the national and international market. CESVA is certified according to the requirements of ISO 9001:2008 for the design, manufacture, distribution and sale of instruments for the measurement and control of noise The concept of quality is fundamental in our business philosophy, since one of our priorities is its continuous search and what creates added value for our customers. We want the future to sound great. We hope to achieve this by offering quality instruments to sound professionals, to enable them to perform measurement & assessment of noise & vibration in the most efficient way possible. We want to help them achieve this whilst meeting & surpassing the technical levels required by the regulations of wherever they are used. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2016 | page 5 We focus on research and development to create new products, improve quality and maintain competitiveness in the market. Currently CESVA has its own R & D that absorbs 70% of company resources. We like to listen and identify the needs of our customers to create a relationship of mutual trust. We design and manufacture equipment that meet their needs and comply with the requirements of the latest standard in the market. Our ongoing commitment to research and development has enabled us to obtain several patents of acoustic instrumentation and being pioneer in the design of equipment with single measurement range and with simultaneous measurement of all functions, using Bluetooth on sound insulation measures or being the first company in Spain to obtain the pattern approval of a sound level meter. We sit on several committees, both Spanish and International, for the creation and revision of regulations and standards, allowing us to have a global and updated vision of the latest industry requirements. This global reach, together with a foresighted commercial strategy, has led to our range of products becoming a point of reference in the field of precision instrumentation for sound level measurement. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2016 | page 6 GENERAL MANAGER’S STATEMENT OF SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that, once again, CESVA reaffirms its support for the Ten Principles of the Global Compact of the United Nations in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. To this end and in accordance with the commitment made in June 2008 by signing the Global Compact, we present Communication On Progress COP of CESVA instruments, s.l.u for the period June 2015June 2016. In this yearly progress Communication, we describe our actions to continuously improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles to our business strategy, culture and daily operations. One more year, our efforts have been focused on job creation, economic value and social contribution on CSR, highlighting our active policy of sustainable development and respect for human rights, quality of working conditions within our company and businesses where we operate, environmental protection, especially in the field more closely linked to our business area: noise pollution and the rejection of any act of corruption. We are also committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders through our main communication channels. Joan Casamajó Monclús General Manager of CESVA instruments s.l.u. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2016 | page 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SUMMARY # PRINCIPLE IMPLEMENTED PROGRESS 1 SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS YES We continue with full commitment MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT 2 COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS YES We continue with full commitment ABUSES. UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF 3 ASSOCIATION AND THE YES We continue with full commitment COLLECTIVE BARGAINING UPHOLD THE ELIMINATION OF ALL 4 FORMS OF FORCED AND YES We continue with full commitment COMPULSORY LABOUR. 5 UPHOLD THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR YES We continue with full commitment UPHOLD THE ELIMINATION OF We have hired a new employee to the 6 DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION. YES company according to criteria of nondiscrimination and of closeness and affinity with current workers. SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY We have developed policies to 7 APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL YES measure and control energy CHALLENGES. consumption. UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO 8 PROMOTE GREATER YES We have participated in several Noise Awareness activities. ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY. ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT We have developed a solution to AND DIFFUSION OF monitor noise in smart cities and we 9 ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY YES participate in a committee for its TECHNOLOGIES. standardization in Spain. WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN 10 ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING YES We continue with full commitment EXTORTION AND BRIBERY. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2016 | page 8 HUMAN RIGHTS The first two principles cover the area of Human Rights: Businesses HUMAN RIGHTS should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 1: Businesses should human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights support and respect abuses. the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Policy and Processes In order to ensure that CESVA is not complicit in human rights abuses, 2: make sure that they we have adopted a policy of not sourcing materials from countries with are not complicit in a systematically poor human rights record. human rights abuses. All our customers, suppliers and employees have been informed of the policies of corporate social responsibility. Results In 2016 CESVA did not import goods from, nor do business with any companies in countries with a systematically poor human rights record. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2016 | page 9 LABOUR LABOUR The second area covered by principles 3 to 6 is that of Labour Rights: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 3: Businesses should recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all uphold the freedom of forms of forced and compulsory labour; the effective abolition of child association and the labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment effective recognition of and occupation. the right to collective bargaining; 4: The elimination of all Policy and Processes forms of forced and compulsory labour; CESVA has a policy of recruitment based strictly on qualification and ability. 5: The effective abolition of child Factors such as sex, religion or sexual orientation play no part in the labour; and recruitment process. In addition, in line with the policy described in reference to Human 6: The elimination of Rights, we ensure that our suppliers do not use child labour in their discrimination in production processes. respect of employment and occupation. We reject all forms of intolerance, bullying or discrimination. We consider any of these manifestations are disrespectful and unacceptable practice in our company. The transparency and honesty govern our every action in this area. Training is also an integral part of our company culture. Our workers are aware of the need to constantly improve their knowledge and skills. Results In 2016 CESVA did not import parts from companies that use child labour in their production processes. Employees and Management have taken training courses to improve their knowledge and skills. All CESVA employees are paid according to their qualifications and the work that they carry out, independent of factors such as sex or religion, etc. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2016 | page 10 As a result of a great effort and counter to Spanish indicators for active population that keep on decreasing, we have been able to incorporate the human team that forms our company a new worker in the R+D+i, in the area of cloud computing. The selection process has been conducted according to criteria of nondiscrimination and of closeness and affinity with current workers. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2016 | page 11 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT Principles 7 to 9 pertain to the area of Environmental Protection: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to 7: Businesses are environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater asked to support a environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and precautionary diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. approach to environmental At CESVA we assume respect for the environment as a fundamental challenges; factor in the performance of our activities, especially in the field more closely linked to our business: noise pollution. 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater We operate responsibly in order to respond to the needs of our environmental responsibility; and customers, always trying to minimize negative environmental impacts that may arise from it. 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Policy and Processes environmentally At CESVA we keep with the policy of “reduce, reuse and recycle” in the friendly technologies. factory. We continue being active members of ECOTIC ECOTIC Foundation is a non-profit private organization that works towards environmental protection and sustainable development through the awareness and training of manufacturers, distributors and users of electrical and electronic devices. ECOTIC Foundation manages the WEEE (collection and recycling of electrical and electronic devices at the end of their lifespan) of its affiliated enterprises through its Integrated Management System (IMS). The mission of ECOTIC Foundation is not only to conveniently recycle the wastes that are generated by its affiliates after the use of these devices, but also to do it in the most efficient and economically feasible way, so that the system is environmentally and economically sustainable to guarantee its durability. We are equally committed to our support for environmental protection, especially in the field most closely related to our business: noise pollution. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2016 | page 12 Results The results achieved applying the 3R policies are positive. CESVA is listed in the National Register of Industrial Establishments producing Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE). And we keep on our policy of buying lead-free electronic components. We continue to make the environmental management of batteries with ECOPILAS Foundation which is recorded in the register of foundations of the Spanish Ministry of Environment ECOPILAS Foundation works from its origins, in the design and organization of an Integrated Management System of waste batteries and accumulators in compliance with communitarian, national and regional rules in force. The collection of batteries is performed using the following procedure: TYPE OF TYPE OF MINIMUM REQUEST STORAGE CONTAINER BATTERIES WITHDRAWAL ECOPILAS Different type of Battery removal CARBOARD ECOPILAS FULL BOX batteries request BOX delivery with the 1st withdrawal The batteries are stored using a cardboard box that measures 38.6 x 25.6 x 23.9 cm and has an approximate capacity of 15 liters (20 kg). UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2016 | page 13 After reaching 20 kg, we proceed to make the removal order by accessing the ECOPILAS web platform. We have 2 small containers for separate collection of plastic and cardboard. The collection is done daily, Monday to Friday in the morning. The collection of furniture, appliances, wood, etc., is performed in Friday’s afternoons. We have improved our energy efficiency with regard to electric energy consumption, replacing fluorescent tubes with LED Fluorescent Replacement Tubes. The main advantage of this new technology is energy saving. To reduce electricity consumption in air conditioning a periodic maintenance (summer / winter) of the air-conditioning and heating equipment has been made to have a more optimal performance and avoiding the use of individual heating equipment (small electric stoves). Finally we have reduced the power consumption of information technology equipment by replacing part of the old desktop computers, by new ones, improving employee efficiency and welfare at work. We have participated in the activity How much noise we do? This is a noise awareness activity within the European mobility week. The Department of Planning and Sustainability, within the framework of the European mobility week, launched several actions to show citizens the benefits of contributing to enjoy clean air and noiseless environment in large urban agglomerations. 12 CESVA sound level meters model SC-L measured the noise in the streets in order to aware people on the problems arising from noise pollution. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2016 | page 14 CESVA Sound Level Meter model SC-L On October the 7th and 8th 2016, CESVA participated as a speaker at the 2nd International Nightlife Congress held in Ibiza. The congress brought together top-level speakers in the nightlife sector that developed different presentations divided into four themes: noise pollution, alcohol, security and the different types of taxes. Within the first block Marçal Serra, CTO of acoustics at CESVA instruments, presented the paper entitled Night-time leisure noise control on Smart Cities which dealt with how high uncontrolled musical levels can become noise problems and how states, regions and cities establish policies, laws and ordinances to control it. Currently used Noise management models were also detailed, consisting of the use of sound limiters and registers and online platforms collecting and analyzing noise levels from noise sensor network. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2016 | page 15 2nd International Nightlife Congress (Ibiza 2016) We have also participated in the First Congress of Acoustics of Catalonia, Acusti.cat. Acusti.cat was held on 28th and 29th April this year in Fira Sabadell, on the International Noise Awareness Day. The International Noise Awareness Day is an activity that is celebrated worldwide for over 20 years, the last Wednesday of April. The Congress had various parallel debate and reflection activities around the challenges and dilemmas that arise around the issue of noise, and offered round tables, workshops and demonstrative solutions to specific noise problems. CESVA was present with its own booth where the latest products related with noise monitoring were showed. CESVA was collaborator and sponsor of Congress. We also participate in two of the several proposed CHALLENGES: CHALLENGE 03: INTEGRAL NOISE MANAGEMENT OF RECREATION ACTIVITIES WITH OUTDOOR MUSIC AREAS UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2016 | page 16 CHALLENGE 06: HOW TO PROPERLY APPLY CORRECTION COEFFICIENTS? The event was organized by the Generalitat de Catalunya, Barcelona Provincial Council, the City of Sabadell, the Laboratory of Acoustics and Mechanical Engineering of the Polytechnic University of Catalonia and the Catalan Association of Acoustic Consultants. CESVA speaking at the CHALLENGE: “HOW TO PROPERLY APPLY CORRECTION COEFFICIENTS?” UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2016 | page 17 CESVA Booth at the 1st Congress on Acoustics of Catalonia Acusti.cat The congress progress was being published in Twitter and Linkedin UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2016 | page 18 CESVA has developed NoisePlatform, an online noise monitoring platform. NoisePlatform is a dynamic online platform that displays in real time and vividly analyzes the noise measured by a mixed network of sensors and terminals that allow fully monitor the entire area of influence of noisy activities such as road, rail, airport, city (Smart Cities), industrial plants, entertainment activities or quiet areas as natural parks or beaches. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2016 | page 19 NoisePlatform was developed in response to the new challenges that the growing demand for environmental quality by the population demands to public authorities. Current noise monitoring projects are insufficient for cities, which are increasingly more efficient and smart. They need to go beyond the single point measurement of noise levels. They need practical, dynamic and economically sustainable solutions to measure, analyze and control noise pollution and to ensure that noise does not affect the quality of life and well-being of people. NoisePlatform represents a major advance over traditional monitoring where the cost of purchase or rental and installation of terminals limits the spatial and temporal scope of the project. NoisePlatform can completely cover the area to monitor with the appropriate number of sensors TA120 and supplement it, in the most critical points, with TA420 terminals with metrology, 1/3 octave band spectrum analyses and audio recording. The use of sensors allows increasing surveillance points, lowering of maintenance and periodic test costs. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2016 | page 20 CESVA remains part of the working group GT7.2 “Noise Pollution control systems” in the SC4 / CTN 178 Smart Cities. Energy and Environment of AENOR (It is legally responsible for the development and dissemination of technical standards in Spain). The objective of this group is to establish the guidelines to standardize the actions conducted by smart cities for the diagnosis, monitoring and control of noise pollution and environmental awareness and education. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2016 | page 21 ANTI-CORRUPTION The tenth principle deals with the problem of Corruption, and states ANTI-CORRUPTION simply that: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy and Processes CESVA has always adhered to this principle. It may be that there are companies who resort to bribery to win contracts, but CESVA has never entertained the idea that this could, under any circumstances, be an acceptable business practice, even when it has cost us contracts or tenders. Results CESVA does not, and never has resorted to bribery or extortion. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2016 | page 22 Maracaibo, 6  08030 Barcelona (Spain) www.cesva.com
