Travel with Purpose 2014-2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Executive These powerful words, first articulated by our founder Conrad Hilton in 1954, are just as relevant and inspirational today. They are based on the belief that we can use our passion for hospitality to make a Statement lasting, positive difference in people’s lives and the wider world. Our values serve as a compass for how we deliver our Hilton At Hilton, our people and business hospitality to the world. They define our responsibilities to our are guided by our vision to fill the people, the guests we serve, the owners we grow our business with earth with the light and warmth and the communities we call home. of hospitality. Travel with Purpose has played an important role in bringing our vision and values to life by uniting our organization around a set of global issues that connect our business to society youth opportunity, environmental stewardship and community resiliency. It provides a framework for global goals and solutions while supporting our teams to achieve local impact. Together we have made significant progress in our three areas of focus: Opportunities, Communities and Environment. •R  educed energy use by 14.5 percent, carbon output by 20.9 percent, waste output by 27.6 percent and water use by 14.1 percent since 2009 •A  nnounced a global partnership with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) focusing on water stewardship, sustainable seafood and food waste reduction •R  eached more than 400,000 young people through apprenticeship programs, career engagement and life skills training since announcing our Open Doors commitment in 2014 Christopher J. Nassetta • J oined the 100,000 Opportunities commitment, an employerPresident and Chief Executive Officer led coalition committed to creating pathways to meaningful employment for America’s young people •M  ore than 7,300 veterans and spouses were hired to work at our owned, managed and independently-operated franchised properties in the Hilton portfolio since launching Operation: Opportunity in 2013 •O  rganized 4,145 volunteer projects resulting in 213,000 volunteer hours during our 2015 Global Month of Service •A  warded nearly 200 Travel with Purpose Action Grants supporting our properties and local communities •R  ecognized by Forbes as a Top 50 Green Brand and by Newsweek as a Top Green Company in the World •R eceived a perfect score of 100% on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index, which measures policies and practices related to LGBT workplace equality As we celebrate our successes of the past year, we are looking to the future. This year the United Nations issued a new development agenda the UN Sustainable Development Goals, which provide a set of goals and targets for government, NGOs and businesses to address the most pressing societal challenges of our time. The challenges of the world require the very best of what Hilton has to offer. Executive Statement Over the next few years, our collective efforts will increasingly focus in the areas where we think Hilton can have the greatest impact creating pathways to opportunities for young people, building stronger and thriving communities and preserving our environment. And we will share a set of goals and targets associated with the areas of focus in early 2016. Our founder inspired others to assume their fair share of responsibility for the world in which they lived. At Hilton we are fortunate to have the great privilege of serving others and fulfilling our vision in responsible and sustainable ways. Thank you for traveling with us. Christopher J. Nassetta President and Chief Executive Officer About Hilton Conrad N. Hilton began with a 40-room hotel in a small Texas town in 1919. Today, Hilton Worldwide (NYSE: HLT) is one of the world’s preeminent hospitality companies, stretching across 24 time zones. For 97 years, we have been You’ll find us in world capitals, rural roadsides, trade centers, vacation dedicated to continuing our destinations, and everywhere in between. Our properties span the tradition of providing heartfelt lodging sector from luxury and full-service hotels and resorts to extended-stay suites, focused-service hotels and timeshare and authentic guest experiences destinations. that make a lasting impact in Our portfolio of twelve world-class global brands is comprised of people’s lives. more than 4,500 managed, franchised, owned and leased hotels and timeshare properties, with more than 745,000 rooms in nearly 100 745,000 countries and territories. More than 157,000 Hilton Team Members* proudly serve across our owned and managed properties and offices around the world, and we have approximately 49 million members in Rooms our award-winning customer loyalty program, Hilton HHonors. 97 Countries 157,000 Hilton Team Members* 49m Members in our award-winning customer loyalty program Travel with For nearly 100 years, we have been a local business operating at a global scale. The success of our business is directly linked to the Purpose success of our local communities. From the local owners who partner with us to build hotels that fly our flags to the local talent that make them a home away from home to the local entrepreneurs Conrad Hilton believed that the and businesses we support through the products we source and the travel and tourism industry could guests we serve. be a powerful engine of progress. Travel with Purpose focuses on advancing three priorities that ensure we can remain a local business while at the same time leveraging our Our goal is to create shared value passion to make a lasting impact on the wider world: creating for our Hilton Team Members, opportunities for individuals to reach their full potential, owners and their employees, guests, strengthening local communities and managing our impacts on the business partners and communities. environment through the measurement, analysis and improvement of our use of natural resources. Our strategy was developed by mapping social and environmental issues that are impacted by our business and will continue to be critical to our long-term success. We ranked the issues based on our influence and the relative importance to our business operations and stakeholder groups. We also engaged with both internal and external stakeholders to identify interests and concerns that should be taken into consideration as we continue to grow. We revisited our materiality results in 2015 and based on these results, we have identified the following issue areas for our corporate responsibility efforts and forthcoming goals and targets: • Our people • Local community impact • Environment • Responsible sourcing Since launching Travel with Purpose in 2011, we have built a strong foundation and robust programming in our key focus areas. We have developed partnerships to advocate for key issues at a global level coupled with programs designed to activate hotels to address local challenges. We also partner with key functions of the business to embed responsible practices throughout many of our core policies and programs. Finally, as an industry leader, we participate in external forums so we can learn how other companies and organizations are integrating responsible business commitments into the heart of their business, designing innovative approaches to global issues and taking advantage of opportunities for collaboration and scale. Travel with Purpose •A  merican Hotel & Lodging Association (AH&LA): Jim Holthouser, Executive Vice President, Global Brands serves on the board of We participate in a variety of forums directors and the executive committee of the organization that in our industry and beyond. represents all segments U.S. lodging industry. •B  ritish Hospitality Guild: Simon Vincent, President for Europe, Middle East & Africa serves as Chairman of the organization dedicated to simplifying and promoting the professionalism of the hospitality industry. • I nternational Gay & Lesbian Travel Association (IGLTA): Hilton Worldwide serves on the board of the leading global travel network dedicated to connecting and educating LGBT travelers and the businesses that welcome them. • I nternational Tourism Partnership (ITP): Hilton is a founding member of this travel industry consortium and participates in various working groups and the Youth Career Initiative (YCI). •U  nited Nations Global Compact: Hilton is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact since 2012 and the United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles since 2014. •U  .S. Travel Association (USTA): Chris Nassetta chairs the CEO Roundtable for U.S. Travel. The company also serves on the board of directors for the organization that represents all components of the U.S. travel industry and works to increase travel to and within the United States. •W  orld Economic Forum (WEF): Hilton Worldwide is an industry partner of the World Economic Forum and participates in the Aviation and Travel Group. We are also a member of the Global Agenda Council on New Models of Travel & Tourism. •W  orld Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC): Chris Nassetta serves on the Executive Committee of the organization that works to raise awareness of travel and tourism as one of the world’s largest industries. Stakeholder From developing hotel concepts and products in partnership with owners and guests to evolving our internal programs to engage Engagement Hilton Team Members and build a common culture with franchise employees to working with governments on policy reforms to dialoguing with conservation organizations on a variety of products We engage with stakeholders that in our supply chain, we view stakeholder engagement as an enabler can help inform and enhance our of continuous improvement, innovation and reputation management. business and corporate responsibility strategy. We engage with a broad range of internal and external stakeholders on an ongoing basis, including nongovernmental organizations, industry and government, as well as our Team Members, guests, owners and shareholders. We do this informally, through leadership, participation and/or membership in organizations and consortiums and as a structured part of our outreach strategies related to issues and challenges. We also connect with stakeholders through formal partnership work and stakeholder engagement activities that are covered below and throughout this report. Hilton Team Members* • All Hilton Team Member meetings • Annual Global Hilton Team Member Survey • Heart of Hilton • Hilton Hotline • Executive leadership emails • Hilton Team Member Resource Groups • Wellness committees Franchise Employees** • Community champions • Conferences, summits and leadership meetings • Global Team Member Volunteer Program • Hilton Worldwide University • Recognition programs • Pre-shift huddles and learning conversations Guests • Service and Loyalty Tracking (SALT) for customers • Guest assistance • Our brands and loyalty program Hilton HHonors • Social media monitoring and engagement Stakeholder Engagement Government Policymakers • Ongoing dialogue on key issues • Participation in multi-stakeholder initiatives • Association membership NGOs and International Organizations •P articipation in expert forums and ongoing dialogues, white papers, publications and surveys • Public-private partnerships and engagement on selected topics •S trategic partnerships and consultation around key material issues Investors • Annual and quarterly reports • Annual meeting of shareholders • Meetings, conferences and roadshows • Quarterly earnings conference calls • Surveys and questionnaires • Investor days and conferences Owners • Collaboration on key material issues • Global Owners Conference • Owners communications • Owners services • Owners surveys • Regional Owner Connections Suppliers • Collaboration on key material issues • Questionnaires and surveys • Responsible sourcing policy • Strategic sourcing • Supplier audits and assessments • Supplier development program seminars and training *Hilton Team Members include employees of Hilton Worldwide at corporate offices, owned, managed, leased and timeshare properties. **Franchise employees include employees at independently owned and operated franchised properties. While franchisees and their employees are not employed by us, they are a large part of our brands and our culture of hospitality. In addition to our corporate responsibility initiatives, we offer franchisees training and recognition programs and provide them with other resources that are relevant to them and their businesses. OPPORTUNITIES COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT Hilton Team Members Our exceptional service culture is all about the people. * We succeed only when they have the resources and support to thrive in their roles and be their best. Goal Impact Highlights 5,000,000 To continuously work to deliver great environments, great careers and great rewards for Hilton Team Members. Hours Hilton Team Members and franchise employees completed 5,000,000 hours of courses through our online Hilton Worldwide University. Introduction For nearly a century, Hilton has delivered on our vision to 160,000 ‘fill the earth with the light and warmth of hospitality’. Hilton Acts of Hospitality Team Members* and franchise employees** who represent our brands around the world fulfill 12 People Recognized 160,000 Hilton Team Members and franchise employees from 93 countries via two million catches. this vision every day by creating Selected 12 memorable experiences for individuals from 2,125 nominees for 1,800 current and future generations of the CEO Light & Hilton Team Members travelers. Hilton Team Members Warmth Award Enrollment of 1,800 Hilton Team are our most valuable resource, in 2014. Members in Hilton’s English as Second and we are committed to providing Language (ESL) program. them with diverse opportunities to support their personal and professional growth. 7,300+ Veterans More than 7,300 veterans and spouses were hired to work at our owned, managed and independently-operated franchised properties 2,500 in the Hilton portfolio courses since 2013. Hilton Worldwide University offers 2,500 courses. Our Approach Once hired, required and voluntary trainings help Hilton Team Members in our owned and Recognition Recognizing Hilton Team Members and Our exceptional service culture is all about the people, and we continually work to provide our managed hotels and corporate offices develop franchise employees is another fundamental Hilton Team Members with a great place to new skills, expanding upon existing cornerstone of our culture. We offer numerous work focused on great environments, great knowledge, and benefit from coaching and programs such as our CEO Light and Warmth careers and great rewards. We work to get advice. For example, we have trainings Awards and our Spirit Awards. One of our Hilton Team Members actively engaged in available for English as a Second Language biggest annual recognition initiatives is our shaping company policies, building their skills, (ESL) management and leadership skills, and award-winning Catch Me at My Best program. connecting them to something bigger and cross-cultural skills. We also offer tuition Each year, guests, managers and peers are empowering them to feel appreciated and to reimbursement for courses directly related to encouraged to recognize individuals for acts of recognize others. We use initiatives such as the the job, to prepare Hilton Team Members to hospitality through a comment card, or ‘catch’, Global Hilton Team Member Survey, Hilton take on additional responsibilities, or to that prompts managers to recognize these Worldwide University, and award-winning complete a degree. More than 1,800 Hilton recipients as well. In 2015, more than 160,000 recognition programs to support and evaluate Team Members are currently enrolled in people from 93 different countries were our current and future Hilton Team Members. the program. recognized with nearly two million catches. A comprehensive approach to recruiting, In 2015, we launched the hospitality industry’s In 2015, we kicked off our first annual Hilton training/mentoring, leadership development largest U.S. high school equivalency degree Team Member and Franchise Employee and talent management allows us to program – the GED Assistance benefit that will Appreciation Week, providing understand where and how we can improve give thousands of eligible Hilton Team all of our hotels around the world the around the world. Members the opportunity to earn their high opportunity to celebrate our collective school equivalency diploma. appreciation. Thousands of events were Action Our leadership roadmap helps our current and orchestrated worldwide. Feedback future leaders at all levels discover their talents, We gather feedback through our annual Global Partnerships | Associations enhance their leadership skills and develop Hilton Team Member Survey, which directly Awards | Certifications their careers with us. We offer a mix of impacts decisions, policy changes and opportunities for leaders at all levels and ensure programs at the company. As a result of past we retain the best talent around the world. feedback we have made improvements to our Hilton Team Members are evaluated through annual review process and performance In 2015, Hilton Worldwide partnered with the our Performance Management Review management tools including year-round International Youth Foundation (IYF) to process; this includes the setting of objectives, feedback, our approach to learning and customize a life skills program: Passport to goals, concerns and allowing regular feedback development, as well as our recognition Success for Hospitality. This training helps and coaching for growth to occur. programs. teach life skills such as listening, teamwork, Wellbeing positive attitude and problem solving Learning and Development which are key to professional success in We also focus on providing a healthy work-life Hilton Worldwide University (HWU) provides the hospitality industry. These skills help balance for overall wellbeing and happiness. the global learning framework around the our hotels consistently deliver exceptional world. HWU delivers its curricula through five Flexible work arrangements and work-fromhome positions are two examples. We have guest experiences and meet the challenges unique colleges, each with an assigned of a dynamic work environment. executive sponsor and dean. Collectively, the also developed a wellness strategy at our corporate locations and some of our largest We’re proud to be recognized as one of the five colleges offer more than 2,500 courses hotels that include development of a wellness most respected and responsible companies in delivered in a variety of ways, including champion network, and health and wellness the world. Recent recognition includes: classroom training, e-learning, webinars and e-books. In 2014, more than five million hours activities. • Hilton named one of World’s Most of coursework were taken by Hilton Team In 2015, we introduced several programs and Admired Companies Members and franchise employees resulting in resources to make life easier for our Hilton • Hilton ranks #8 of Great Workplaces more than 1,985,000 completed courses. Team Members. Beginning in March all in the UK As a rapidly growing company it is crucial for company owned and managed properties post • Hilton named to LinkedIn’s list of North us to maintain and hire strong candidates. schedules a full 10 days before the start of the America’s 100 Most In Demand Employers We facilitate our recruiting process through workweek to provide Hilton Team Members of 2015 a Global Career Website, five major Talent with increased flexibility. This ‘first look’ • Hilton honored on Workforce 100 Acquisition Centers (TACs) across the United schedule allows Hilton Team Members to better balance personal and professional • Hilton recognized as one the Top 50 States, global university partnerships and obligations while still meeting the needs Most Attractive Employers in APAC Operation: Opportunity, our U.S. Veterans Recruitment program. We look for individuals of our guests. with relevant experience as well as qualities This year we also made significant important to our service culture such as enhancements to our parental leave policies for friendliness, warmth, authenticity and Hilton Team Members in the United States and empathy. Puerto Rico. An industry first, we now offer all In 2013 we launched Operation: Opportunity, new parents two weeks of fully paid parental our company’s major initiative to ensure leave and new mothers who 10,000 jobs for military veterans and spouses have given birth, an additional eight weeks are created across our owned, managed and of maternity leave for a total of 10 weeks franchised properties. As part of Operation: of fully paid leave. Opportunity, we created a military-specific We encourage Hilton Team Members, franchise careers website that matches military skill sets employees, as well as their families, to with complementary open positions. Military experience the same kind of lasting memories veterans and their spouses also receive an from travel that we provide to our guests every exclusive military rate at participating hotels. day. Starting in 2016, a new framework for *H  ilton Team Members include employees of Hilton Worldwide Since 2013, more than 7,300 veterans and Hilton Team Member and franchise employee at corporate offices, owned, managed, leased and timeshare properties. spouses were hired to work at our owned, travel will roll out to everyone who represent ** Franchise employees include employees at independently managed and independently-operated our brands worldwide. Go Hilton will offer owned and operated franchised properties. While franchisees franchised properties in the Hilton portfolio. more rooms, in more locations, and at lower and their employees are not employed by us, they are a large prices, for Hilton Team Members, franchise part of our brands and our culture of hospitality. In addition to our corporate responsibility initiatives, we offer franchisees employees, their families and friends. training and recognition programs and provide them with other resources that are relevant to them and their businesses. OPPORTUNITIES COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT Youth The travel and tourism industry is the world’s single largest employer, supporting one in every 11 jobs worldwide according to the World Travel and Tourism Council. One of the biggest challenges the industry faces is that job seekers lack information about the nature and extent of meaningful careers in the industry, particularly among young people. Goal Impact Highlights 22,365 Committed to impacting at least one million young people by 2019. Hours Volunteered 22,365 hours toward reaching young people during our Careers@HiltonLive: Introduction Youth in Hospitality month. In 2013, the International Labor Organization estimated that more than 74 million young people were unemployed. Studies show a growing disconnect between the 90,000 2015 750+ Young People Events skills companies need and those Impacted 90,000 young Over 750+ volunteer projects young people are equipped with people during our 2015 and events took place during when entering the workforce. Careers@HiltonLive: the 2015 Careers@HiltonLive: According to McKinsey, only 43 Youth in Hospitality Month. Youth in Hospitality month. percent of employers surveyed worldwide agreed that they could find enough skilled entry-level workers. Further, only 46 percent of 14 3,000 young people said they were aware of the sectors where jobs are available. In tackling this challenge, the hospitality industry simultaneously invests in future growth and success. In addition, a new generation of countries employees can provide fresh, new Young People ideas and important insights to Participation from 3,000 young people in the Passport to better serve the growing cohort Success program across 14 countries. of young travelers. Our Approach ‘Youth Panels’ provide Our youth strategy focuses on connecting, a fresh perspective preparing and employing young people One outcome of our partnership with IYF is around the world. We connect by enabling Our General Managers in Northern & the Global Youth Wellbeing Index. Along with young people to experience travel, improve Central Europe gathered in Innsbruck, the Center for Strategic & International the long-term sustainability of our industry looking to build on a successful first quarter Studies, IYF and Hilton developed this and support young entrepreneurs with for the region. To give their planning a resource to serve as the first comprehensive opportunities to participate in our expansive fresh perspective, the Area Vice-President measurement of youth wellbeing designed value chain. We prepare by helping young invited a ‘youth panel’ of talented millennials to help policymakers, donors, businesses and people in developing their life and professional young people make strategic investments in skills with mentorships, apprenticeships and to take charge of a section of the agenda, youth programming and elevate youth issues partnering with universities in preparing the including Hilton Team Members, students to the top of the global agenda. In 2015, the next generation of leaders. Young people are and local entrepreneurs. They emphasized partnership developed the first follow-up employed across all divisions of the business the importance of tailoring brands to the study on the Index with an examination of including more than 4,500 owned, managed younger generation and empowering citizen participation, economic opportunity, and independently-operated franchised them to think and act ‘bottom up’. education, health, information and hotels worldwide. communications technology, and safety and security for youth in Vietnam. Action Building on our vast experience in designing Connect and implementing thousands of Careers@HiltonLive: Youth in Hospitality apprenticeships around the world, we are Month is our annual awareness campaign leading a UK-wide review of the government In 2015, we renewed our partnership with that encourages hotels to host job fairs, career apprenticeship standards. In Turkey, we Room to Read to continue supporting guidance talks and job shadowing to raise created the first ever hospitality apprenticeship the education of women and youth in India awareness of careers in hospitality and connect curriculum as part of an EU-funded Lifelong and Sri Lanka. We are spearheading a Job young people to opportunities. In 2015 our Learning Program fostering transfer of Shadowing Program for 300 girls to offer hotels hosted over 750 events reaching more innovation from EU countries to neighboring them the skills and guidance needed to than 90,000 young people around the world. countries. complete their secondary school education. In China, as part of our work with the Working with the Youth Career Initiative International Youth Foundation, Hilton (a program of the International Tourism launched its first youth entrepreneurship Partnership) we continue to bring training program, Startup365, equipping more apprenticeship programs to our hotels Hilton is a member of the 100,000 than 150 youth and Hilton Team Members* with providing underserved youth with their first Opportunities initiative, the United States’ the business skills required to succeed in today’s exposure to the hospitality industry and largest employer-led coalition committed to competitive workplace. sometimes even the formal work sector. creating pathways to meaningful employment Programs in Brazil, Mexico, Romania and for America’s young people. Hilton is committed Prepare Vietnam have provided nearly 60 young to hiring at least 15,000 young people in the Life skills are an important set of skills for the people with internships at our hotels, United States at our owned and managed hotels hospitality industry. Passport to Success and we expanded the program to hotels and corporate locations over the next three (PTS) for Hospitality, a life and soft skills in Lebanon in Summer 2015. years, providing them with a wealth of skills and training created by the International Youth training to be successful in the world of Hilton’s top-talent program in Europe, and Foundation and adapted for the hospitality hospitality and beyond. the Middle East and Africa identifies young industry, has reached 66 Hilton trainers at 33 leadership candidates and supports them in properties in 14 countries. Nearly 3,000 young career readiness, and developing life skills. Hilton Team Members are expected to receive Last year, the top-talent candidates developed PTS by the end of 2015. Due to growing demand business projects that met a business need Hilton serves on the boards of two multiwe also developed an online version of PTS while embedding responsible business stakeholder organizations driving youth for Hospitality, which is available to all of considerations into daily hotel operations. employment. The Global Apprenticeships our hotels through Hilton Worldwide University (HWU). Network (GAN) is a business-driven alliance Partnerships | Associations with the overarching goal of encouraging Through HWU we provide recommended and linking business initiatives on skills and and required courses on Professional employment opportunities for youth, most Development. These comprehensive, notably apprenticeships. Hilton has supported hands-on accelerated training programs Our signature partner in the youth the launch of GAN National Networks in help train the next generation of hospitality development space is the International Youth Turkey and Spain. Solutions for Youth leaders in a variety of topics. Foundation (IYF). Through a holistic strategy Employment (S4YE) is a multi-stakeholder Hilton has a dedicated team that creates we have worked together to develop cuttingcoalition among public sector, private sector relationships with more than 65 hospitality edge tools, resources and thought leadership and civil society actors that aims to provide schools and universities around the world approach to promote the value of the leadership and resources for catalytic action to to prepare the next generation of talent. hospitality sector in helping to solve youth increase the number of young people engaged Aside from hosting career fairs and attending unemployment. in productive work. S4YE aims to support 150 university campuses, our recruiting team finds million young people across the world by 2030. and hires interns and young talent to fill open positions across our portfolio of hotels. Our global program offers summer and year long internships and apprenticeships. These programs allow individuals to gain exposure to the variety of opportunities that exist within *H  ilton Team Members include employees of Hilton Worldwide hospitality and acquire career ready skills for at corporate offices, owned, managed, leased and timeshare properties. future positions. ** Franchise employees include employees at independently owned and operated franchised properties. While franchisees and their employees are not employed by us, they are a large part of our brands and our culture of hospitality. In addition to our corporate responsibility initiatives, we offer franchisees training and recognition programs and provide them with other resources that are relevant to them and their businesses. OPPORTUNITIES COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT Inclusion As a global business, our ability to understand, operate and celebrate in a multicultural world is critical to our success. Our approach begins by fostering a culture that values diverse people, talent and ideas. And we carry that commitment to the marketplace with our guests and our suppliers. Goal Impact Highlights Committed to understanding and celebrating the unique global cultures that reflect our Hilton Team Members,* franchise employees** and 4,000+ Suppliers the guests, owners and Engaged over 4,000 partners in our communities we serve. Supplier Diversity Program since 2010. Introduction As a company that operates in nearly 100 countries, our goal is 51% to serve any guest anywhere in the world for any travel need they have. As a business of people serving people, our success depends on our ability to understand and reflect the Percentage of women in our U.S. Hilton Team Member population at owned, different cultures, perspectives and managed and corporate locations. needs of our guests, owners and communities around the world. 100% Diversity and inclusion are core beliefs we celebrate at Hilton, and when we combine the unique talents and perspectives of our Hilton Team Members and We received a perfect score of 100 percent franchise employees, together on the 2015 Corporate Equality Index (CEI), a U.S. benchmarking survey and report we provide the best experiences related to lesbian, gay, bisexual, and for our guests. transgender (LGBT) workplace equality, administered by the Human Rights Campaign. Our Approach Job Shadowing for Female Students Our approach to diversity begins with our vision to ‘fill the earth with the light and warmth of hospitality’, which inspires our spirit Since 2012, Hilton has collaborated with of inclusiveness. We focus on three core pillars – culture, talent and marketplace. Our first Room to Read to benefit more than 43,000 priority is to create a strong culture where all young people in Asia. This year, our Hilton Team Members feel seen, heard, valued partnership launched the first-of-its-kind Job and respected, and we invest in programs that Shadowing Program to introduce 300 young foster inclusion. Second, we strive to attract female students to career opportunities in strong talent by supporting local hiring the hospitality sector. Hilton Team Members pipelines and providing coaching, mentoring in India and Sri Lanka hosted the first job and leadership development opportunities shadow day to great success. for Hilton Team Members. Our third priority is to continually promote diversity within our marketplace through initiatives such as our Supplier and Ownership Diversity programs. Equality in Leadership’ committees in APAC and Action driving efforts to increase our headcount of Culture women in Saudi Arabia, which doubled in the We have built on our commitment to women in A respect for inclusion starts with some of our last year. leadership by signing the United Nations most fundamental company policies and extends Our internal learning platform, Hilton University, Women’s Empowerment Principles to to governance. Language outlining our offers several online courses to educate and demonstrate our support for full participation of commitment to diversity and inclusion is engage Hilton Team Members about diversity women in our company. embedded in our Global Code of Conduct as well and inclusion. We provide self-guided tools to as our Hilton Team Member Handbook. Further, help hotels learn how to better communicate we established an Executive Diversity Council with people from other cultural backgrounds as (EDC) chaired by our President and CEO to provide well as reinforce the importance of creating oversight and direction to our overall strategy. inclusive environments and experiences for all people and communities. In 2014, we supported Project Inspire, Hilton Team Member Resource Groups organized by UN Women and MasterCard to (TMRGs) support our Hilton Team Member Marketplace help young change-makers create a better population at our corporate offices and owned In 2012, we launched our ‘Stay Hilton. Go Out.’ world for women and girls in APAC, Middle East and managed hotels in the United States and package to celebrate inclusive experiences at top and Africa. Ten finalists selected from more England, providing onboarding, networking destinations around the world with the LGBT than 500 applications in 70 countries pitched and professional development opportunities. community. With more than 460 participating their social change ideas to a panel that We currently have TMRGs focusing on Abilities, properties worldwide, all hotels are required to included UN Women, MasterCard, Bain & African American, Asian and Pacific Islander, take part in a ‘Stay Hilton. Go Out.’ Learning Company, INSEAD and Hilton. Hispanic/Latino, LGBT & Friends, Veterans and Women. The success of these groups is reflected Conversation, which discusses service etiquette in the substantial growth in membership and to ensure each of our LGBT guests feel cared for, chapters. Membership has increased 150 percent valued and respected. since 2012, and the number of chapters has For more than 10 years we’ve sourced products In 2015, our company was recognized as one of jumped from 20 to 36 globally. Each TMRG is for our properties from a diverse range of DiversityInc’s annual Top 50 Companies for sponsored by a senior leader and is governed vendors and suppliers. Our award-winning Diversity and one of the Top 10 Companies by a global Steering Committee. Supplier Diversity Program has cultivated for Supplier Diversity. relationships with more than 4,000 women Talent and minority-owned businesses, leading to Hilton also has an Executive Diversity US $1 billion of spend to date. Networking program as part of our ongoing effort to build a pipeline of diverse talent. All 13 of Partnerships | Associations | Awards We received a perfect score of 100 percent on our Executive Committee Members have at least We provide support for numerous universities the 2015 Corporate Equality Index, a US two mentees they support through the program. globally by participating in conferences, national assessment of corporate policies and Since launching the program two years ago, recruiting events, and through monetary and practices related to LGBT workplace equality, 25 percent of program participants have been in-kind contributions to support scholarships administered by the Human Rights Campaign. promoted to higher levels in the organization. and student development programs. Women represent 51 percent of our U.S. Hilton Team Member population. To help build the talent pipeline of our next generation leaders, we initiated and formalized our Women in We have an owner outreach program to Hilton became the first hospitality company to Leadership strategy, which includes several key educate minority and women entrepreneurs join the U.S. State Department’s Global initiatives: a signature women’s leadership on becoming owners of our brands. Equality Fund, an initiative working to development program, an Executive Committee Organizations such as National Association advance and protect the human rights of Networking program, a women’s mentoring of Black Hotel Owners, Operators & lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) program, hotel operations programs and Developers (NABHOOD), Latino Hotel & persons around the world. year-round networking opportunities. Restaurant Association (LHRA) and the In 2015, we launched Leadership Connection, a Asian American Hotel Owners Association publication featuring remarkable women (AAHOA), are also instrumental in helping to leaders sharing insight on leadership skills. We promote our ownership initiatives. have also incorporated ‘Women in Leadership’ *H  ilton Team Members include employees of Hilton Worldwide at corporate offices, owned, managed, leased and timeshare sessions into key global internal meetings, properties. including the inaugural Women In Leadership ** Franchise employees include employees at independently Conference in China. In Asia Pacific (APAC) we We are members of WEConnect owned and operated franchised properties. While franchisees announced a target to achieve a 20 percent International, an organization that helps and their employees are not employed by us, they are a large female Hilton GM population in the region by part of our brands and our culture of hospitality. In addition to women-owned businesses succeed in global our corporate responsibility initiatives, we offer franchisees 2017. We are also leading a number of regional value chains. training and recognition programs and provide them with initiatives, including establishing ‘Gender other resources that are relevant to them and their businesses. Associations Awards We support many organizations that promote Recent awards and honors include: diversity and inclusion, including: • Top Corporation for LGBT Economic • Ascend Pan-Asian Leaders Empowerment (Affinity Inc. Magazine) • Asian Hotel Owners Association • Top Diversity Employer (Black EOE Journal) • American Hotel & Lodging Educational • Top Supplier Diversity Program (Black EOE Foundation Journal) • American Resort Development Association • Top 50 Organizations for Multicultural Business Opportunities (DiversityBusiness. • Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation com) (GLAAD) • Top 50 Companies for Diversity, 2015 • Human Rights Campaign (HRC) (DiversityInc) • International Gay & Lesbian Travel • Top 10 Companies for Supplier Diversity, Association 2014–2015 (DiversityInc) • Latino Hotel & Restaurant Association • Top 10 Companies for Latinos, 2014 • League of United Latin American Citizens (DiversityInc) • National Association for the Advancement of • Top 10 Companies for Veterans, 2014 Colored People (NAACP) (DiversityInc) • National Association of Black Accountants, • Top 10 Companies for Employee Resource Inc. Groups, 2014 (DiversityInc) • National Association of Black Hotel Owners, • Top 30 Champions for Diversity Operators & Developers (DiversityPlus Magazine) • National Business & Disability Council • 2014 Award Honoree (Equality@Work) • National Center for American Indian • Military Friendly Employer, Ranked #56 in Enterprise Development Council 2014 (GI Jobs Magazine) • National Council of La Raza • Military Spouse Friendly Employer (GI Jobs • National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Magazine) Commerce • Top 60 Companies for Diversity (Hispanic • National Gay & Lesbian Task Force Business Magazine) • National Minority Supplier Development • Top 25 Companies for Supplier Diversity Council (Hispanic Business Magazine) • National Society of Black Engineers • Top Diversity Employer, 2015 (Hispanic • National Urban League Network Magazine) • Out & Equal Workplace Advocates • Top Supplier Diversity Program, 2015 (Hispanic Network Magazine) • U.S. Black Chambers, Inc. • 100 Score on Equality Index (Human Rights • U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce Campaign) • U.S. Pan Asian American Chamber of • LATINA Style 50 Best Companies for Latinos, Commerce 2015 (LATINA Style Magazine) • WE International • Best for Vets: 2015 #13 (Military Times) • Women’s Business Enterprise National • Second Place Finalist (NAACP Fairness Council Lodging Survey) • Top Diversity Employer of Women, 2014 (Professional Woman’s Magazine) • Top Supplier Diversity Programs for Women, 2014 (Professional Woman’s Magazine) • Catalyst Award, Bill Kornegay, SVP of Supply Management (Uptown Magazine) • Top 50 Corporations for Supplier Diversity (U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce) OPPORTUNITIES COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT Human Rights Human rights are the basic rights and freedoms that all people are entitled to and are central to sustainable development. Business respect for human rights is inextricably linked to responsible business, from how a company lives its values to how it manages its risks and reputation. Goal Impact Highlights Assess and address human rights impacts in our 58,000+ 14,000+ operations and supply chain Hilton Team Hilton Managers with metrics to evaluate the Members* Trained more than 14,000 Hilton progress and gaps that need Trained more than 58,000 managers in our ethics and to be evaluated. anti-corruption training in 2014. Hilton Team Members on issues related to ethics, Introduction human rights, and child trafficking through the 2,400+ continued global rollout Hilton GMs In the United Nations Guiding Principles of our Code of Conduct Trained more than 2,400 Hilton General in 2014. Managers in child trafficking awareness. on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) the UN defines the respective role of 100% companies in assessing human rights. The UNGP states that governments have the duty to translate the international body of human rights into their national legislation. On the other Scored 100 percent on the Human Rights hand, companies have a responsibility Campaign (HRC) Corporate Equality to operate and conduct the appropriate Index in the United States in 2015. due diligence to identify, manage and, where appropriate, mitigate their 1,500 impact on human rights. Hilton is one of the largest hospitality companies in the world. Our global 78 reach and vast supply chains present Children Reached an estimated a unique opportunity to make a 1,500 at-risk children in measurable impact across a range Nigeria, South Africa, Leaders of human rights issues. Complying Thailand, Turkey, and Invested in 78 international with local laws and conducting the United Kingdom women leaders since 2013 to our relationships with integrity through the Hilton participate in a two-week Anti-Trafficking Fund. are key to maintaining smooth interactive learning and business operations and supporting networking program in ongoing growth. partnership with Vital Voices. Our Approach Child Trafficking Advocacy Hilton operates with a respect for the rights of spreads to Thailand the people we employ, serve as customers and do business with along our supply chain. Our Boom Mosby, Founder of the HUG Project in approach focuses on continually evaluating Thailand, had a long history of working with and prioritizing human rights risks. We started local NGOs and police to investigate cases of by outlining our commitment to human rights, human trafficking and connect survivors good governance and ethical conduct in our Global Code of Conduct. Hilton Team with the services they need. Within six Members, as well as our business partners, are months of participating in the Global expected to maintain these standards. Freedom Exchange (GFE), Boom established According to the UNGPs, companies are the Children’s Advocacy Center in Chiang Mai, expected to assess their human rights the first of its kind in the country. Boom impacts. In 2015, we completed our first credits her inspiration to her visit to the Dallas global human rights assessment across our Children’s Advocacy Center, where she spent operations, as well as a global supply chain risk several hours with the Director and other assessment, which included a range of human staff during her two-week visit to the United rights, social and environmental issues. From States as part of the GFE program. Boom our findings, we have developed an action plan continued to pay it forward by recommending to address priority areas of impact in our direct two colleagues from the Center who were operations and with our business partners, including our suppliers. part of the 2015 class of the Global Freedom Exchange. One risk area that has been identified in the hospitality industry is human trafficking. The hospitality business, especially hotels and training and education program for our hotels. restaurants, may be used for human trafficking We have reached thousands of Hilton General unknowingly. Human trafficking is the fastest Managers and department leaders with our In 2015, we were one of the first hospitality growing and second largest criminal industry Child Trafficking Awareness training at our companies to join two of the most respected in the world today and presents itself in two hotels. In addition, we offer franchise forums based on peer learning and crossforms: commercial sex trafficking and forced employees** an optional online training industry collaboration on business and human labor trafficking. We made our first public through Hilton Worldwide University. rights: Business for Social Responsibility commitment to address the issue of child Human Rights Working Group and Global trafficking and sexual exploitation by signing Policies and Practices Business Initiative. We are also members of the ECPAT Code of Conduct in 2011 and have Hilton Team Members are also educated on the International Tourism Partnership’s since focused on training and educating hotels issues that could be suspect to labor policies (ITP) Labour Standards Working Group which and partnering with experts to create survivor and are encouraged to report issues to the brings global hospitality brands together to empowerment programs in key markets. Hilton Hotline with complete anonymity. develop common approaches to industry-wide We’re also continually examining our challenges. marketing and communication materials Action to ensure the language, spirit and intent is Code of Conduct inclusive and welcoming to all audiences. The Hilton Global Code of Conduct includes For instance, last year we updated the Hilton language supporting the human rights of all, HHonors Terms and Conditions language Hilton became the first hospitality company and condemning and forbidding all forms of surrounding Point Redemption from ‘Spouse to join the U.S. State Department’s Global human trafficking and commercial exploitation. Stays Free’ to ‘2nd Guest Stays Free’ to ensure Equality Fund, an initiative working to Hilton Team Members, as well as our business our marketing language didn’t communicate advance and protect the human rights of partners, are expected to maintain these any unintended biases. lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) standards. In 2014 more than 58,000 Hilton persons around the world. Team Members had completed the online Code Partnerships | Associations of Conduct training module, in addition 554 Awards | Certifications properties participated in offline training. Further to the UK Modern Day Slavery Act, we In partnership with Vital Voices, we launched Since 2012, Hilton has consistently received are committed to preventing and monitoring the Global Freedom Exchange (GFE), an recognition from the Human Rights risks of slavery / forced labor in our supply chain. international network of activists on the Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index, a U.S. In 2015, we launched our Responsible Supply forefront of global efforts to prevent and benchmarking survey and report on corporate Chain Policy, which defines our expectations respond to the crime of child trafficking. Since policies and practices related to LGBT for our suppliers to live up to the standards 2013, Hilton and Vital Voices have brought workplace equality. In 2015, Hilton received detailed in our Code of Conduct, including together more than 78 women leaders from a perfect score of 100 percent. Hilton was also respect for human rights and the prevention of 39 countries to participate in a two-week one of a few dozen companies to sign an HRC forced labor in our supply chain. We developed learning and networking program. We also statement opposing all U.S. state based laws a plan to communicate this policy with our have funded program participants to launch or that discriminate against the LGBT community. suppliers and started a comprehensive review expand local training, advocacy and survivor This past year, the company was also the 100th of our supply chain risks, including risks of services programs. member of the Human Rights Campaign’s trafficking. This analysis will help us develop Business Coalition for Workplace Fairness. a risk management action plan. The coalition is made up of leading U.S. Hilton Team Members are expected to report employers that support the Employment misconduct and potential violations of law In 2014, we created the Hilton Anti-Trafficking Non-Discrimination Act. or policies. They can do so anonymously on the Fund with the Global Fund for Children to Hilton Hotline, which is administered by support grassroots anti-trafficking efforts *H  ilton Team Members include employees of Hilton Worldwide at corporate offices, owned, managed, leased and timeshare an independent third party that collects around the world. The fund supports five properties. information for transmission to the Hilton innovative, high-potential organizations in ** Franchise employees include employees at independently Compliance Team. affected communities with annual grants owned and operated franchised properties. While franchisees and services. Over the course of the initial and their employees are not employed by us, they are a large ECPAT Code of Conduct three-year project, an estimated 1,500 children part of our brands and our culture of hospitality. In addition to in Nigeria, South Africa, Thailand, Turkey and our corporate responsibility initiatives, we offer franchisees As part of our commitment to the ECPAT Code training and recognition programs and provide them with of Conduct, we have implemented a robust the United Kingdom will be reached. other resources that are relevant to them and their businesses. OPPORTUNITIES COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT Volunteerism and Engagement Companies that support and invest in their local communities create value for both their business and society by contributing to stable local economies, developing local talent and fostering local relationships that help ensure success. Goal Impact Highlights 4,100+ To continue expanding our global portfolio while engaging and improving each unique community where we become a member. Projects Projects organized in 92 countries resulting in over 213,000 volunteer hours during our Global Month of Service. Introduction Community service is a tradition 92 embedded in Hilton for nearly 100 years. Our hotels are permanent fixtures in their neighborhoods, and every day around the world Hilton Team Members* and franchise employees** dedicate their time, Countries talents and hospitality to help During our Global Month of Service in 2015, them thrive. we had hotels in 92 countries participate in community volunteer projects. Every property becomes a permanent fixture in the community – crossing cultures, industries and generations. The communities we serve play a critical role in our long-term success as a business. For the hospitality industry, issues such as natural disasters and 600 human trafficking make our role in ensuring the safety and success of our communities increasingly important. If these communities are not places where guests feel Organizations safe, welcome, and eager to visit, Nearly 600 organizations have accessed our business and destinations our Hospitality+Service Training. won’t continue to thrive. Our Approach Hilton Worldwide Responds Fund: Our community strategy focuses on identifying Hurricane Odile projects that leverage the talent and expertise of Hilton Team Members and franchise On September 14, 2014, Hurricane Odile made employees to benefit the communities where landfall in Los Cabos, Mexico, as a category we live, work and travel. We focus primarily on three storm. More than 200 Hilton Team community service, which not only leverages the service-oriented culture of our unique Members from Hilton Los Cabos Resort lost brands, but also supports us in building local everything, including their homes. Thanks to relationships, increasing morale, promoting the overwhelming generosity of our Hilton teamwork and fostering skills development. Team Members, franchise employees, guests We create programs and resources that enable and suppliers, we supported our Los Cabos all hotels and offices to volunteer throughout team with basic needs and helped them rebuild the year and also activate our hotels to support their homes and communities through the in times of disaster. We encourage all of our Hilton Responds Fund. Together, we provided hotels to join our community initiatives and over $500,000 in financial support as well as provide them with the flexibility to address in-kind donations of supplies and hundreds of global issues in local and personalized ways. volunteer hours to rebuild 26 homes and assist 474 impacted Hilton Team Members and Action their families. Community Engagement In addition to being a critical component of Volunteer projects address a range of issues Partnerships | Associations our success in a local community, we also see from youth development to food security to Awards | Certifications service as a tool that can aid in recruitment, environmental conservation. In 2014, Hilton professional development and strengthening Team Members and franchise employees relationships with our guests and partners. contributed nearly 200,000 volunteer A focus on community service is included in hours around the world, valued at over We partner with Points of Light to develop orientations for new Hilton and franchise US $4.6 million.1 community engagement opportunities around employee General Managers and Directors of the world. Through our relationship with Our Global Month of Service is an annual Sales. Additionally, our Brand Performance Points of Light, we connect with organizations celebration in which our hotels around Support teams are close partners in embedding and measure the impact of our community the world host or participate in hands-on community engagement in our hotel operations service work in key markets. Points of Light volunteer projects. In 2015, hotels from and brand trainings throughout the year. also helps us execute our Global Month of 92 countries participated in more than 4,100 In select hotels across North America we community projects resulting in over 213,000 Service around the world. engage our guests in on-site community volunteer hours. projects as part of meetings and events In 2013, we launched Travel with Purpose offerings. We have also hosted similar events In 2014, we collaborated with Points of Light Action Grants, a program designed to invest with some of our largest clients and work and the Taproot Foundation to create in our hotels’ ideas to address local issues that with meeting planners to integrate a service Hospitality+Service, an online curriculum impact their communities. Since 2013, nearly element into conferences or events held designed to help nonprofit staff and volunteers 200 grants have been awarded, providing over at our properties. enhance guest and client experiences by $500,000 to local organizations in our communities around building enduring cultures of hospitality. Global Team Member Volunteer Program To date, nearly 600 organizations have Volunteerism is an enduring part of Hilton’s the world. In 2015, we received over 420 applications to support creative and downloaded the curriculum ranging from large legacy and culture. Hilton and franchise teams nonprofits and government agencies to around the world consistently lead and inspire local approaches to address social and environmental challenges. smaller local organizations. with their passion and commitment to support and make a difference in their local communities. We developed the Hilton Worldwide Responds Our Global Team Member Volunteer Program Fund to enable Hilton Team Members and provides numerous ways for Hilton Team franchise employees contribute to funds that Members and franchise employees to engage, support communities following a disaster and whether as individuals or as department or provide for long-term rebuilding efforts. hotel teams. A dedicated Hilton corporate Current Fund recipients include Counterpoint team works with thousands of hotels to International, Mercy Corps, Oxfam and organize and manage opportunities. They also Save the Children. The Fund provides design and implement signature projects assistance to those who are impacted by during our annual Global Month of Service in disaster and acts as a vehicle for Hilton to October, arrange teambuilding events at match the generosity of our Hilton Team internal meetings and provide an enterprise Members and franchise employees’ voluntary wide online tracking and reporting tool that contributions. Since launching the Fund in captures volunteer hours and impact. 2013, we have matched donations for four disasters, raising more than $1.5 million dollars. We have Community and Sustainability Champions at more than 1,100 properties at our full-service and luxury brand hotels to help make this happen. Additionally, a network of Community Committees in each of our 18 corporate offices, provides tools and resources to support volunteer and community efforts. *H  ilton Team Members include employees of Hilton Worldwide at corporate offices, owned, managed, leased and timeshare properties. ** Franchise employees include employees at independently owned and operated franchised properties. While franchisees and their employees are not employed by us, they are a large part of our brands and our culture of hospitality. In addition to our corporate responsibility initiatives, we offer franchisees training and recognition programs and provide them with other resources that are relevant to them and their businesses. OPPORTUNITIES COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT Energy Energy is essential to operating our hotels successfully and creating exceptional guests experiences. Energy efficiency is also one of the key strategies to ensuring a low carbon future and more secure energy supply for both society and our business. Goal Impact Highlights 14.5% 81,400 Reduce energy by 2.5 percent in the Americas and Asia Pacific and by 2 percent in Europe, Middle East and Africa in 2015. Homes Reduced energy by 14.5 percent from Conserved enough energy to power 2009-2014 (normalized energy reduction 81,400 homes for a year (normalized against 2008 base year). energy reduction against 2008 base year). Introduction Energy is typically the second or third largest cost for the average hotel, which is why we, along with our owners, have a vested interest in reducing overall usage and 298 driving greater efficiencies. We need it to run heating and air conditioning systems, to light 1.6% Absolute energy reduction of 1.6 percent kBTU 298 total kBTU per occupied room (2014, the building and to power room 2014 vs 2013 absolute consumption). appliances. Active improvements and use of renewable sources is not just 2014 primary energy sources: (MWh) an opportunity to lower our •E lectricity • Fuel • Steam • Heat • Cooling costs and our responsibility as 3,636,855 2,531,655 235, 885 118,793 153,153 a business, but also an opportunity to ensure that our impact on the 4,500+ environment is reduced, so our Hilton Team Members,* franchise employees,** guests, owners and communities can use and sustain these resources for the future. Hotels Certified more than 4,500 hotels in ISO 50001 for energy management. Our Approach Energy best practices at the Hilton Our energy strategy begins with data Garden Inn Trivandrum collection on energy use across our hotel portfolio. We then translate this data into Hilton is a member of the American Hotel Our Hilton Garden Inn Trivandrum won the relevant metrics that our Hilton Team & Lodging Association (AH&LA) and chairs Kerala State Pollution Control Award, in Members, franchise employees, owners, and the AH&LA sustainability committee, which recognition of its environmental protection focuses on environment, engineering and management groups can use initiatives. The Award is given to companies corporate responsibility for the hotel and to make informed decisions and set goals for performance improvement. At the same time, that have invested in, and efficiently lodging industry. we require hotels to set goals based on their operated, their pollution control facilities. local operating context and environment. The hotel’s initiatives include rainwater This approach helps increase the overall harvesting, water recycling and the effectiveness of our energy initiatives to reduce installation of a sewage treatment plant. In 2014, following LightStay upgrades, we both our energy use and carbon emissions. The hotel also uses energy-efficient and achieved ISO 50001 certification for energy Our hotels drive energy reduction and savings environmentally friendly heat pump management for the entire Hilton portfolio. through a combination of on-property energy systems, highly efficient electrostatic Companies gain certification by implementing efficiency projects, Hilton Team Member and precipitators and air purifiers, as well as policies, procedures and systems that follow franchise employee insights and behavioral more eco-friendly refrigerants. and meet international ISO standards, which changes, partnerships and renewable energy are assessed by a third-party certification body. usage directly or through credits. This certification complements our additional global system-wide certifications of ISO 9001 Living Sustainably Campaigns (quality management) and 14001 Action We provide the resources, easy-to-use tools, (environmental management). With these Reporting through LightStay ‘train the trainer’ courses and encourage hotels certifications, we became one of the first We leverage LightStay, our measurement to take ownership and drive accountability for multinational companies to certify our entire platform, to understand how our hotels are our company-wide energy performance. Our system globally, achieving one of the largestmanaging energy and driving improvements Living Sustainably campaigns educate Hilton ever volume certifications of commercial over time. Since launching LightStay we’ve Team Members and franchise employees on buildings. gathered more than five years of global data responsible energy practices by providing examples developed by their colleagues from Our environmental efforts have been across our hotel portfolio that we use to recognized as a Forbes Top 50 Green Brand understand how to drive greater efficiencies, around the world for improving their daily operations and inspiring collective action. and as a Newsweek Top Green Company savings and value for our company and owners, in the World in 2015. and to create tools and trainings for our hotels. The campaigns emphasize changes that drive performance on energy, water and waste. Energy Management and Forecasting Throughout the first quarter of each year, every A recent upgrade to LightStay tracks historical Hilton Team Member and franchise employee is energy and weather data to forecast future encouraged to implement lowor no-cost Hilton has developed several partnerships that energy consumption levels and predict the changes that drive energy efficiency and deliver offer laundering technologies that can reduce impact of performance on cost; enabling our enhanced value to help reach our energy hot water use by up to 45 percent. P&G Tide hotels, owners, and management groups to reduction targets. Coldwater™ and Ecolab Aquanomics™ take corrective action to influence future are both laundry detergent solutions that performance. The system cross-references the Earth Hour eliminate hot water from the wash process data hotels submit with expected performance For the fifth consecutive year, hotels around and maximize laundry efficiency. We are also to send automatic alerts to hotels when the world united to celebrate Earth Hour in performing trials with the Xeros™ polymer performance falls below expected levels. March. Hotels organized energy-saving bead-based washing system, which uses less Hotels are also required to track and complete projects including switching off exterior water, energy and chemical detergents. improvement projects each year, enabling lighting, dimming lobby and reception lighting us to uncover and share learnings and best and hosting candlelit dinners with sustainable practices from more than 4,800 energyfood and drink menus. We collaborate with our strategic suppliers efficiency projects. eTemp, a company that has developed a Partnerships | Associations We also have dedicated resources that actively Awards | Certifications technology that reduces power by reducing monitor and negotiate energy contracts while In 2015, we announced a collaboration with compressor cycle times in refrigeration units. also managing supply-side energy risks to World Wildlife Fund (WWF) to support our All Hilton owned and managed properties in ensure our hotels have favorable energy prices, environmental goals and progress and drive the United States are required to undergo an and where possible, drive efficiencies leading value for our operations in part by accelerating audit and install these devices where they to more competitive pricing. the adoption of renewable energy through our make sense. In our owned and managed hotels, the bonus participation in the Corporate Renewable potential for our Hilton Directors of Property Energy Buyers Principles. Operations & Engineering is tied to the attainment of our environmental goals, including reductions in energy consumption for their hotel’s respective operations. Directors are responsible for identifying and executing Following our company-wide ISO 50001 Energy relevant energy projects and coordinating Management certification, Hilton is partnering across functions at the hotel to drive energy with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) efficiency and improve performance. to test the DOE’s Superior Energy Performance We also partner with our strategic suppliers certification and recognition program within to embark on an aggressive campaign to the hotel industry. By piloting the certification *H  ilton Team Members include employees of Hilton Worldwide reduce energy through more efficient lighting. and recognition program at three of our owned at corporate offices, owned, managed, leased and timeshare Property level audits identify the best and managed hotels, we joined the DOE’s properties. combination of lighting that will reduce energy Better Buildings SEP Accelerator initiative, ** Franchise employees include employees at independently usage and cost. This program is required for making Hilton the first commercial company owned and operated franchised properties. While franchisees to join the partnership. and their employees are not employed by us, they are a large all owned and managed properties in the part of our brands and our culture of hospitality. In addition to United States. our corporate responsibility initiatives, we offer franchisees training and recognition programs and provide them with other resources that are relevant to them and their businesses. OPPORTUNITIES COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT Water Water is a finite resource that is critical to basic human survival. Studies show that demand is projected to exceed supply by 40 percent by 2030, and in the next 15 years, nearly two thirds of the world’s population will live in areas of significant water stress1, a challenge that has become increasingly obvious in the last few years. Goal Impact Highlights To reduce water consumption by 1 percent in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa 14.1% Reduced water by 14.1 percent from and 1.5 percent in Asia Pacific 2009-2014 (normalized water reduction in 2015. against base year 2008). Introduction The tension between supply and demand has a direct impact on the communities where our hotels operate and our ability to meet our operational and guests needs. This is particularly true with water, as scarcity becomes 1.4% 182.1 Gallons a threat for countries and Absolute water reduction of 1.4 percent 182.1 gallons of water used per occupied communities worldwide. 2014 vs 2013. room (2014, absolute consumption). As a large consumer of water, it is important for the hospitality industry to implement reduction 4,144 measures and drive efficiencies Swimming Pools around water use to sustain our Saved enough water to fill 4,144 olympic operations and the destinations swimming pools (normalized reductions we serve over the long term. against 2008 base year). 3,518,000 1,770,611 Gallons Gallons Based on 2014 purchases, saved By using ‘room ready’ bedding an additional 3,518,000 gallons products, 1,770,611 gallons of of water by using reduced weight water were saved by 1 http://www.unwater.org/publications/publications-detail/ sheets and towels. eliminating a first wash. en/c/204294 Our Approach Improving Water Stewardship with Our water strategy focuses on reducing our the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) water use by measuring water consumption and translating the data into relevant metrics In 2015 Hilton began collaborating with World that Hilton Team Members,* franchise Wildlife Fund to develop an industry-leading employees,** owners and management groups multiyear water stewardship strategy. “WWF can use to make decisions and set goals that improve performance and create is working with Hilton to improve business long-term value. Our centralized measurement practices on seafood sustainability, water system allows us to collect water consumption management, renewable energy, and food data to uncover best practices we can leverage waste to reduce the environmental footprint to develop companywide tools, processes and of the company’s global operations,” said trainings to support our hotels. We require Suzanne Apple, senior vice president, private hotels to set goals based on their local sector engagement, WWF. “We hope that operating context and environment. our work together will positively influence Our company drives water reduction Hilton’s value chain, and we believe it could efforts through a combination of on-site inspire others in the hospitality industry to water efficiency projects, Hilton Team Member and franchise employee insights and behavioral advance their own efforts.” changes. In addition, we leverage our participation in association working groups and partnerships to understand opportunities Partnerships | Associations This certification complements our additional to improve and Awards | Certifications global system-wide certifications of ISO 9001 drive shared value. In May 2015, we launched a collaboration with (quality management) and 50001 (energy World Wildlife Fund (WWF) to build upon our management). Hilton is one of the only Action existing efforts to develop an industry-leading, multinational companies to certify its Reporting through LightStay multi-year water stewardship strategy. entire system globally, achieving one of We leverage LightStay, our measurement As Hilton’s signature environmental partner, the largest-ever volume certifications of platform, to understand how our hotels are WWF will work with us to evolve our global commercial buildings. managing water and improving over time. business practices in furtherance of WWF’s Our environmental efforts have been Since launching LightStay, we’ve gathered mission to protect and conserve the Earth’s recognized as a Forbes Top 50 Green Brand more than five years of global data across our life-supporting resources. and as a Newsweek Top Green Company portfolio of hotels that we use to understand in the World in 2015. how to drive greater efficiencies, savings and value, and create tools and trainings for hotels. As members of the International Tourism We track and record our properties’ water Partnership (ITP) we collaborate with other consumption data in LightStay, which compiles leading international hotel companies to make previous usage to project anticipated water up the ITP water working group, examining use and cost impacts in future months. risks around water and ways we can standardize LightStay automatically triggers alerts to the measurement and communications of hotels if they have reached a water usage consumption in our industry. threshold and uses hotel data to provide suggested projects that reduce consumption. We require all hotels to have reduction targets To support our water usage goals, in in place and ongoing water improvement collaboration with Ecolab, we use the Center projects recorded, which drives continuous for Sustainable Procurement an initiative of improvement and learning across our Business for Social Responsibility to evaluate global portfolio. current water usage and diversion practices Living Sustainably Campaigns and develop metrics to track, measure and Our quarterly Living Sustainably campaigns report data. empower Hilton Team Members and franchise employees to make changes that improve From PDF energy use, water efficiency and waste reduction. Our third-quarter campaign focuses on ‘saving every last drop’ of water, by providing In collaboration with P&G and Tide hotels with simple tips for lowor no-cost Professional we have developed several water reduction activities that inspire many of partnerships that offer laundering our best practices around the world. The technologies and products that reduce campaign encourages Hilton Team Members water use by up to 45 percent at a reduced and franchise employees to identify where they rate for our owned and managed hotels. use the most water in the hotel and to make simple operational changes to reduce the usage and identify new ways of conserving water. The campaign also rallies Hilton Team We achieved ISO 14001 certification for Members and franchise employees around environmental management by requiring World Water Week to identify and implement our global portfolio of hotels to measure usage their own water saving ideas and inspire and set reduction targets with improvement collective action. projects in place for energy, water and *H  ilton Team Members include employees of Hilton Worldwide at corporate offices, owned, managed, leased and timeshare waste. Companies gain certification from properties. ISO by implementing policies, procedures ** Franchise employees include employees at independently and systems that follow and meet owned and operated franchised properties. While franchisees international ISO standards, which are and their employees are not employed by us, they are a large assessed by a third-party certification body. part of our brands and our culture of hospitality. In addition to our corporate responsibility initiatives, we offer franchisees training and recognition programs and provide them with other resources that are relevant to them and their businesses. OPPORTUNITIES COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT Waste The World Bank estimates that global urban populations create 1.6 billion tons of solid waste per year, and more than half of that ends up in landfills. In the United States, the hospitality industry alone produces 1.9 billion pounds of waste annually. Goal Impact Highlights Divert waste from landfills by 25 percent in the Americas and Asia Pacific, and by 50 percent in Europe, Middle 27.6% 5.5 East and Africa in 2015. Reduced waste per sq. ft. by 27.6 percent Introduction since 2009 (normalized waste reduction Pounds against 2008 base year). Pounds of waste output per occupied room (2014, absolute output). Waste reduction remains one of the most challenging issues our industry faces. While awareness of the negative 1.6 million+ 650 Bars impacts of waste has increased, there are limited regulatory and More than 1.6 million new bars of soap financial incentives to drive large distributed from donated soap. scale and systematic changes. Hotels Waste reduction efforts are largely More than 650 hotels involved in soap local, and most hotels rely heavily and amenity recycling, donating over 600,000 pounds of soap. on municipalities and external organizations for waste and 17,401 recycling programs. Waste is heavily driven by human behavior, so to make long-term and meaningful progress toward our waste goals, we have to engage Households Hilton Team Members,* franchise Reduced solid waste disposal equivalent to waste employees** and guests in generated by 17,401 households (normalized waste our efforts. reduction against 2008 base year). Our Approach No Bin Day: From A Local Idea We also partner with SoapCycling and activated Soap4Hope, a soap recycling Our waste strategy focuses on measuring and to A Global Success Story program of SealedAir/Diversey, one of our managing our waste output and diversions, strategic soap suppliers, to support more than while also continually looking for creative ways In 2012, a Kitchen Stewarding Hilton Team 65 hotels in Asia Pacific, Africa and Latin to reduce our waste footprint. We gather and Member at the DoubleTree by Hilton America. Across our partnerships, Hilton translate waste hauling data into relevant Gurgaon had an idea to reduce food waste continues to be the largest multi-brand metrics that Hilton Team Members, franchise by simply removing waste bins from the hospitality company currently participating in employees, owners and management groups Hilton Team Member restaurant to soap recycling. can use to make decisions and set goals to improve performance over time. We also work encourage people to only take portions they with hotels to educate them on identifying can finish. His No Bin Day idea was swiftly waste from items that have historically been adopted by fellow properties in India, the discarded that can actually be repurposed and Hilton Garden Inn New Delhi/Saket and In collaboration with Serta, Simmons, and reused. Hilton Mumbai International Airport. When Global Sustainability Solutions, our hotels We developed RePurpose, our comprehensive the regional team caught wind of No Bin are able to recycle their mattresses and box waste management program, to support Day in 2014, they scaled it across India as a springs rather than sending them to a landfill. hotels’ efforts to reduce waste through weekly practice, with Hilton Team Member The components of the mattresses and box reusing, repurposing, recycling and donating support. By 2015, No Bin Day was formally springs are repurposed into various products items instead of sending them to landfill. launched in 135 hotels in Asia Pacific, with with approximately 95 percent of the We also have shifted from hotel goals that components being recycled. Bed frames are hotels recording up to 95 percent reductions target a reduction of total output to a focus also recycled through the mattress recycling in food waste in a single day. Now the on total diversion from landfill, to promote program. recycling and donations at the hotel level. project is available for any hotel globally, all We also partner with Waste Management Hotels are now required to set their own because of a simple, cost-free idea from one Sustainability Services (WMSS), which annual goals to push engagement and Hilton Team Member. provides recycling consulting and support to better results. owned and managed properties in the Americas. Together, we’ve focused on recycling Action take smaller meal portions, leading to reduced fluorescent lamps, lighting ballasts, batteries, Reporting through LightStay and mercury-containing devices. Another food waste and cost savings. No-Bin Day grew We leverage LightStay, our measurement major WMSS initiative includes utilizing from an idea at one hotel into a weekly platform, to understand how our hotels are monitors on compactors to eliminate waste program that every Hilton Team Member managing waste and driving improvements hauls, which in turn reduce truck emissions. restaurant in the Asia Pacific region now over time. Since launching LightStay we’ve participates in regularly. gathered over five years of global data across our hotel portfolio that we use to drive greater Responsible Meetings efficiencies, savings and value, and to create We have partnered with Totally Green to In 2015, we launched Meet with Purpose, tools and trainings for hotels. offer our hotels the Orca organic food waste a concept that makes it easier for meeting We track and record our properties’ waste disposal system. This technology disposes professionals to reduce waste and incorporate hauling data in LightStay, which allows hotels food waste on site, converts organic waste health and wellness into their meetings and to monitor current performance against their into environmentally safe water within events. Meet with Purpose encourages diversion targets and share best practices 24 hours and reduces the amount of wet meeting and event planners to re-evaluate through their yearly waste initiatives. waste that goes to landfills. event dining options, minimize food waste In addition, RePurpose provides resources and and consider low-cost practices that are partnerships that support Hilton’s portfolio of less resource-intensive, such as paperless hotels in their efforts to reduce food waste and registration, water pitchers and notepads increase recycling of items ranging from soap upon request only. TVs are the largest contributors to electronic to bed mattresses. waste, which is the fastest growing waste Soap recycling is one of the areas where Partnerships | Associations stream in the world. In partnership with RePurpose has broken the most ground. Since Awards | Certifications Global Sustainability Solutions, LG our first soap recycling partnership in 2011, we In 2015, we began a three-year collaboration Electronics and Samsung, our hotels in the have identified new partners to grow the with World Wildlife Fund (WWF) to support United States can safely recycle their TVs, program, which includes more than 650 hotels. our environmental goals and progress and preventing harmful substances from leaking Hilton properties have donated over 600,000 drive value for our operations. One focus of the in landfills. pounds of soap, which have been converted partnership builds on RePurpose by evaluating Our environmental efforts have been into over 1.6 million new bars to help promote additional ways to reduce food waste within recognized in 2015 as a Forbes Top 50 Green public health in underserved communities by the company’s operations and supply chain. Brand and as a Newsweek Top Green Company preventing hygiene-related deaths and illness. in the World for our environmental performance. Living Sustainably Campaigns In collaboration with Waste Management, Our quarterly Living Sustainably campaigns we are partnering with the Center for empower and inspire Hilton Team Members Sustainable Procurement, a collaboration and franchise employees to make changes to group from Business for Social Responsibility, reduce waste. The fourth quarter campaign to evaluate current waste and diversion takes a proactive waste reduction approach. practices and develop metrics to track, Hotels are encouraged to identify a waste item measure and report data. they would like to address in the following year and investigate ways to improve the waste management of this item through low cost and *H  ilton Team Members include employees of Hilton Worldwide creative changes. at corporate offices, owned, managed, leased and timeshare Hilton was the first major hospitality company Many of our hotels develop new waste properties. to partner with Global Soap in 2011, which reduction ideas that can be replicated around ** Franchise employees include employees at independently recently joined forces with Clean the World. owned and operated franchised properties. While franchisees the world. For example, ‘No-Bin Day’ We’ve been instrumental in providing and their employees are not employed by us, they are a large encourages Hilton Team Members and part of our brands and our culture of hospitality. In addition to operational expertise and expanding Global franchise employees to remove all waste bins our corporate responsibility initiatives, we offer franchisees Soap’s footprint. from their dining areas, encouraging them to training and recognition programs and provide them with other resources that are relevant to them and their businesses. OPPORTUNITIES COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT Carbon Businesses play a key role in taking action to reduce carbon emissions both in their operations and value chains. Hilton is committed to growing a low-carbon future by investing in renewable energy sources and partnering with our suppliers to tackle our shared carbon footprint. Goal Impact Highlights 1.6% Continue to reduce our environmental footprint through energy efficiencies and Absolute carbon reduction investing in renewable energy of 1.6 percent in 2014 vs. 2013. to decrease scope 1, 2 and 3 carbon emissions. 20.9% Carbon reduction of 20.9 percent since Introduction 2009 (normalized carbon reduction with REC purchases against base year 2008). In recent years, consumers, investors and other stakeholders have pressed for increased transparency around how businesses manage their 77.6 Pounds 122,645 77.6 pounds of carbon per occupied room Cars carbon footprint. At the same (2014, absolute emissions). Reduced carbon output equivalent time, some countries have to taking 122,645 cars off the road introduced regulations to curb carbon emissions. As the scientific 24.3 (normalized reductions against 2008 base year). evidence and political interest Pounds grow, the need for global action 24.3 pounds of carbon per square foot against carbon emissions is (2014, normalized emissions). becoming stronger. These factors have contributed to 92 2014 absolute carbon emissions an increased focus on measuring for owned and managed hotels and reporting carbon emissions across all industries, including (metric tons) hospitality. Given our reach as a business, we are working Hotels Scope 1 Scope 2 strategically and collaboratively to identify solutions for reducing The Clean Air program, offered by 92 Asia Pacific 554,015 2,102,953 carbon emissions across hotels, gives customers tons tons our operations. different ways to offset emissions from their meetings at our hotels. Our Approach Clean Air Program, Carbon Offset Our carbon emissions strategy focuses on credits purchased to offset the direct and indirect impacts that are most critical to our business. By collecting consistent meetings and events data across our portfolio, we can measure and Through our Clean Air Program we purchase manage our performance to improve over time. We focus heavily on driving reductions carbon credits that go toward a variety of in energy use, which has the most influence different organizations, reducing greenhouse on our carbon emissions. We also leverage gas emissions throughout the world. The renewable energy credits and carbon offsets in Hyundai Cogeneration Project in Dangjin, targeted areas to help reduce our net impact. located in South Korea is one of the organizations that we support. It aims to minimize greenhouse gases by converting Action surplus waste gases at a local steel factory Reporting through LightStay to generate cleaner electricity. This process LightStay, our measurement platform, minimizes air pollution by using waste gas helps us understand how our hotels are instead of releasing it into the atmosphere. managing energy and driving improvements The cleaner electricity is preventing 1.8 million over time. Since launching LightStay we’ve tons of CO2 emissions per year. That is gathered more than five years of global data that we use to create tools and trainings for approximately 400,418 Olympic swimming hotels and drive greater efficiencies, savings pools of CO2 gas not entering the atmosphere and value to our company and owners. through the purchase of carbon credits on With a recent upgrade to LightStay, we provide behalf of our customers’ hosting meetings hotels with more information on how to and events at our participating properties. improve energy efficiencies and operational performance, which in turn will lower carbon output across our global hotel portfolio. The Partnerships | Associations upgraded system leverages historical data to Awards | Certifications predict future energy use and resulting cost implications, which enables our hotels, management groups and owners to adjust their real-time behaviors to influence future In 2015, we participated for the second time performance. in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), We also designed a simplified performance an organization that works with companies to dashboard and distributing process for disclose their environmental impacts. sharing results across the hotel to drive Improving on last year’s score of 91-B, this year greater engagement. In the future, LightStay we earned a disclosure and performance score will also send automatic data alerts and of 97-B. performance tips to hotels. These tips will show hotels how to improve based on successful projects that have been completed at other hotels. We are members of the Hotel Carbon Carbon Offsets Measurement Initiative along with 23 leading Carbon offsetting is a meaningful option we hotel companies. The International Tourism give our customers. To calculate the carbon Partnership and the World Travel & Tourism footprint of any event at one of our hotels, we Council (WTTC) formed this initiative to set an give our Hilton Team Member* and franchise industry standard to calculate the carbon employee** Sales and Marketing teams a footprint of hotel stays and meetings that meeting calculator tool through LightStay. The is informed by the GHG Protocol standards. tool also provides our customers and hotels All of our 4,500 hotels are able to report to with ideas for how to minimize our customers’ this standard. footprint during their stay with us. We are also members of the WTTC Climate In May 2015, we expanded our Clean Air Change Task Force. The task force is designed Program in an effort to offset carbon from to identify industry priority action areas for the meetings and events in 92 participating Asia future and evaluate industry progress against Pacific hotels and create a value incentive for climate change commitments that were made our guests. We calculate the carbon emissions in 2009. In 2015, WTTC released Travel & generated by meetings and events and Tourism 2015 Connecting Global Climate purchase carbon credits to offset the impact. Action, a report outlining the industry’s The credits go toward a program of our preparedness to address climate change and customer’s choice, such as rainforest progress to date. protection projects in Indonesia and Australia Our environmental efforts have been or wind-generated energy projects in India recognized in 2015 as a Forbes Top 50 Green and China. Brand and as a Newsweek Top Green Company in the World for our environmental performance. *H  ilton Team Members include employees of Hilton Worldwide at corporate offices, owned, managed, leased and timeshare properties. ** Franchise employees include employees at independently owned and operated franchised properties. While franchisees and their employees are not employed by us, they are a large part of our brands and our culture of hospitality. In addition to our corporate responsibility initiatives, we offer franchisees training and recognition programs and provide them with other resources that are relevant to them and their businesses. OPPORTUNITIES COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT Responsible Sourcing As a global hotel company that purchases food and beverage, linens, amenities, beds and energy, sourcing is a complex and often decentralized issue. Our suppliers extend beyond 97 countries and span multiple industries, legal contexts and infrastructure challenges. We depend on safe, high-quality and affordable supplies, amenities and raw materials to meet the demands of our operations and the expectations of our guests to deliver consistent and exceptional experiences. Goal Impact Highlights 4,000+ Develop programs and initiatives that support business objectives while managing social and environmental impacts Suppliers in our supply chain. We have more than 4,000 partnerships with women, minority and veteran-owned businesses resulting in $1 billion of spend with these partners since 2010. Introduction Our guests, business partners 11 and stakeholders are increasingly looking for transparency, expecting more from how companies purchase the goods and services they use. As we Major Markets expand into new countries where We have 40 hotels in 11 major markets in operating norms are less familiar Europe, Latin America, and the United States and there can be less transparency and Canada participating in our local sourcing and education programs. around the origin and creation of products, we may become 1,400+ exposed to reputational risks, potential disruptions in supply and environmental challenges. That’s why, to continue to Hotels contribute to the long-term More than 1,400 hotels (across five success of our business, it is vital brands) required to switch all egg to understand the potential social usage to cage-free eggs by 2017 and and environmental impacts gestation free pork by 2018. among our categories of top spend and volume so that we can manage these considerations appropriately and ensure we have 100% Shark fin banned in 100 percent of restaurants and F&B facilities the quality products available to in our hotels globally. meet the needs of our guests. Our Approach Working Toward Responsible For more than a decade, we’ve cultivated Sourcing relationships with women and diverse suppliers to use their insights and experience “Hilton’s shark fin ban will help preserve the to meet the needs and preferences of our diverse guests. In the last five years, we’ve also longevity and future of sharks, which are started examining specific product categories critical for keeping the marine ecosystems in more detail, beginning with our work in healthy. By evaluating and taking the food and beverage area on shark fin and responsibility for their impact on the expanding to examine eggs and pork. environment, companies with strong To build on this work, we developed a leadership can play a major role in protecting dedicated role and a cross-functional our oceans. We’d like to thank Hilton for advisory group. Collectively this advisory making this important decision.” group oversees the development of a – Ocean Conservancy comprehensive responsible sourcing strategy across our operations and sets the foundation for integration. It is designed to create Animal Welfare and Sourcing Partnerships | Associations further alignment across regions, share As a global operator of food and beverage Awards | Certifications best practices and guide global decisions experiences, we share public concerns about In 2015, we began working with World related to responsible sourcing. the health, care and welfare of animals Wildlife Fund (WWF) to support our Not only are we committed to our own raised for food. With the introduction of environmental goals and progress and drive responsible business practices, but it is also our our Responsible Sourcing Policy, we address value for our operations. WWF will help us goal to make sure that the suppliers providing opportunities to support the care and expand our sustainable seafood efforts globally Hilton with goods and services do the same. In welfare of the animals in our extended and continue to work with us to evolve our 2015, we updated our Responsible Sourcing global supply chain. responsible sourcing strategy. Policy to reinforce our expectation that our Following the initial removal of shark fin from suppliers and partners support and work menus across all restaurants and food and together with us on our goal of long-term beverage facilities operated by managed Through our membership with WeConnect sustainable supply by addressing known properties in China and Southeast Asia, International, an organization that empowers business, environmental and social issues. we ceased serving shark fin across all women business owners to succeed in local This year, we also conducted an analysis to map properties globally in 2014. Following this and global markets, we connect hotels areas of highest spend and volume to target accomplishment, Hilton Singapore became the throughout Asia with opportunities to potential social and environmental impacts in first hotel in Asia to achieve Marine consider diverse suppliers in their purchasing each product category to prioritize, monitor Stewardship Council and Aquaculture decisions. and manage more closely. We will use the Stewardship Council chain of custody results of this study to further focus on defining certification. To build on this work, in 2015, goals for our responsible sourcing efforts. we began collaborating with World Wildlife Fund (WWF) to develop a global sustainable In 2015, we participated for the second time Action seafood approach that will initially prioritize markets based on a number of factors in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Governance an organization that helps disclose the While we have sourcing programs that have including procurement methods, demand for greenhouse gas emissions of major been in place for years and focus on a variety of seafood, and annual seafood spend. corporations. Improving on last year’s score products, our advisory group will help us scale In 2015, we also announced a commitment to of 91-B, this year we earned a disclosure and existing programs, uncover new opportunities switch to cage-free eggs by December 31, 2017 performance score of 97-B. and share best practices across the portfolio. for all Hilton Hotels & Resorts, Waldorf Astoria Our environmental efforts have been Hotels & Resorts, Conrad Hotels & Resorts, recognized as a Forbes Top 50 Green Brand Inclusive Sourcing Canopy by Hilton and DoubleTree by Hilton and as a Newsweek Top Green Company Our goal is to forge strong relationships with hotels. Additionally, by December 31, 2018, all in the World in 2015. our wide range of vendors and suppliers that pork products for these properties must be reflect the diversity of our global portfolio of purchased from suppliers that house breeding hotels and guests. Through our award-winning pigs in groups rather than gestation crates. Supplier Diversity Program in the United These changes will initially apply in 19 countries States, we have cultivated relationships with where these products are currently available more than 4,000 women, minority and and will be adopted in additional markets as veteran-owned enterprises. We are currently supply comes online. evaluating ways to evolve our program into other markets. Responsible Meetings In 2015, we launched Meet with Purpose, Local Sourcing a concept designed to make it easier for Hilton Team Members*, franchise employees** meeting professionals to incorporate balanced and suppliers also look for local sourcing meals and wellness into meetings and events. opportunities and form relationships with area Meet with Purpose encourages meeting farmers to collect and distribute products to and event planners to consider using locally our hotels. We work with suppliers to develop sourced food items that can provide fresh unique trainings for farmers related to the and balanced menu options. handling, safety guidelines and insurance requirements needed to supply our properties. To date we have more than 40 hotels in 11 major cities in Europe, Latin America, the United *H  ilton Team Members include employees of Hilton Worldwide at corporate offices, owned, managed, leased and timeshare States and Canada participating in our local properties. sourcing and education programs. ** Franchise employees include employees at independently owned and operated franchised properties. While franchisees and their employees are not employed by us, they are a large part of our brands and our culture of hospitality. In addition to our corporate responsibility initiatives, we offer franchisees training and recognition programs and provide them with other resources that are relevant to them and their businesses. GRI Hilton Worldwide CR Report GRI-G4 Guide This GRI table sets out how the Global Reporting The GRI Reporting Framework forms a key part of Initiative (GRI) 4.0 Reporting Framework has been our commitment to continuous improvement and Key: applied to our corporate responsibility reporting transparency. Our 2015 Corporate Responsibility report Indicator process for the period January 2014 to October 2015. is in accordance with GRI-G4 and is self-assured. G4-X: GRI-G4 Indicator The purpose of our reporting process is to disclose our approach to corporate responsibility and our Level of disclosure performance against the issues that are most material F: Full coverage reporting to our business and stakeholders. We also use our P: Partical coverage reporting report to engage with stakeholders by enabling them to have a dialogue with us and understand the issues related to our business and impact. Indicator Description Level Location Notes General Standards Disclosure Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from most senior decision maker F CEO letter G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities F p.14 10-K Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization F Our Approach Global Website G4-4 Primary brands, products and services F Portfolio p.5 10-k G4-5 Location of global headquarters F Contact us G4-6 Relevant operating countries F Operating hotels With thousands of properties already in operation, and hundreds of projects in development, we’re Annual report creating opportunity all over the world. View the map to navigate our properties in operation. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form F p.9 10-K G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, P p.8 10-k Partial breakdown of geographic, sector, and customer breakdown. sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries G4-9 Scale of organization F p.5 10-K G4-10 Total workforce by employment type (contract, P p.39 Annual Report region etc.) G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective F p.39 Annual Report bargaining agreements G4-12 Describe the Organizations Supply Chain P Responsible Sourcing Hilton Supply Managements (HSM) manages procurement and is led by our Chief Supply Policy Management Officer. When entering into a new Inclusion Factsheet contract Hilton outlines the standards and provides a Responsible Sourcing Policy for the vendor to abide by. Hilton Supply Management supports hotels that are owned and managed by Hilton Worldwide as well as franchises that use HSM services. Products are purchased centrally or locally depending on the type of product and our Responsible Sourcing Advisory Group reviews decisions related to responsible sourcing and shares best practices between regions. * Hilton Team Members include employees of Hilton Worldwide at corporate offices, owned, managed, leased and timeshare properties. While franchisees and their employees are not employed by us, they are a large part of our brands and our culture of hospitality. In addition to our corporate responsibility initiatives, we offer franchisees training and recognition programs and provide them with other resources that are relevant to them and their businesses. GRI Hilton Worldwide CR Report Indicator Description Level Location Notes G4-13 Significant changes regarding the organizations size, F Newsroom In May 2015 Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. (“Hilton Worldwide” or the “Company”) announced structure, ownership or supply chain that certain selling stockholders affiliated with The Blackstone Group L.P. commenced a secondary offering of 90,000,000 shares of Hilton Worldwide common stock. The underwriters had a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 13,500,000 shares of common stock from the selling stockholders. G4-14 Precautionary approach or principle is addressed P Responsible Sourcing Hilton does not formally follow the precautionary principle, however we do have risk assessment and by the organization Policy management processes in-place taking into p.13 Annual Report account the long-term view of our business and role as a Global Citizen. We provide Hilton Team Members with our Code of Conduct, our new and high volume suppliers with our Responsible Sourcing Policy and encourage every stakeholder to help assess and manage risk. These documents cover the risks associated with corruption and bribery, insider trading, discrimination, health and safety, whistle blowing and reporting any potential risks. G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and F Our Approach social characters, principles, or other initiatives to Volunteerism and which the organization subscribes or which it Engagement Factsheet endorses Inclusion Factsheet G4-16 Memberships of associations and national or F Inclusion Factsheet international advocacy organizations Newsroom Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the F This is the fourth Hilton Worldwide Corporate Responsibility report covering January 2014 to aspect boundaries October 2015. Our last report was published in 2014 and included calendar year 2013 to 2014 data. The content of this report is based on a materiality assessment where issues are evaluated by their importance to our stakeholders and influence on our business. We engaged both internal and external stakeholders to identify their interests and concerns. G4-19 Material aspects identified F Aspects include the topics of: Human Rights, Community, Youth, Diversity & Inclusion, Hilton Team Members, Energy, Water, Waste, Carbon, Responsible Sourcing. G4-20 Aspect boundaries within the organization F Content and data from this report include owned and operated properties, and our independently owned franchises unless otherwise indicated. All metrics in the report refer to data from January 2014 to October 2015 unless otherwise indicated. LightStay metrics include owned, managed and franchised properties. Reporting parameters of other metrics are defined through footnotes. To confirm the effective implementation and validity of LightStay, Hilton Worldwide commissioned DEKRA Certification Inc. to perform third-party audits and validate results. G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization F Hilton reports on water, supply chain (upon request) and climate action through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), as well as the standard Ecovadis and Ecodesk for customers and suppliers. G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous F No restatements of information provided in previous reports. years G4-23 Significant changes from previous periods in the F No significant changes from previous periods in scope and aspect boundaries. scope and Aspect Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the F Our Approach organization GRI Hilton Worldwide CR Report Indicator Description Level Location Notes G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders P Our Approach G4-26 Stakeholder Engagement F Our Approach Hilton Worldwide engages with stakeholders on an ongoing basis. Including business partners, SALT online community organizations, advocacy groups, Human Rights industry leaders and guests. Factsheet G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder F All Factsheets engagement and how the organization has responded Reporting Profile G4-28 Reporting period F January 2014 to October 2015. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report F 2014 Report October 2014. G4-30 Reporting cycle F The Corporate Responsibility report is published annually. This is our fourth report. G4-31 The contact point for questions regarding the report F CorporateResponsibility@Hilton.com or its contents G4-32 GRI content index F For the third time, our report relies on the guidance provided by GRI. We are reporting in accordance with GRI-G4, the latest guidelines. G4-33 The organization’s policy and current practice with F This report is self-assured, but we will evaluate an assurance process for future reports. regard to seeking external assurance for the report Governance G4-34 The governance structure of the organization F Corporate Governance We leverage our investment in Travel with Purpose across the full portfolio, with the President and CEO. For details on our corporate governance structure and relevant policies and charters see link to Corporate Governance. G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, F Corporate Governance The Corporate Responsibility strategy, Travel with Purpose is led by Jennifer Silberman the Vice environmental and social topics from the highest President of Corporate Responsibility. The global governance body to senior executives and other team monitors and reports the outcomes of all employees Corporate Responsibility efforts to the Executive team, who report to the Board of Directors. G4-36 Whether the organization has appointed an F The Vice President of Corporate Responsibility at Hilton reports directly to Executive Vice President executive-level position or positions with of Global Affairs who reports directly to the Chief responsibility for economic, environmental and social Operating Officer. topics and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and P Hilton’s Corporate Responsibility Team is led by Vice President of Corporate Responsibility, who the highest governance body on economic, leads strategy addressing Environmental and environmental and social topics. If consultation is Social issues through Travel with Purpose our delegated, describe to whom and any feedback global Corporate Responsibility strategy. Our processes to the highest governance body strategy and all information within our report is reviewed by the Executive Committee, made up of our most senior leadership including our CEO, Chris Nassetta. The Executive Committee reports to the Board of Directors, who also reviews and approves our Corporate Responsible strategy annually. G4-38 Composition of the highest governance F Governance G4-39 Whether the chair of the highest governance body is F Governance also an executive officer G4-40 The nomination and selection process for the highest F Governance Documents governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members GRI Hilton Worldwide CR Report Indicator Description Level Location Notes G4-42 Highest body and executives’ roles in the F A global council of 52 Senior Leaders and led by the CEO reviews the goals, strategy and policies of development, approval and updating of the the company. organization’s purpose, value, or mission statement strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of F Hilton’s Vice President of Corporate Responsibility reviews the Travel with Purpose strategy and economic, environmental and social impacts, risks potential impacts, risks and opportunities with the and opportunities Board of Directors on an annual basis. G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews F Sign-off by the Vice President of Corporate Responsibility and reviewed by CEO. and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures all material Aspects are covered. G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the F Proxy Statement (full) highest governance body Ethics and Integrity G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and F Mission statement Good governance and acting ethically are inherent in our six core values. Our Global Code of Conduct, norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and to which all of our Hilton Team Members are codes of ethics bound, defines our responsibilities to our stakeholders and guides our decision-making. G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice F Hilton Worldwide provides standards, governance structures, training, communications, and on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related reporting and investigation procedures to promote to organizational integrity, such as helplines or legal compliance and ethical behavior globally. advice lines Resources include: • A nticorruption training for corporate directors and above; corporate development Hilton Team Members; managers and above in sales and finance; all owned and managed property General Managers, directors and executive committees. • Hilton Worldwide considers risks related to corruption when performing the standard risk assessment of all properties. All reports of corruption are investigated by Hilton. • In 2014 more than 58,000 Hilton Team Members completed the online Code of Conduct training module in addition to Hilton Team Members at 554 properties receiving offline training. • Our Ethics Hotline is available globally, with the exception of six countries with works council/ privacy registration requirements that are in progress. • L egal & Compliance Training Program that is focused on communicating critical policies and providing training to our Hilton Team Members around the world. G4-58 The internal and external mechanisms for reporting F Our Ethics Hotline is available globally, with the exception of six countries with works council/ concern about unethical or unlawful behavior, and privacy registration requirements that are matters related to organizational integrity, such as in progress. escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Specifics Standard Disclosures – Materials Indirect Economic Impact G4-EC3 Coverage P Hilton Team Members Our goal is to ensure Hilton Team Members continue to grow in their career and have the of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. Factsheet opportunity to continue learning. Eligible Careers website positions have access to health and life insurance, continued education programs and other benefits. G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including F p.10 10-k We acknowledge and address that every decision we make can make a negative or positive impact. extent of impacts. GRI Hilton Worldwide CR Report Indicator Description Level Location Notes Environment G4-DMA-EN Disclosure of Management Approach Environmental F Environment Aspects Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization F Energy Factsheet 2014 Primary Energy Sources for owned and managed portfolio (in MWh); Electricity-3,636,855, Fuel2,531,655, Steam-235,885, Cooling153,153, Heat118,793. G4-EN4 Energy Consumption outside of the company P Energy Factsheet G4-EN5 Energy Intensity F Energy Factsheet G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption F Energy Factsheet Water G4-EN8 Total withdrawal by source P Water Factsheet Biodiversity G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored P CAP Efforts made through Clean Air Program. Emissions G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) F Carbon Factsheet 2014 Carbon emissions for owned and managed portfolio for scope 1 emissions, 554,015 tons. G4-EN16 Indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) F Carbon Factsheet 2014 Carbon emissions for owned and managed portfolio for scope 2 emissions, 2,102,953 tons. G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) F Carbon Factsheet 2014 Carbon emissions for scope 3 emissions, 4,505,251 tons. G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions F Carbon Factsheet G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting P Carbon Factsheet In 2014, we submitted a Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) response for Supply Chain activity in products and other goods and material used for the accordance with large business partners request of organization’s operations and transporting members the submission. of the workforce Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened F Responsible Sourcing We include screening criteria in our new supplier registration portal which all new suppliers are using environmental criteria Policy required to use and which includes our Responsible Sourcing Policy. Social DMA-LA Disclosure on Management Approach F Hilton Team Members Factsheet Employment G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not P Careers website provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operations G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning F Hilton Team Members that support the continued employability of Factsheet employees and assist them in managing Careers website career endings. Human Rights DMA-HR Disclosure of Management Approach to Human F Human Rights Rights Factsheet G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant F Human Rights investment agreements and contracts that include Factsheet human rights clauses or that underwent human Code of Conduct rights screening G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on policies and F Human Rights procedures concerning aspects of human rights that Factsheet are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained GRI Hilton Worldwide CR Report Indicator Description Level Location Notes Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 Operations& Suppliers identified in which the right to F Code of Conduct exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights. Child Labor G4-HR5 We address operations and suppliers as having F Human Rights significant risk for incidents of child labor, and Factsheet measures are taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor through our Code of Conduct and Human Rights Policy. Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having F Human Rights significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory Factsheet labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination ECPAT of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Society DMA-SO Disclosure on Management Approach F Volunteerism & Engagement Factsheet Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local F We do not report on the percentage but rather the number of projects completed during our annual community engagement, impact assessments, and volunteer program along with projects happening development programs. throughout the year. G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential F We understand that our industry can affect natural habitats and resources and take steps to minimize impacts on local communities. this impact and support local economies and communities. We do not currently track the number of operations that Hilton may have potential negative impacts on local communities. Anticorruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed F Code of Conduct for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anticorruption F P.20 Code of Conduct Code of Conduct includes anti-corruption language, which is given to each new Team policies and procedures Human Rights Member throughout the global portfolio. Factsheet Public Policy N/A Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by P Responsible Sourcing We use certifications to provide sourcing information for some of our products and services, the organization’s procedures for product and service Policy depending on geography and availability. information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements. G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction F SALT online
