Green UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PT TRAKINDO UTAMA 2015 Document Confidentiality Level: Green The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Statement of Continuous Support PT Trakindo Utama (Trakindo) has been a member of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2012. We pledged our support to UNGC because the ten principles of the global compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption are in agreement with our business activities of more than forty years. Being a corporate citizen, we are fully aware on the importance of sustainable development and always take the commitment at the highest level. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe how Trakindo has advancing our stakeholders forward in a manner consistent with expectations of the ten principles as well as national government law. We describe policies and actions in order to promote and uphold integrity and accountability to the highest standard without any exception. Trakindo remains fully committed to advance our stakeholders forward and reaffirms our support to UNGC and the 10 principles. Jakarta, 18 July 2016 Bari Hamami President Director of PT Trakindo Utama Vision To be the world-class provider of Caterpillar equipment solutions Mission To set up an entity that creates worthwhile and challenging job opportunities to as many Indonesians as possible, while incorporating the following values: • Continuous development of employees • Consistent capital growth (financial, intellectual, brand identity) and reinvestment of capital into the business, and • Maintaining highly ethical business practices Core Values Integrity Proactive We enforce the highest ethical and moral standards, We pursue and adopt new techniques and approaches demonstrating honesty and fairness in all activities. to improve our business quality. Continuous Development Accountability We are committed to continuously developing both We assume responsibility to stakeholders for all the our companies and employees. decisions and actions taken. Excellence Teamwork We continuously strive to achieve the highest We promote and support a multicultural workforce standard of result. based on trust and respect, achieving goals by communicating appropriately. Corporate Citizenship Helping Prepare a Better Future for the Indonesian People Compassionate Education Environment Health Relief • Focus on people development • Commitment to energy • Consistently maintain the • Community empowerment for through education and good conservation & pollution workplace safety and health of disaster survivors character building control, water conservation and our people • Program: in Aceh tsunami, • Collaboration of Trakindo’s waste management • Program: HIV/AIDS prevention Mentawai tsunami, Wasior employees and their families, • Program: save water, save in workplace, blood donation, flash flood, Merapi eruption. students and their parents and energy, save paper campaign zero accident, one million workthe local communities. hour without LTI • Program: Coop Program and 40 SDN Area 1: Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policies, Goals and Implementation that have been carried out in the area of Human rights: To comply with government regulations, Human Capital Division Trakindo produces policies in line with human rights, as the following: 1. Healthcare Insurance and Worker Social Security Insurance managed by the established Healthcare and Social Security Agency are compulsory for all workers 2. Trakindo continues to provide assistance for health treatment and care on top of Healthcare Insurance 3. Adaptability between the National Worker Social Security Insurance and pension benefits provided by Trakindo 4. Employee Engagement conducted a survey in 2015 to seek the level of engagement with the employees in performing their daily work 5. Employee Care program such as Pre-Employment Post Employment Project, Program Career Counseling, employee health programs employees such as doctor counseling and Annual Medical Check Up 6. Corporate Citizenship Program Corporate Citizenship program is Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program of Trakindo that commits to help the government to improve the quality of education at the fourty State Elementary School Schools as well as nine Vocational Schools and six Polytechnics in Heavy equipment (COOP Program). The program are sustainable and started from 1996. Some of highlighted activities in 2015 are as the following: “Best Teacher Comparative Study 2015 . This activity aims to develop the competence of teachers in 40 state elementary targeted schools across 40 regions in Indonesia. The activity includes the presentation of four inspiring figures and the teachers were invited to study and seek the best practices of the selected schools. Trakindo implemented training of Information Technology Application for learning program to 40 primary schools. The program aimed to prepare the skills for teachers to meet 21st century skills. Under COOP Program, Trakindo managed to provide three-year scholarship for 24 students to continue their education from vocational school level to Polytechnic level under heavy equipment studies. The scholarship run at the Polytechnic Banjarmasin. This program is the second year since it started in 2014. Held an annual activity program COOP namely Competition of Competency in Heavy Equipment amongst targeted vocational schools and Polytechnic. In 2015 school year, more than 300 new students entered the COOP program. Area 2 : Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Several programs have been conducted by the Human Capital Division to support the achievement Trakindo’s imperative strategy, which maximizing the quality of employees in order to be more productive and to fully contribute to the company. Some programs and initiatives that have been carried out by the Human Capital Division among others are: Compensation and benefit programs Core employment ratio Dashboard analytics Human Capital SOPs Learning and Talent Development including Talent management Internship Area 2 : Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Learning and Development In accordance with the commitment of Trakindo to develop human resources, Learning & Development at Human Capital Division has conducted various training and development of employees to ensure the development of capability and competence of the employees in order to conform with the latest developments of each function. Area 3: Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. POLICY AND ISO SHE policy was revised in 2014. One point was adopted from the latest environmental laws No 32 Year 2009. It stated about “environmental protection”, which means that Trakindo show more supports to protect the environment. The Policy stated that PT Trakindo Utama committed to: 1. Comply all government regulations and other applicable requirements. 2. Create and increase SHE awareness. 3. Implement, maintain and prioritize a high quality SHE System at all work areas. 4. Identify all hazards and effectively manage the associated risks. 5. Encourage all employees to take full responsibility for all SHE aspects within their work areas. 6. Commit to prevent work-related injury and illness. 7. Ensure occupational health of all employees, including but not limited to HIV/AIDS prevention and management and abuse of narcotics and dangerous substances. 8. Effectively manage all environmental aspects and impacts throughout the work areas. 9. Ensure environmental protection and management at all work areas. 10. Provide coaching and training to all employees to make them support SHE system implementation as stated by the policy. 11, Ensure that the objectives of this policy are socialized to all employees, customers suppliers, visitors and other stakeholders. Area 3: Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. As part of the commitment on the Environmental aspect, Trakindo excelled the ISO 14001:2004 certification from several branches to a Single Entity Certification w hich covers all branches at the end of this year to the beginning of 2015. Environmental Campaign Trakindo supports environmental preservation and conduct some campaigns: Area 4: Anti Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The governance principles of Trakindo are based on Corporate Values, Indonesia Good Corporate Governance code of conduct (2006) and the practices in Indonesia. The governance in Trakindo is based on the principles of Transparency, Accountability, Responsibility, Independence and Fairness. The Responsibility for the implementation of risk management is attached to the management in each unit. To develop the sustainable and ideal system in an integrated enterprise risk management, the company established Risk Management Team, led by the Head of Internal Audit. This is to help the management in preparing the company's risk management framework, consolidating and reporting key risks by identification of process management risks, and in developing the competence of managing risk effectively and efficiently in accordance with the applicable standards.
