Corporate Responsibility Performance Report 2016 resources & energy Welcome to WorleyParsons’ 2016 Corporate Responsibility Performance Across our industries and operations, there are opportunities to lead Report. suppliers to better ethical, social and environmental performance. There The report provides an overview of corporate responsibility related are increasing expectations to be transparent on selection processes and performance for the period from 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016 and serves to encourage diversity and ethical conduct. We see our role to promote and demonstrate our support of the 10 principles of the United Nations Global align these expectations throughout the value chain. Additional information Compact. can be found on page 45. While we delivered progress across a number of identified focus areas Our efforts to continuously improve our corporate responsibility throughout the year, I am pleased to see volunteer hours for internal performance have been recognized through industry awards for our programs and community skilled volunteering programs almost double that performance in community social impact, philanthropy, volunteering, nonof last year. The associated social impact of this effort and many of our financial disclosure and corporate responsibility reporting covered in our other activities can be found in the case studies throughout this report. 2016 Annual Report. Highlights from this year include our work on improving diversity and WorleyParsons is committed to making the Global Compact and its principles Chief inclusion, the WorleyParsons Foundation, and environmental performance. part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. It is our intent to continue our engagement in collaborative projects that advance the broader Diversity and Inclusion development goals of the United Nations and aid the communities in which We completed the launch of a diversity and inclusion program which has we work. Executive delivered results to close gender pay gaps and employee inclusion and engagement. Additional information on our performance can be found on page 29. We recognize WorleyParsons’ reputation for honesty, integrity and ethical dealings is one of its key business assets and a critical factor in ensuring continued success. All of WorleyParsons’ people strive to maintain the Officer WorleyParsons Foundation The WorleyParsons Foundation supported a number of community projects and community partners during the year. The objectives of the Foundation standard of ethical behavior expected by our customers, suppliers and shareholders. We will continue to refine our corporate responsibility efforts across all the parts of the world in which we do business, in an effort Statement and details of the Foundation projects can be found on page 35. Environmental Performance Our environmental performance has improved as recognized by awards to ensure that our programs are as effective and efficient as possible in delivering value to the communities we support. reflecting improved disclosure and energy consumption. Additional information can be found on page 50. WorleyParsons is committed to Feedback from our stakeholders was sought during the year through a operating ethically and safely in corporate responsibility materiality assessment and a global employee all aspects of our business. engagement survey. The results of these assessments identified areas of focus important to our employees, customers and shareholders. As a Andrew Wood result, we have identified the following key themes aligning our corporate Chief Executive Officer responsibility activities across our operations: community education; WorleyParsons Limited diversity and inclusion; skilled volunteering; knowledge building of our people; and good business practices and ethics. |1 Contents Page 3 Page 10 Page 14 Page 20 Page 23 1 2 3 4 5 About Us Corporate Governance, Ethics Economic Our Responsibility and Transparency People Materiality Page 33 Page 40 Page 44 Page 49 Page 57 6 7 8 9 10 Community Human Rights Supply Chain Environment GRI 4.0 Content Index 1 About Us 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page 21,917 $1.72m Volunteer hours Contributions by by our people WorleyParsons $0.85m 86 ~23% Contributions Diverse nationalities Percentage of by our people of our people women employees |4 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page WorleyParsons is a professional services business, a partner OUR VALUES in delivering sustained economic and social progress, creating Leadership Agility opportunities for individuals, companies and communities to find • Energy and excitement • Smallest assignment to world-scale developments and realize their futures. This report covers all WorleyParsons • Integrity in all aspects of business • Comprehensive geographic presence locations as listed on the map of offices on page 6 of this report • Minimum bureaucracy • Global expertise delivered locally unless otherwise stated. • Committed, empowered and technically • Responsive to customer preferences Information on our business focus and financial performance can capable people • Optimum customized solutions • Delivering profitable sustainability be found in the 2016 Annual Report. Performance Relationships • Industry leadership in health, safety and • Open and respectful environmental performance • A trusted supplier, partner and customer • Consistent results for our customers, delivering • Collaborative approach to business on our promises • Willing to challenge and innovate • People accountable and rewarded for • Enduring customer relationships performance • Innovation delivering value for our customers • Creating wealth for our shareholders Advisian is a Unique Global Consulting Firm Advisian provides management and strategy advisory services, coupled with technical consulting and deep domain expertise. We leverage the real world practical experience and technical depth of our consultants. Our consulting services are focused on asset intensive businesses operating within the Hydrocarbons, Minerals, Metals and Chemicals and Infrastructure sectors. Our offering spans the full asset lifecycle, combining our business and strategic thinking, domain knowledge and deep technical experience to deliver implementable solutions. We draw from and leverage our global footprint and bring experience, lessons learnt and innovative solutions as the foundation to tailor responses appropriate to specific challenges. Providing and partnering with our clients to implement that advice, we are a practical, innovative, results-driven organization with a singular focus on our clients success. We are open, honest and direct and we deliver what we promise. We advise, then deliver. |5 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page WorleyParsons Limited is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX). It is subject We are a leading global provider of professional services to the resources and energy to Australian disclosure requirements and standards, including the requirements of the sectors and complex process industries. WorleyParsons employs 24,500 people globally. Corporations Act 2001 and the ASX Listing Rules. WorleyParsons’ corporate headquarters WorleyParsons has 118 offices in 42 countries. 30 offices closed in the year ended is located in Sydney, Australia. 30 June 2016 (FY2016). Anchorage Chicoutimi Fort St. John Alma Stavanger Cold Lake Trois-Rivières Montreal Leeds Moscow Edmonton Fermont Teesside Blackfalds Saskatoon Manchester Kitimat Gloucester Delft Warsaw Calgary Markham Sept-Îles Aksai Burnaby Bristol Plzeň Ulaanbaatar Farnborough Atyrau Bismarck Sudbury Woking Billings Quebec City London Almaty Sofia Sarnia Saint John Tashkent Madrid Baku Beijing Vancouver, WA Reading Tianjin Folsom Chattanooga Atlanta Arcadia/Monrovia Chengdu Nanjing Jacksonville Cairo Basrah Ahmadi Shanghai Costa Mesa Houston Manama Bayport Al Khobar Dubai Yanbu Riyadh Muscat Hong Kong Mexico City Doha Abu Dhabi Hyderabad Mumbai Chennai Bangkok Port of Spain Bogotá Lagos Kuala Belait Accra Kerteh Kuantan Kuala Lumpur Duri Singapore Jakarta Luanda Dili Lima Belo Horizonte Mackay Pretoria São Paulo Rio de Janeiro Gladstone Rustenberg Brisbane Durban Upington Perth Santiago Johannesburg Bunbury Secunda Adelaide Sydney Kimberley Bloemfontein Auckland Geelong Melbourne New Plymouth Cape Town Port Elizabeth Hastings Wellington WorleyParsons Limited Christchurch ABN 17 096 090 158 Level 17 141 Walker Street North Sydney NSW 2060 Australia Phone: +61 2 8923 6866 Fax: +61 2 8923 6877 Web: www.worleyparsons.com | 6 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Global Endorsement and Memberships United Nations Global Compact Carbon Disclosure Project Australian Red Cross WorleyParsons supports the 10 principles of the Our commitment towards the environment WorleyParsons is a ‘National Community Partner’ Global Compact with respect to human rights, has always been part of our OneWay™ vision with Australian Red Cross for the second year. labor, environment and anti-corruption. We are towards Zero Harm to people and assets This collaboration is the first of its kind and committed to making the Global Compact and and zero environmental incidents. We have demonstrates commitment to our communities its principles part of the strategy, culture and participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project and support for skilled volunteering. It also day-to-day operations of our company and to (CDP) since 2009. CDP is an international showcases our global reach of knowledge, engage in collaborative projects which advance not-for-profit organization providing a global and positions WorleyParsons as an industry the broader development goals of the United system for companies and cities to measure, leader among our peers in large scale ‘pro bono’ Nations. disclose, manage and share vital environmental services, focusing on disaster recovery. information. Dow Jones Sustainability Index Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) We align our corporate responsibility reporting Workplace Gender Equality Report WorleyParsons was listed as a member of the process with the internationally-recognized GRI WorleyParsons complies with all mandatory 2015 Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) sustainability reporting framework. diversity reporting requirements. In accordance and in 2016 participated in the Corporate with the Australian Workplace Gender Equality Sustainability Assessment for the first time. DJSI Corporate Governance Act 2012, relevant entities within WorleyParsons Australia tracks the performance of the top 30% As an Australian incorporated company, have submitted Workplace Gender Equality of the 200 listed Australian entities in the S&P/ WorleyParsons Limited must comply with the Reports for the reporting period. These reports ASX 200 that are leaders in the field in terms of Corporations Act 2001. In addition, as an entity are available on our company’s website. sustainability. listed on the ASX, WorleyParsons Limited must comply with the ASX Listing Rules. Those rules United Nations Road Safety Program require listed entities to publish a corporate WorleyParsons recognizes everyone has the governance statement on an annual basis. right to use roads without the threat to life or health. We support the Decade of Action for Road Safety 2011-2020 through our organization’s management of work related road safety. | 7 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Awards In July 2015, WorleyParsons retained the status of a ‘National Community Partner’ In July 2015, WorleyParsons was listed as ‘Australia's 30 Most InDemand with Australian Red Cross. This collaboration is the first of its kind and demonEmployers: 2015’. WorleyParsons ranked 17 out of 30 and it was the first time strates commitment to our communities and support for skilled volunteering. It that the company was recognized on LinkedIn’s annual list. The rankings are based also showcases our global reach of knowledge, and positions WorleyParsons as on user interactions with the company page measuring reach and engagement. an industry leader among our peers in large scale ‘pro bono’ services, focusing on disaster recovery. In July 2015, WorleyParsons India was awarded ‘Best in Class Corporate Social In October 2015, WorleyParsons was named the ‘Best Global Supplier of 2015’ in Responsibility Practice’ award for its efforts in a host of skilled volunteering and the category of Exceptional Performance by BASF. The Exceptional Performance fundraising activities. The Responsible Business Awards are recognized by the award recognizes WorleyParsons' long term commitment to developing a high World CSR Congress and World Federation of CSR Professionals and in addition are performance culture and outstanding efforts to deliver high value results for BASF. endorsed by the Asian Confederation of Industries. In November 2015, WorleyParsons United Kingdom was presented with In November 2015, WorleyParsons was announced as the winner of the ‘Best the prestigious ‘Payroll Giving Silver Award 2015’ for fostering a culture of Year on Year Improvement in Climate Disclosure for 2014-2015’ in the Carbon philanthropy and committed giving in the workplace by making Payroll Giving Disclosure Project Climate Leadership Awards. available to employees. The National Payroll Giving Excellence Awards showcase the best Payroll Giving schemes in the UK. In December 2015, WorleyParsons Malaysia was awarded the ‘Gold HSE Award In April 2016, WorleyParsons India was awarded the ‘Golden Globe Tigers Summit for the chemicals sector’ by the Malaysian Occupational Health and Safety Award for Community Development’ for their contribution and development Practitioners’ Association (MOSHPA) for the HSE performance and processes of five villages in a remote tribal region near Mumbai, Maharashtra, India. The established on the Hibiscus Project. This award from MOSHPA recognizes the WorleyParsons India team has installed water pumps and tanks and solar panels significant efforts on the project to achieve Zero Harm and the exceptional as a source of renewable energy, refurbished the local school and set up a new performance of the site management team. E-Learning Center. In June 2016, WorleyParsons was granted ‘Silver Recognition Level in Corporate In June 2016, WorleyParsons achieved a ‘Leading’ rating in the 2016 research Social Responsibility’ by EcoVadis. The award places the Group in the top 30% of report, Corporate Reporting in Australia: Disclosure of Sustainability Risks among performers evaluated by EcoVadis. As an independent rating agency, EcoVadis S&P/ASX 200 companies by the Australian Council of Superannuation Investors. provides supplier sustainability ratings for global supply chains. The Leading rating is the highest of the five categories and demonstrates to investors that the company takes investor issues seriously and gives investors valuable information to better inform their investment decisions. | 8 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page About this Report Selected corporate responsibility performance data in our This report has been written for our people, investors and 2015 Annual Report and 2015 Corporate Responsibility shareholders to celebrate the successes of our people and Performance Report were provided limited assurance by the company in progressing corporate responsibility. Ernst & Young. During the assurance process, a number of recommendations were incorporated to improve the We use a variety of channels for corporate responsibility reporting process with embedded controls and other reporting this year (1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016, unless enhancements. The extent of this assurance activity is otherwise stated) including this report, the Corporate described in the Independent Limited Assurance Report. Responsibility section in the 2016 WorleyParsons Annual Report and corporate responsibility information on our Our sustainability data covers WorleyParsons Limited, company website. The information in this report is aligned Advisian, WorleyParsonsCord and INTECSEA. to the United Nations Global Compact Communication on All references in this report to ‘WorleyParsons', 'Group', 'our' Progress and the GRI sustainability reporting guidelines. or ‘company’ are references to WorleyParsons Limited and Our 2016 Corporate Responsibility Performance Report each of its controlled entities. is prepared in accordance with the GRI 4.0 Framework and the content is rated as ‘Comprehensive’. This report WorleyParsons comprises more contains all the generic disclosures on management than 200 entities. A list of significant approach and indicators of each identified material aspect. entities can be found in the 2016 The full GRI 4.0 Content Index is provided in section 10. WorleyParsons Annual Report. WorleyParsons releases our sustainability reports annually according to the financial year (1 July to 30 June). Last year’s Corporate Responsibility Performance Report for the period from 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015 was released in September 2015. The Corporate Responsibility Performance Report is approved by the CEO. | 9 2 Corporate Responsibility Materiality 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Corporate Responsibility Materiality We have developed a corporate We review emerging economic, environmental and social trends and Definition responsibility materiality process and issues that have the potential to become significant in the medium term WorleyParsons has defined corporate Materiality Matrix to determine corporate through our corporate responsibility materiality assessment. responsibility materiality as the process responsibility related material aspects. involved in determining relevant (or This process, aligns with the GRI Reporting ‘material’) topics for an organization Framework and can be found on the that have a direct or indirect impact on following page. the ability to create, preserve or erode This year, we have introduced the economic, environmental and social value Materiality Matrix to the process and for the organization, its stakeholders, the expanded our corporate responsibility environment and society at large. materiality assessment to include a broader sample of stakeholders and to map to our value chain for greater understanding of where our material issues lie. Our corporate responsibility material issues are mapped in correlation to our impact in our value chain. Corporate responsibility material issues as identified by the 2016 materiality assessment are indicated with this symbol: M . | 11 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Corporate Responsibility Materiality Assessment Materiality Matrix A materiality assessment was conducted to understand the current material The identification phase resulted in a consolidated list of 24 economic, environmental issues affecting our stakeholders. A comprehensive analysis was performed with and social issues. The prioritization phase sought feedback through surveys from shareholder and investor reports, employee engagement surveys and corporate our people, customer representatives and investor representatives, which were strategy and risk reports. Three main stakeholder engagement groups were quantified and plotted on a Materiality Matrix. The top issues have been ranked as identified: our people, customer representatives and investor representatives. highly important to both stakeholders and WorleyParsons. Applying a materiality assessment to determine what economic, environmental and The issues are categorized by aspects such as: economic, community, environment, social issues are most important to our business and stakeholders enables us to: our people and supply chain and procurement. These issues rated using the results • inform where sustainability strategy and operational programs to develop from our stakeholder surveys along the two axes: ‘Impact on WorleyParsons’ (senior targeted programs to improve business sustainability; leadership feedback) and ‘Level of Stakeholder Concern’ (customer, employee, and investor feedback). • identify emerging sustainability trends and issues; • improve internal decision-making with tangible tools to assist prioritization of Materiality Matrix 2016 resources; and Low Impact on WorleyParsons High • respond to expectations of, build trust with and promote transparency with customers, employees and investors. Oil price High Customer The materiality assessment covers three major phases: identification, prioritization satisfaction and validation: Ethical procurement Financial performance Good business practises Workplace Innovation and health excellence and safety Level of Stakeholder Concern Identification Prioritization Validation Knowledge Response building to demand Global talent pool Desktop Engagement: Analysis: Surveys were distributed to All potential business issues 150 selected employees, a dozen Stakeholder Review: and impacts along the value chain customer relationship managers and The prioritization of issues derived internal investor representatives. The from the Materiality Matrix and the are listed from internal and external results obtained represent the level of Performance Report's content sources (shareholder and investor stakeholder concern in the Materiality reports, employee engagement structure are validated by senior Matrix. The surveys were also distributed surveys, external trends, corporate management (ie. Global Leadership to the Global Leadership Team, strategy and risk reports). Team). whose results represent the impact on WorleyParsons. Low KEY Economic Community Environment Our People Supply Chain and Procurement | 12 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Issues located in the top right hand corner of the matrix are of high materiality or To align to GRI framework, WorleyParsons’ boundaries are defined for material aspects importance to our stakeholders and the organization, the middle section of the matrix both inside and outside the organization. Internal boundaries for each material aspect represents issues with moderate materiality and finally, the bottom left hand corner are determined by the entities which were under our financial and operational control represents issues of low importance to both stakeholders and the organization. during the reporting period and the employees and contractors engaged by those This year, our assessment identified our most significant corporate responsibility issues entities. External boundaries for our organization are determined by various factors as outlined in the Materiality Matrix on the next page. The top 10 material issues depending on the extent of our community and environmental initiatives. Indirect identified are: exposure from our customers’ project work is outside our reporting boundary. RANK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MATERIAL ISSUES 1 Customer satisfaction Outside the Organization Oil price 2 Financial performance 3 Workplace health and safety Inside the Organization Inside & Outside 4 Oil price volatility and falling prices of other resources the Organization Good business practices Innovation and excellence (challenging market conditions) Financial performance Knowledge building 5 Global talent pool to enrich capabilities Workplace health and safety Response to demand Global talent pool 6 Ethical procurement and supplier management Ethical procurement 7 Good business practices and ethics Customer satisfaction 8 Response to demand and competitiveness 9 Innovation and excellence 10 Expertise and knowledge building of our employees. The diagram above provides a summary of internal and external boundaries for each material aspect based on the significance to our company. | 13 3 Governance, Ethics and Transparency Good business practices and ethics M 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Governance Structure However, the Board delegates authority to identify and manage such The Board of Directors (Board) has ultimate authority over the company impacts, risks and opportunities and receives regular reporting in relation and regards corporate governance as a critical element in achieving the to matters including: health and safety, diversity and inclusion, unethical company's objectives. Accordingly, the Board has adopted appropriate practices and other matters. This enables the Board to monitor both charters, codes and policies and established a number of committees management and company performance in relation to those topics. to discharge its duties. The Group's governance systems meet the Material Risks and Internal Controls requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 (Act) and the Listing Rules of the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX). WorleyParsons has processes to systematically identify, assess and report on both financial and non-financial business risks. Details of the The CEO reports directly to the Board. The Group Leadership Team (GLT) management of business risks can be found in the Corporate Governance is the senior leadership team for WorleyParsons. The GLT advises the Statement. CEO with regard to the effective and efficient functioning of the global organization. A strategic and operational Corporate Risk Management report is prepared and analyzed by both management and the Audit and Risk Committee Delegation of Authority of the Board twice a year in relation to the company’s material business Our process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and risks. The report addresses impacts, risks and opportunities with respect to social topics involves a series of written delegations. The Board provides health and safety, reputation, business practices and ethics. written delegation to the CEO. This authority for economic, environmental In addition, the Board’s Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Committee and social topics includes authority to manage the company’s operations meets at least six times a year to review health and safety impacts, risks and to establish and maintain an appropriate framework for good and opportunities. governance. The CEO has provided the GLT with written delegations of authority corresponding to their areas of responsibility, which also encompass topics relating to economic, environmental and social issues. This section summarizes our approach to While the particular scope of authority varies between members of the governance, ethics and transparency. Further GLT, all have been delegated authority for managing aspects of economic, detail regarding our corporate governance environmental and social topics. For example, the Regional Managing practices is set out in our Corporate Directors of our services business line have authority to manage social Governance Statement 2016. topics such as health and safety, employee training and anti-corruption. In turn, the GLT has delegated authority to their direct reports for activities within their areas of responsibility. Given WorleyParsons’ size and geographical spread, it is not practical for members of our Board to consult directly with our stakeholders or identify and manage economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities. | 15 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Board Communications Transparency and Disclosure with Our People The Board receive regular reports including: risk, corporate responsibility, Effective communication and collaboration assist the organization to deal health and safety, diversity and inclusion, unethical practices and other with change. matters that may affect our reputation. In addition, Board members attend We use our internal communication website and emails to deliver site visits aimed at increasing Board members’ understanding of the HSE important messages. In addition, 'town-hall' sessions are presented risks faced by the company and its people and to further raise the profile by senior management on 'big-picture' issues. Local office information of HSE risk management with our people on site and, in particular, with sessions inform our people and location specific updates. Sessions site management. usually include a segment where our people are encouraged to voice their Critical concerns are communicated to the Board through: concerns and queries. • Internal Audit report as to the effectiveness of the company’s In 2015, WorleyParsons implemented a first independently-managed management of its material business risks and internal controls the; global employee engagement survey. The results were shared with • Corporate Risk Management report; our people and programs have been implemented to manage any shortcomings. Refer to Section 5 for more information. • CEO’s monthly reports; and To create a comfortable and motivated work environment, senior • other specialist reporting (eg. in relation to health and safety, corporate leadership has been encouraged to cascade key messages on strategy and responsibility and diversity and inclusion). vision to all employees and contractors. The GLT is involved in updating our values, strategies, policies and goals related to many aspects of our economic, environmental and social topics. | 16 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Good Business Practices and Ethics M Our people are encouraged to seek advice on ethical and lawful behavior and matters related to organization integrity from their manager. However, if the manager is WorleyParsons regards good corporate governance as a critical element in our business unavailable or involved in a breach or potential breach of the Code of Conduct, our practices and culture. The cornerstone of our OneWay™ integrity framework is ethical, people should approach their location people leader for advice. sustainable business practices. Gift giving is outlined in the Code of Conduct: To ensure transparency, WorleyParsons maintains gift register. Our people are obliged to report any breach or potential breaches of the Code of Conduct. Those breaches encompass unethical or unlawful behavior and matters related WorleyParsons’ Code of Conduct guides our people, including directors, as to the to organizational integrity. Our people may make those reports to their manager, or standards of behavior expected of them. if the manager is involved in the breach or potential breach, to their location human The Code of Conduct specifies that the company expects our people will uphold: resources leader. • striving to achieve the highest ethical conduct, questioning unethical behavior and Our Ethics Helpline, an online and telephone breach reporting system, is available to our reporting breaches and potential breaches of the Code of Conduct; people to enable them to report breaches or potential breaches of the Code of Conduct. • complying with the law and avoiding conflicts of interest; The helpline is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. In addition, our people may • acting honestly and fairly in all their business dealings; also contact a member of our Ethics Committee, GLT, management and people teams directly if they: • being open, accurate and professional in all their communications; • believe the breach or potential breach is serious; • being economical and responsible in using company and customer resources; • have concerns about making a report; or • respecting the confidentiality of any information from or about our customers and others; • are not satisfied with the response to the report. • being reliable and diligent in meeting their responsibilities; and • respecting the rights of others and supporting community values. The Code of Conduct requires our people to report breaches and potential breaches of the Code of Conduct and sets out a process for that reporting. All our people: In FY2016, allegations of breaches of the Code of Conduct were reported to the People • receive a copy of the Code of Conduct and training in relation to it when they start Group or using the Ethics Helpline. Allegations were reported across all regions , with with the company and thereafter on an annual basis; and approximately half reported via the Ethics Helpline. • can access the Code of Conduct from the company’s intranet or request a copy from their local human resources leader. Our policy provides protection to whistle-blowers and encourages reporting of contraventions. The Code of Conduct is available in 16 local languages in addition to English. The key mechanisms for the protection of whistle blowers are confidentiality, anonymity, protection of employment conditions and appropriate support to prevent any other forms of retaliation (eg. loss of opportunities, shunning, ill treatment, harassment, etc.). | 17 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Case Studies Leading Disclosure of Sustainability Risks WorleyParsons has been rated at the level of Leading in the Australia Council of Superannuation Investors (ACSI) 2016 research report, Corporate Reporting in Australia: Disclosure of sustainability risks among S&P/ASX 200 entities. The Leading rating is the highest of five categories. ACSI conducts research into ASX 200 entities on behalf of its members that comprises 29 Australian superannuation funds and six international pension funds, which together manage over $1.5 trillion in investments. This recognition reflects the focus and effort of our teams to integrate environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations in risk and management processes for sustainable business outcomes. Disclosure of WorleyParsons sustainability risks is incorporated annually into the Corporate Governance Statement, Annual Report and Corporate Responsibility Performance Report. WorleyParsons has been rated at the “Members firmly believe that ESG risks can have a significant impact on the long term performance of the companies in which they invest. As such, level of Leading in corporate reporting thorough disclosure of information regarding the management of these risks is integral to quality investment decision-making.” Louise Davidson, in Australia by ACSI. ACSI, Australia. WorleyParsons’ Support for the Ecuador Earthquake Disaster Recovery A 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck Ecuador in April 2016, where 30 WorleyParsons employees were working in the Esmeraldas Refinery. The immediate response was to ensure all employees and their families were safe and accounted for through our emergency response system. The WorleyParsons Foundation raised funds through a company matching initiative, where funds were donated to Red Cross Ecuador to provide humanitarian support to people and communities affected by the earthquake. A structural engineer, Carmen Luz Castillo from WorleyParsons Chile, volunteered to travel to Ecuador to assist with the structural integrity assessments of the employees’ apartment buildings. A HSE team was also assigned to support the Esmeraldas authorities and the local community. “After evaluating the damage to the buildings where people from our company lived, I met the team and their families. I briefed them on my structural assessment to reassure them and for us all to share two way experiences, both their recent traumatic experience in Esmeraldas, and our Volunteering for disaster recovery own experiences after several earthquakes in Chile.” Carmen Luz Castillo, Project Engineering Manager, Chile. efforts in Ecuador. | 18 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Bribery Law and Regulation Compliance WorleyParsons complies with all applicable prevention of bribery and corruption No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and legislation and extends the requirement of compliance, including the prohibition of regulations were recorded for the reporting period. facilitation payments, to third party providers via our Code of Conduct and Supply Chain In addition, no legal action has been taken against WorleyParsons for anti-competitive Code of Conduct. behavior, or anti-trust or monopolistic practices. Our Code of Conduct is aligned with the expectations of international compliance regulations and provides a benchmark for ethical conduct in all aspects of our global business. Our Code of Conduct provides clear guidelines for our people in reporting unlawful and unethical behavior to their immediate manager, an ethics officer, their people manager, their managing director and the CEO, without the fear of retaliation. WorleyParsons also provides access to the Ethics Helpline, and is accessible by email and telephone for all our people. Our Code of Conduct prohibits any activity in relation to bribery and corruption. We provide all relevant employees with training in anti-bribery and anti-corruption via online prevention of bribery training courses. No incidents of corruption have been confirmed for the reporting period. Ethical business practice reviews were conducted in five countries in the reporting period, as part of a Group Assurance program. Public Policy WorleyParsons respects the authority of governments in all countries at all levels (national, state and local), maintaining open and honest relationships. Although we may perform work for government entities, WorleyParsons maintains impartiality with respect to partisan politics. Anti-Competitive Behavior WorleyParsons supports fair and open competition and believes in competing for business and using competitive procedures in the supplier selection process. In most countries where we perform work, we are subject to laws that encourage competitive and fair business markets. When our customers engage us to conduct procurement activities on their behalf, we comply with WorleyParsons' or our customers rules, whichever are the more stringent. | 19 4 Economic Challenging market conditions M Customer satisfaction M Response to demand and competitiveness M Innovation and excellence M 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page WorleyParsons makes an important contribution to local communities and regional Response to Demand M economies by delivering solid financial returns to our shareholders, working with local businesses in our supply chain and investing in community organizations. Today, the revenue of the business is concentrated in the hydrocarbons sector and the provision of engineering services. Responding to demand from our customers, our During FY2015, we unveiled our strategy to return the company to growth. As the ambition is to transform the business by: resources and energy sectors undergo significant transformation driven by prolonged low commodity prices, WorleyParsons continues to transform to respond and reposition 1 growing our exposure to selected attractive markets while defending our position the business for future success. in hydrocarbons; To learn more about our five key strategic projects, please refer to the Annual Report 2 offering a range of solutions that increase our market share; 2016 microsite. 3 having a differentiated digital capability; and 4 deploying our global capabilities, including increased use of our Global Delivery Challenging Market Conditions M Centers. WorleyParsons is on a journey to fully realize the benefits of the changes we made last In addition, we have evolved our go-to-market strategies and are applying solutionyear. While we recognize the impact of reduced commodity prices on our customers' based selling with commercial models more focused on the value delivered. activity levels, there are many exciting opportunities for us in our markets today if we focus on winning work and delivering it well while prudently containing costs. We have been taking strategic steps to reposition the business for future success, reducing internal costs, improving customer productivity, optimizing the portfolio of offices and strengthening our balance sheet. Customer Satisfaction M WorleyParsons is dedicated to delivering what we promise. Customer satisfaction stems from the need to be sensitive to both quantitative performance and our customer business drivers in addition to building strong relationships at all levels. Our upcoming focus is to deliver enhanced value for our customers through targeted offerings including asset productivity improvement, supply chain optimization, China sourcing and modularization. | 21 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Addressing Impacts from Climate Change Case Study Climate change is now integrated in business strategy, addressing opportunities. Refer page 52 of this report for a description of outcomes. Working with Our Customers for Fort McMurray In-country Local Leadership Long term development of a local operation can positively benefit from in-country local Fire Relief, Canada In May 2016, very warm temperatures and dry leadership. As of June 2016, a third of our Services business line Location Directors conditions caused wildfires to climb to extreme were in-country nationals. Currently, the following locations have an in-country local levels for the Fort McMurray Forest Area, Canada. leader: Australia East, Bulgaria, Canada, China, Norway, South Africa, the United Kingdom and the United States. Smoke from wildfires were reported in some areas where we operate. WorleyParsons worked Innovation and Excellence M with our customers to monitor air quality on the sites where our employees and contractors were Another key to achieving agility and remaining competitive among our customers is located. We had an escalation plan in place in innovation. WorleyParsons promotes innovation within the organization not only to be the event smoke and particulate concentrations a clear value proposition to our customers, but also to inspire and energize our people. The 2016 Fort McMurray wildfires in Alberta and Saskatchewan. Image by increased, including the voluntary use of N95 It is essential that we build an innovation capability that addresses a number of NASA. dust masks for our staff working on sites in strategic issues. Our approach to innovation helps us to identify new revenue Northern Alberta. streams that can help increase our margins; gain us entry to new markets creating WorleyParsons received praise from one of diversification that insulates the company from market fluctuations; and it provides our major customers operating in the Fort protection from potential market disruptions. Importantly, innovation provides a MacKay area for our commitment to safety and means to differentiate from our competitors making WorleyParsons a more attractive communication and for our ability to respond partner and a more obvious choice for our core business delivering projects. Above all, quickly and efficiently to the situation. The innovation will provide a path for organic growth driven by increased revenue. safety of our people and our customers remains our top priority. Internally, WorleyParsons promotes an Innovation Incubator that is dedicated to fostering an innovation ecosystem, linking people, ideas, processes and the innovation To aid with the relief efforts, the WorleyParsons culture. We look towards funding new ideas in the hope of commercializing the ideas to Foundation launched a company-wide create value for our customers. fundraising campaign, with funds donated to Red Cross Canada. Support was received from all In FY2016, over 214 ideas were posted in the Innovation Incubator, including over corners of the WorleyParsons global community. 4,000 collaboration submissions through commentary, ‘likes’ and votes on ideas. 34 ideas where awarded with innovation seed funding with a further nine ideas “What a local tragedy, that is felt via the bond of colleagues around the world, hoping for a progressing to business strategic funding. Two of these ideas were: smooth recovery for Fort McMurray.” • the vessel robot: designed to perform extremely dangerous work usually A WorleyParsons employee. undertaken by a human, the robot removes spent catalyst from various refinery and petrochemical vessels for ex-situ regeneration or disposal; and • the sacrificial insert: an insert designed to significantly reduce the velocity of the sand and the damage it causes in the erosion of pipelines. | 22 5 Our People Workplace health and safety M Global talent pool to enrich capabilities M Expertise and knowledge building of our employees M 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page People Policies Key People Outcomes Our People Policy outlines commitments to the Key people outcomes over the reporting period were: development, safety and support of our people. Some of • reduced Total Recordable Case Frequency Rate (TRCFR) our commitments include: the frequency rate for all employees and managed • promoting a safe and healthy working environment contractors by 8%. Our safety performance is among the for our people. We provide our people with access to best in the industry; protective equipment and training to perform their tasks • conducted a global employee engagement survey to safely; identify priorities important to our employees in relation • supporting our people to achieve their choices in work to our working environment; and life balance; • continued the ongoing annual performance review of • providing a work environment that is free of any form of employees to identify personal development needs and harassment or discrimination, including physical, verbal, training requirements, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats; • tracked progress towards achieving the gender diversity and measurable objectives for the first year of reporting with • maintaining an open channel for communication where an internal diversity scorecard, supported by our global we provide a mechanism for hearing, processing and diversity and inclusion program; and settling grievances for our people. In many locations, our • launched and delivered a transformational leadership people are provided access to an Employee Assistance development program to high potential managers Program. facilitated in three regional hub locations. This year, our legal team commenced an Investigation Standard (process) that addresses protection from retaliation actions linked to reporting on our Ethics Helpline and other reporting systems. | 24 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Employment During the reporting period, our workforce decreased by 6,900 people to 24,500 people, The number of employees who ceased employment during or at the end of parental leave as of 30 June 2016. WorleyParsons’ voluntary employee turnover rate was 8% for this was measured for our Australian operations. This is aligned to the reporting requirements reporting period, an improvement from 9% for the last reporting period ended 30 June for the 2016 Workplace Gender Equality Agency report. 2015. Labor and Management Relations Employee Benefits WorleyParsons locations comply with the local employment law with typically a two week Each location within WorleyParsons has its own locally defined employee benefit to three months termination notice period depending on national regulations. schemes. Full benefits are provided to full-time and part-time employees. Support from the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and ongoing contributions to retirement funds Employee Engagement are provided to our casual employees depending on national regulations. The December 2015 global engagement survey was completed by over 19,000 people The organization benefits for full-time and part-time employees include: across all countries with WorleyParsons operations, providing a platform for our people to outline the key factors that keep them motivated as well as areas for improvement • insurance (eg. life, long term disability, accidental death and dismemberment); across the business. A number of initiatives resulted, including Career Development, Risk • salary continuance insurance; & Innovation, and Leadership & Change Management. • contributions to retirement fund; • health and dental coverage; • parental leave; and • paid time off for illness. Case Studies The WorleyParsons Academy The Academy was launched in 2015 to provide learning solutions that develop and enhance our people’s core workplace skills and capabilities in the areas of project delivery, business development and leadership. The Academy provides a blended approach to learning and development through the use of both physical campuses and an online presence. The first campus opened in Houston, USA. The facility features state-of-the art audio/video functionality, with the ability to ‘broadcast’ classes to locations around the globe. The Academy online portal was launched in 2016 and is the one-stop-shop for WorleyParsons development programs. The portal allows access to all course materials, including scheduled courses, on-demand e-learning solutions and recordings by technical experts. Engineering and project management Developing talent is a core area of focus for our location and we look forward to further training opportunities for our staff and our customers.” courses delivered remotely to Oman. Matthew Bishop, Managing Director, Oman. | 25 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Workplace Health and Safety M WorleyParsons’ Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Policy articulates our commitment WorleyParsons uses the Occupational Safety and Health Administration reporting to achieve Zero Harm to people and assets and zero environmental incidents. It expands requirements for Lost Workday Case Frequency Rate (LWCFR) and TRCFR. The results on WorleyParsons’ HSE values and the control framework that applies to our operations. reflect the safety records for WorleyParsons employees. In FY2016, we achieved a reduction in our employee Total Recordable Case Frequency Rate (TRCFR); however, there were several tragic incidents of fatal consequence involving our contractors. Three members of a project team lost their lives in different vehicle2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 related incidents in Turkey, and one person was fatally injured from a fall in Saudi Arabia. LWCFR1 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.01 0.03 Our HSE areas of focus include: TRCFR 0.12 0.13 0.10 0.12 0.07 • vehicle and land transport; 1 Employees only. • project start-up; Employee Assistance Program (EAP) • leadership accountability; and The EAP is an early intervention initiative that provides professional and confidential • continual improvement in the areas of fatal risks and working at height. counseling. Our EAP is a service available to all employees, contractors and their immediate family members in many locations to help them with work and personal All levels of leadership continue to drive our safety expectations and look for difficulties that may arise. opportunities to redesign our processes and systems to address human factor risks. WorleyParsons remains committed to promote ‘9 Key Safe Behaviors for Driving’ through New Emergency Notification System our range of driver training activities, awareness initiatives and the WorleyParsons Vehicle A Emergency Notification System has been introduced which is to be used to contact and Driving Standard. our people in critical incidents. The system is designed to contact our people by email, SMS text or text to speech message on their phone to enable mass communication. The system helps us to account for people and to quickly identify who is safe, who is injured or who may need assistance. | 26 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Talent Management Knowledge Building of Our Employees M WorleyParsons Academy Global Talent Pool M WorleyParsons has a talent management and development The WorleyParsons Academy, a global learning environment The intent of the Global Delivery Center (GDC) Acceleration program that provides internal technical and non-technical with a Houston based campus, provides learning solutions Project is to leverage our global talent pool for cost training resources for our people. We offer a number of that develop and enhance our people’s core workplace effective project delivery services. The resulting transfer of blended learning programs and activities for training and skills and capabilities. The Academy is organized into three work and activities to the GDC will also drive a greater level development through the Academy including instructor-led schools: of standardization in the way we operate by simplifying our and virtual options for local in-country talent development • Leading People learning that addresses business processes, driving consistent use of standard systems and programs. Capabilities are enhanced in leadership, management and leadership skills; configurations. It also reflects the changing attitudes of our technical, commercial acumen, Graduate Development and • Winning Work learning that supports business customers and their willingness to undertake significant WorleyParsons expectations related to the Code of Conduct development, sales and marketing skills; and proportions of their engineering and design work in remote and OneWay™ integrity management framework. • Delivering Value learning that focuses on the sites. Examples of our key talent management and development development of capability to more effectively deliver programs are: projects with predictable outcomes. Developing Local Expertise The Graduate Development Program (GDP) Within each of the schools, our people have access to The GDP is a holistic approach to building excellence in WorleyParsons is committed to the recruitment, online learning to information on formal learning courses. early-career technical and managerial skills while focusing training and development of local professional In FY2016, over 8,000 active users accessed over 20,000 on professional development. The GDP components focus employees who provide our customers with hours of our online training system. on our people’s personal strengths and professional sustainable, profitable solutions grown on requirements – tailoring our young professionals to crossa foundation of strong local knowledge and Performance Reviews regional drivers, cultural factors and other considerations to infrastructure. WorleyParsons is committed to identifying, developing match their individual expertise and ambitions. WorleyParsons’ in-country employment and and retaining our talent. Using our global performance Transformation Leadership Learning (TLL) development programs are based on two review tool, ‘PeopleSuccess’, managers and their teams Our TLL program has been a well-received addition to our fundamentals: hold regular discussions throughout the year to establish leadership development initiatives. As a staged program • focused selective recruitment of local people who performance criteria, and give performance feedback. involving 360 degree feedback, working groups, networking demonstrate a keen interest in developing their Key to this tool's success the discussion of employees’ and mentoring, it focuses on leaders who have a direct career; and development action plans. impact on improving business performance through • establishment and management of formal training effective leadership of their teams. Some participants are programs for local people at all levels throughout high performers identified as potential successors to take the company. on an influential leadership roles, offering an opportunity to set future leaders up for success. | 27 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Case Studies Flexible Work Campaign Launched WorleyParsons launched an internal flexible work campaign to promote awareness and understanding of people working flexibly across our operations. In line with our Diversity and Inclusion Expectations on flexibility, the campaign explores what flexibility currently looks like at WorleyParsons through real life examples and perspectives on flexible work. Case studies profile men and women in different roles, working flexibly for a range of reasons – eg. due to study commitments, project work, remote locations, family responsibilities and caring responsibilities. Through the campaign, our own people share first-hand how we are making flexibility work now, the challenges and also the opportunities it presents for our future. “Examples of employees working flexibly while still pursuing meaningful, challenging, diverse and interesting roles can send a powerful message about how a workplace really views flexibility. It is great to hear stories where people have used internal references in conversations with their managers.” Bindy Edelman, Diversity and Inclusion Manager, Global. Flexible work campaign. ‘Check Yourself, Bias Awareness’ Workshop, India A key focus for the diversity and inclusion program has been to develop and roll out a ‘Check Yourself, Bias Awareness’ workshop across WorleyParsons India, Kazakhstan, Oman and Australia. The workshop supports our Diversity and Inclusion Expectations and is tailored so that team leaders, managers and diversity and inclusion champions can deliver this with teams. The aim of the workshop is for participants to consider and discuss the impact of bias on their behaviors and decision-making and to address how they can interrupt bias at the individual, team and organization level. WorleyParsons India has taken the lead by rolling out the workshop and informal conversations in the location, which has been cascaded to over 600 employees as demonstrated by signed charters on their desks. The commitment was to sign and stand by it. Members of the leadership team in Hyderabad participated in the ‘Check “The sessions were very engaging, with everyone sharing stories and experiences around bias and its interrupters. Harini Sreenivasan, Head of Yourself, Bias Awareness’ workshop. People, Global Delivery Centers, India. | 28 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Diversity and Equal Opportunity M The Diversity and Inclusion Expectations provide the framework for our goal to develop and maintain a diverse and inclusive workplace, and the implementation WorleyParsons believes in the inherent benefits of a diverse and inclusive workplace, to of all diversity-related initiatives and guidelines within our businesses. All of maximize our business results and attract, recruit, engage and retain a talented workforce. our leaders are accountable to monitor the effectiveness of the Diversity and We are committed to providing an environment free of discrimination and bias, where Inclusion Expectations and provide visible leadership for our Diversity and everyone has an opportunity to fully participate in creating business success and where Inclusion Policy. each person is valued, respected and supported for his or her different attributes, skills and experience. Last year, the Board set the following measurable objectives for achieving gender diversity at WorleyParsons. The Board will annually review the objectives WorleyParsons’ commitment to diversity and inclusion is supported by the Diversity and and WorleyParsons’ progress in achieving them. The Diversity and Inclusion Inclusion Expectations that apply to all our people, in all our locations, contracts and Expectations seek to support the achievement of the Board’s measurable projects. The Diversity and Inclusion Expectations are: objectives. The Group’s progress towards achieving the objectives in FY2016 is • our diverse and inclusive workplace is representative of the countries and communities set out in the table below: in which we operate; • our recruitment and promotion practices are transparent, consistent and fair; Gender Diversity Measures Objectives 2016 • we are committed to equal access to and equivalent remuneration parameters for roles Women employees1 Increase the proportion of women ~23% of comparable value at all levels of our organization; employees to 30% by 2020 • our workplaces promote flexible work practices to support the needs and responsibilities Women senior executives2 Increase the proportion of women ~22% of our people; senior executives to 25% by 2020 • we are all accountable and engaged to create an inclusive work environment where individual difference is understood, respected and fully valued; and Women non-executive Increase the number of women non2 women • we are a diversity and inclusion leader in our industry and community. directors executive directors to three by 2020 The proportions of women non-executive directors, in senior executive positions and 1 This includes both employees and contractors. 2 ‘Senior executives’ comprise all employees and contractors at the CEO-1, CEO-2, CEO-3 and CEO-4 levels. across the whole organization are as set out in the following table: 2016 2015 2014 The Board has determined that, for future reporting periods, the definition Measures % Females % Females % Females of 'senior executives' be changed so that it is limited to the employees and contractors at the CEO-1, CEO-2 and CEO-3 levels. As a result of organizational Women employees1 ~23% ~24% ~25% changes impacting the seniority of roles at the CEO-4 level, the Board believes Women senior executives 2 ~13% ~18% ~18% that the objective of increasing the proportion of women senior executives to 25% by 2020 would be both more challenging and meaningful if the CEO-4 level Women non-executive directors3 ~22% ~25% ~25% were excluded. 1 This includes both the Group's employees and contractors. 2 'Senior executives' means all members of the Group Leadership Team (including the CEO) and all executives reporting directly to a member of that team. 3 The Company has chosen to report the percentage of women non-executive directors rather than the percentage of women board members, because it has only one executive director, the CEO, who is counted as a senior executive. | 29 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Diversity Tracking • launching an internal flexible work campaign to share We track and review diversity within the leadership real stories and examples of our people working in teams (a group of approximately 450 executives) across flexible work arrangements to promote understanding business lines with measures of gender, age, nationalities about flexible working; and languages spoken. The analysis by business line has • cascading ‘Check Yourself, Bias Awareness’ workshops been successfully trialed as a proxy measure of diversity, and informal discussions targeted at middle and will be continued to be used to monitor progress management across a number of offices; across diversity of leaders in FY2017. • launching a global Pledge for Parity campaign for Our people represent 86 diverse nationalities. The table International Women’s Day, which engaged 890 of our below shows the top 10 nationalities: people across 20 countries and 40 locations; • ensuring annual pay reviews are conducted with Nationality Nationality specific attention given to addressing gender pay gaps; • supporting diversity and Women of WorleyParsons 1 Canadian 6 Australian networks across 20 local communities, prompting local 2 American 7 Indonesian activities and progress; 3 Indian 8 British • participating in and contributing to various workshops 4 Malaysian 9 Filipino and forums on diversity, Indigenous issues and human 5 Chinese 10 Kazakhstani rights issues; • developing and supporting women through genderfocused training and leadership skills; and Diversity Activities • continuing our support and funding of external Additional diversity and inclusion activities over the organizations who share our values and objectives reporting period were: around diversity and inclusion; these include: • launching the Diversity and Inclusion Expectations with Robogals (promoting engineering as a career for young a leadership statement and videos; women); • continuing the global Diversity and Inclusion Working Pride in Diversity (an employer support program for Group to provide guidance and support for diversity and lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and/or intersex Closing Pay Gaps between Women and Men inclusion initiatives and promote engagement with local workplace inclusion); networks; Gender pay gap analysis was conducted and actioned the Diversity Council of Australia (an independent upon (as necessary) through the annual pay review • developing an internal diversity scorecard to monitor workplace diversity advisor to business in Australia); processes in order to address remuneration discrepancies and review progress across the expectations for and and/or biases. Gender analysis on other remuneration discussion and action by leaders; the Chief Executive Women’s Program (networking and items was also conducted in the reporting period. leadership skills for high potential women). | 30 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Flexible Workforce Workforce Profile by Age Group 9% Contingent Worker Agency Contractor 6,000 6% Contingent Worker 76% Employee Direct Contractor Full-time 5,000 Number of Employees 5% Employee Casual 4,000 4% Employee Part-time 74% 3,000 78% 2,000 81% 67% Male 1,000 91% 26% Female 84% 33% 22% 16% 19% 0 9% </= 20 20-30 30-40 40-50 50-60 =/> 60 Workforce Profile by Gender Years Years Years Years Years Years Age Group 45,000 Note: This data was derived from available data in our Global Business System and represents 68% of our people. 40,000 35,000 30,000 Number of Employees 25,000 20,000 15,000 75% 75% 75% 76% 77% 10,000 Male 5,000 25% 25% 25% 24% 23% Female 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 | 31 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Case Studies International Women’s Day 2016 A photo competition was held for International Women’s Day inviting our people to submit a photo of their pledge for gender equality. The competition attracted a large response of inspiring photos and powerful pledges from 40 locations. 890 people in our organization shared their belief in gender parity and made a strong pledge towards achieving this. Our CEO, Andrew Wood, started the 'ball rolling' by pledging to encourage equal opportunity and remove bias from our workplace. “Parity is not to compete or rebel against the other gender. It is to attain sameness and to achieve consistent treatment irrespective of gender. Parity can only be achieved through cooperation from both genders. We all have a part to play in sustaining the drive towards our pledge for parity.” The Pledge for Parity from the people of the Lagos office, Nigeria. Parading the streets of Lagos with their contribution to the Pledge for Parity. Filling the Pool Project, Australia WorleyParsons sponsored a ground-breaking research project called Filling the Pool which was facilitated by the Committee for Perth and released in 2015. The project is an exploration of how Western Australian businesses can increase participation rates of female leaders in order to enhance their long term performance. The researchers undertook investigation over a two year period to create a better understanding of why Western Australia compares poorly to other Australian states on female representation in leadership roles. The project provided both WorleyParsons and other organizations information in a local context, where there is currently very little research available, on how to better attract and retain talented women into the business and how to support them reaching their full potential. “Gender equality is a key focus area for WorleyParsons, so it has been encouraging to review the roadmap and to realize it confirms the path we Increasing participation rates of are on as a business. Bradley Andrews, Location Director, Australia West. female leaders. | 32 6 Community 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Community Policies Key Community Outcomes Case Study WorleyParsons is committed to working with our The Group undertook various corporate responsibility customers and suppliers to achieve results that activities in FY2016, including: grow our company, reward our shareholders and Collaborating with Red Cross on • participating directly in and reporting over 460 our people and contribute to our communities. We corporate responsibility activities across 23 Disaster Recovery Programs acknowledge our responsibilities to the communities countries, involving over 8,600 Group personnel; WorleyParsons collaborated with Red Cross to integrate our in which we operate. Our Corporate Responsibility skilled volunteers into their international disaster recovery • supporting local communities through the network Policy outlines our commitments to: Governance, projects, whereby WorleyParsons has been awarded the status of corporate responsibility champions across 65 Ethics and Transparency, Our People, Human Rights, of a 'National Community Partner' with Australian Red Cross. offices as well as ongoing participation in the Community, Fair Operating Practices and Supply Chain Group’s own programs: DeltaAfrik Foundation in This collaboration is the first of its kind for the Red Cross and and Environment. Nigeria, UnitedWay program in Canada and various will provide innovative support to its partner organizations. Our corporate responsibility location and business line corporate responsibility and local social committees; WorleyParsons supported two engineers to work on a waste standard provides guidance to the various corporate management project in northern Philippines. Collecting and • contributing over $530,000 towards educational responsibility location committees and champions. managing waste are very difficult due to the remote location programs over 35 offices; and a lack of infrastructure. It explains how our selected corporate responsibility activities should align to our company values and • providing scholarships amounting to $76,000; The engineers were supported by remote volunteers that beliefs, strategic goals and commitments. It includes • group matching $68,000 of Group personnel meant that a pool of WorleyParsons resources could be utilized guidance in the selection of the type of community fundraising programs in Australia, Canada, Ecuador, for the greater good of disadvantaged communities. projects that the company will pursue. New Zealand and Trinidad; The WorleyParsons collaboration has been great for In general, the recommended inclusions for the • donating 210 liters of blood across eight offices Australian Red Cross. The expertise and extra support selection of community projects are: and 476 participants to local health organizations WorleyParsons have provided helped the project progress and • a direct impact or benefit to the communities where and hospitals; and supported our partners in the Philippines to find solutions to this difficult problem. Catherine Harris, International WorleyParsons has a permanent office or project • participating in and contributing to various Volunteer Partner, Australian Red Cross. site; workshops and forums on diversity, anti-corruption, • measurable benefits and results and explicit Indigenous, ethical supply chain and human rights timeline of commitment; issues. • an opportunity for our people to get involved through volunteered hours or donations; and • an ability for charitable organizations to demonstrate a specific need for support and have sound financial management beyond WorleyParsons’ involvement. | 34 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page In 2013, WorleyParsons established the Four WorleyParsons Foundation projects were WorleyParsons Foundation Council which provides progressed in FY2016: governance to the WorleyParsons Foundation. The • collaboration with the Red Cross for disaster WorleyParsons Foundation Council comprises of recovery in the Philippines, developing models a member from the Group Leadership Team, the for large scale skilled remote volunteering; business line leaders and a corporate responsibility • capability development of Robogals community champion. The WorleyParsons preparedness for global expansion, so they can Foundation Council meets every quarter to assess scale their model to introduce careers in science new WorleyParsons Foundation funding proposals, and technology to schoolgirls across the world; reviews progress of funded projects and nominates activities for awards. • project delivery of a shelter house for preschool children for the community of Island of Queullín, The WorleyParsons Foundation objectives are to: Our in-country WorleyParsons volunteers with the Red Cross Chile; and • support the execution of high impact strategic Philippines. • project delivery of community bore well water, community projects; solar power and school buildings for families in • become a vehicle for direct corporate investment, Kelicha Pada and two further nearby villages, fundraising and volunteering; India. • expand opportunities for Group personnel to A further three projects commenced during be directly or indirectly involved in foundation FY2016: activities; and • selection and provision of Kangaroo Mother Care • raise awareness of WorleyParsons’ corporate support chairs for the National Hospital, Dili, responsibility credentials with its stakeholders. Timor Lesté; The WorleyParsons Foundation recognizes and • support of earthquake disaster recovery with Red acknowledges employees for their personal Cross, Ecuador; and contribution in activities that help promote the • support of wildfires disaster recovery with Red key themes of education, disaster recovery, skilled Cross, Canada. volunteering, diversity and inclusion and enterprise Our people presented with a WorleyParsons Foundation Award. development. Foundation Awards were given to 195 individuals responsible for 81 outstanding corporate responsibility activities across 20 countries aligned to the key themes. | 35 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Case Studies The Laiyuan Project, China Corporate responsibility activity for the Laiyuan primary school was initiated in 2013 and is organized by the graduates of the WorleyParsons China operations. The operations sponsored a reading room and donated more than 1,800 books. More than 100 volunteers from WorleyParsons China have been involved, with 36 employees supporting a one-on-one relationship with 35 disadvantaged children. This year, WorleyParsons China employees visited three primary schools in Yinger, Hehuntai and Zhangjiafen counties in Laiyuan and donated school supplies, stationery, bags, gloves, books, toys, as well as electric kettles and winter clothing to each child. “We are keen to give a helping hand to these children in poverty-stricken areas who can have better living conditions to continue their school studies. We fully support this project initiated by our graduates and help to promote it within the whole company, which reflects our commitment to corporate responsibility.” Karl Qiu, President, China. WorleyParsons employees visiting a primary school. Kangaroo Mother Care, Timor Lesté A team of nine graduates from Australia, India and Oman worked together on a WorleyParsons Foundation project. The aim was to find a flexible seating solution for new parents of premature children using the Kangaroo Mother Care program at a maternity hospital in Dili, Timor Lesté. The graduate team used Design Thinking methodology, promoted through our innovation program to utilize divergent thinking (create choices) and convergent thinking (make choices) to help arrive at a solution and new ideas. The medical team in Dili approved the proposed solution and the chairs selected will be tested at the space-constrained neo-natal unit, followed by full roll out. The Kangaroo Mother Care project taught me to start doing what's necessary to help the parents, then what's possible to brainstorm ideas from different minds, and suddenly you are doing the impossible to work across the globe with different time zones. I do feel happy that I did something for the betterment of mankind. Jeenal Panchal, graduate Process Engineer, Mumbai, India. Space constraints in the maternity hospital in Dili, Timor Lesté. | 36 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page The Value of Social Impact WorleyParsons Community Performance WorleyParsons measures and focuses on those areas that are important to the long term success of its business and are desirable to all of its 30,000 stakeholders. Contributions by WorleyParsons’ people and operations are 4.0 measured in terms of Australian dollar contributions and volunteer time 3.5 25,000 contributions. The direct economic value generated and distributed is as follows: 3.0 20,000 Volunteer Hours Source 1 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2.5 A$ Millions 15,000 Contributions by 2.0 2.67 2.25 3.09 2.32 1.72 operations (A$'M)2 1.5 10,000 Contributions by 1.95 1.90 1.75 1.56 0.85 1.0 personnel (A$'M)2 5,000 0.5 Volunteer hours by 23,748 10,473 18,091 16,302 26,257 personnel (hours)2 0 0 1 Definitions and clarifications 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2 For corporate responsibility activities. A$ Contributed by Personnel1 A$ Contributed by Operations Over 90 percent of our operations are active in implementing local community programs and we continue to investigate methods for the Volunteer Hours measurement and understanding of the lasting social impact assessments 1 Employees and contractors. of our local community projects. No confirmed incidents related to potential or actual negative impacts on local communities for this reporting period. Project Maya skilled volunteering efforts by WorleyParsons India employees. Renovation of dilapidated school in a rural village in Maharashtra, India. | 37 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page WorleyParsons contributes to local communities and regional economies by delivering Case Study solid financial returns to our shareholders, working with local businesses in our supply chain and investing in community organizations. Participation and engagement in corporate responsibility activities have progressed, Kitchen for Oncology Ward, Angola with a core number of locations and business units actively engaged and reporting As part of their corporate responsibility progress on corporate responsibility related activities. Operational contributions and program, WorleyParsons Angola designed and employee fundraising have reduced this year, not surprising with the drop in people installed a kitchen at the Luanda Children’s numbers and overhead cost reductions. However, we have seen contributions of Cancer Hospital to help support children hours for community partners increase, with a practical shift in focus towards skilled undergoing cancer treatment as well as their volunteering and diversity and inclusion themed internal activities, as shown below: families. The WorleyParsons Angola team, which 160 1.2 donated time and materials for the project, Contributions Per Person (A$/person) The kitchen was delivered to Dr Elias took 360 hours to complete the kitchen 140 Volunteer Hours (hours/person) 1.0 of the cancer hospital and his team. conversion with no lost time incidents. The result was a kitchen that can accommodate 120 up to 12 people and is fully equipped with 0.8 100 furniture and cooking accessories. 0.6 The kitchen helps the children who are 80 hospitalized as well as their family members 60 who often come from distant provinces in 0.4 Angola and do not have relatives in Luanda to 40 support them with food and accommodation 0.2 while they stay in Luanda for the entire 20 period of chemotherapy. 0 0.0 This initiative is a great example of our 2014 2015 2016 talented and caring people providing a combination of their specialist skills with Contributions by Personnel Members/Person fundraising and project management ability Contributions by Operations/Person to deliver an outcome for our community. John Armstrong, General Manager, Angola. Volunteer Hours by Personnel Members/Person (community/internal) | 38 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Case Studies Pollinate Energy Young Professionals Program in India and Australia The Pollinate Energy Young Professionals Program is a unique and exciting opportunity to implement change and leverage on our people's expertise and knowledge to help a developing social business through the local Australia East corporate responsibility program. Advisian Associate, Craig Henderson, spent two weeks in Hyderabad providing skilled volunteering to improve the social business processes and train the local ‘Pollinators’ to further develop their business expertise. Pollinate Energy is a not-for-profit social business which through its network of micro-distributors, supplies solar-powered home lighting systems to India's poor living without electricity. “Empowering local social entrepreneurs is a key step in allowing countries like India to address energy poverty. Social entrepreneurs aren’t individual heroes, they rely on the team they build around them and the network they create in order to mobilize change – a network I am now proud to be a part of.” Craig Henderson, Advisian Associate, Australia. Pollinate Energy is a not-for-profit social business in India. Massey Street Children's Hospital Project, Nigeria WorleyParsons operations in Lagos, Nigeria, under the banner of DeltaAfrik Foundation, renovated and refurbished the emergency room of Massey Street Children's Hospital, Lagos Island (the oldest dedicated children's hospital in the country). In addition to renovating the infrastructure and interior, DeltaAfrik Foundation also donated biomedical equipment, a lifesaving suction machine/ oxygen concentrator, beds for newborns and older children, as well as fully-furnished call rooms for doctors and nurses on duty. A total of 35 volunteers from the WorleyParsons operations were involved as skilled volunteers assisting in project management, procurement, needs assessment, vendor appraisals, project site inspections and progress reviews. “This initiative will greatly assist in reducing infant mortality as intensive care for each child will be possible. We say a big thank you to The renovated emergency room of DeltaAfrik Foundation.” Dr Emokpae, Medical Director, Massey Street Children's Hospital, Nigeria. Massey Street Children's Hospital. | 39 7 Human Rights 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Human Rights Policies Key Human Rights Outcomes WorleyParsons’ Human Rights Policy states WorleyParsons’ business principles and Key human rights outcomes for this reporting period included: confirms our commitment to respect the basic rights of the people we deal with and • commenced an assessment of salient human rights issues across our operations, not be complicit or engage in activities that solicit or encourage human rights abuse. projects, contractors and suppliers; The policy applies to all WorleyParsons’ employees and extends to all our business • continued the practice of conducting corruption risk assessments at several high risk dealings and transactions in all countries in which we operate. locations; The objectives from the Human Rights Policy are to: • refined project delivery process to further incorporate human rights on key projects; • support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and • conducted ethical business practice assessments across five countries; make sure that we are not complicit with human rights abuses; • reviewed our business exposure and impact of human rights as part of our annual • align with the United Nations Human Rights Council’s Guiding Principles on Business global risk assessment; and Human Rights and our Supply Chain Code of Conduct; and • achieved ongoing participation and contribution from key employees on the ‘Human • demonstrate and acknowledge our commitment to uphold human rights, to our Rights Leadership Group for Business’ workshops held by the United Nations Global people, stakeholders and communities. Compact Network Australia in Melbourne and Sydney; and WorleyParsons’ Code of Conduct sets out the standards for professional behavior • provided ongoing support to community minority groups via business forums, that we expect all of our people and partners to uphold in seeking to ensure that mentoring and internship job opportunities. WorleyParsons’ reputation is protected. The code has been translated into Arabic, Bulgarian, French, Hindi, Indonesian, Kazakh, Malay, Mandarin, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Tagalog, Thai and Vietnamese. | 41 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Ethical Commitments • no discrimination is practiced; WorleyParsons is committed to high standards of business ethics, as reflected in our • no harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed; Code of Conduct, and to best practice and continuous improvement in the broader • businesses operate ethically; sustainability performance of our business and projects. We are a signatory to the • no unauthorized sub-contracting is allowed; and United Nations Global Compact, which aligns our practices with the 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environment and • due regard is given to environmental impacts. anti-corruption. Non-Discrimination Our commitments are aligned to the Ethical Trade Initiative (ETI) and International Labour Organization (ILO) conventions, and require: WorleyParsons’ Code of Conduct outlines that it is vital our workplace is free from all forms of harassment, discrimination and intimidation. Behaviors, such as sexual • local laws are respected; advances, bullying, hostility, abusive language, physical violence or the threat of • employment is freely chosen; physical violence, are not tolerated within our company. • child labor shall not be used; WorleyParsons’ policies and business practices are compliant with the applicable • illegal labor shall not be used; national and local labor standards of the countries in which we operate. Our People • appropriate wages are paid; Policy and Diversity and Inclusion Policy underline our commitment as an equal opportunity employer and do not discriminate on grounds of race, gender, marital • working hours are not excessive; status, creed or disability. • freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are respected; A number of incidents of discrimination and harrassment were reported and • working conditions are safe and hygienic; investigated during the reporting period. Case Study Responsibility for Human Rights in Our Supply Chain, Kazakhstan WorleyParsons Kazakhstan operations have always taken social responsibility seriously and are committed to caring for their contractors, including meeting internationally-recognized human right commitments. Location leaders took action when made aware employees of their office cleaning contractors received delayed salary payments over a period of time. A meeting with our contractors explaining expectations sped up the settlement of the issue and all contractor staff received their salary payments immediately. “As part of corporate responsibility, we are committed to look after our contractors and ensure timely payments for the services they provide.” Tatiana Sugrue, Corporate Responsibility Champion, Kazakhstan. Good business practice includes taking action to lead suppliers to better ethical, social and environmental performance. | 42 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Freedom of Association and Collective Security Practices Child, Forced and Compulsory Labor Bargaining WorleyParsons’ Ready, Response and Recovery (R3) WorleyParsons does not engage in, or condone, WorleyParsons’ Code of Conduct and Human Rights System is an integrated business resilience and any form of child, forced or compulsory labor. Policy state our business principles and confirm critical incident management tool that includes our WorleyParsons’ Human Rights Policy, Code of Conduct our commitment to fair working conditions. They approach to crisis, emergency, business continuity and and Supply Chain Code of Conduct each confirm acknowledge our businesses operate under freedom security management. WorleyParsons’ commitment to respect the basic of association principles and comply with local Our R3 System incorporates security arrangements rights of the people we deal with and not be complicit regulations that align with local human resources in accordance with human rights principles for law or engage in activities that solicit or encourage professional body associations around the world. enforcement and the use of force. It also ensures that human rights abuse. No confirmed incidents related to violations of the safety of our people is protected when they travel WorleyParsons’ employee Code of Conduct clearly freedom of association and collective bargaining were overseas. states ’We respect the basic rights of the people reported during the reporting period. we deal with and will not engage in activities that Indigenous Rights encourage human rights abuses. We do not employ or WorleyParsons is a strong supporter of Indigenous condone forced, bonded or child labor.’ rights and has supported activities such as cultural No confirmed incidents related to child, forced or festivals, art awards, Indigenous education compulsory labor were reported during the reporting sponsorships and community engagement activities period. in Australia, Canada and the United States. No confirmed incidents related to violations of Indigenous people rights were reported during the reporting period. Case Study Advisian Volunteers and Technology Helping Refugees in Kenya, Canada Seven Advisian employees, led by Principal Geophysicist, Paul Bauman, volunteered their time to find safe groundwater for approximately 185,000 refugees living in the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) Kakuma Camp near the borders of Uganda, South Sudan, and Ethiopia. Using electrical resistivity tomography and seismic refraction surveys, the team located new and safer sources of drinkable groundwater to supply the local community, which are currently being used by the UNHCR to guide their groundwater drilling program. Paul Bauman was awarded with a prestigious Community Service Award by the Association of Professional Engineering and Geoscientists of Alberta. The water supply situation is very difficult at the Kakuma Refugee Camp, with most areas receiving 12 to 17 liters of water per person per day and water quality in many areas of the camp is poor due to elevated fluoride and salt concentrations.” Paul Bauman, Advisian Geophysics Advisian geophysicist performing an electrical resistivity tomography survey Technical Director, Canada. to find new groundwater sources. | 43 8 Supply Chain 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Supply Chain Policies Supply Chain Outcomes WorleyParsons’ Code of Conduct and ethics in practice Our key fair operating practices and supply chain • maintained tools and processes for assessing and are described in Section 3. outcomes for this reporting period were: selecting suppliers and contractors. Our minimum and preferred requirements for Suppliers • commenced an assessment of salient human rights Risk management is an integral aspect of our day-toand Contractors are set out in the Supply Chain Code issues across our suppliers and contractors; day business practice and project delivery services. of Conduct. The areas covered include corporate • applied sustainable procurement and contractor Refer to Section 3 for Governance, Ethics and governance and ethics, labor/workplace management, management processes to key projects; and Transparency that applies to our Supply Chain. occupational health and safety, environment, suppliers and community engagement. WorleyParsons favors suppliers and contractors who Sourcing Services Procurement Services share our commitment to: Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4 • supporting corporate responsibility; • supporting human rights and fair employment Sourcing Sourcing Planning Supply Chain practices; Strategy and Execution Optimization • maintaining and improving the work environment so Negotiation Spend Strategy and Supplier Supplier Supplier Order Regularly that it is safe and healthy for all staff and visitors; and Contract Analysis Roadmap ID Evaluation Integration Fulfillment Monitoring Finalization • conducting their business operations in a way that protects and sustains the environment; Assign Supply Market Manage Supplier/ • adopting similar principles and practices to those Team Intelligence Customer Transition in the code in selecting, monitoring and managing Understand Customers' Identify Potential Order Offering their own suppliers and contractors; and Business Requirements Suppliers Management Contract • understanding their responsibility to the local Compliance Spend Analysis Supplier Capability Assessment Demand vs Supply communities on which they have an impact and from which they profit. Our approach is to Critical Category Bidding Invoicing, Reconciliation understand the issues facing the communities Analysis Strategy and Payment in which we operate, and to endeavor to conduct Risk Assessment Competitive Analysis Warehouse Management business in a way that builds social capital and achieves a positive impact. Identify Key Leverage Points Price Negotiation Shipment Tracking Delivery Define Strategy and Finalize Contract Spares Compliance All our project procurement and contracting teams operate from the guidance provided in our policies and Roadmap Agreement Management standards for procurement and contracts, by which End-to-End Supply Chain Solutions goods and services are acquired by WorleyParsons. | 45 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Sustainable Project Delivery Economic Development of Our Supply Chain “At Alderon, we are committed to supporting Procurement of equipment, supplies, and contractors can In order to promote opportunities for local and underjob opportunities and economic development represented groups, we have adapted our procurement have a significant impact on the sustainability of a project. processes to track, manage and promote the inclusion of for the local communities where we work. Supporting local suppliers, contractors, and workers aids local communities. The procurement team can support WorleyParsons’ people and systems have the development of skills and capabilities, and provides helped us to efficiently integrate these goals economic development by: economic benefits to the local community. • providing training and delivering supplier information into our supply chain and subcontracts, and During the contracting stage, integrating the economic, environmental and social development objectives into sessions for small local companies that may not have have provided us with transparent reporting tender documents and contracts ensures that contractors the required experience and skills to work on large EPCM to demonstrate the impact of our efforts. It’s projects but are interested in opportunities; the extra effort, like their support for local and suppliers understand all project constraints and goals. These proactive actions minimize the risk of unnecessary • creating small bid packages to allow local firms to bid on workshops and training with local suppliers, work; schedule delays and change orders as work progresses. that goes beyond traditional procurement • creating a project-specific procurement website for We have developed sustainable procurement procedures and is a key part of how we are delivering a to support our customers with a wide range of projects firms to upload their capabilities and learn about opportunities; sustainable project.” including greenfield mine developments, offshore oil platforms, and fabrication shops. • allowing for training and skills development to be Bernard Potvin, Executive Vice President Project Delivery, incorporated into work packages; and Alderon Iron Ore Corporation. • using a bid scoring system that can help provide employment for the local community. Case Study WorleyParsons’ Gift Register Gift giving between business associates is common in many cultures and industries in which we work. WorleyParsons promotes the use of the Gifts, Entertainment and Hospitality Standard and the Gift Register to support our commitment towards ethical conduct and compliance with the law. The standard explains our expectations in regard to giving and receiving gifts, entertainment and hospitality. All appropriate gifts must be properly controlled and recorded. To enable WorleyParsons to be transparent and monitor gift giving and receiving, business line leaders are responsible for promoting and WorleyParsons’ promotes the use of the Gift Register. maintaining the gift register for their business line. WorleyParsons also expects all its agents and joint ventures to comply with our rules on gifts. | 46 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Assessing and Selecting Suppliers WorleyParsons assesses suppliers for our operational Supplier Assessment In 2012, WorleyParsons released a Supply Chain Code businesses as well as our project delivery services, No reported impacts from labor practices, human of Conduct, which expanded on our employee Code of often representing our customers. Various tools rights, community and environment in the supply Conduct. The Supply Chain Code of Conduct includes track supplier performance and key metrics, with our chain were identified in this reporting period. criteria for minimum standards. We use these criteria supplier portal developed for project delivery services. during supplier selection processes at both the WorleyParsons has a supplier portal which tracks key Supplier Grievance Mechanisms corporate and individual project level. information on our suppliers and contractors, including There are currently no formal supplier grievance Across our industries and operations, there are some information on their sustainable practices. mechanisms available for labor practices, human opportunities to lead suppliers to better ethical, social Suppliers self-register and provide information on rights, community and environment. and environmental performance. There are increasing their performance in corporate governance and ethics, expectations to be transparent on selection labor/workplace management, occupational health processes, expose breaches and encourage ethical and safety, environment, suppliers and community conduct where we have influence within our own and engagement. customers’ supply chains. Recently, we have been asked to provide further information on our approach to ethical and sustainable procurement and respond to the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. Top 10 Supplier Registrations per Country Local content plans are in place in many countries where there are legislative requirements for local content of both suppliers and employees. Canada 1,032 Sometimes, it is our customers who are the United States 913 contracting party, and we are managing or supporting Australia 601 their purchases and/or subcontracts in circumstances United Kingdom 432 where they do not have their own equivalent contract China 363 provisions. Where this occurs, WorleyParsons offers 320 South Africa its own Code of Conduct and Supply Chain Code of 246 Chile Conduct and associated sustainable procurement 236 India 221 United Arab Emirates processes. 149 Malaysia | 47 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Case Study WorleyParsons Ethical and Sustainable Procurement Across our industries and operations, WorleyParsons is seeing an opportunity to lead suppliers to better ethical, social and environmental performance. There are increasing expectations to be transparent on selection processes, expose breaches and encourage ethical conduct where we have influence within our own and customers’ supply chains. WorleyParsons is committed to high standards of business ethics, as reflected in our own employee Code of Conduct, and to best practice and continuous improvement in the broader sustainability performance of our business and projects. We are a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, which aligns our practices with the 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption. “We aim to operate responsibly wherever we work in the world and commit to engaging with our stakeholders to manage the social, economic All our policies apply to all WorleyParsons’ employees. and environmental impacts of our activities.” Marni Oaten, Corporate Responsibility Director, Global. | 48 9 Environment 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Environmental Policies Key Environmental Outcomes • encouraged our employees’ participation WorleyParsons is committed to our vision of Zero Our key environmental outcomes for this reporting in environmental activities including bush Harm to people and assets and zero environmental period included: regeneration, waste and recycling programs and incidents. Our company-wide (HSE) Policy highlights trail cleanup activities across a number of countries; • continued focus on our FY2016 energy target for a our commitment towards the environment as follows: and 2.5% reduction of total carbon dioxide equivalents • complying with all applicable laws, regulations and (tCO2-e) against the base year FY2014. This target • maintained active ISO 14001 Environmental standards and customer requirements and applying applies to work conducted within WorleyParsons Management System certification for approximately company standards where laws do not exist; offices only, and excludes any work conducted at 20% of our global operations based on offices/ project sites or customer or non-WorleyParsons locations. We now have achieved ISO 14001 • consulting and seeking contributions from our controlled premises. The target excludes any certification in 11 locations, an increase of one from people on issues that have the potential to affect mergers or acquisitions made in FY2015 and the previous reporting period. the environment and their health and safety; FY2016; Overall Environmental Expenditures and • identifying, assessing and managing risks that impact HSE prior to commencing activities and • participated voluntarily and on an ongoing basis Investment when circumstances change; in Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) monitoring and WorleyParsons people have contributed more than measurement of our environmental performance • fostering a culture that empowers and supports $76,000 towards environmental activities including: since 2009, with consistent improvement in energy anyone intervening to safeguard people and to • environmental protection, biodiversity and and water management under the CDP; protect the environment; restoration of habitat (Great Canadian Shoreline • commenced the process to deregister under • requiring our suppliers and contractors to manage Cleanup, Burnaby); the Australian National Greenhouse and Energy health, safety and the environment using relevant • climate change mitigation and adaption (World Reporting Act 2007 as the corporate threshold was international standards and practices that align Environment Day, Oman); and not exceeded in FY2016; with our own; and • ensured our suppliers and contractors adhere to our • sustainable environmental resource use (one hour • driving continual improvement in HSE performance lights-off at noon, China). minimum and preferred expectations to conduct through open reporting, effective assessment their business operations in a way that protects and Additionally, our employees volunteered 360 hours and analysis of our performance, leadership and sustains the environment; towards work supporting environmental initiatives engagement with our stakeholders. • reduced the carbon footprint across a number of such as those described above. As well as reduced offices by encouraging use of public transport, or offset environmental impacts, the benefits to recycling and smart printing; WorleyParsons from these projects include: • initiated a global energy reduction program, working • enhanced employee engagement; with the locations with the largest energy footprint, • increased positive community relationships; and setting targets and selecting high impact changes • enhanced recruitment marketing. to implement in the next reporting period; • continued office space consolidation in FY2016 with ongoing consolidation in FY2017. This includes application of minimal density office layouts; | 50 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Renewable Energy Capabilities rtesy PowerChina Photo: Cou rtesy Westermee WorleyParsons works extensively across the renewable P ho to: Cou rwin d energy industry for a wide range of customers. Our roles are diverse, mirroring the complexity of our business and the expertise we can offer, ranging from small, discrete consultancies to management of full project delivery. Distributed Our specialists' expertise spans the renewable energy Offshore Energy Large Scale Power Westermeerwind Delivery technologies spectrum including solar, wind, bio-energy, Energy Storage Wind Project, Lake Turkana Xi-Xian High-Tech Zone, China geothermal, hydro, energy storage, and others in the Compressed Air Storage, USA The Netherlands Wind Farm, Kenya research and development phases. Making decisions about renewables – where to invest, what technologies, and how to integrate, finance and deploy them. Advisian assists clients to transition from energy systems of the past to those of the future. We are technology neutral, globally agile and pragmatic, leveraging off our legacy power experience and broad group network. Program Management Chinco Solar PV Project, USA Plant Operations Starfish Hill Wind Farm, Australia (through Transfield Worley Power Services) y Angelo Leithold CC B to: B Y-S Pho A 3.0 Courtesy Vast So Photo: l ar ourtesy KISR Photo: C Photo: Courtesy Abengoa Mega Projects 14 GW Repowering, Itiapu Project, Brazil Research and New Technology Delivery Program Management Development Support Khi Solar Tower, South Africa Shagaya Renewable Precinct, Kuwait Vast Solar Pilot Plant, Australia | 51 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Integration of Climate Change in WorleyParsons and Advisian have achieved Business Strategy market leadership through our EcoNomics™ offering, working with our customers for more Case Study Our teams respond to climate change related than six years to help them manage the tradeexpectations from our customers, investors, employees and regulation in the geographies off between financial and non-financial costs WorleyParsons' Global Energy Efficiency Program and benefits. During this period, emissions in which we operate. As a result, over the past The WorleyParsons Energy Efficiency Program is being have always been a significant influence on five years, our energy performance has been implemented across selected locations. The program the outcomes of these assessments. Our tracked by a global energy and greenhouse has been established to reduce energy and resources assistance has allowed our customers to make data collection system using our network of which in turn will support our Corporate Responsibility investment decisions that are sympathetic to HSE and sustainability professionals to collect Policy and environmental performance. the long term impacts of climate change. and upload the required data. Implementation has been at the major WorleyParsons The most substantial business decisions offices that combine to contribute approximately 60% Our business has also recognized that made by WorleyParsons in response to climate of our total carbon footprint. regulatory requirements and technology cost change regulatory changes, current and future, Presently, volunteer representatives are working curves will increase demand for low carbon WorleyParsons' Global Energy Efficiency Program was were to: launched in 2014. on implementing location-specific Energy Efficiency solutions now and increasingly in the coming years, and has ensured that we remain at • take a leadership position on carbon capture Plans. Participation not only stems from our internal and sequestration by forming a consortium champions and managers, but we are seeking the forefront of developments in renewable to produce the foundation reports for the involvement from all employees. Our communal efforts energy, carbon capture, energy efficiency and will not only enable us to do our part in conserving the alternative fuels. Global Carbon Capture and Storage Institute; environment, but also reduce operational costs and and The resulting short term strategy is influenced send a message to the market that we are competitive by climate related regulation and our • developing world leading capabilities in the from the corporate responsibility aspect. customers. Our customers demand services delivery of solar thermal energy and energy Energy efficiency initiatives include new and ongoing that cost effectively reduce their emissions. We storage technologies. activities as follows: are working with customers on technologies In FY2016, we introduced a new initiative • identification of opportunities for office space that are commercially viable today, such as called The New Energy Future, that refers to consolidation; waste heat energy recovery, wind and solar opportunities from disruptions in the energy • increase in application of minimal density office energy, and solutions for the next few years sector. It will support a lower carbon future layouts; such as solar thermal energy and energy ie. solar generation, smart grid and data • active ISO 14001 certification offices/locations; storage. management, electric vehicles and battery • updating of flexible work policies and training, Our long term strategy is influenced by how storage, community micro grid power, etc. encouraging appropriate use of ‘work from home’ climate change will impact our customers' arrangements; and businesses. We recognize the need for • improvement in data collection processes and different solutions in the future for mitigation comprehensive coverage of all offices. of emissions and appropriate risk assessment approaches to ensure that assets being The most significant reductions in FY2016 were linked to office consolidation across many locations developed will be designed to suit likely future including Calgary, Edmonton, Houston, Los Angeles, market and climatic conditions. London and Melbourne. | 52 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Energy Performance Energy Consumption The Group completed a response for the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for FY2015 which was reported in June 2016. The Group’s energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions were recorded to assist the Group to measure and reduce its energy 350,000 consumption and to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. The data collection and 300,000 analysis stimulated energy and carbon reduction measures in the global energy 250,000 efficiency program in selected offices. The company also completed a CDP response in respect of its water use for FY2015. 200,000 Refer to the chart on this page for greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption MWh 150,000 trends for the years ending 30 June 2011 through to the year ending 30 June 2015. The Group is in the process of deregistering under the Australian National Greenhouse 100,000 and Energy Reporting Act 2007 as the corporate threshold was not exceeded in 50,000 FY2016, with the sale of Exmouth Power Station finalized in July 2015. 0 Our energy target for FY2016 was set at 2.5% reduction of tCO2-e against the base 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 year FY2014. In FY2015, a reduction of 17% indicates progress well ahead of the two year target. Scope 1 178,344 192,724 195,978 145,082 171,169 For the first year in FY2015, Scope 3 Energy results were reported in the Group's Scope 2 85,043 83,826 92,623 110,656 74,873 Carbon Disclosure Reporting. The results only cover business air travel data collected Scope 3 n/a n/a n/a n/a 13,416 from 14 countries in which we operate, covering approximately 50% of our people. Emissions factors were used to calculate based on distance traveled. Emissions factors were applied in the country of origin by the airlines and travel service providers and were sourced from the greenhouse gas protocol: long haul flights 0.177 kg CO2-e/mile, and medium 0.203 kg CO2-e/mile, short 0.290 kg CO2-e/mile. Air travel is included in this analysis, while land transport has not been considered. Environmental Compliance The company did not receive any environmental fines or non-monetary sanctions for this reporting period. | 53 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Energy Intensity Energy Inclusions In WorleyParsons, we benchmark our energy intensity ratios with those of our peers Energy consumption within WorleyParsons can be allocated into two categories, by normalizing our data per person (employees and contractors). As a professional being direct energy consumption (Scope 1) and indirect energy consumption (Scope services business, it is appropriate that our intensity is measured against our 2). Energy consumption outside WorleyParsons is captured under other energy most important resource, our people. Additionally, to ensure our energy intensity consumption (Scope 3). measurements are meaningful to a range of stakeholders, we provide our energy Direct energy consumption (Scope 1) is defined as being the consumption from sources intensity ratio to revenue. Energy intensity is calculated for both our direct energy whether non-renewable or renewable that are owned or controlled by the reporting consumption (Scope 1) and indirect energy consumption (Scope 2). entity. Indirect energy consumption (Scope 2) is purchased energy generated offsite Scope 1 and 2 MWh per employee (full-time equivalent (FTE)) for the last five years are which is exported to our offices in the form of electricity, steam or fuel. Other energy shown below. While Scope 1 energy intensity per employee (including petrol, diesel, consumption (Scope 3) is defined as any other energy consumption not captured under LPG, etc.) has decreased, Scope 2 energy intensity per employee (electricity use) has Scope 1 or Scope 2. increased in the past reporting period. However, there is a steady decline in the total For WorleyParsons, our Scope 1 energy consumption can be divided into three: energy intensity ratio to revenue since 2011. stationary consumption from our offices, company owned vehicles and our subcontracted agreement to operate Exmouth Power Station. For Scope 2, the energy consumption can be divided into direct cooling and heating and electricity consumption Energy Intensity by Employee from the grid. In the future, we will identify Scope 3 emissions upstream or downstream of our supply chain. Location Offices 9.00 Each of our global offices consumes fuel for cooling and/or heating purposes and is a 8.00 focal point for transportation of our employees to project sites and customer offices. 7.00 MWh/Employee FTE Exmouth Power Station 6.00 Exmouth Power Station is a gas-fired power station that is located in the northwest 5.00 of Western Australia. The power station has reliable generating capacity of 6 MW for supply to Western Power’s residential and business customers in Exmouth. This facility 4.00 was sold during the FY2016 reporting period. 3.00 2.00 1.00 0.00 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Energy Intensity 8.38 7.01 7.25 7.18 7.84 | 54 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Greenhouse Gas Emissions Our total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight are divided Emissions Intensity by Employee FTE into two categories, being our location offices (including company owned 3.5 vehicles) and Exmouth Power Station. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (resulting from electricity usage and direct cooling and heating) are included 3 tCo2-e/Employee FTE in the emissions calculation. 2.5 Overall 2 The total greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2-e) are shown in the chart below: 1.5 1 Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions 0.5 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 140 Emissions Intensity 2.57 2.80 2.36 2.54 2.90 2.68 120 tCo2-e/Thousands 100 80 Emissions Intensity by Revenue 60 40 18 20 16 0 14 tCo2-e/A$ Millions 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 12 Total Emissions* 77,043 97,840 96,168 101,085 101,415 84,091 10 *Total Scope 1 and 2 Emissions. 8 6 4 2 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Emissions Intensity 16.00 17.00 13.06 13.25 13.77 11.63 | 55 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page Water As predominantly an office based business, our water consumption is measured either through water bills or average water consumption assumptions. The water is source surface water harvested and distributed by local municipal water suppliers. Water Consumption Water Intensity per Employee FTE 800 0.025 700 0.020 ML/Employee FTE 600 500 0.015 ML 400 300 0.010 200 0.005 100 0 0.000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Water 288 752 457 444 401 295 Water Intensity 0.010 0.021 0.010 0.011 0.011 0.009 Water Intensity by Revenue 0.14 0.12 0.1 ML/A$ Millions 0.08 0.06 0.04 0.02 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Water Intensity 0.06 0.13 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.04 | 56 10 GRI 4.0 Content Index 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page GRI 4.0 Content Index GRI Indicators DMA – Disclosure of Management Approach HR Social Performance – Human Rights DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL LA Social Performance – Labor Practices SO Social Performance – Society ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE and Decent Work EN Environmental Performance G4-10 Size of the organization workforce About Us Included EC Economic Performance PR Social Performance – G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by Not applicable Product Responsibility collective bargaining agreements Reporting Level Included, Partially included, Not included, Not applicable G4-12 Organization supply chain Supply Chain Included G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting Annual Report Included DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL period regarding organization size, structure, STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS ownership, or its supply chain G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker Chief Executive Included G4-14 Organization precautionary approach or Corporate Included of the organization Officer Statement principle Governance Statement G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and Annual Report Included opportunities G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental Global Included Corporate and social charters, principles, or other Endorsement and Governance initiatives to which the organization subscribes Memberships Statement or which it endorses ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-16 Membership of associations (such as industry Global Included G4-3 Name of the organization About Us Included associations) and national or international Endorsement and advocacy organizations Memberships G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services About Us Included IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters About Us Included G4-17 List of all entities included in the organization’s Annual Report Included consolidated financial statements or equivalent G4-6 Number of countries where the organization About Us Included documents operates, and name of countries where either G4-18 Process for defining report content and the CR Materiality Included the organization has significant operations aspect boundaries or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-19 List of all material aspects in the process for CR Materiality Included defining report content G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form About Us Included G4-20 Report the aspect boundary within the CR Materiality Included G4-8 Markets served (including geographic Annual Report Included organization for each material aspect breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) G4-9 Scale of the organization About Us Included | 58 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES GOVERNANCE G4-21 Report the aspect boundary outside the CR Materiality Included G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, Governance, Ethics Included organization for each material aspect including committees and Transparency G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any restatements Not applicable G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, Delegation of Included of information provided in previous reports, and environmental and social topics from the Authority the reasons for such restatements highest governance body to senior executives and other employees G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting CR Materiality Included periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries G4-36 Appointment of executive-level position or Governance Included positions with responsibility for economic, Structure STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT environmental and social topics and whether G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the CR Materiality Included post holders report directly to the highest organization Assessment governance body G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of CR Materiality Included G4-37 Consultation process between stakeholders Delegation of Included stakeholders Assessment and the highest governance body on economic, Authority environmental and social topics G4-26 Organization approach to stakeholder CR Materiality Included G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body Corporate Included engagement, including frequency of Assessment and its committees Governance engagement Statement G4-39 Indicate whether Chair of the highest Corporate Included governance body is also an executive officer Governance G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised CR Materiality Included Statement through stakeholder engagement Assessment G4-40 Nomination and selection process for the Corporate Included REPORT PROFILE highest governance body and its committees Governance G4-28 Reporting period (eg. fiscal/calendar year) for About this Report Included and the criteria used for nominating and Statement information provided selecting highest governance body members G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) About this Report Included G4-41 Processes for highest governance body to Corporate Included ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and Governance G4-30 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial) About this Report Included managed Statement G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report Keep in touch Included G4-42 Highest governance body’s and senior Corporate Included or its contents executives’ roles in the development, approval, Governance G4-32 Table identifying the table of the Standard About this Report Included and updating of the organization’s purpose, Statement Disclosures in the report value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, G4-33 External assurance for report About this Report Included environmental and social impacts G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance Corporate Included the highest governance body’s collective Governance knowledge of economic, environmental and Statement social topics | 59 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE G4-44 Processes for evaluation of the highest Corporate Included G4-53 Stakeholders’ views sought and taken into Remuneration Included governance body’s performance with respect Governance account regarding remuneration, including the Report to governance of economic, environmental and Statement results of votes on remuneration policies and social topics proposals, if applicable G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the Corporate Included G4-54 Ratio of annual total compensation for the Not included identification and management of economic, Governance organization’s highest-paid individual in each environmental and social impact, risks and Statement country of significant operations to the median opportunities annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing Corporate Included same country the effectiveness of the organization’s Governance risk management processes for economic, Statement G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total Not included environmental and social topics compensation for the organization’s highestpaid individual in each country of significant G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s Corporate Included operations to the median percentage increase review of economic, environmental and social Governance in annual total compensation for all employees impacts, risks and opportunities Statement (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally About this Report Included same country reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all ETHICS AND INTEGRITY material aspects are covered G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and Good Business Included G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to Board Included norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and Practices and the highest governance body Communications codes of ethics Ethics G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns Corporate Partially G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking Good Business Included that were communicated to the highest Governance included advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and Practices and governance body and the mechanism(s) used to Statement matters related to organizational integrity, such Ethics address and resolve them as helplines or advice lines G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest Remuneration Included G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting Good Business Included governance body and senior executives and Report concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, Practices and performance criteria in the remuneration policy and matters related to organizational integrity, Ethics related to the highest governance body’s and such as escalation through line management, senior executives’ economic, environmental and whistle blowing mechanisms or hotlines social objectives G4-52 Process for determining remuneration Remuneration Included Report | 60 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Training and Education Our People G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per Knowledge Partially employee by gender, and by employee category building of our included G4-DMA LA Material aspects and how the organization Our People Included employees manages Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Good Business G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and Knowledge Included Practices and lifelong learning that support the continued building of our Ethics employability of employees and assist them in employees managing career endings Employment G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular Performance Patrially G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires Our People Partially performance and career development reviews, Reviews included and employee turnover by age group, gender, included by gender and by employee category and region Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Employee Benefits Included are not provided to temporary or part-time G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and Diversity and Included employees, by significant locations of operation breakdown of employees per category Equal Opportunity according to gender, age group, minority group G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after Employee Benefits Partially Diversity Tracking membership, and other indicators of diversity parental leave by gender included Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Labor/Management Relations G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by Closing Pay Gaps Partially G4-LA4 Minimum notice period regarding operational Labor and Partially employee category, by significant locations of Between Women included changes including whether these are specified Management included operation and Men in collective agreements Relations Supplier Practices and Labor Practices Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were Assessing and Included G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in Workplace Health Included screened using labor practices criteria Selecting Suppliers formal joint management-worker health and and Safety safety committees that help monitor and advice G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative Supplier Included on occupational health and safety programs impacts for labor practices in the supply chain Assessment and actions taken G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational Workplace Health Included diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total and Safety Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms number of work-related fatalities, by region and G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices Good Business Included by gender filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Practices and G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of Not applicable grievance mechanisms Ethics diseases related to their occupation Human Rights G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal Not applicable agreements with trade unions | 61 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL ECONOMIC HUMAN RIGHTS Community Human Rights G4-DMA EC Material aspects and how the organization Economic Included G4-DMA HR Material aspects and how the organization Human Rights Included manages ‘Economic Performance’ manages ‘Human Rights’ Economic Performance Investment G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and Economic Included G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant Human Rights Partially distributed investment agreements and contracts that included include human rights clauses or that underwent Sustainable human rights screening Project Delivery G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Annual Report Included opportunities for the organization's activities G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human Human Rights Partially due to climate change Integration of rights policies or procedures concerning aspects included Climate Change of human rights that are relevant to operations, Talent and Business including the percentage of employees trained Management Strategy Non-Discrimination G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit Employee Included plan obligations Benefits G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Non-Discrimination Included actions taken Annual Report Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Annual Report Included G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the Freedom of Included Market Presence right to exercise freedom of association and Association G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage compared Not included collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and Collective to local minimum wage at significant locations and actions taken to support these rights Bargaining of operation Child Labor G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from Diversity Tracking Partially G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having Child, Forced and Included the local community at significant locations of included significant risk for incidents of child labor, and Compulsory Labor operation measures taken to contribute to the effective Indirect Economic Impacts abolition of child labor G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure Economic Partially Forced or Compulsory Labor investments and services supported included G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having Child, Forced and Included G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including Economic Included significant risk for incidents of forced or Compulsory Labor the extent of impacts compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at Supply Chain Partially significant locations of operation included | 62 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL Security Practices Local Communities G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Security Practices Included G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented Community Included organization's policies or procedures concerning local community engagement, impact aspects of human rights that are relevant to assessments, and development programs Value of Social operations Impact Indigenous Rights G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential Community Included negative impacts on local communities G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving Indigenous Rights Included rights of Indigenous people and actions taken Anti-Corruption Assessment G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations Bribery Partially assessed for risk related to corruption and the included G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that Human Rights Included significant risks identified have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption Bribery Included policies and procedures Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions Bribery Included taken G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were Assessing and Included screened using human rights criteria Selecting Suppliers Public Policy Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country Public Policy Included and recipient/beneficiary G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human Supplier Included Anti-Competitive Behavior rights impacts in the supply chain and actions Assessment G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for antiAnti-Competitive Included taken competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly Behavior Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms practices and their outcomes Compliance G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights Supplier Grievance Included G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total Law and Included impacts filed, addressed and resolved through Mechanisms number of non-monetary sanctions for nonRegulation formal grievance mechanisms compliance with laws and regulations Compliance SOCIETY Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Fair Operating Practices and Supply Chain G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were Assessing Included screened using criteria for impacts on society and Selecting G4-DMA SO Material aspects and how the organization Supply Chain Included Suppliers manages 'Fair Operating Practices and Supply Chain' | 63 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Water G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative Supplier Included G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water Included impacts on society in the supply chain and Assessment G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by Not applicable actions taken withdrawal of water Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled Not applicable G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society Supplier Grievance Not included and reused field, addressed, and resolved through formal Mechanisms Biodiversity grievance mechanisms G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or Not applicable ENVIRONMENTAL adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Environment G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, Not applicable G4-DMA EN Material aspects and how the organization Environment Included products, and services on biodiversity in protected manages 'Environment' areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside Materials protected areas G4-EN1 Material used by weight or volume Not applicable G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Not applicable G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Not applicable G4-EN14 Total number of species and national conservation Not applicable input materials list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Energy G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Greenhouse Gas Included G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Energy Included Emissions Performance G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Greenhouse Gas Included G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Energy Included Emissions Performance G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Not included G4-EN5 Energy intensity Energy Intensity Included (Scope 3) G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Key Environmental Included G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Greenhouse Included Outcomes Gas Emissions Case Study: Intensity WorleyParsons G4-EN19 Greenhouse Gas Not included Energy Efficiency Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Emissions Program G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Not included G4-EN7 Reduction in energy requirements of products Not included and services G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Not included | 64 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL Effluents and Waste Overall G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and Not included G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures Not included destination and investments by type G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Not included G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were Assessing and Included method screened using environmental criteria Selecting Suppliers G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Not included G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative Supplier Included environmental impacts in the supply chain and Assessment G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or Not included actions taken treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, Environmental Grievance Mechanisms and VIII, and percentage of transported waste G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental Supplier Grievance Not included shipped internationally impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through Mechanisms G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity Not included formal grievance mechanisms value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY organization's discharges of water and runoff Not applicable Products and Services G4-DMA PR Material aspects and how the organization Not applicable G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental Renewable Energy Included manages 'Product Responsibility' impacts of products and services Capabilities Customer Health and Safety G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their Not applicable G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service Not applicable packaging materials that are reclaimed by categories for which health and safety impacts category are assessed for improvement Compliance G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Not applicable G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and Environmental Included with regulations and voluntary codes total number of non-monetary sanctions for Compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of non-compliance with environmental laws and products and services during their life cycle, by regulations type of outcomes Transport Product and Service Labeling G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of Energy Partially G4-PR3 Type of product and service information Not applicable transporting products and other goods included required by the organization’s procedures for and materials used for the organization's Greenhouse Gas product and service information and labeling, operations, and transporting members of the Emissions and percentage of significant product and workforce service categories subject to such information requirements | 65 1 About Us 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Content Contents Materiality Transparency Index Page DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION LOCATION REPORTING LEVEL Product and Service Labeling G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Not applicable with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer Not applicable satisfaction Marketing Communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Not applicable G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Not applicable with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Not applicable regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for Not applicable non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services | 66 and energy are focused on responding to and meeting the Group Leadership Team 1 About Us needs of our customers. 2 Corporate 3 Governance, 4 Economic 5 Our People 6 Community Realize Our Future 7 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 9 Environment 10 10 GRI 4.0  Responsibility Ethics and Corporate Responsibility 12 Content Contents Page Materiality Transparency Index Annual General Meeting Operating and Financial Review 17 WorleyParsons’ 2016 Annual General Meeting will be held on Tuesday Directors’ Report 25 25 October 2016 commencing at 2.00pm (AEDT) at The Westin Sydney, Remuneration Report 31 1 Martin Place, Sydney. Financial Statements 51 We have created our 2016 shareholder Keep in touch Shareholder Information 103 Visit microsite, results us online which offers our 2016 We welcome your feedback and suggestions. 104 results documents and detailed Glossary Please email Marni Oaten, Corporate Responsibility Director: information on our business operations. annualreport2016.worleyparsons.com Corporate Information 105 corporate.responsibility@worleyparsons.com Visit to viewusouronline 2016 results documents WorleyParsons Limited Level 12 and information on our business annualreport2016.worleyparsons.com 333 Collins Street operations. Melbourne VIC 3000 Australia www.worleyparsons.com Stay up to date www.linkedin.com/company/worleyparsons www.worleyparsons.com www.facebook.com/worleyparsons/ Our corporate website has key information about our business, twitter.com/worleyparsons operations, investors, media, sustainability, careers and suppliers. www.youtube.com/user/worleyparsonscareers | 67
